[{"Title":"misunderstood comedy is a true masterpiece","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" what can be said of cabin boy's idiotic genius? Chris Elliot proves he is the master of absurd comedy in this one of a kind, off the wall masterpiece! I'm almost ashamed to love it so dearly. The movie propels itself through a bizarre mythological backdrop using Elliots uncanny knack for brilliant, stupid, amazingly funny dialog and antics. Cabin boy stays true to all that is Elliot from beginning to end. It doesn't change its mind halfway through, and is too unassuming to attempt to deliver any heartwarming morally relevant conclusion. Chris Elliot's antihero is so lovably hate able that you feel the desire to both punch him in the face, and gently rock him to sleep in a comfy blanket. This comedy is probably not for everyone, but the payoff for those who understand its naive, cynical hilarity is worth the rental fee. Hell, you can buy it for under six bucks almost any where. It is truly a misunderstood work of pure cinematic bliss. "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie Ever Made by Humans","Date":"30 June 2004","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The fish stick kitten scene made me laugh so hard I missed most of the rest of the movie, but I'm sure it was also great. I don't think this movie will ever get the recognition it deserves. Mostly because Chris Elliot is kind of unpleasant. Not to me. Well, okay yes to me. He is unpleasant to me, but in a good way. People should just lighten up and realize that this movie is brilliant. Come on. True I do like this movie a lot because of scenes that are actually in Get A Life, Chris Elliot's TV show. And that's not really fair. But that episode where Martin Mull comes over and they go to that brothel while they play Afternoon Delight? That was so funny that it kind of bleeds over into Cabin Boy and makes that funny too.  "},{"Title":"Pure, unadulterated Elliott","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have been a loyal fan of Chris Elliott since his early appearances onLetterman. This movie is typical of what happens when Elliott is given creative control -- wry, warped humour delivered in such a deadpan manner that youdon't know whether he is laughing at himself or if he really is a simp. This movie has given me countless hours of debate with fans and non-fans, as I have only encountered one other person who enjoyed Cabin Boy. We often lament ChrisElliott's underrated genius and dream of the day when Cabin Boy takes itsrightful place in film history as a classic. Hard to believe its already been ten years since its release and I still crack up every time I watch it. Only thing that could top it would be a sequel -- Passion of the Cabin Boy, perhaps? "},{"Title":"Movie Makes fun of overeducated, pampered snobby critics","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Critics hate this film because they see so much of themselves in the protagonist A character who spends his whole overeducated, over-pampered life sneering at every one and every thing else, the self-appointed know it all who mocks everything but produces nothing.The protagonist is a critic, and the story makes fun of the protagonist.It was interesting and satisfying to see the protagonist's fate... and I laughed the whole way through. Summary Unfortunately, people can't make a movie that trashes your run of the mill critic, and still hope for a good review. If you are a critic know it all, you'll hate Cabin Boy. If you have an actual sense of humor you'll love it.Happiness guaranteed That's what cabin boy is to me. "},{"Title":"Cabin - Oh Boy!","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"31 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Chris Elliott's sense of humor is of the bizarre kind, and requires for the deepest understanding thereof on all levels an extremely cultivated intellect and simultaneous rejection of that traditionally conceived as the predominating cultivated aesthetic. That being said, you will not, I'm sure, misunderstand my assertion that this film is not for everyone. Perhaps it is not even for you. As you see, it has received paltry scores from the greatest part of the spectating crowds who vote on IMDb.com; but should one follow them? They have also selected such trash as Donnie Darko for placement among their trophy shelf of film. I reaffirm therefore the peculiar genial and aesthetic disposition requisite fully to enjoy Cabin Boy. It is as though one must become dumb and wise at the same time, one must see with the eyes of a fool and the heart of a sage. The film student, who possesses in varied solution this talent, will also notice how exquisite, how carefully adorned the sets are, how precise the sceneries, how composed the artful tableaux, how peerless and true the cast, how poetic each word spoken. "},{"Title":"The Most Hilarious Movie Ever.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Face it, we all have different senses of humor, so a movie like Cabin Boy will appeal strongly to some, while others will despise it. Personally this movie fits my style of comedy perfectly. I love non-sequiturs, absurdity, and characters who are insanely quirky. Chris Elliot, as another reviewer pointed out, seems to have been ahead of his time. The style of comedy he honed on the Letterman show and the Get a Life sitcom was pure absurdist brilliance, and it shines through in this movie.A few of my favorite quotes from the movie (and I'm going mostly from memory here)`Half man plus half shark equals one complete gentleman.' (Nathaniel)`I'm sorry, I was just thinking how much fun it is to roast pumpkin seeds.' (Nathaniel)`Gum.' (Kenny)`Would you like to buy a monkey?' (Dave)`Well. thanks for that. whatever that was.' (Nathaniel)`I'm drawn to you, even though you have the breeding of a carnival barker.' (Nathaniel)`I just don't get it! She seems totally uninterested in me, despite my smothering obsessiveness!' (Nathaniel)`Oddly enough, it kind of tastes like marzipan!' (Nathaniel)Nathaniel `I love sitting up here, looking at those bright, twinkly things in the sky, I forget their technical name.' Trina `Stars.' Nathaniel `Whatever.'How can anyone not love these lines? Ah, diff'rent strokes, I guess. Another favorite scene of mine is when Cappy goes to sleep nestled up to Chris and they wake up in each other's arms the following morning. Just the expression on Chris' face while sleeping is so glorious.All the complaints I've seen about Elliot's demeanor indicate to me that people have completely missed the point. They talk about how annoying and whiny he is, but that's the whole point of his character in this film a rich snotty kid who is forced to endure the antics of those from the less privileged caste (but who are no less intellectually challenged, natch).I typically don't like comedy movies, because they're just way too formulaic and rigid--I tend to prefer sketch comedy or stand-up/improvisation. But with this movie, I can't stop laughing. I'm always eager to see where Chris Elliot will pop up next, and sadly it's been too long. But As Nathaniel one said to Chocky, I shan't forget you! "},{"Title":"The Odyssey for Stoners","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fuse literary themes like Candide and the Odyssey with Chris Elliott's relentless style of moronic comedy and you have a movie people will either love or hate. A wicked cast and classic special effects make up for a somewhat lethargic pace in action, but the booty of comedy in this movie make up for the long nights at sea. Watch it, own it, love it.  I do.  "},{"Title":"Bizarre comedy, but still fun to watch.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I would have a hard time saying that this is a hilarious movie, but it's got some really good stuff to it.  The film is just plain odd from beginning to end.  Whoever thought this stuff up (I guess that would be Adam Resnick and Chris Elliot) has quite an imagination.  As far as the comedy goes, it's actually pretty funny most of the time.  I don't think I ever found myself really busting up, but I did laugh quite a few times.  If you liked Chris Elliott's comedy from Saturday Night Live, than I would hope that you find this film funny.The cast was pretty good, nothing much to complain about there.  Chris Elliott did a good job with his role, pretty darn good for a first starring role.  All of the shipmate characters were very well done and fun to watch.  Melora Walters was personal fav of mine.  I don't think I've ever seen her in anything else, but she looks absolutely fantastic in this film.  Ricki Lake was an odd character/actor in the film.  Her character was beyond strange, and the fact that the character was played by Ricki Lake just makes it even stranger.  I also liked the fairly small role played by Mike Starr.  Another high point for me was seeing Andy Richter from Late Night with Conan O'Brien in the film.  Andy seems like such a likeable guy.  There is also a nice cameo of David Letterman in the film, personally, I'm not a fan of Letterman's television show, but nonetheless he was actually pretty funny in his role/cameo.I would say that if you like Chris Elliott's comedy from Saturday Night Live, then you should go ahead an give this film a chance.  It's not the greatest film you'll ever see, but it's fun and entertaining.  Also, it's only 80 minutes of your life...I'm sure you can spare 80 minutes.  Enjoy the film, and thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"not the worst movie of all time","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've been a Chris Elliot fan since watching him on his old television series Get a Life. I think he is the precursor to comedians such as Tom Green, and the modern gross-out comedy. The image of Elliot licking the boat with soapy water comes to mind. Lots of people would label this movie as one of the worst movies of all time, but it's consciously absurd (or wacky as Christ Elliot's character might say). Worst movies are ones that think they are legit, like The Order, or Batman and Robin. That being said, Cabin Boy is not the best comedy of all time. The crazy-funny parts are laugh out loud funny, but spread too far apart. I think this movie should have been wall-to-wall laughs. But it's worth it for the good parts, and Chris Elliot deserves our attention.Watch some night alongside Freddy Got Fingered and Clifford. "},{"Title":"Exquisite Buffoonery...","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes, this is an excellent filmic achievement full of 'life truths' for the morally, mentally and socially compromised. (But please go out and buy the book this movie was not based upon The Shroud of the Thwacker by one Sir Christopher Elliot. You will be amazed and enlightened.) When I recommend a film, I prefer to have actually seen the critter in the local cinema hall. I like to sit well back somewhere in the loges. If there are no loges, I will stand somewhere until told to take a seat. But enough of my personal peccadilloes. I did indeed attend a public screening of this delightful celluloid romp and was tickled by its wit and informed by its wisdom for many a moon thereafter. This 'flick'--if I may be so bold-- will one day be considered a classic in the genre as soon as the genre is identified. As a somewhat knowledgeable cineaste I encourage everyone to rent this stunning opus. It will heal your inner Ebert. "}{"Title":"God, I love this movie...","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" No, not in the 'it's so bad it's good' way. I truly think it's one of the funnier comedies of the last 20 years or so. Perhaps a lot of it depends on how you feel about Chris Elliot to begin with. I think he's priceless. Used to love his old show Get A Life and have followed him ever since. The plot of this, kind of a twisted version of Captains Courageous, really doesn't matter. What's fun are the numerous sight gags, Elliot's constant barrage of sarcastic one-liners and the generally anything goes attitude of the whole enterprise. The ship's crew, filled with a number of character actors we're not used to seeing in this kind of thing, are a wonderfully sleazy bunch. David Letterman's hysterically amateurish cameo at the beginning is the stuff of legend. Wanna buy a bunny? Ha! OK Citizen Kane it ain't. I own that on DVD btw. Right next to it is Cabin Boy. "},{"Title":"A Pants-Wetter Comedy","Date":"4 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although they skimped on the props and sets, the writing is comic gold. With the continuos salty sea talk by the Captain and his Crew, this keeps you laughing.  A good movie to watch with friends. "},{"Title":"Comedy Classic!","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am really shocked by this movie's super low rating of not even five out of ten, I figured it probably would be kind of low since it was not as good as Chris Elliott's TV show Get a Life and a lot of people didn't like his humour or this movie, but it was pretty good. It's obviously not for everyone with a really out there sense of humour but for what it was it was really funny, with a lot of laugh out loud gut busting moments. David Letterman's wanna buy a monkey? cameo is fantastic and Chris Elliott is great as the full of himself, super annoying rich kid turned cabin boy. I really recommend it if you like any of his other work or Get A Life. "},{"Title":"Chris Elliott is just plain funny","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Those who gained their initial fame on television -- even at the highest level and with top popularity -- have often found their feature films finishing at the other end of the scale. Bill Cosby and Ray Romano are two examples of this -- Bill Murray one of the few exceptions.Chevy Chase has had some sporadic success, and even Martin Short -- one of the comedic geniuses of all-time -- has found his big-screen offerings sporadic.I think one of the reasons is that we are just too used to seeing them on the small screen, and/or in the characters/personas with which we have become accustomed. It also seems that their films often seem to be stories which would lend them to 10- or 12-minute skits, or the 22 minutes or so contained within a half hour program.Chris Elliott avoids this completely in this funny presentation. He succeeds in taking this character over-the-top, with the same quirky skill we've seen him employ on television so often. At 80 minutes, he also avoids making it overlong, and the supporting cast and Letterman's cameo are all well-presented, too.It's quirkiness is likely the reason this film didn't receive a higher overall rating in this site, and among professional reviewers.However, for me it's a thoroughly entertaining and engaging movie, and best of all, funny as hell. "},{"Title":"an epic in the grand tradition of Captain's Courageous...","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cabin Boy is one of those movies that makes you glad to be alive. Chris Elliot shines in the role of Nathaniel Mayweather, a wealthy young man fresh out of finishing school, forced into a life at sea on a fishing boat with men not of his stature. Fine performances abound in this grand seafaring epic, including Brian Doyle-Murray as Skunk, Andy Richter as Kenny, Melora Walters as Trina, the swimmer who catches Nathaniel's heart, and Ann Magnuson as Calli, who cleans his pipes. Best of all is Ricki Lake with an astoundingly nuanced performance as The Filthy Whore's head. With rich cinematography, amazing special effects, and masterful direction by Adam Resnick (who also co-wrote the suspenseful and heartwarming screenplay with Elliot), this is one movie that you shouldn't miss if you're a fan of great seagoing adventure stories like The Odyssey and Captain's Courageous. It's easily one of the greatest movies of this or any other generation; if I could rate higher than 10/10, I would do so with this one. The ending would make even the most hardened death row convict cry. "},{"Title":"Saw It Again, Laughed Again","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I recently found this DVD in the bargin bin at WalMart and couldn't have been more pleased with the discovery. I first saw it in 1995 and scenes and dialouge from the movie have been stuck in my mind ever since. This movie is absolute fun with a smart and hyperbolic humor that is far removed from the flatulence jokes of most recent Hollywood junk. The movie is intentionally what it is, the acting, the jokes and the situations, the combination of which makes it artfully hilarious. This movie is in no way intended to be the best movie ever made and so those who have commented that it is the worst movie ever made have completely missed the point. The worst movies ever made are those which ascribe to and are promoted as being on  a level that they fall painfully short of, a recent example being God's and Generals. One should expect painful and unique silliness from Chris Elliot, which is what the movie delievers. I agree with those who write that this movie will be better appreciated in times to come. "},{"Title":"A bawdy romp that Chaucer would be proud of!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  While a number of critics have discussed at length Cabin Boy's allusions to earlier sea epics, such as Mutiny on the Bounty, Moby Dick and Humanoids of the Deep, surprisingly little attention has been devoted to it's social commentary.  Although it may, perhaps, be an overstatement to call Chris Elliot's script revolutionary, its message has a decidedly socialist bent.  In fact, I would venture to say that none of Elliot's other work, prior to OR since Cabin Boy has had a comparable impact on the way ship captains treat their crew - or for that matter, on the labor movement in general in this country.  It's safe to say that the success of Cabin Boy is a product not only of Elliot's vision, but also a fortunate case of being the right film at the right time, so to speak.Additionally, the cast must be credited.  Brian Doyle-Murray, Russ Tamblyn and many others give the performances of their careers.  The stand-out, of course, was Ritch Brinkley in a magnificent portrayal of Captain Greybar, captain of The Filthy Whore.   Far from the stereotypical old salt sea captain, Brinkley's Greybar is hard, harsh, irritable and irrascible, and yet even-handed and even sensitive, giving  a textured character which is so clearly missing from many other sea films.  Particularly touching is the scene when Elliot's character, Nathanial Mayweather, serves fish-stick kitties for the crew's lunch.  Words cannot describe the emotion that Brinkley's face conveys.  It's so touching because it's true!While Cabin Boy has its flaws, I have no doubt that it will be greatly appreciated by landlubbers and sea captains alike, particularly those who, like myself, started their careers as lowly cabin boys. "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable. Not as bad as everyone makes it out to be...","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I was younger (a yearling of 14), Cabin Boy was just one of the movies you HAD to see. Along with Hot Shots, Hot Shots Part Deux, Loaded Weapon 1, Robin Hood Men In Tights, and The Naked Gun Trilogy. A stupid little spoof filled with cheap gags, and even cheaper laughs. I think Cabin Boy may not be on the level of the previously mentioned heavy hitters in spoofs, but it steps to the plate and delivers just the same.I viewed this movie again for the first time in about seven years, and now I see different qualities in it, as a mature adult, rather than waiting for the poo-poo jokes like I did as a kid. Not to say that I didn't laugh at cheap gags, being the mature adult I am...I just got a lot more bang for my dollar this time around. Chris Elliott may not be on target with that phony distinguished guise, but the supporting cast makes up for it ten fold. Andy Richter, on screen for all of twenty minutes is fabulous, making every second count. Why this man has not done more features is beyond me (Conan?). Also incredible is David Letter...uh...Earl Hofert as the old chap in the village. Witty banter (what makes Letterman, Letterman) with Elliott in classic Letterman style is just completely superb (all five minutes).In the end, all did a good job with what they had. It seemingly isn't the same Elliott that starred in the amazing Fox series Get A Life, but Cabin Boy turned out to be a bizarre little film that introduced me to tobacco spitting cupcakes and the saying Jesus Christ in a dump truck. It could have been a lot worse, so those that frown on Cabin Boy...quit yer belly achin', matie... "},{"Title":"Funnier than Meatballs 3.","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Films are so much better today than anything made more than twenty years ago, especially comedies.  This is one of the funniest films ever made.  Just compare this film to anything that Jack Oakie was in and I think I can prove my point. Up until Cabin Boy I would have guessed no film could have been made to beat the comedy classic Meatballs 3, but as much as I adore that film, Cabin Boy surpasses it.  If you like Meatballs 3 definately see Cabin Boy.  If you don't like Meatballs 3, see Cabin Boy anyway because it is a funnier film.  If you haven't seen Meatballs 3, skip it and watch Cabin Boy, it's a funnier film.  Fans of Cabin Boys will tend to be younger and intelligent and critics will tend to be older and dumber.  David Letterman does a cameo, but it's not very funny...probably because he's old.  "},{"Title":"Classic Chris Elliot.","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" When this came out I had a lot going on in my life.That, combined with all the bad things I heard about this movie, made me just forget about it.What a mistake that was.I should have known not to listen to other peoples opinions on anything.They are rarely right.Not to mention that I have been a Chris Elliot fan since he was a writer for Letterman.I understand why people don't like this movie.It's because they don't understand comedy.That's something I have been dealing with since I was a small child and it looks like that will never change.I can't help people who laugh at low level comedy but I can point out why they are wrong.The average American has trouble seeing anything as funny if it's not about a dumb fat guy and his hot, bitchy wife.Maybe that's because that's what their real life is.I don't know.But I do know this movie is hilarious.The only reason I didn't give ten stars is because of all the material Chris rehashed from Get A Life.I know it's fairly common for people to do that but that doesn't make it cool.What surprised me most is that it's really a sort of spoof of the old Sinbad movies.There are crazy monster fights and a shark man(played by Russ Tamblyn!).Not having seen those movies could make some humor deficient people not like this one.Plus, this is David Letterman's only movie appearance ever and it's text book Dave.This is a must see for fans of true comedy.If you enjoy Bill Murray films you probably won't get it. "}{"Title":"A Comedic Triumph","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Spoilers ahead.Rarely is a comedy such a masterpiece! Cabin Boy succeeds because it is gonzo and really, really funny. It is a dead-on parody of the Rudyard Kipling morality play Captains Courageous, as well as a fitting homage to the cheesy stop-motion special effects from master Ray Harryhausen. Chris Elliot, a master of the bizarre, is excellent as the spoiled brat Nathaniel Mayweather, who undergoes a profound transformation into the child-like cabin boy of the Filthy Whore. The whole cast are devoted to their roles as grungy, cruel fishermen. this is a wonderful dark comedy with no pleasant moralizing, where the fishermen are Kipling's noble souls. This morally ambiguous film turns Courageous's pat duality of morals and noble fishermen on its it as a savage parody. The cast, crew, and directors knew this had to be a weird film, and all put in exemplary efforts to make this film as bizarre and as wonderful as possible. The cheesy special effects work perfectly. Elliot should have won an Oscar for his masterful performance. Fans of performance art will also relish the lovely Ann Magnuson's role as Kali, a parody of the monsters from Harryhausen's Sinbad movies. Lovers of comedy will adore this movie! "},{"Title":"You'll either love it or really, really hate it","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"     I can see why this movie is so polarizing. As with anything that tries to be different, alot of people will not enjoy it. There's a reason why most movies follow the same formula- it's tried and true. But if you are someone who LIKES different, well you might be onto something here. But comedy is so subjective that just liking original work will not be enough. This is a very intelligently done movie with lots of very stupid gags. I liked it, but my movie tastes are strange (one of my favorite movies of all time is Popeye). If you like Chris Elliot or Andy Richter then you'll be fine.   "},{"Title":"Good funny movie","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a dam good movie.I watched this movie at 1 am and found myself laughing at the different parts of the movie such as the cupcake that spit tobacco,and nathaniel riding on the girls back in the water like she was a surf board...Good movie.Definetly one that I'd watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Laugh-out-Loud","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Chris Elliot is hilarious! The scene where the fancy lad himself is dancing on the boat, while the drunk stinking crew is throwing beer cans and poking him with a stick, will get you laughing. A must-see for anyone with a sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Without hyperbole THE greatest thing ever done by Mankind!","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cabin Boy is a work of genius, pure and simple!****** It's really as simple as this The world divides into two kinds of people, those who GET Chris Elliot, and those who DON'T. If you're the former, you'll like this film, if you're the latter, you probably won't....DONT WATCH IT!!! DONT READ FURTHER...GO AWAY. ******My fellow Cabin Boy aficionados, surely you've all noticed that people of mediocre sensibilities ALWAYS respond to works of true genius with cries of derision and scorn (oh, that's stupid! etc. etc.) and even fear. When faced with something their small minds can't comprehend, the unenlightened masses always reach for their torches and seek to destroy. Even as the great virtuoso Paganini played his violin with an unimaginable speed and sweetness, never before seen in Italy, the crowd raised a cry of Deviltry, He is possessed, and chased him from the stage. You need only observe the drivel on television and churned out by Hollywood to appreciate the low sophistication level of today's spoon fed audience. Most people today just don't seem to be able to appreciate the difference between a big budget, Hollywood production that IS stupid and a low budget, good movie ABOUT stupidity...and unfortunately seem to prefer the former...in droves! I'm looking at YOU Adam Sandler...et al.Seriously, the production values of CB are pretty good for a low budget movie, The sets are well crafted, the cinematography and effects are spot on, the comedic timing of the talent is impeccable. It's NOT poorly made on any level; it's WELL crafted to create the desired effect. Sure it seems silly and looks cheesy...it's SUPPOSED to! The scripting and tone of CB is calculated to perfectly capture that unique Chris Elliot personae; the condescending, insufferably annoying, delusionallly self-satisfied, clueless idiot.It is the one movie that my friends and I watch over and over again when we get together and want to laugh in our cups. (that means we're drinking etc. ;-) for you less sophisticated CB haters)For the Cabin Boy fans Watch the film Captains Courageous AFTER watching Cabin Boy...It's the 'serious' film CB is loosely parodying. You'll get a chuckle out of it. Cheers!What the world needs is more geniuses with humility; there are so few of us left. Oscar Levant "},{"Title":"One of the worst in film history","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If someone out there is compiling a list of horrible, inane and completely dull films, Cabin Boy belongs at the very top.  Chris Elliot definitely should have held out for a better vehicle for his talents.  Even David Letterman's cameo falls flat and lifeless surrounded by the rest of this ineptly directed and painfully UN-funny story. Elliot (whom I've always liked) plays the title character who signs on a boat seeking adventure and experience. The rest of the film revolves around the crew mistreating him, bathroom humor that isn't even remotely funny, and a cast of very bizarre characters from a shark-man to the multi-armed woman to whom Elliot loses his virginity.  Trust me, you'll want these two hours of your life back. They'll be better spent watching your grass grow.  "},{"Title":"Worst - Movie - Ever","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Seriously, this unwatchable piece of celluloid gets my vote as worst movie ever made, with the only caveat being that the movie was not intended to be bad or dirt cheap. It is simply not funny. I was watching it with my brother and we endured as much as we could without so much as a smirk before we pulled the tape and chalked the experience up as a life lesson. It might be funnier while under the influence of something, I couldn't tell you. I am a Chris Elliot fan, so this flick was particularly disappointing at the time.I stumbled across the title 2o years later and is still leaves a foul taste in my mouth, so I thought I'd make my opinion official and pass on the cautionary tale for anyone who might stumble across this title and think it could be a gem. "},{"Title":"horrible, senseless, plot less waste of time","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I tried and tried to sit through the movie but I kept daydreaming about stabbing myself in the eyes with a fork. the movie (and i'm using the word 'movie' VERY LOOSELY) is literally a random bunch of retarded scenes threwn together to turn these senseless garbage be even more senseless. This thing wants me to type ten lines but there's really nothing more to say so here's a copy and paste of what I already wrote I tried and tried to sit through the movie but I kept daydreaming about stabbing myself in the eyes with a fork. the movie (and i'm using the word 'movie' VERY LOOSELY) is literally a random bunch of retarded scenes threwn together to turn these senseless garbage be even more senseless. "},{"Title":"A cult film for the curious","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I was a freshman in high school, scared and nervous of the environment around me, I found solace in my year-long Television course, which was an introductory course in the forte of filmmaking and the behind-the-scenes techniques of Television shows. It was a break from the dreariness of perfunctory science, social studies, math, and English, and allowed me to interact with upperclassmen. I was one of two freshmen in the course, since most were thinking ahead to college by doing band or taking a foreign language. I remember telling my quirky Television teacher about my love for film, and how I was in the early stages of being an online film critic, before he hit me with a question I always remembered. Have you seen Cabin Boy?, he asked. After I stated I hadn't even heard of it, he gasped and demanded, you make time for Cabin Boy. He would demand that of me for the rest of the year in nearly every film-conversation we had.This was four years ago, dear reader, and I'm ashamed to say I haven't made time for Cabin Boy until this past evening, to which my Television teacher would be appalled and disappointed, even more so when I say my reaction is one that isn't entirely positive. This is another one of those strange cult comedies that has mustered up a loyal, notable following after being a failure at the box office. Even after watching the film, I struggle to understand just why Buena Vista saw this idea reputable and reliable enough to funnel $10 million into the project, and likely another $5 million or so for marketing costs. Did they have faith in Chris Elliot and his commercially failing program Get a Life (this was before the cult-following for that film became largely known), or did they just want to broaden horizons? For whatever reason, it's pretty hilarious to think a solid amount of money was put behind a project I'm not even sure Elliot himself took seriously. The film is a cockamamie fantasy-comedy with Elliot portraying Nathaniel Mayweather, a snobby, self-centered manchild, who is invited by his father to sail to Hawaii aboard a large boat by the name of Queen Catherine. Nathaniel has just become a fancy lad at his prep school, the highest honor, and believes no change in his elitist attitude will grant him fine wishes in the real world. After being kicked out of his limousine for being rude to the driver, Nathaniel makes a wrong turn into a small village, where he climbs aboard a boat called The Filthy Whore instead of his father's Queen Catherine and learns the boat will not be docking for at least three months. Nathaniel is stuck aboard a ship filled with foul-mouthed, unkempt pirates, and has no way of contacting his father or getting to Hawaii whatsoever.Cabin Boy reminds me of a film, similar to Bio-Dome, in the regard that it plays like a film that would've been praised and hailed as a comedic masterwork if it were released in the early 1900's as a silent film. Being released in 1994, where expectations were far higher for film than they were in the 1900's, Cabin Boy found little appreciation initially. Speaking as someone who wants to try and give a fair and balanced review, I will say, the film clearly went through a director change, since it is noticeably scatterplotted and all over the place. According to reports, Tim Burton was originally supposed to assume the director's chair, but dropped down to producer, letting Adam Resnick take over, as he bought the idea for Ed Wood, which would later go on to be another cult success. Burton clearly could've related to the material much more than Resnick could've, making another film about a self-obsessed manchild in a surreal world with both Pee-Wee Herman films achieving great success. Even the backdrops of the film greatly resemble the artistic works of Burton himself, who would've also assure the film have some sort of commentary or overarching theme, small or large, rather than a cloying comedic emptiness to a film that would seemingly bear some internal meaning.Having said that, one cannot fault Elliot for being a commanding comedic force throughout not only this film but his career. Elliot has always put himself in strange situations, acting as the surrealistic version of slapstick comedian Tom Green, and in Cabin Boy, he achieves success in just being fun to watch. His character, quick to insult and demean while being entirely oblivious, achieves some strong laughs, and the film returns to the building blocks of comedy, which concern a character doing something he doesn't want to do or being stuck in a situation he doesn't want to be in. Elliot is a tireless comic presence and, if nothing else, Cabin Boy brilliantly showcases that. Even James Gammon and David Letterman in a rare starring-role at times collectively match Elliot and his goofy ways.The bottom line with the film is I didn't laugh as much as I marveled. The first thirty-five minutes proved funny, albeit a tad inconsistently, and the last forty or so proved for a nice surrealist adventure. However, the comedy of the film grows thin and inconsistent, the audience demographic for this picture is all over the place, occasionally treading on the randomness and innocence of a cartoon program to the more adult-oriented material that occurs when Melora Walters' busty character shows up on screen, and the entire event left me weary and somewhat mystified. Cabin Boy is a fine film for cult curiosity, but fails to muster anything but just that.Starring Chris Elliot, Andy Richter, Brion James, James Gammon, Melora Walters, David Letterman, and Alfred Molina. Directed by Adam Resnick. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie About Fancy Lads and Fish stick Kitties Ever Made","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I actually saw this movie when it first hit the theaters. It had kind of an odd affect on me, I was not sure if I had just wasted my money or did I really like this movie. So in order to settle this personal dilemma I saw it again. Never a doubt&#x85;I really like this movie. I liked it so much I purchased my own copy and actually watch it once in a while. Digesting this flick one has to appreciate Chris Elliot's mastery of humor and his solid grasp on the bazaar. I wish he would do more movies I enjoy his sense of humor. Not being bombarded with CGI was great. Now I am not completely knocking CGI. Lots of that stuff is very important when a movie sucks or is grossly lacking in other areas. This movie played well. It's probably too politically incorrect for present times &#x96; but not to worry &#x96; I was not offended. And for me&#x85;that is all that matters. This was such a good movie I actually wanted to sign on as part of the crew of 'The Filthy Whore' and munch on fish stick kitties. "}{"Title":"Best of the best in absurd comedy, not for everyone but should be","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a love it or hate it movie for most people. For me it's a classic that does everything right. Pure absurd tongue in cheek self aware with great set design (by Tim Burton!) and comedic actors. The line delivery is often awkward but this just adds to the hilarity. But if you don't like absurd comedy or slapstick or dorky self deprecating sorts of humor then you will likely hate this. My sisters tell me my opinions on movies are suspect forever since I rate this one so highly. Some people will click with this movie and many won't. But if you are one of the lucky few with the properly twisted funny bone then this movie is nothing short of perfect. Highly recommended for fancy lads and ladies. "},{"Title":"Nice Jest !","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" The best thing about this movie is that it doesn't allege some things it doesn't have, or bigger than it already owns. I loved it, and it's crazy since I'm not a Chris Elliott's fan at all. It's solid simple fun. The naive atmosphere worked perfectly. The idiot gags looked smart. Sometimes it's the most cynical kids' fantasy. Sometimes it's a close spoof of (Jason and The Argonauts - 1963) ! and all the time it's some fine comics. Surprisingly (Melora Walters) looked super cute and for the first time sexy. The sailors' team delivered so right performance. Nothing was over the top, or goofy in a bad way. All the elements harmonized to make the jest good. It even managed to be a story about a boy turning into a man. This kind of comedies used to be twisted, disgusting, poor, or easy, whatever. But Cabin Boy isn't any of that. It's joyful, yet in loyally childish way; which could be the secret of it indeed. Unlike so many jests, this will live long. "},{"Title":"High brow, or low brow","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cabin Boy displays a type of humor that crosses several categories. There's some slapstick, there's some meanness, there's a lot of weirdness, and there's some slight naughtiness.  It seems to be in the same vein as the late 90s/early 2000s TV show, Family Guy. "},{"Title":"Wanna buy a monkey?......","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Chris Elliott plays a spoilt little rich kid who after finishing Fancy Boy school, will go on to run his fathers business.After being thrown out by his Limo driver, Elliott takes a wrong turn and ends up on a boat with a bunch of sea dogs who cannot stand rich people.And things go pretty crazy, and almost too Tim Burton....Its a random movie, full of plot holes, quite a bad script, a bad performance from Elliott, but never ever boring, Cabin Boy wreaked of Burton, and he may as well had directed it, because despite being involved in the production, the director doesn't seem to have an original idea in his head.The sets are fantastic, cheap looking, but so bonkers that they just seem to fit in, and the crew of the boat are great too.But that's where all the good stuff ends. Despite it being totally bonkers, its fairly predictable stuff, and you can see how its going to end from a mile off.But its never boring, and its worth watching the once, even to remind you of the disastrous year Letterman hosted the Oscars, and featuring his scene from this movie in it heavily... "},{"Title":"Stink or Swim","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Proudly wearing his Fancy Lad description, over-cultured and prissy prep school graduate Chris Elliott (as Nathanial Mayweather) goes to board a ship bound for Hawaii. He expects to join his wealthy father, but mistakenly gets on The Filthy Whore and is unable to get the crew of four salty and soused fishermen to change direction. After becoming a replacement for dim-witted Cabin Boy Andy Richter (as Kenny), Mr. Elliott befriends shapely swimmer Melora Walters (as Trina) and shark-man Russ Tamblyn (as Chocki). David Letterman has an amusing cameo during the early running, before this comic ship sinks. Too bad for Mr. Elliott, who once had a good persona going with his Get a Life TV series.*** Cabin Boy (1/7/94) Adam Resnick ~ Chris Elliott, Melora Walters, Russ Tamblyn, Ritch Brinkley "},{"Title":"An Epic Adventure","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the tradition of Homer and Conrad, Cabin Boy tells the epic story of a young man embarking on an adventure of mythic proportions.  Chris Elliot portrays young Nathaniel, the son of a wealthy man who is accidentally stranded on a ship with rogue fisherman.  Throughout the edge of your seat adventures encountered during the journey through the legendary Hell's Bucket, we witness Nathaniel attain manhood and grow as a character.  This is truly a film like no other. "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as you might think, in fact, it's decent.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Going into this movie, I thought it might get popped out of my VCR after about 15 minutes of viewing.  I was not expecting to enjoy this choice my wife had made at the video store.To my surprise, the movie is pretty funny and some of the ocean going scenes have a strong surrealistic feel to the cinematography that make the movie unique.Chris Elliot's sun-induced bout of hallucinations alone is worth the price to rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Beware, viewers, beware!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Only once in my life has a movie been so repulsive to me that I wanted to run from the theater (and believe me, I've sat through some stinkers in my time -- I'm a MST3K fan, AND I saw Batman and Robin, The Lost World, and MI2 on their opening days!)  As bad as those films were, though, nothing offended my sensibilities more than the cheap, execrable, horribly unfunny fiasco of a film that is...Cabin Boy.  After just one viewing several years ago, I still think about the movie and shudder in fear and loathing.  It is still the movie by which I judge all others for lack of quality and watchability.  In my mind at least, Cabin Boy wears the eternal crown of shame and will forever cuddle the Golden Turkey award for worst film of all time in its perverse, filthy, smarmy embrace.Please, viewers everywhere...stay away from Cabin Boy...never come near it...don't believe the mentally disturbed souls who say this film is funny...FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS HOLY, DON'T EVER EVER SEE IT.CABIN BOY...it doesn't even deserve a negative rating; it deserves a Surgeon General's warning. "},{"Title":"A very weird, stupid, good movie...","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is very strange... also very stupid... This makes it a very good movie... This is coming from someone who heard Letterman asking Would like to buy a monkey? on an ad, and deciding they HAD to see the rest... If you're like that - I recommend it. If your not - you'll probably think it's worse than Chicken Park ( Which is not possible ). "},{"Title":"Great Expectations, Intractable Disappointment","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps I should take some blame for being so disappointed with Cabin Boy. I probably got overly pumped up by trailer hype.  So, when I saw the movie, I was disappointed by its lack of direction or plot.  Basically, I had seen almost everything that was remotely funny in the trailers.  So far, this is one of the few movies that made me want to demand a refund. "}{"Title":"The difference between Wild and Crazy and Dumb and Stupid","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw Cabin Boy when it first came out. At that time I had not yet developed the self- preserving habit of walking out of movies, so I sat to the bitter end. Humor is such a  subjective thing that I can't scorn the people who had a good time at Cabin Boy. However, to  me it was an endless succession of non sequiturs, poo-poo jokes, and generally low rent  gags and special effects. I'm a huge fan of Bob (Elliott) and Ray from radio days, so I had  great hope for Bob's son Chris. But Cabin Boy is an open and shut case for regression to the  mean.  "},{"Title":"It's Cabin Boy!","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Cabin Boy is setting sails on the high seas in this lovely and original adventure set in a beautifully imaginative wonderfully magical world! Chris Elliott is the best Cabin Boy ever! I love Cabin Boy! Chris is very, very funny and I'm a good fan of his. Look, alright, I don't know what's happening in Cabin Boy either, or what in the world's going on while I'm watching it, or why none of it really makes all too much sense, but I do know one thing, I love it, and it's a completely funny and charming movie! It's hapless, harmless fun! That's the whole point, it's not supposed to be serious, duuuuh. The whole idea behind Cabin Boy's marvelous. Things don't have to be so concrete set in stone, things can be steer-less and free flowing, like in Cabin Boy! How lovely! I know, believe me, I know, you watch Cabin Boy and it's not like it's the most.......well, it isn't exactly one of the most.........you see, what I am trying to say, is that Cabin Boy isn't really.....well, uh, when watching Cabin Boy, it doesn't particularly have a whole too lot of...of...uh........what can I say, it's lovely! I loved it! I can't say anything bad about it. Just look at the great cast beside Chris Elliott! James Gammon, Brian Doyle-Murray, Melora Walters, Brion James, Ann Magnuson, Mike Starr, Russ Tamblyn, Ricki Lake, Andy Richter, and, of course, David Letterman. James Gammon and Brian Doyle-Murray anchor this good movie. Melora Walters is so sweet and considerate as Cabin Boy's love interest. Brion James shows he is special playing in one of his kindest roles. Ann Magnuson is freaky attractive as she can be. Mike Starr, Russ Tamblyn, and Ricki Lake are so good as they can be. Andy Richter makes it to his first film part. David Letterman makes his virtually only film appearance, and he's as classic and unforgettable as he can be. Would you like to buy a monkey? I love that, that is the GREATEST line! Hahahahaha! I'll watch David Letterman over Jay Leno every night of the week. Sorry, Jay! I love Letterman, he's the best. Chris Elliott has made so many hilarious appearances on The Late Show over the years too, and I always enjoy him when he's on. He's so, so darn funny. I love Chris Elliot and he makes Cabin Boy. Trust me, pal, I can't even begin to describe this lovely, sweet spirited Cabin Boy. Just go see it! It's so.....it's so.....it's so just truly wonderful! Hahahahahahaha, Cabin Boy.....it really is! "},{"Title":"Cult comedy film for fans of SNL, David Letterman, or Conan O'Brien, but may not be for the typical comedy fan","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Back in 1994, Chris Elliot was one of the many SNL stars who was known for his cheeky comedy sketches alongside the many stars of the SNL over the years for about 3-4 years afterwards. This tale was trying to be Chris Elliot's Deuce Bigalow or Wayne's World, but Elliot never really had any great reoccurring characters in SNL.The tale is of Elliot's character, Nathanial Mayweather, who completes his education as a sass-mouthed, fancy boy only to find that he is stranded in the real world outside of the upper-class. He seeks a trip to Hawaii after getting kicked out of his ride home (for sass-mouthing the driver). The only transportation around in a fisherman's boar that has 4 drunken sailors onboard who try to treat him horribly so that they can fish in peace. Hijinx ensue, though, after he rescues a world record-hopeful swimmer who doesn't want to be saved, and a bunch of weird monsters on the Hawaii island. He learns that life with friends is better than someone-else's dreams for him, and returns to the crew of fishermen and the girl.So that's it...you now know what happens. No need to rent it. I got a little bored of the characters and their joking around. There were no real characters to get attached to...that was the main problem. There were occasionally funny lines in the movie (The pipes...are clean! and David Letterman's Do you wanna buy a monkey, little girl?) and, more importantly, the movie was co-produced by Tim Burton, who does amazing touches with animation and realism of outside characters (the siren on the front of the boat, the clouds in the storm, the quirky fish title sequence, the little characters mixed with the real-sized ones). That and the cameos by well-known talk show comedians David Letterman and Andy Richter have their own appeal to watch this film.Ultimately, I gave the movie a 5, though, because it wasn't an important film for comedy's sake, just different. Another story to throw along with the Austin Powers collection and Deuce Bigalows. Check it out to find your own funny stuff in the film, though. It has its moments. "},{"Title":"A tale of two halves","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're not a fan of Chris Elliott, stay away from this film!  If you are a fan, enjoy!  The entire film is (intentionally, of course) very silly.  The first half is also hilarious, a cameo by David Letterman being a standout.  The second half is not so funny.  Every time I watch this, I find myself delighted with the first half and bored with the second.  All in all, though, a funny and fun movie (if you like silly comedies in the Saturday Night Live vein.) "},{"Title":"Oh my goodness, Cabin Boy Stands Alone","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can one say about this film without mentioning that no matter what you do, the 80 minutes you spend watching this are gone forever, you can't get them back, sorry. But then again, I will admit it has just a little merit..Despite the fact that less than 10% of the jokes are delivered well. I just happen to like Chris Elliot and Andy Richter well enough to have more than just a scathing diatribe to offer, that would be too easy!Fans of classic Conan will appreciate Andy as the simpering deck hand who in my opinion steals the film, perhaps that is why he is only in the first third of the movie, leaving the rest to the sporadicaly hilarious Chris Elliot, the problem is that he can't carry the film as a lead, he just can't do it, plain and simple. Any one who remembers his Fox show Get A Life in a favorable light should have seen this movie already, but it is not as good as that forgotten little gem of a show. Elliot has proven he can deliver laughs as a supporting character, who can forget Woogie from There's Something About Mary? That was an authenticly funny performance, in my opinion.( Cabin Boy recently found in Walmart $5 bins nationwide!)that said, Caveat Emptor "},{"Title":"Wouldja like ta buy a monkey??","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  CABIN BOY (1994) *1/2 Chris Elliott, Brian Doyle-Murray, James Gammon, Brion James, Ann Magnuson, Andy Richter, Russ Tamblyn, Mike Starr.  Woefully unfunny tale of an idiot at sea with misadventures aplenty.  David Letterman's unbilled cameo (ok, Earl Hofert who is in real life Dave's uncle's name) provides the only true laugh out-loud moment (which is the only reason I taped this even though it's campiness has increased over the years including Dave's one-shot hosting gig @ The Oscars).  "},{"Title":"This movie was so terrible that it was funny!","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't get me started on my summary. This movie is funny. But that's why it's so terrible! I mean David Letterman's cameo was the funniest part of the entire film, and in a distant second the tobbacco spewing cupcake. I mean the plot is bad, so that's probably why this film is funny, or maybe Chris Elliot's pitiful role as a Fancy Lad was what made this movie funny. Bottom line Did you ever see a t.v. show, or movie that was so bad, that it was funny? Well, to me this was one of those kinds. Check it out to see David Letterman's cameo, or the Giant Floatinb tobbaco spiting cupcake. But the rest is funny in a horrible way. "},{"Title":"This generation's cult classic....well, almost","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A reviewer below compared Chris Elliot to Andy Kaufman, and I don't think he knew how close that analogy really fits.  Elliot is like Kaufman in alot of ways.  Some people never really understood Kaufman's peculiar brand of performance, and from the looks of the reviews below, there are plenty of people who don't get Elliot.  It was not always the *content* of Kaufman's performance that made you laugh, it was the fact that he was doing it in the first place.  For those that saw Man on the Moon, think about the Gatsby reading.  It wasn't funny for an audience member at that Kaufman appearance to hear all of Gatsby being read, even LONG after the joke of doing it wore out.  But paradoxically, if he hadn't done so it wouldn't have been as funny.  What's funny is that he had the gumption to go ahead and finish the entire work, regardless of what the effect on his audience was.Likewise, not everything that Elliot does is gut-busting hilarious.  For those of us who like his work, it's the absurdity of what he did that counts.  If you've seen Elliots short-lived TV series Get a Life, than the perversely surrealistic scenery of Cabin Boy makes more sense.  It's supposed to make the viewer feel like there is no normalcy to be found.  I'm not claiming this was some great artistic acheivement, it's simply a good way to facilitate Elliot's brand of comedy.  There was no comfortable, sane baseline in Get a Life to which characters could return, not even a basic continuity of plot between episodes (such as what characters are still alive.)  Likewise, Cabin Boy is simply a string of absurd situations that when taken separately are not really hilarious in that sense.  But taken as a totality, a fan of Elliot's humor appreciates the quirky nature of the film as a whole.I say this not to convince those who don't like Elliot, only to justify the opinions of those of us who do in the face of people who simply write this film off as horrible.  In terms of quality, the TV series was Elliot's best work, but this film definitely has some appeal to some people.  There really is a cult sort of following for this film, becuase some of us are sick of the cookie-cutter comedies that get churned out these days. "},{"Title":"Wanna Buy a Monkey?","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Cinematic genius, the first 15 minutes make this movie well worth it! Letterman's cameo is priceless. After the first 15 minutes, however, the film becomes awful. As soon as Chris Elliot's ship sets sail, so does the plot? The plot just becomes unclear. The lack of character development, terrible script, and Tim Burton's cheesy effects ruin, what had potential to be, a some what entertaining film.I bought this movie one night at Best Buy when I was drunk, and maybe if you are drunk, too, one might find this entertaining. Otherwise, unless you are a giant Chris Elliot fan, do not purchase this film. Even Brian Doyle Murray, who is usually entertaining gives a poor performance.I'd suggest Dude, Wheres My Car before this terrible film.I sure do hate them fancy lads  "},{"Title":"Underrated, ahead of its time (Dumb and Dumber, Jackass, even Fight Club etc)","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this, I didn't particularly dislike, let alone vehemently dislike it like so many others did.  I thought it was humorous.I have been thinking about Cabin Boy ( I last saw it some months ago), and in a way, Chris Elliotts brand of humour was ahead of its time.  As I write this, I had the idea that this is the exact reason why the Farrelly's cast him in Something About Mary.  Look at the humour that has come out the last 10 years.  Much of it is about idiots.  Idiots doing the stupidest things, saying the stupidest things, and reveling in it.  And my generation (bitter end of Gen X, very beginning of Y) grew up being stupid.  What I mean is that my friends and I joke around, but by being stupid for our own amusement.  We lower ourselves.  WHy so many 24+ year olds love Jackass is because so many of us were like that in late 90's early 00's..And Elliot was one of the first.  Handsome Boy modeling school (Get a Life)? Gotta love it.  Spewey(also Get a Life)?  This isn't high comedy.  It is about an un-innocent moron.  No one has any love for this guy.  He is a loser.  How many comedies were before this about unlikable losers?  The Jerk was an innocent. Laurel and Hardy, Abbott and Costello?  Always innocents.One of Elliot's problems is that he's a bad actor.  But he was onto something.  Come one, it not that bad! "}{"Title":"Sit back, snack on some fish stick kitties with chocolate milk, and enjoy the silliness!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  MAN OH MAN DO I HATE THEM FANCY LADS!I proudly tell people I love the film Cabin Boy!  As one who gets Chris Elliot's humor (his TV series Get A Life is a favorite of mine), I find this film extremely fun and perfect as a Saturday afternoon escape or late night junk food companion.  Those who are not Chris Elliot fans should probably stay clear, as they would find Cabin Boy to be like something you might dream about after a quart of Jack Daniels and a couple of bad sausages.Like a foul-mouthed Captains Courageous or Voyage of Sinbad, Cabin Boy whisks along in a brisk pace and at its relatively short running time it never wears out its welcome....that is, if you enjoy silly adventures like this one, and I SURE DO!  The writing is snappy, the sets and miniature effects are wonderful, the stop-motion effects take you back to fun flicks like this from the 1960s and beyond, and the sheer imagination put into it makes this a lot more than a curiosity. The fact that Tim Burton was a producer is a certain reason this film has a great visual flair. I'm sure there are more people out there that secretly enjoy this as a guilty pleasure but won't admit it.  Basically, those that don't appreciate ChrisElliot or those that will have problems with the film's time displacement will be having the most problems.  I found it to be a giddy, silly minor masterpiece.Chris Elliot, all I can say is come on over here honey, you've managed to charm me with your moronic innocence!  The rest of the cast is well placed, including the likes of David Letterman (uncredited), Ricki Lake, Russ Tamblyn (as a shark man!), Ann Magnuson, Mike Starr, Andy Richter, and others.  For me, David Letterman steals the show, his scene had me in fits of laughter.  Also, the flying cupcake that spits tobacco is just so brilliant!  This film really is a trip, and a rather hallucinogenic one at that.If you have an open mind and can appreciate the love that went into a wacky little gem like this, then Cabin Boy is a great addition to have in your collection.  Goodbye everyone, may your days be full of mirth and good fortune.....wanna buy a monkey? "},{"Title":"Great flick, dude!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Much better than Larry Clark's Kids.  Do yourself a favor, man!  Rent this movie, buy this movie, live this movie!  Chris Elliot is quite funny and the supporting cast is very effective as well.  This is a surreal and confusing film about one fancy lad's strange adventures with a group of fisherman. Eat pizza. "},{"Title":"Was this an Accident?","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that without a doubt, this was by far the worst piece of tripe I have ever had the mispleasure of viewing.  I would rather guage my eyes out with cloak pins and disembowel myself with a rusty spoon than ever have to see this movie again.  This movie should come with a warning label on it. I think that it is really sad when unsuspecting movie renters may inadvertently rent this (as I did) and be scarred for life.Do yourselves a favour.  STAY AWAY FROM THIS MOVIE IF YOU VALUE YOUR SANITY... "},{"Title":"It's one of the few movies that I actually own.","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites. It is funny and nice to look at. There is alot going in this movie that you might not catch if you get up to go to the bathroom or if you fall asleep for awhile. My ex-girlfriend and I used to watch it when we first started dating. She would always fall asleep after about ten minutes and I would watch it for about a half hour more and then I would go to sleep too. Later, my ex-girlfriend would watch it by herself in bed to help her get to sleep. She eventually came around to like the movie for it's rich entertainment value. The characters are excellent and the plot is pretty good. The message of the movie is it's most redeeming quality. Check it out if you liked Late Nite With David Lettermen when Chris Elliot used to crash the show.  "},{"Title":"Glad it's a  Cult Classic!!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I first saw Cabin Boy  when it came out in 1994 and I was expecting big laughs....I got a lot more! This is basically  an extension of the Chris Peterson character ...the arrogant idiot that Chris Elliott played  in the hilarious short-lived sitcom Get a Life .Chris Peterson would wake up and decide I'm going to be  a male model , or be in  a  musical, or be a food inspector, or meet my female prison penpal or travel through time,today. Cabin Boy offers the same brilliance....one absurd situation after another. Will  you bust a gut  laughing? ....maybe, during  a few  scenes. Will you smile  and say  That's  ridiculous!?....yes,through most of  the movie...and  for me that's what counts!I encourage everyone to contact Rhino and  demand more Get a Life episodes be released!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the entire 90 minutes of this film, there is one funny scene David Letterman's cameo in the first fifteen minutes. Other than that, this movie is not merely pointless, but painful. Pink Flamingoes was easier to watch than this bizarre drek.Rent it, watch it for fifteen minutes just to see David Letterman say, Hey, kid. Wanna buy a monkey? Then stop it before any further viewing traumatizes you, forever. "},{"Title":"one of the dumbest movies i've ever seen. i loved it.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  elliot proves that he is one of the dumbest actors to ever appear on the silver screen. the crew is a lovable bunch of morons. the special effects are straight from the 60's. god, i do hate them fancy lads. i almost split my side laughing at this show. i don't know if it was because it was so funny or dumb but i enjoyed it either way. i recommend this movie that loves a wacky movie. "},{"Title":"The best movie of 1994","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Never before has the life of a Fancy Lad been so accurately chronicled. With superb performances by Chris Elliot, Andy Richter and David Letterman, its a definite must see. Full of mystery, romance, comedy, heartache, and don't forget Chocki, the half man/half shark gentleman. Its an introspective look into the human experience rarely seen in these dark times. "},{"Title":"Oh, the pain!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to a Sunday matinee for this movie, and I'm very glad I didn't pay more than a few dollars to see it.  Except for the Letterman cameo, it truly was a waste of time.  If I could trade that time back for an hours sleep, or even listening to yoko ono serenade me, I would.  Sure, occasionally a chuckle would be pulled from me, but most of the movie I sat stunned to silence at how bad a movie it is, and I like many of the cast members.  (Though I'm not a fan of Conan Obrien) Please, go see something else, rent something else, or just go to the emergency room with abdominal pains instead of wasting time on this movie. "},{"Title":"Salty Slapstick","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you are in the mood for some random laughs and great lines Cabin Boy is for you.  Chris Elliot and his famous cast of characters bring many memorable moments to the high seas.  This movie isn't out to impress you with snazzy special effects or moving dialogue.  It is great for laughs and sight gags.  A must see for the comedic at heart. "}{"Title":"Use this movie to judge all other bad movies.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie stunk so bad I can not believe it.  I'm just glad that I didn't pay to see it.  This is the movie that I compare all other bad movies too, it's that bad.  The acting was terrible, the story was unbearable.  David Letterman was funny in his 10 second or so cameo appearance. "},{"Title":"irreverent comedy ahead of its time","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Long before South Park or Family Guy, Chris Elliott was making experimental irreverent comedy on his hilarious but vastly unappreciated FOX sitcom Get A Life. I thought it was a wonderful program, but people just weren't used to any deviation from the usual Friends and Frasier sitcom fare. The show was light years ahead of its time, much like his weirdly enthralling motion picture Cabin Boy, about a foppish little snob, Nathaniel Mayweather (Elliott), who after graduating from finishing school, gets on a boat he thinks is intended to send him to his father, but is actually a dingy ship filled with filthy pirates. The further adrift the crew gets, the stranger and funnier the movie gets. A has a whole Tim Burtonesque feel to it combined with Elliott's out-there humor. David Letterman has a monkey-selling cameo, Ricki Lake is the ship's figurehead, and Conan O'Brien's Andy Ricther also stars. How can you beat that? "},{"Title":"these pipes...are CLEEEAAN!!","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  20 years from now, when the film critics compile their lists of cult classics from the 1990s, cabin boy will be on the top. it's irreverent, unpredictable, funny, original, and stupid. david letterman's role is not worth renting this movie, but chris elliot's bizarre humor is. do yourself a favor, rent this movie and lighten up. "},{"Title":"This movie is the bomb","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm really surprised at all the low ratings this movie has received. I have seen this movie over 20 times and find something new to laugh at every time. Chris is hysterical, the sets are fantastic, and the supporting cast rocks. Get a life people! "},{"Title":"Great fantasy/comedy co-directed by Tim Burton","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It should be mentioned that Tim Burton co-directed this film.  It really, really shows.  Scenes from the movie vaguely remind me of a live-action version of James And The Giant Peach.  Some of the cinematagraphy has that obvious Burton beautiful, almost melodramatic look to it (I love that).I would recommend this to fantasy lovers, and to people who just want to relax, suspend their disbelief, and enjoy a fantasy-laden comedic voyage through the sea. "},{"Title":"The Cabin Boy is the M-A-N!","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow!!  When this movie first came out, I thought Damn!  I have to see this!  David Letterman AND Chris Elliot!! It must be good!!! But for some reason I just never got around to it. After hearing from so many of my friends that this was the absolute worst movie they had ever seen - I decided I just had to go see it. This movie is so incredible!  Nice and short (any longer would have been bad!) and incredibly funny.  If you are looking for an artistic cinematic approach to comedic hi-jinx, then go somewhere else.  But if you are looking for 80 minutes of extremely funny lines, awesome cameos (DAVID LETTERMAN!), then this movie is a must-rent for you. I love movies, I love the Great Movies - the really well done and meaningful works of art.  This is not one of those.  But this is a movie you can watch like 100 times, and still laugh and still find something funny. There is no real moral, no real point, just many whacked up things and a boat named The Filthy Whore! "},{"Title":"One of the greatest bizarrefilms. Truly an original movie!!!","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  You will never find a movie quite like this one It is truly an original (and how many movies can truthfully say that?) I originally saw this movie when it came out in theaters (can you believe that?) I was the only one in the theater-and this was only in its second day of playing! AND I NEVER REGRETTED IT this is a fantastic movie.You either love it or hate it there is no inbetween I Love it and if you are a fan of bizarre comedy you will definitely love it too. I have a friend who hates it but that's just the point I made.  When I broke my foot a couple of years ago I got this movie on tape and watched it almost every day! it is short in length (which makes it all the easier to love! it's like an hour and twenty minutes not even that long! not a long winded 3 hour piece of crap.!)  Bizarre does not even begin to describe the strangeness (as well as uniqueness) of this film. This film is definitely original and full of surprisng cameos (if you can recognize them like andy rictcher and mike starr)- Half man And half shark equals all heart in my book! I am sorry it singlehandedly ended the career of Eliot (as well as several other people not to mention the writer and director.) for I would love to see another film of originality (not to mention the fun wackiness) that this film has! Now lets all roast some pumpkin seeds!!!  "},{"Title":"An un-appreciated gem!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So you didn't get it? Some of us are much better suited enjoying the mundane comedy of Must See TV than a comedic masterpiece such as this! Chris Elliot has always been and will always be a comedian that stands so close to the cutting edge that he flies over the heads of many. This delivered just what it promised; wise-guy, smart allecky humor that I have watched several times! A classic work from an unheralded comedian! "},{"Title":"These pipes are clean! This movie isn't! But it's funny...","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fancy Lad Chris Elliot is attempting to get to his rich father's house in Hawaii. After chatting it up with David Letterman (who changed his name for obvious reasons), he boards the wrong boat, a sleazy ship known to its scurvy crew as The Filthy Whore. The crew looks just like the dwarves from Jack Frost...only they have less acting ability.They all then go on a wild adventure, battling archaic special effects while Elliot becomes a man(or reasonable facsimile thereof) after  committing adultery with a freaky Vishnu-like jungle woman.Whoops!...I think I've said too much!.. Anyway, Chris Elliot , while annoying, is hilarious as the prissy Nathaniel Mayweather, and Letterman is also funny in his cameo. I also  liked the shark-man and the tobacco spitting cupcake (Were the scriptwriters on crack? Who cares! It's funny!) Overall this was a good movie, but downright nutty! "},{"Title":"What is brilliance?","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Chris Elliott is an unrecognized comedic genius.  He actually steps beyond the boundaries of funny in the same way that Andy Kaufman made us not only laugh, but laugh nervously in discomfort.  Cabin Boy is a fantastic trip into comedy from the fourth dimension.  "}{"Title":"My favorite movie ever","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie I find to be totally brilliant in a hilarious way.  From top to bottom I found it so funny that it has been my favorite movie of all time since the second time I saw it.  I find that a lot of my friends really didn't care for it but I think you have to be a little eccentric and willing to really give it a chance to truly appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Its got everything","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Love, Adventure, Comedy, Giant Flying Cupcakes that spit tobacco!I fear that Chris Elliot fans might not want to watch this movie... but I found it entertaining as all get out!If you want to see a serious film about the life of a cabin boy, go watch another movie.If you want to see a naive, obnoxious and annoying Chris Elliot serve  Fishstick Kitties to crass old sea salts, this movie is for YOU! "},{"Title":"Stupid, Ridiculous, but entertaining in some stupid way","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  First of all this movie is totally Stupid. It's a very long time since i've last seen a movie as dumb as this one. But in a strange way it still manages to entertain a little. I wouldn't quite say that it's so stupid that it's funny, because it isn't funny at all. SPOILERS It's a story about a fancy-lad(or whatever they call him) named Nathaniel(Chris Elliot) who after graduating from school is planning on sailing to Hawaji to work for his father but in a stupid way ends up  on the wrong boat. He was supposed to sail with the Queen something but instead ends up sailing with The Filthy Whore. The boat is filled with drunk, filthy, smelling fishermen of whom none are the least bit funny. They fishermen loose their cabin boy in a storm because Nathaniel convinces him in the middle of the night when the crew are drunk to change the destination and head for Hawaji. So basically after that they try to make a man out of Nathaniel ala sailor way. No one naturally likes him because he's girly and they intend to leave him stranded on an island but he somehow survives the tests with a like little help form Chocki a Shark-Man(a half shark - half man) who also falls in love with our beloved new Cabin boy. Then Nathaniel suddenly finds a beautiful woman sleeping in the ocean. Her name is Trina and she is trying to swim around the world, go figure. The filthy whore is in quite bad condition after the storm so the men sail to the nearest island in order to repair their ship. After arriving on the island Nathaniel decides to become a man because he is frustrated over the fact that he is in love with Trina but she doesn't seem to care for him at all so the fishermen tell him about Calli, a woman-something with more arms then necessary who lives in a cave on the island. He seeks her up and finally loses his virginity i think. The experience naturally makes him Superman and next thing you know he and Trina get their very brief moment. The crew including Nathaniel and Trina have a battle with a giant named Mulligan after that. He naturally is p****ed off because Nathaniel had sex with his wife, that being Calli. Well finally shortly after that they arrive at Hawaji and the ending becomes a typical,sappy love-story ending where they live happily ever after, although apparently not on Hawaji.You see from the outcome of the film that the budget wasn't that high if there ever even was one. The acting is horrible especially from lead Chris Elliot. The movie is filled with terrible dialog throughout the entire film combined with a nonexisting screenplay and some very, very bad filming makes this movie a real turkey. "},{"Title":"The worst movie of all time","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In my quest for the worst movie ever this clearly is at the very top of he list.  I think I would rather jump off a cliff than have to watch film again.  For anyone that is going to go see it anytime soon make sure you bring a colt 45 because about half way through it your are going to want to pull that trigger, trust me, that is how I lost my left arm. "},{"Title":"GREAT","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie for anyone that  likes slapstick humor and Chris Elliott's  acting in it is Great as the nieve and egocentric character he plays.   "},{"Title":"One of the most witless comedies ever made","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? Every unfunny joke is hopelessly telegraphed and Chris Elliott needs to get over thinking he's the funniest thing since Ernie Kovacs. A good supporting cast battles valiantly against the script, but even such sure hands as Brion James, James Gammons and Russ Tamblyn can do nothing with it. Ann Magnuson's brief turn as Kali(for some reason spelled 'Calli' in the credits) is the only saving grace of this appalling waste of cellulose.  "},{"Title":"One good scene, lots of awkward unfunniness.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Stick around for the funny scene involving Chris Elliot and David Letterman (about 15 minutes in). It's like a continuation of the skits Elliot did on the DL show...you remember..when it was funny? Anyhow, after the scene ends, immediately turn off the television and go do something else. Read a book. Walk the dog. If you don't, I bet you'll wish you did... "},{"Title":"There is nothing that redeems this film.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I've always been a fan of Chris Elliot, but unfortunately this film is extraordinarily horrible.  The humor is sophomoric; the acting, no better. The film bizarrely changes time periods with no explanation or apparent purpose.  If it's attempting anachronistic humor, it fails.  The film plods along like a ship cut adrift, lightened only by David Letterman's appearance.  But two minutes of comedy is not enough to rescue this shipwreck of a film.  "},{"Title":"What is wrong with you people?","Date":"15 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I fully maintain that this movie is the worst of all time...right up there with Battlefield Earth and The Star Wars Holiday Special. There's virtually no plot, stupid songs, and humor that tries and nearly always misses. The sad part is that I watched it to the end, believing that Elliot and Co. would be able to redeem themselves, but it never happened. I mean, they melt the giant snowman with coffee?! You must have to be high to get it. But maybe that was the point all along...I seriously don't understand how anybody could give this movie beyond a D-, even less how so many of you on this board gave it ten stars!! "},{"Title":"He's sailing on the High Seas & apparently without a script","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To provide a glimmer of how bad Cabin Boy is after returning it to Blockbuster (un-rewound; it wasn't spending any more time in my VCR!) the clerk profusely apologized for allowing me to waste my $2.Where do you start in picking apart this rancid piece of moving making dribble?  First off I'd like to say I've seen a lot of crap in my life (I'm a Toronto Maple Leafs fan for goodness sake) but Cabin Boy is by far the worst movie ever made.  I rate it far worse then such forgettable stinkers as Godzilla, Johnny Mnemonic and all of the Kickboxer movies. It boggles the mind to think that somebody was actually willing to put up their own money to make this movie.  Please, Mr. Burton next time someone comes up to you with this great idea for a movie about an inept and fatuous Cabin boy and his cadre of retarded and mental defective buddies, get the hell outta there!What about the plot?  The plot is nothing but some non-coherent, inconsistent scenes grouped together for maximum frustrative effect.  (If a viewer finds himself wondering aloud What the hell's goin' on, relax it's natural) Even the cameo appearances by such pseudo-celebrities as David Letterman, Andy Richter and Ricki Lake can't save this slow moving train ride to oblivion from becoming a torturous visit to the dentist's chair. Cabin Boy is like witnessing the slow burn of the Hindenburg, only far less entertaining.The characters that inhabit this brain dead world range from flying/expectorating cupcakes, to multi-armed weirdoes, to Chocki the insipid shark-man.  I must add that none of these characters are even remotely funny in any of their appearances, actions or speech.Add to a movie with no-plot, no-point, no-character development some REALLY bad lighting effects and the whole thing gives you a headache.  The Ocean scenes are mostly shot in this trippy orange haze that causes the viewer to either go blind from squinting or develop some sort of permanent visual handicap.As for the dialogue, even a dyslexic, pig-Latin speaking monkey using only his tail could have come up with anything more engaging then the verbal diarrhoea smeared throughout this movie (if you think I'm joking look at the quotes section; and those are the best lines, all 6 of 'em).The excitement level of Cabin Boy ranges between boring and what is only comparable to having one's head slammed between a rusty fence.  The dialogue is so pointless and ridiculous that it makes Ace Ventura II seem a kin to Hamlet.While watching Cabin Boy I kept telling myself it has to get better, it can't possibly get any worse.  WARNING it can and it does.  Shoving peas up your nose is exactly as much fun as watching Cabin Boy.  Adam Resnick edited the movie down to 80 minutes and that's about 79 minutes and 59 seconds too long.  I never thought 80 mins was that long but if that is all the time you have left to live I recommend using it to watch Cabin Boy, it'll make an hour and twenty minutes seem like an eternity. NOTE TO THE PRODUCERS  I WANT THOSE 80 MINUTES OF MY LIFE BACK!RATING - digits / 10  "}{"Title":"It might have been good as a 3 minute skit on Late Night with David Letterman","Date":"11 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Imagine one of those weird little skits you used to see on Late Night with either David Letterman or Conan O'Brian. You know, one of those where some surreal character comes out and does some silly stuff for a minute or so and then goes away. Now imagine one of those skits without a host there to play straight man, no studio audience to draw energy from and it goes on for almost an hour and a half. Congratulations! You've now seen Cabin Boy.Nathanial Mayweather (Chris Elliott) is a prissy, fussy, arrogant, dimwitted son of a rich man. After graduating from finishing school is all his bewigged glory, Nathanial gets misdirected and instead of winding up on a luxury cruiser taking him home to Hawaii, he winds up a cabin boy on a fishing boat named The Filthy Whore. After a whole bunch of lame inanity with 4 grubby and overacting fishermen, Nathanial falls in love at first sight with a girl swimming around the world and must prove his manhood to her by having sex with the slutty 2nd cousin of the Hindu goddess Shiva. And that's not as funny as it may sound. After teaming up with a shark man to battle a giant appliance salesman (that's a giant salesman who sells appliances, not a regular size salesman who sells giant appliances), Nathanial realizes he no longer wants a life of aimless wealth and rides his new girlfriend out to sea. Again, not as funny as it may sound.This film is like a primer on why Letterman has gotten his ass kicked in the ratings by Jay Leno for years, why Conan bombed at The Tonight Show and hasn't set the world on fire at TBS and why there are so many comics beloved of other comics who never manage to achieve much mainstream success. There's a certain breed of comedian who are mainly focused on entertaining themselves. They're usually very bright and clever, oftentimes dark or subversive or edgy, but their humor is disconnected from or perpendicular to what other people find funny. They just make themselves laugh and if it amuses anyone else, that's a bonus. Such inwardly directed, almost defiant comedy can be hilarious to the general public in small bursts. It's essentially impossible to sustain it for a long period of time, something Cabin Boy makes agonizingly clear.I suppose disaffected, supercilious hipsters might find some laughs in this movie, or at least convince themselves to laugh at what they think only they are with it enough to appreciate. Normal folk will only stare at the screen in slackjawed amazement at how pitiful it all is. There's no narrative standard by which anything in this motion picture works. The attempts at humor are so fractured and esoteric that even stoned slackers would be hard pressed to summon up a giggle in response.Let me give you an example. Even back in 1994, goofy looking Chris Elliott was too balding and too bearded to play a kid fresh out of finishing school. We first see Nathanial when he's singing in a choir with his schoolmates. Now, a traditional attempt at comedy would fill the choir with fresh-faced teens and leave Elliott sticking out like a sore thumb. Cabin Boy fills the choir with guys who, just like Elliott, are far too old and too hirsute to pass for a student body. You see, you're supposed to anticipate the joke that would normally be told and instead appreciate them doing the complete opposite. This isn't smart humor. It's humor that wants to be applauded for being smart, which isn't the same at all.I quite enjoyed seeing Chris Elliott show up on the old Letterman show, not that I'm dating myself or anything. I didn't laugh or smile even once at this film. That pretty much says it all. "},{"Title":"Chris Elliott's allegorical autobiography.","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Like his character Nathanial Mayweather, Chris Elliott was born to a very talented father (Bob Elliott) and into a lucrative family business (showbiz). Also like Nathanial, the elder's talent casts an especially harsh light on the younger's near complete lack thereof. Chris takes us as Nathanial on a metaphorical journey starting from privileged upbringing complete with shots at televisions shows, both his own and David Letterman's, based on the respect others have for his father. And like Nathanial eventually that life of ease ebbs away as Chris/Nathanial have to make it on their own talents either making a comedy or surviving on a ship called The Filthy Whore. Neither fares well and Elliott deserves credit for taking an unflinching look at his situation and filming what he see even if only in metaphor. Like his career, little about the movie works. As a character, Nathanial grates and a lack of more attractive protagonists means little that happens provokes any empathy from the audience - The Filthy Whore could have pulled A Perfect Storm sinking about the 35 minute mark and no tears would have been shed. As a story, Nathanial's being thrown out of an anachronistically modern limousine only to mistake The Filthy Whore for his father's Queen Anne yacht works less well than your average Two Close for Comfort episode setup. As a comedy, even Letterman himself finds himself in a disjointed, seemingly improvised, unfunny exchange with his one-time television foil. In short, while a small, vociferous group of Elliott fans consider this a cult classic, it is only their hero-worship that makes it watchable. "},{"Title":"Absolutely dreadful","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" There really is no excuse for this movie. I find Chris Elliott fairly obnoxious at the best of times, and he's unusually grating in this one. Absolutely the only thing worthwhile about this movie is the David Letterman cameo -- it literally is one of the funniest scenes I have ever seen, and Dave's delivery is impeccable. Many are the times I have sat through the beginning of this movie in order to catch the Dave scene. And then I immediately change the channel.Apart from that, avoid this film at all costs. Even if you are a Chris Elliott fan (I can't believe there are very many of them), he's done better stuff than this turkey. "},{"Title":"What a waste of film!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the worst movies, I've ever seen!!  Seemed like a chore to watch it, thank god for the fast forward button!!!  Movie Execs should have their heads examined prior to letting Chris Elliot make another movie, if one call it that!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen in my entire life. Not only does it have Chris Elliot in it ... it's also got Andy Richter!  Andy Richter is Conarn O'Briern's sidekick from the hit U.S. television sitcom Small Wonder.  Chris Elliot is a comedic genius who ate dog food on David Lettermen's show Late Night With David Lettermen Show.  The movie is about a lovable yet stupid orphan, Dudley Tard (Chris Elliot) and his friend the Sea Captain (Andy Richter).  Dudley (Chris Elliot) finishes his last year of schooling at the orphanage, in England, and decides to sail to New York City to open his own chain of hotels (which we later find out is the famous Motel-6 chain).  Luckily, his friend the Sea Captain (Andy Richter) owns a yacht and knows how to sail it.  In the middle of the ocean, though, they are attacked by a gang of pirates who they later become friends with after they land on a mystical island inhabited by giants and by tiny people, where they have to work together to help the tiny people kill the evil giant. Then Dudley (Chris Elliot) becomes enthralled with a bathing beauty (some actress) who is trying to swim from England all the way around the world and back to England again.  They eventually get to New York City (though, to get there, for some reason they go through the Arctic Circle and have to fight a giant, evil cloud that blows cold wind and turns people into ice cubes) - this is the movie's only real plot flaw ... why on earth do they go to the north pole?  Or maybe I just missed something.  But, when he gets to New York and has to say good-bye to all his friends, Dudley (Chris Elliot) decides that he will still open his hotel chain but let his brother Felix (some actor) run it for him and he will go back out to see with his new friends the old pirates and his girlfriend too.  Unfortunately, the Sea Captain (Andy Richter) falls into the ocean five or six minutes into the movie and drowns - probably because he wasn't famous yet.  But he and Chris Elliot are very funny (particularly one scene where the two of them have an argument over where they should hide the pumpkin seeds).  Also making a cameo in this movie is David Lettermen as the Man who gives them False Directions (possibly this is why they went to the north pole???)  In any case, if you've never seen this movie, do yourself a favour and BUY IT. DO NOT RENT IT ... IT'S THIS GOOD!!!  FUNNIEST MOVIE EVER!!!! "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie I've ever seen.","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had such high expectations for Cabin Boy. Maybe that's why I hated it so much. Chris Elliot was generally really funny on Late Night With David Letterman. In fact, Letterman's one minute bit was the only thing that kept me from walking out of the theatre. I kept hoping he'd come back, but he never did.The problem with this movie, aside from the fact that it was horrifically unfunny, was that Chris Elliot played a spoiled rich kid, instead of his usual wacky everyman. Therefore, his character was much harder to sympathize for, and the tragic outcome of non-hilarity had a firm base.Never before have I felt so cheated out of my ticket price. If I was the person I am today, I would have demanded my money back. "},{"Title":"just plain unfunny","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had long been a fan of Chris Elliot up until I saw this film. I loved his tenure on THE David LETTERMAN SHOW (back when it was fresh and still funny)--his guy under the stairs and fugitive guy were cute little sketches. Then, when he went on to do GET A LIFE, I watched every episode--even that later ones that weren't quite as funny. So, because of my appreciation of his work, I had very high hopes for this movie. Then, I saw that a little Chris Elliot goes a very long way. A movie starring him just isn't all that funny--particularly one with no real laughs--just him behaving like an idiot. For five minutes or even 30 minutes, this is fine--but for an entire movie? It's like the absolute worst and unfunniest thing Elliot's ever done--stretched into movie length. SLOW and OVERBEARING--not funny at all. "},{"Title":"gross","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Chris Elliott, usually a supporting player, got a lead role in the pathetic excuse for a movie Cabin Boy. Basically a series of disgusting occurrences, the movie tries to merit laughs but only yields chuckles at best. The cupcake scene was particularly unnecessary. If the movie has any redeeming qualities, it's that David Letterman has a brief appearance. You may recall on the 67th Annual Academy Awards, he pointed that scene out and showed other people rehearsing for it.All in all, don't waste your time on this junk. Chris Elliott has done much better work than this (Groundhog Day, There's Something About Mary, Osmosis Jones). "},{"Title":"cabin atrocity","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't mind David Letterman -- even if he can really irritate whenever he gets hung up on a lame joke he keeps repeating throughout an entire show. This movie was designed for his audience, and yet there isn't a single good joke worthy of repeating even for ridicule's sake.As of 1999, this still ranks #1 on my list of the worst movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"I've tried and tried...","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every time I watch this I'm asleep by the halfway point. The last time I caught myself dozing I smacked myself in the head so's I could stay awake long enough for the scene with the Great Earl Hofert! er, David Letterman, that is.If I ever make it through the whole thing I'll come back and give this thing it's proper rating, which I'm betting will be a 4/10 "}{"Title":"Good Lord, please save people from watching this...","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't know. I can't even give a human explanation for this movie, if that is what it is  called. It is just unbelievable STUPID!!! Well, I doubt stupid even fits on it. As I said, there  is no way to explain it. I don't even know how this movie is on the video stores. This  thing is a crime!! The special effects are...... wait a second, THEY SHOULDN'T EVEN BE  CALLED SPECIAL EFFECTS!!!! Well, anyway, those things, whatever you want to call them,  are no better than effects I can do on the back of my closet. They are faker than  anything else you have ever seen. It is horrible. The whole movie is horrible. The only  thing I'm glad of is that I didn't have to pay for it. I checked it out from a Library so I  didn't have to pay at all. And I'm glad of this because if I would've rent it, I will be feeling  robbed right now. DON'T WATCH THIS!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Simply the worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Of the thousands of movies I have seen, I can say with confidence that this is the worst. The sad thing is, I generally like Chris Elliot and Andy Richter, but someone should have saved them from themselves on this one. The sissy pirate script is horrible - the script The Producers should have picked for a guaranteed bomb. The Producers' fault was in picking a serious script that was so bad it was funny -- here the script is a funny script that is so bad it is just sad. And it is only made worse by terrible overacting and poor direction. The movie makes Freddie Got Fingered look like a masterpiece.  "}]