[{"Title":"Will most likely continue to be the funniest movie of all time.","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"238 out of 302 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is a stupid movie, but what some people don't understand is that is what it is supposed to be! It's about two completely pathetic, dumb, and hopeless guys who do nothing but make complete fools of themselves. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels give the greatest comedic performances and form the best duo that has ever graced a screen. Every scene, every sentence they speak, and every body movement is pure genius. The way that each of them deliver their lines makes this movie an all time classic that will never get old. I never understood how someone could not like this movie. The only explanation I could have is they think they are too intelligent for a dumb movie like this. What they don't even understand that it's not the jokes or gags that make this movie so great, it is all in the performances. To those of you who do not like this movie please give it another try and watch Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play the roles that they were meant to play. "},{"Title":"Best comedy ever","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"197 out of 286 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  For all of you that say this movie is not funny, you must be crazy, this is the best comedy ever, with the best performances in the careers for daniels and jim carrey if you haven't seen this movie yet go out right now and movie i promise it wont dissapoint "},{"Title":"That's a lovely accent you have. New Jersey?","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"99 out of 125 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Best film ever... why;Lloyd; That's a lovely accent you have. New Jersey? Lady at bus stop; Austria. Lloyd; Austria! Well, then. G'day mate! Let's put another shrimp on the barbie! Harry; Yeah I called her up, she gave me a bunch of crap about me not listening to her, or something, I don't know, I wasn't really paying attention. Harry; According to the map we've only gone 4 inches. Mary; So you'll pick me up tonight at 745? Harry; Well I got a few things to take care of. So how about we make it quarter to 8? Mary; Stop it Harry Okay. 745 Need I say more... this film has it all comedy comedy comedy... that is all you need. I have heard people say that this film is just stupid, well they are right it is about 2 stupid guys doing a stupid thing in a stupid way and you just love them to bits for it... Okay it was not Forest Gump in the way Tom Hanks played the slow guy come good with what I would say was one of the best performances by any actor of all time but it was very funny. I almost swallowed my tongue, spat out my drink twice almost peed myself and watched it so many times I know the script even now 10 years on I still laugh it my friends eternal Harry and Lloyd... "},{"Title":"By far Jim Carrey's funniest movie, Dumb & Dumber delivers the best laughs to come to the silver screen in years.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"118 out of 170 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From beginning to end, Dumb & Dumber is sheer hilarity. There is not a slow moment in the adventures of Harry and LLoyd, two great but incredibly unintelligent friends who decide to move to Aspen, Colorado to get out of their dead-end lives in Providence, Rhode Island. Jim Carrey delivers a side-splitting performance as Lloyd, the lovestruck limo driver who first suggested the trip to Aspen (We got no food, we got no jobs, our pets HEADS ARE FALLIN' OFF!!), mostly so that he can find Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly), the woman he fell in love with after he drove her to the airport in Providence.Lloyd's and Harry's adventures on their trip are absolutely hilarious to watch, especially their run-ins with the criminals who are chasing them, trying to get the briefcase that Harry and Lloyd do not know is full of ransom cash. One of the best things about this film is that it never strays too far from reality. There is never anything presented that could not possibly happen in real life. Also, the original and strikingly funny comedy that was written for the film is great! I can't remember ever laughing this hard at a movie.Dumb & Dumber takes a good story, adds some tear-inducing comedy, some endlessly hilarious dialogue (I guess they're right, old people, though slow and dangerous behind the wheel, can still serve a purpose. Don't you go dyin' on me!), and needlessly good direction and molds one of the funniest films ever. Good for all ages, Dumb & Dumber is sheer unadulterated comedy and is destined to become a classic. "},{"Title":"A movie that lives up to its title","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"77 out of 107 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When this first came out in 1994, wild horses couldn't drag me to the theater to see it. Why? Preconceived notions. Thank goodness for Cable TV, or I never would have seen this film. I like it, it makes me laugh.This is not a masterpiece. This is not an academy award winning film, not a film of strategic plots, this is as sophomoric as it gets  -- and that's fine with me. Sometimes, ya gotta escape. This'll do it.The title says it all. Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey are perfect for their roles, every time I watch this film uncut, I am laughing. I was always thinking, How dumb can you get? And in the next frame it gets dumber.This is one of those films you just have fun with. Either you like this kind of humor or you don't. But the world is in such turmoil, this is a welcomed, stupid, silly, break that hits just the right spot. I find it stupid-funny beyond belief. "},{"Title":"Funniest Farrley's Brother movie you will ever see...","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"55 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's hard to find a Farrley's Brother which isn't funny, and this is even harder to classify as, 'not funny'...because it is the funniest!Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels team up as the not just odd, but strange, weird and mentally disabled couple. After losing both of their jobs on the same day, Lloyd (Carrey), who retrieved a bag which a woman he drove to the airport leaves in the terminal, encourages his friend Harry to come with him to Aspen where the girl flew to. They think that the gas company is after them since they didn't pay their bill, but is actually the kidnappers of Mary (Holly)'s husband, who were supposed to pick up the money where she left it in the airport terminal.From their start in Rhode Island, until they arrive in Aspen, the kidnappers follow Harry (Daniels)and Lloyd, along the road. The script is the most well-written comedy I think ever, because every thing that they do in the movie, leads to something new and funny that ends up happening to them later on.Their are more than a few funny scenes, and the dialogue is always right-on.I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys Farrley Brothers' movies, or anyone who likes Jim Carrey. It's a hilarious comedy and the two stars were perfectly casted, especially Jim Carrey, of course.And now, an excerpt from the film, Skies, huh? That's right. They yers? Yup. Both of them? "},{"Title":"a barrel of laughs! (and more...)","Date":"14 August 1998","Score":"65 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Destined to become a classic in its genre, DUMB & DUMBER reaches its  objective of making people laugh off their seats, in a film that crowns  Carrey as the modern Lewis & gives Daniels a great chance to show us his  lighter side.      This is the kind of movie you want to see 100 times, with pranks & puns  so silly you love to hate! high moments are Daniel`s bout with the toilet,  the parakeet incident, and Jim Carrey`s love declaration to a schoolboy.     If U R not silly and have no sense of humor, and basically are not alive , don`t watch this movie...otherwise, rent the video, order some pizza &  beer and prepare for 1999 Dumb & Dumber (The early years)       Two  fingers up "},{"Title":"A different kind of comedy","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"44 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Harry and Lloyd are not your standard comedy duo. After all these years I still can't tell who's the brains of this pathetic operation Harry or Lloyd. Jeff Daniels has never portrayed an oaf as likable as Harry Dunne before--all his character's were quite respectable and normal prior to Dumb & Dumber. Carrey's been crazy--Ace Ventura, the Mask--but never stupid.This is the story about two dead-beat buddies that cannot maintain a steady job. Lloyd falls in love with a young lady named Mary after driving her to the airport. She leaves her briefcase inside the airport --deliberately to pay a ransom-- and Lloyd snags it. The rest of the movie is a road trip from Providence to Aspen to return it to its rightful owner.This is Bobby and Peter Farrelly's directorial debut; they do a wonderful job. Years later they teamed up with Carrey again to film Me Myself and Irene, which was a great movie, but even though the movie was nastier, even though it contained a chicken up a filthy pig's ass, it still couldn't match the wonderful grossness Peter, Bobby, Jim & Jeff provided in one of the funniest films in cinema history. 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Dumb and Dumber is really Funny and Funnier","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie goes from joke to joke constantly and never misses a beat. I could not stop laughing the first time I saw it, and the tenth time I saw it, and the hundredth time I saw it. This movie never gets old. There is not one single dull moment. The movie takes off and never lets up, not even enough to let you breathe. There is something absolutely mesmerizing and hilarious about Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels' performances as the lovable idiots Lloyd Christmas( Jim Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels).The movie starts out in Providence, Rhode Island with two guys who are down on their luck. They've just lost their jobs, are late on the gas bill(again), and make the best of a bad situation by returning a briefcase they've recovered to its rightful owner, an attractive woman named Mary (Lauren Holly). And Lloyd(Carrey), has fallen madly in love with Mary after driving her to the airport. It just so happens that Mary lives all the way across the country, in Aspen, Colorado (or is it California?) Sure its crazy and stupid, but they've got nothing to lose, so they take off in their 84' sheepdog. And let's face it, if we were them, we'd go too.Dumb and Dumber was not pretentious, the actors never made you feel like they were in on the joke. No, they played it with a straight face the whole way through, and that's really the best way to do comedy. Even when they aren't speaking, their body language alone is enough to elicit huge laughs. The reactions and facial expressions are perfect.The film wasn't warmly received by a lot of critics, but only because they couldn't lower their snouts long enough to realize that this was not another movie about dumb guys, but really a film about earnest guys. And they are pathetically funny just being themselves. They play stupid games in the car to pass the time, and sing aloud to keep from getting bored, and have crazy dreams of one day opening up a worm store.The movie plays out with a high spirit and feel good attitude that can't be matched. And the soundtrack is perfect; it really sets the tone and never feels out of place.Really, truly, without a doubt, the best comedy ever made. I will treasure this movie forever, and even when I watch it the 101st time, I know it'll make me laugh... and laugh... and laugh till it hurts.The film is well paced and has a spontaneous nature that lacks in most comedies. Behind all the stupidness, there is a real glow of brilliance. The fact is, more than all the goofiness and crazy antics, Dumb and Dumber is a film full of smarts, and that's what we end up admiring the most. "},{"Title":"Played Strictly For Laughs","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"43 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's hard to believe this was out over a decade ago, but it was another in a long line (past few decades) of crude comedies....BUT one of the better ones regarding some laugh-out-loud funny scenes.The classic of the funny scenes, at least to most men including me, is poor Jeff Daniels on the toilet. No need to go into details! As crazy as Jim Carrey got in some of his earlier movies (Ace Ventura, Liar, Liar, etc) he's actually lower-key than in some of the other stupid-guy roles he played, one reason because he's doesn't shout in here. I didn't find the female lead in here, Lauren Holley, to be appealing but that's just my opinion.In modern-day slapstick, it means one basic thing gross out your audience, so that's what is attempted here. When it works, it's very funny, such as that bathroom scene.. One thing for sure the language makes this an R-rated film, not PG-13. Speaking of jokes, that PG-13 rating has become a joke.Anyway, you should get a lot of laughs out this at least I suspect males will more than females....and that's all it was meant for - laughs, and nothing else - so don't trash the film because it wasn't intelligent enough for you. "}{"Title":"I laughed, I cried, and I think my IQ dropped. I love this movie!","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Marx Brothers. Laurel and Hardy. Abbott and Costello. Jerry Lewis. Every generation has their dose of silliness. The 1990s had Jim Carrey. And along with him came the phenomenal hit Dumb and Dumber, a simple tale of two numb skulls who journey to Aspen in search of a woman and happiness.Our tale begins when Lloyd (Jim Carrey) is escorting a young woman named Mary Swanson (the gorgeous Lauren Holly, who Carrey eventually married and then divorced) to an airport. He falls in love with her in the few minutes they share in the limousine, and after he has dropped her off, he watches her from the outside in his limo and sees her leave behind a black briefcase on the floor inside the airport. Rushing inside, he grabs the briefcase, only to find someone closing the gate to her plane. It's okay, I'm a limo driver! he yells to a ticket checker, rushing down the airport jet way and running straight off of it, falling onto the cement runway below.After retreating to his apartment, he convinces his pal Harry (Jeff Daniels) to come with him to Aspen to return the briefcase to Mary. Harry, the smarter one (or is that dumb-less one?), at first hesitates, and then reluctantly agrees, and so they are off. Little do they know that the briefcase they carry is actually ransom money that Mary was trying to pay to get her husband returned to her. Now with hitment on their tail, Lloyd and Harry make it to Aspen only to wreak even more havoc.Comedic timing is everything in a comedy like this. Carrey and Daniels have chemistry and timing. Check out the scene where they are at the National Preservation Society Gala, and stand at a bar in bright, tasteless suits. The way they stand, talk, and interact is as if they really are bosom-buddies, two idiots without a clue.The film is directed by The Farrelly Brothers, Peter and Bobby. You may remember them as the men who brought us the hilarious There's Something About Mary. But truth be told, Dumb and Dumber is even better than Mary. Whereas Mary was a fun summer comedy with big laughs and tons of crude sex jokes, Dumb and Dumber is a true comedic gem, and carefully borders the line of tastelessness and taste, something Mary crosses over and never turns back to.Is this movie dumb? Yes, absolutely. Will it offend you? Perhaps if you're a snob. And I'm sure some film elitists will complain that there's nothing substantial or of artistic merit here.I don't think it matters. This movie is meant to entertain and it does so wonderfully. In the past I've given negative ratings to films of the same genre that are just meant to be brain-less, silly fare (such as Me, Myself & Irene) - the difference here is that Dumb and Dumber manages to come across as both likable and entertaining, while still managing to feature characters we can actually, in some crazy way, find ourselves liking.In the end, this is just a very funny movie that is well-made and memorable - much more so than some of its other 1990s stupid-comedy counterparts. "},{"Title":"I liked it, others may not...","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"40 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... because the gags are so quickfire and chucked into the script with little thought as to whether they suit the plot (what plot?) or whether the characters would realistically say them.  No matter for me, because I was laughing all the way through, but I can appreciate why some people might not like that.   Like I said, don't go into this looking for a plot, because there isn't really anything other than the most basic premise to satisfy the distributors.  I personally found it refreshing that the movie asked no requirement of me other than that I be able to laugh.  This I did, loudly and frequently.   A final note on who I consider to be the main star of the show.  It ain't Carrey.  Jim, of course, does what we expect him to do.  However, it is Daniels - in an achingly funny turn - who surprises, and in doing so effortlessly steals the movie from under the nose of the rubberfaced loon standing beside him.  It may have something to do with the fact that Harry is (marginally) the more subtle of the two characters. "},{"Title":"Copy-Cat!","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"54 out of 100 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am appaulled that this film was passed, or green-lit! It is a total copy-cat of the hilarious 1988 film Sticky Fingers Starring Helen Slater and Melanie Mayron. This film copies everything that the other had, lets examine the evidence...shall we?Sticky Fingers 2 friends, out of the job, begging for any dime on offer, and struggling as people in this world. One has a client, or drug dealer, who gets the both of them in a tangle of some real dough!They are scared at first, but when the time comes, they realize that rules are out, and exceserizing is in. One is tall, with blonde hair, and the other, squeamish, with dark/red hair. The blonde is Hattie-(Helen Slater), and the dark head is Lolly-(Melanie Mayron). Hattie is getting over a relationship with an ex-lover.A big shoot out ends the film with funny resaults occuring!there money gets stolen on the streets.Dumb & Dumber Two weasily friends, both out of the job, and out of money, which is stolen on the streets. They are left with thousands of dollars left from one of them's client. Jeff Daniels is blonde, and taller with the name of Harry, and Jim is slightly shorter with darker hair named Lloyd. Daniels Harry character is just out of a relationship with an ex-lover. A shoot out ends this film, with stupidity and nonsense.The similarities are endless...so is my anger for this film. I would say watch the other, which has intellect, and not full of toilet humor like this one. "},{"Title":"FINALLY a film that lives up to its title!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  DUMB AND DUMBER (1995) ***1/2 Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels, Lauren Holly, Teri Garr, Charles Rocket, Mike Starr, Karen Duffy, Harland Williams.  Finally a film that lives up to its title!! Side-splittingly funny moronic comedy with two half-wits (Carrey and Daniels, truly inspired casting) on the road to return a briefcase to a beautiful woman Carrey is ga-ga for.  Ingeniously stupid and riotously hysterical with bathroom humor running as rampant as the doltish duo's frenetic hairstyles.  Go ahead and laugh.  Written and directed by Bobby and Peter Farrelly. "},{"Title":"Easily a cult classic. A movie that does an excellent job at what it's suppose to do, bring a lot of laughter.","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie by no means is known as one of the greatest movies ever. After all, it's not suppose to be taken seriously to begin with. It's called Dumb and Dumber for a reason. However, to this day, this movie is still one of the most beloved comedies in decades. It still has a cult following. This movie is so damn funny, that I can't even explain it. The movie does a superb job at what it's suppose to do. It's not perfect, which is why I didn't give it a perfect score. It has a flew flaws that some movie critics would pick at. However, it's nothing compared to all the good.The storyline to the movie is both ridiculous and hilarious. It takes you on a tour of the lives of Harry and Lloyd; two guys in Rhode Island who are going nowhere in life. Once Lloyd finds the love of his life, he obsesses over her and even gets involved further in her life then he should have. She leaves an empty suit case at the airport and the content in it is very valuable. Lloyd grabs it and thinks she forgot it and wants to give it back to her but it's too late, she flew all the way to Aspen. So, Lloyd wants to go on a road trip with his buddy Harry and drive all the way to Aspen to return it to her. Little do they know that kidnappers and the FBI are after them. On their way they encounter several crazy and memorable characters. Seabass the tough redneck, Mental a somewhat stupid hit man and many more.The acting is very hilarious and well done. Jim Carrey does a great job at Lloyd who is so damn stupid and hilarious, it's hard not to like him. This character is one of Carrey's best. Jeff Daniels does and equally good job as Harry who is less dumb then Lloyd but still gets into plenty of trouble. The story overall is a road ride in the eyes of two likable idiots who are oblivious to everything and yet, they still manage to get out of trouble without even trying. The dialog in the movie is very funny and memorable. Several scenes are equally as memorable. Lloyd's fantasy dream for instance with his so called love Mary, Harry's explosive diarrhea, The cop drinking the pee out of the beer bottles, the Seabass scenes, the blind kid pretty bird scene, the Don't worry, I'm a Limo driver scene and several more. There were very few moments in this movie where I wasn't laughing.Overall this movie may not be perfect because the humor will not appeal to everyone. Some people may be too serious for this movie and if so, you're lose, go watch Titanic. All I know is it's one of the funniest movies I have ever seen and to this day, I still watch it. I never get tried of it. It will be very hard for people with a sense of humor not to find this movie funny. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The thing that separates this stupid movie from other, inferior stupid movies like Zoolander and Anchorman is that the movie never takes the stupidity seriously. This is realism of a sort In general, incompetent fools do not excel in life, and they don't excel in here. The guy does not end up with the girl, the protagonists don't end up successful or particularly happy except in their friendship.This gives the comedy so much more impact. If everyone and the world are believable, ridiculous antics really stick out. My favorite scene in this movie, for example, is Harry and Lloyd's interaction with a very serious, tough thug. The thug's realistically confused and shocked response to their pure idiocy makes the idiocy itself far more potent and gut-wrenchingly hilarious.The plot, while not particularly deep, acts as a sort of clever satire on most comedy-adventures. As I said, the heroes actually end up any better off than they started, but their blissful ignorance makes it hard for you to feel sad for them.There are two distinct reasons that this comedy stands the test of multiple views, though. One is the physical, comedic performances of Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey as Harry and Lloyd. So brilliantly over-the-top and obnoxious, you'll be laughing almost non-stop if you just pay attention to the way the two stars act. The other is how creatively stupid Harry and Lloyd are. It's clear someone of great intelligence wrote this stupid script; the jokes are clever and come at a nonstop pace.There are the requisite bodily function jokes, but they don't really drag the movie down very much, as they are sparse and generally funny. Overall, I recommend this movie for all fans of comedy. And I question the wisdom and sanity of anyone who doesn't consider themselves a fan of comedy.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Funniest movie of All-Time!","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is the funniest movie ever for the following reasons two pals lose their jobs, but Lloyd (Jim Carrey) finds a briefcase that belongs to a wealthy woman (Lauren Holly) that lives in Aspen,Colorado and he and his best friend Harry (Jeff Daniels)must travel cross-country to return it to her. Along the way they encounter kidnappers, a state trooper, and many more hilarious moments from this comedy that you must see for yourself. I first saw this on TBS when they aired it last year and I laughed harder than ever. I loved it when Lloyd says Wanna hear the most annoying sound in the world? aaaaaaaaaaaaaagh. One of the funniest quotes from the movie. If you don't like obnoxious and dumb humor, then this isn't the movie for you. But, if you love dumb humor, are a big fan of slapstick comedies, want to laugh your butt off, or if you just like Jim Carrey's movies, then this is for you. My rating for Dumb and Dumber10/10! "},{"Title":"Brilliantly stupid","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I like really smart, or brilliantly stoopid. I think brilliantly stupid is harder to pull of and they did it! The potty humor, snow ball fight, mini bike, etc, etc, etc were just awesome! I almost needed to wear a diaper I laughed so hard while watching this.Although I don't like all Jim Carry movies, I think he is enormously talented, and Jeff Daniels was the perfect match for him in this inept comedy! I watched Dumb and Dummerer for about 5 minutes and couldn't continue. It was too painful, and I felt really bad for the actors who tried to fill the shoes of Jim and Jeff in the first installment. There are no two that could have pulled it off. Just as Jacky Mason or anyone could ever replace Rodney in Caddyshack. "},{"Title":"A reason to see comedies","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is a hilarious look at two dummies who go across the country to return a briefcase.  During their escapades we see some of the most memorable and humorous scenes of the decade.  Including  a cop drinking a beer bottle full of pee, a blind kid getting a parrokeete without a head, Jeff Daniels taking a monster dump, and many, many other things.  The movie also introduced two film-makers who would also be remembered for There's Something About Mary- Peter and Bobby Farrelly.  They bring Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels to the screen in a way I've never seen before, or probably won't again.  A+ "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie, there's something wrong with you.","Date":"25 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Let me repeat... If you don't like this movie, there's something wrong with you. The only way you would not like this movie is if you don't like to laugh, which is strange, or else way too uptight and you're afraid to laugh or have people see you laugh. THIS IS THE GOLD STANDARD FOR COMEDIES. It doesn't get any better than this. Like an action movie that is so cram packed full of action that it blows your mind, Dumb and Dumber is so cram packed full of hysterical jokes, gags and one-liners that you had better pee before the movie or you may be in trouble. This movie is the shining example of comic genius that all other comedies can only hope to approach. This is the ONLY comedy I've ever seen that is hilarious throughout the ENTIRE movie. My stomach still hurts from laughing at this movie and I've probably seen it 10 times. Name another comedy with that kind of genuine staying power. There aren't any. I've seen the other comedies that are more critically acclaimed, and I've just got to say You've got to be joking. Not that there aren't other great comedies out there, but I've found critics to be a notoriously bad barometer in rating comedies. Most of their favorites are boring as hell and then they'll rate a hilarious movie with two stars?!! Comedy is very underrated as a genre. What's harder to make? A great comedy or a great drama? I'd argue a great comedy because when you get down to it, throughout the history of movies, the number of great dramas is vastly higher than the number of great comedies. Dumb and Dumber is a masterpiece. I would argue it is THE masterpiece as an example of comedy. If you haven't seen this movie, GET IT AND WATCH IT. Decide for yourself. Don't believe the hype of the critics. YOU WILL LAUGH! (unless there's something wrong with you...) "}{"Title":"My fave comedy film","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the greatest comedies ever made in my opinion. It's often described as a stupid movie, but I don't think it is. It can be very silly, but at its heart it's a movie about friendship and unrequited love.Jim Carrey puts in an amazing performance that's quite nuanced in its physicality. He's always very aware of where each point of his body is located, what what his face is doing. That might seem like a strange thing to say but an expression or stance or way of performing an action can make a big difference to a scene. There's a particular scene after he gets mugged by an old lady where he bursts through the door and crumples to the ground in agony. It's a small thing but I can't imagine any other actor performing the scene in that way, and there's plenty of other scenes where Carrey's unique physicality shines through.Jeff Daniels is suitably goofy in his role, and probably gets the biggest laugh with the toilet scene, which is crude and silly but very funny.I don't think Carrey or the Farrelly Brothers ever recaptured the greatness of this movie unfortunately. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have ever seen","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Is this movie dumb? Sure. Mindless entertainment? Definitely. Some days you just want to sit down, watch a mindless movie, and laugh your butt off...and this is the best movie to do that too. I've seen it probably over 20 times now (First saw it in theaters when I was 9 years old) and it's kept me laughing ever since. From the slapstick humor, to the subtle humor, it has you laughing from the start to the end. These days funny movies are overly sexual, violet, or dark...but Dumb and Dumber remains funny without crossing any lines.On another note, Dumb and Dumber to (2014) was pretty funny and didn't disappoint, however, it was unable to recapture the magic of the original. "},{"Title":"Done pretty well with constant laughs and a surprisingly high IQ.","Date":"19 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is one of many road trip comedies, but it meanders from the standards that came before it. No cars were wrecked in the making of this film, unlike Tommy Boy, and Planes, Trains, and Automobiles. In fact, it might not even qualify as a road trip comedy since at least thirty-five minutes of it are spent at the destination of Aspen, Colorado. It has kind of a story to it, but primarily it just takes some everyday situations and puts them into comedy format.The movie introduces another dynamic comedy duo to join the ranks. You can tell that Harry and Lloyd are good friends, but they also have distinct personalities. This is highlighted by the balance of screen time that they have together and separate. Lloyd is a little bit goofier and more adventurous than the somewhat irritable and nervous Harry. Both parts receive good, arguably spectacular, performances. Despite how the film is titled, the two are not as stupid as one might think. They show that they are resourceful in a number of situations, though there does seem to be some part of their brains that have something missing. Their stupidity is almost paradoxical, because they know how to drive and make some kind of money, but there's just certain things that they don't really get like Christmas as in the holiday?- No Christmas as in tree. There are various minor characters that drive the plot along. These consist of the scattered cops, the guy and girl that chase Harry and Lloyd, and Mary Swanson. The plot is nothing special, but it's also not the main focus of the movie and can be absorbed in a variety of ways and at a variety of levels. The whole story behind the suitcase is kind of funny in itself because it's such a serious thing, but it get's inadvertently messed up by the unsuspecting and innocent Harry and Lloyd. Each part is acted pretty well, though you could make a case against the quality of the script.There is a pretty good balance of verbal and situational comedy. I got more of a bang of the verbal comedy, which primarily came before arriving in Aspen. A lot of the situational humor comes from the minor characters overestimating Harry and Lloyd's intelligence and getting outwitted, sometimes unintentionally. The humor isn't outrageously crude or raunchy, though it is rated PG-13 for a reason.If you enjoy Jim Carrey movies, this fits the bill, and he gives a performance that is on par with his other work. It's pretty good if you like slapstick, though the overall feel doesn't quite spell slapstick. I guess you could say it's kind of in it's own genre. But watch it for laughs and if you don't like it, there's no fault in that- apart from maybe being a little too smart for this movie. Overall Rating 8.2/10. "},{"Title":"According to the Map, We've Only Gone About 4 Inches","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is one of the funniest films ever made, and is truly my favorite comedy film. While soon after the initial release of the film, the audience and critic response wasn't very good at all. Having been played on television for roughly fifteen years now, the fan base and the overall grade of the film has drastically went upwards. I remember in the 1990s often seeing this film on television and watching it many many times. There was no watching it too much. The film flows so naturally and in my opinion there is never a dull scene, not a single one. The following is my review of Dumb and Dumber.The film was written by Peter Farrelly, Bobby Farrelly, and Bennett Yellin. The Farrelly Brothers are also known for other hilarious films such as There's Something About Mary, and Me, Myself & Irene. This story follows two friends Harry(Jeff Daniels) and Lloyd(Jim Carrey) as they travel across country from Rhode Island to Aspen, Colorado where Lloyd returns a briefcase that a customer left in Lloyd's limousine he was driving. The silly happenings that occur on the way to Aspen are downright hilarious. This movie has so many quotable lines, that it was difficult to pick my favorite for the summary of my review. As I said in my first paragraph, this film flows smoothly, never a dull moment, never a moment when you ask yourself where are the laughs at?. This film is non stop comedy and just an overall amazing joyride to watch. I sat down to watch the film again because they are finally making a true sequel to this amazing film. I've watched this film so many times over the years(easily 300 times if I had to put a number on it) and I can honestly say I still never get bored with this film. After 20 years that says a great deal about a film if it can have that effect on you. The Farrelly Brothers delivered a fabulous comedy on their first outing, and a film I will never forget.The film was also directed by The Farrelly Brothers. This was the Farrelly Brothers first outing directing a film, they had written some things in the past, but never directed. This duo was unstoppable in the 1990s, with not only this film but several others as well. The film was not very easy to get off the ground, and it actually took a few years because studios thought the script was garbage and that it would never sell. New Line Cinema came along and gave the film a chance, although still worried about the idea. The studio gave the directors a list of 25 actors who they wanted to see cast as Harry and Lloyd, but all of the actors said no. Finally, they went to Jim Carrey to ask about the role of Lloyd, and he did accept the role, but it wasn't until after his wildly popular Ace Ventura film was released, thus giving him much more money. They wanted someone a little less unknown for the other role of Harry and someone who could play nicely off of Carrey. In came Jeff Daniels, who is such a fantastic actor. Daniels was worried abut Carrey stealing the show, but then after reading the script realized that Harry is just as important as Lloyd if not more so. The rest is history, and we are left with two amazing performances from Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey. They did in fact get along so much together, and made the film that much better. It is even said that Carrey ad libbed a great deal of his famous lines. For young first time directors to allow their cast to do this and have fun with the roles made the film that much better. The Farrelly Brothers set out to deliver fans some great laughs, and in the end turned out one of the greatest comedies ever made. Not many first time directors can say that.The soundtrack on this film is so amazing as well. Times have of coursed changed in the 20 years since the film first was released, but looking back hearing those great songs from artists like Apache Indian, Nick Cave & The Bad Seeds, The Proclaimers, Echobelly, and of course Crash Test Dummies is such a joy. The soundtrack added so much to this comedy classic, and should not be overlooked.In closing, Dumb and Dumber set out to deliver some laughs, but little did the Farrelly Brother know that their first feature length film would become so widely popular and known as a true comedy classic. Fans who want to get back to roots of real comedy instead of the phony comedy being pushed today, this is a fantastic film to start with. The comedy is witty and subtle, which even makes you stop and think at times. The joy this film will bring you is nearly unparalleled in this comedy genre. With the newest and first real sequel to the original Dumb and Dumber film set to release within hours of me writing this review, it is a must to see this classic film before going out to watch the sequel.10/10 "},{"Title":"No matter how many times you watch it, it's still funny","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Farrelly Brothers' 1994 road-comedy about buddies Carrey and Daniels (who make a surprisingly perfect duo of morons) travelling from Providence to Aspen and the troubles their dimwittedness brings them. Met with lukewarm reviews upon its release, but those who grew up with it will appreciate it for the classic that it is. No matter how many times you've seen it, there are still new jokes to uncover because you didn't realize it before (She sent me a John Deere letter) or that you missed because you were still laughing about something else. Believe it or not, Daniels is just as funny as (or maybe even funnier than) Carrey! Accompanied by a fantastic soundtrack.**** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Unbeatable","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is by far the greatest comedy ever made. I laughed in every single scene. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels have great chemistry. I have watched this movie over 50 times. I can quote almost the whole movie. The comedy never ends in this movie. There is so many great quotes and scenes from this movie. If you don't find this movie funny then you should be in jail. Even every side character is funny in this movie. Seabass is awesome. This movie is a classic and the greatest comedy ever made. If you haven't seen this movie then stop what your doing and go watch this.Please go out and watch this movie. It is the best comedy ever made. "},{"Title":"Maybe at least a chuckle.","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels star as dumb friends Harry and Lloyd who set out on a cross country trip to return a briefcase full of money to owner Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly), and indirectly stumbles onto a criminal conspiracy which involves the mob and the FBI.In a nutshell, this is basically a movie full of misadventures of Harry and Lloyd during their road trip, providing us with some really dumb gags, silliness and slapstick humor that I've found only very mildly funny at most. The plot itself is simple to follow, but I didn't find the story to be exciting as it lacks suspense and action - just full of plain stupidity and mishaps.There are lots of really mindless moments and crude gags that may make you chuckle, but I've seen a lot more funnier and entertaining comedies than this.Grade D- "},{"Title":"One of the Farrelly Brothers' best.","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey stars in the excellent comedy Dumb & Dumber. Which is directed by the genius Farrelly Brothers. Who have done great films such as Kingpin and there's something about Mary. But there first film, Dumb & Dumber, is a genius comedy. I know it can be immature, but it's awesome. I've already mentioned Jim Carrey, who is my favorite actor in the business. I grew up watching Jim Carrey films. But I left out the other comic genius in Dumb & Dumber. Jeff Daniels is the less stupid one of the two. Which most people may appreciate, but I don't. I much prefer Jim Carrey as Lloyd Christmas. Yes, that's his name.I hate to say what i'm about to say. But Dumb & Dumber is actually a classic. Most critics and people don't give Jim Carrey enough credit. I feel sorry for Jim Carrey and Adam Sandler, because until Funny People, Sandler always got bashed. I hope Jim Carrey soon does a movie like that, because Jim Carrey deserves more credit. I give him enough credit, but most other people think he's stupid. Jim Carrey isn't foul mouthed comedy which Appatow does, Jim Carrey is like Seinfeld. The non foul mouthed comedy, and I appreciate it. The Plot Two losers, Llyod and Harry, are living in an apartment together desperate for money. Lloyd is a limo driver. Harry is taking care of dogs. When Lloyd takes a woman named Mary Swanson to the airport. Lloyd immediately falls in love with her. When Mary purposely leaves a suitcase on the ground, Lloyd runs in and takes it. It turns out that Mary left it there so then these two criminals could take it. So Lloyd and Harry take off for Aspen, where Mary is going, so then he can give it back to her and tell her how he feels. But it turns out that the criminals think they are these professional spies when they are just idiots, and are following them everywhere they go. "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey can be an acquired taste. His style of physical, face-pulling humour does not suit every film in which he has applied it.Dumb And Dumber is not one of those - the humour here is ideally suited to Carrey's style.The revelation, though, is Jeff Daniels. This may well have been the movie Carrey was building up to since the first Ace Ventura movie and, to that extent, is no great surprise on his CV. For Daniels, however, this movie is completely out of left field, and he is absolutely brilliant.It is tempting to go on and explain why this is so, but there is a much better solution - go and watch the movie! If you're prepared to spend time with a couple of intensely stupid, but essentially good hearted, men, neither of whom realises how stupid they are, behaving incredibly stupidly (but very very funnily), then you'll get what I mean far better than if I try to explain it. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedies ever made","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a film where I watched it and thought of how brilliant the writers had to be to create two such stupid characters. This film stars Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels as two lower class buddies from Rhode Island who just cannot seem to get anything right. One day, Jim Carrey's character meets a beautiful woman(Lauren Holley) while driving her to the airport(he is a chauffeur). Holley leaves a briefcase at the airport and Jim Carrey is determined to get it back to her. He convinces Jeff Daniels to travel with him to Aspen, Colorado, to bring the briefcase back to Holley.What is terrific about this film is that unlike some other inferior buddy comedies, the two main characters are distinguishable from each other. Jim Carrey is the really dumb character, while Daniels plays the more practical dumb buddy and something of a straight character. The jokes and slapstick comedy in this film are second to none and what really allows this film to work is the fact that neither of these two guys have any idea how ridiculous their behavior is. This is truly a great comedy and has several real laugh out loud moments. "}{"Title":"The Rated Version is better!","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I think this is a great Jim carry comedy and i don't know how anyone could say it was a bad comedy film because it wasn't, it was a masterpiece and sure it mainly used cheap toilet humour but this makes it even funnier to the younger audience like me, the rated version is better in every way and it is very exciting. It ain't the longest film in the world but no one like a huge movie do they? I just think the rated versions better because its more tidy and better acting, i don't know, I'm all for deleted scenes but unfortunately there are some scenes in the unrated version that just make you wanna shout out BORING! or EW!, simply put this gets a 9/10 i really like them as a duo too. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best buddy flick ever made along with being Jim Carrey's finest hour","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There have been many movies that made me laugh during my youth, but none haven't made me spray milk out of my nose with the exception of Dumb and Dumber which is possibly the most gut busting laugh fest ever made with Scary Movie coming behind in second place.Dumb and Dumber is about two of the most idiotic characters in cinema history with Jim Carrey as the role of Lloyd Christmas, a simple minded but nice guy who can't seem to hold a job before holding a position of a limo driver where he falls in love with a passenger girl name Mary (Lauren Holly)before dropping her off at the airport. Lloyd's best friend and companion is Harry Dunn, played by Jeff Daniels, in which like Lloyd, Harry is a loser in his own way. The scruffy hair buddy drives dogs on the way to the dog shows for which his van is detail of one like a dog with giant ears on the side. Both friends lose their jobs until Harry sees that Lloyd is carrying an unknown briefcase that belonged to Mary from the airport in which the two of them embark in a journey where mishaps and misery are engaged to those that get near Harry and Lloyd together.The film is a high mark for Jim Carrey who already succeeded box office gold with Ace Venture Pet Detective at the time, but instead of butt jokes it's all about the pranks and gags from the comic. Jeff Daniels took me by surprise where instead of playing a normal guy in such films as Speed and Arachnophobia, he shows that he can place his acting chops into comedy. They make quite the duo to make my day.Note A sequel was made in which all fans of the original should stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber would not be one of those movies destined to fit in the classics. Surely AFI would not want to put this one in the high-caliber humor hits in the history of movies. Still, Dumb and Dumber is one of the funnest comedies of the last 20 years. We meet Lloyd (Jim Carey) and Harry (Jeff Daniels). Both are inept, moronic imbeciles who plan to own a pet store called I Got Worms. Good luck not only on raising the money, but even more on getting the loan. In any case, both have their odd jobs to get them through. Lloyd's life changes when he drives a woman, Mary (Lauren Holly), to the airport in his limousine, and she forgets her luggage. He decides to take it to her in Aspen, Colorado with the help of Harry. However, the luggage is actually ransom money for her husband. Harry and Lloyd have no idea, but they could really use the money since they have so little. They eventually discover it trying to find Mary, and on their tail are the kidnappers. It reminded me of a Three Stooges, Marx Brothers, or Abbot and Costello movie. However, with these guys, there is no straight man, nor any intelligence. This paves the way for idiotic miscarriages of common sense. Simply put, the audience will laugh because we can be assured that our intelligence is superior. This one also started the gross-out comedy. Looking back, the gross-outs in this one were not over-the-top. They were simple and much more plausible situations. Again, we can laugh because it is not us. There are no breakout performances, nor deft screen writing. Another strength for the movie is that it could work for kids as well as adults. Both ages can have fun with this movie--which is what I often watch on a snow day. Finally, let it be known that truth in stranger than fiction. I knew a guy in graduate school named Mike. In college I knew a guy named Jim. Put them together, you have Dumb and Dumber. However, I think they would have been smart enough to get on the bus at the end. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious.","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hilarious situations, a cross country road trip, and two immensely funny and talented lead actors &#150; would it even be possible for a movie combining these elements to not be spectacular? Dumb and Dumber, starring Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels, is this critic's idea of the perfect film.Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne, played by Carrey and Daniels respectively, are two dim-witted roommates residing in a dumpy Rhode Island apartment. Lloyd, a part-time limo driver, drives a beautiful woman, Mary Swanson, to the airport one day and recovers the briefcase she left in the terminal. Since he knows she's traveling to Aspen &#150; Mmm, California &#150; beautiful. &#150; he convinces his buddy Harry to drive him there. What they don't know is that as they travel, they're becoming more and more involved in a complex kidnapping scheme involving someone close to Mary.Laughter ensues as the pair travel to Aspen &#150; in a van resembling a sheepdog, no less &#150; and experience quite a bit of uproarious trouble, some of which includes a diner scam, an ulcer-afflicted assassin, tests of friendship, and driving a sixth of the way across the country in the wrong direction! As far as comedies go, and I am a big fan of many, this is the best I've seen yet. It contains just the right amount of subtle references, crude humor, and stupidity to make it the perfect comedy no matter what mood you're in. I personally have seen it over sixty times and haven't yet tired of it. Overall, Dumb and Dumber is a brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"Dumb and Dumber The Farrely Brothers first movie.","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is not only the first Farrely Brothers movie but also one of the first ones they made. The movie is about 2 guys who do not exactly have a high knowledge about, well anything. One day Lloyd Christmas drives Mary Swanson to the airport and when she leaves her bag behind he and his friend Harry go on a mission to give it back to him in nice sunny Aspen, not. The story makes you laugh from start to end for anyone who wants to laugh. This is the type of movie you can watch 100 times and still wanna watch another 100 and then another 100 and so on. Overall this movie is a spectacular movie thanks to the Farrely Brothers who show us their Genius in their movie. I rate this movie 84% for pure genius. Also if you have not seen any of the other Farrely Brothers movie some to watch are There's Something about Mary, Kingpin, The Ringer and Say it is not so. "},{"Title":"Obviously goofy and immature, but very funny for the right audiences","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Farrelly brothers (Peter and Bobby Farrelly) have successfully made a career of making crude comedies (often raising controversy with them), but it all started in 1994 with Dumb & Dumber, a movie of this kind starring Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels. I saw a good chunk of this movie years ago, when it came on TV one time, and can't remember exactly what I thought of it. It wasn't until fairly recently that I first saw the whole thing, and this time, I definitely found a good majority of the gags funny (some of them priceless), enough for me to have no problem watching it again, and once again having some great laughs! Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne are two very dimwitted individuals who live in Providence, Rhode Island. Lloyd is a taxi driver, and one day, he drives a young woman from Aspen, Colorado named Mary Swanson to the airport, immediately developing a crush on her. As Mary leaves for the flight, Lloyd sees that she has left a suitcase behind. Thinking she left it there accidentally, he attempts to get it back to her before the plane takes off, but is too late. After he and Harry lose their jobs on the same day, he convinces his friend to come on a long road trip to Aspen to return Mary's suitcase to her. However, what these two idiots don't realize is that Mary left that suitcase behind for a reason, and during their trip, they also don't realize that two criminals are following them! The Farrellys are known to make extremely silly, sick, raunchy movies, filled with toilet humour, slapstick, and sex jokes. Dumb & Dumber shows that it was like that from the beginning. The filth in this movie (along with the other movies from the Farrelly brothers) is obviously hated by some people, and those people should definitely avoid this movie at all costs! However, although the kind of humour that comes from the minds of the Farrelly brothers and other demented minds in the comedy business isn't for everyone, some people like it a lot. While Dumb & Dumber may not be an absolutely perfect film for those who have a sick sense of humour (like me), and like the kind of crude jokes that the Farrellys love to use, I would say it's well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of the past 50 years.","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie brought and brings so many laughs to me I have to give it a 10.I remember watching this movie alone about 10 years ago and laughing.Then I watched it again with someone else and laughed even harder.And then again with another person and laughing.And then watching it again with the same person and still laughing.And then watching it recently and still laughing.You get tired of one scene or scenes and then laugh at something else passed over the last time.The plot doesn't really matter and is cookie cutter. You could actually make this a drama or suspense movie. Or even a James Bond movie.It just doesn't matter. Funny is Funny and that's what this movie is.Two scenes stand out as ones which got me going the most, First, the scene when the bad guy kills the bird and Jim says Our bird's heads are falling off This had me rolling on the floor and laughing uncontrollably. And the second when Jim gets whacked on the back of the knees going to the party with the owls.Many other scenes are very funny.If you haven't watched this movie, do so with another person. Its funnier with someone else. "},{"Title":"One of Carrey's best Movies","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Madcap crazy comedy from start to finish, Harry and Lloyd are two brilliantly funny characters, both excellently cast and perfectly played out.OK the story is nothing special, but it doesn't need to be. It is merely a carriage for the escapades of the dumb duo. Make no mistake for those of us that simply want a good laugh aloud riotous comedy, this fits the bill.Hilarious, side splitting fun.8/10Avoid the sequel. "},{"Title":"Only for lovers of movies that are so stupid, they're funny.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest comedies I've had the misfortune of seeing. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play off each other hilariously. For all of you who love a good Farrelly Brothers comedy, then this one is somewhere near the top. Along with THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY, this film ranks as one of the better comedies of the last ten years. There really isn't much to say about this film. Except that the humor is so ridiculous and the situations are so original, you will be laughing so hard at the off-color humor. A recommendation would be BEST IN SHOW as it contains much of the well-needed idiotic humor that the people must have in order to survive! DUMB& DUMBER gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"Underrated? Is that possible?","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is quite possibly the funniest movie ever made. In my opinion, very easily one of the best movies to ever see the light of day. How anyone can give this movie a rating of anything other than a 10/10, is beyond me. I've never met a person in my life who didn't like... no, who didn't Absolutely LOVE this film.If there was ever a missing link in your life, this IS it. With as many lines as you can recite (often the full dialogue from beginning to end) It's easily one of the most memorable, and fan-favourite films, that movie go-ers of all kinds can and will appreciate, for years to come.We see a Jim Carey at the height of his career before complete and utter disrespect, sent him down a spiral of events that led him to take more serious roles; for people to take him seriously as an actor. Yet the bitter irony that this film doesen't get the recognition it deserves, it enough to say that Jim Carrey is easily one of the most blacklisted, underrated actors in hollywood. His performance in this film was more than worthy of an Oscar nomination. That is, if anyone actually takes the Oscars seriously.It's because of this, that this movie will never be put upon the pedestal it so sorely deserves to be atop. Right up there with the all-time greats such as The Godfather, Schindler's List, The Lord of The Rings Trilogy, for example.This is the type of film that, even if you HATE comedies, you would still Love this film. It IS just that damn good. This film is pure gold from beginning to end. From the perfectly fitted and timed soundtrack, which will have you laughing all on its own. To the amazing character portrayal's, by everyone (including Cam Neely).A true 10 out of 10! And even then, that doesen't do this film justice. For a lifetime of laughter and jokes ahead. And daily references which will never cease, bringing you years of laughter long after the movie is over. If you haven't seen it yet, you 've probably heard by now, all that you're missing.Do yourself a favour, if you haven't seen it. watch it. If you have... watch it again, but you don't need me to tell you that. "}{"Title":"painfully funny","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When you're laughing so hard that you start to cry at this movie, when you're thinking about how bad you feel for laughing at this dumb stuff, when you admit to your friends that you liked this movie - hey, don't feel bad! This is funny stuff!! I really liked this movie. Sure, it's no classic (nor is it likely to become one), but if you want a good comedy with some good dialogue and sight gags that make your sides split, this is a good movie to rent.The ONE thing that I think this movie might have needed (and this is not a criticism, just something that could've made it even better) is a straight man to go along with Carrey and Daniels on their trip. Think about it - the scenes with Carrey and Daniels playing pranks on the kidnapper with gas are the funniest scenes of the movie, so if there was a third straight man the whole time, it would be even funnier! The result is that at times, one of the stars seems much dumber than the other, and at other times, vice versa. For example, Daniels is the smart one when Carrey can't read the newspaper, but Carrey is the smart one when he advises Daniels (who has just spilled salt) to throw salt over his shoulder for good luck, but Daniels throws the entire saltshaker. Just a suggestion, this was a very funny movie without the straight man anyway.I've never had so much fun laughing at a couple of brain-dead, perverse idiots. Definitely worth a purchase. "},{"Title":"This is clearly for children","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb&Dumber is not a bad movie - if you are under 16, that is. If you are older than that, and still like it, you are probably not older, you just think you are. I see this one after other Jim Carry movies like Ace Ventura, The Mask, and so on. At that time, I was a great fan of JC - not any longer.Simply put, this movie is just primitive. It's all about toilet humor. Just see other comments, which wave about how funny was the toilet sound and so on. Is farting really that funny?? Do you enjoy a movie because someone is drinking urine in it? If you do, go see this movie. Otherwise, there are plenty of much more intelligent and funnier comedies around.While I am usually a fan of mainstream movies, and is not interested in character development, artistic values, moral messages and so on, this movie was just plain boring - especially because I was expecting much more. It was supposed to be funny, but - as I mentioned earlier - you have to be under-aged to really enjoy it. While it had some good points, it is probably the worst of all JC movies. "},{"Title":"Carrey-d away....","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Did you ever get the feeling that sometimes an actor is so full of himself that he forgets the movie and kind of goes off on his own tangent, never to return?That's what I got from Dumb and Dumber, which basically features Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels, two men who are good actors and have been in some of may favorite movies, acting like complete idiots and somehow never getting institutionalized for their actions.I know, I know....  There are people who love this movie and think that Carrey can do no wrong and since bodily function humor is the soup du jour (so to speak), Dumb is their cup of tea (so to speak again).But in spite of some very inspired moments (an escalating fight in the snow between Daniels and Holly, the fantasy restaurant fight, the unfortunate demise of the hitman, the parakeet), there are more moments of just downright stupidity than anything else.  And the scenes with the cop (you know the one) and the out-of-order toilet just are put there, I think, to make ones jaw drop at how far movies will go nowadays.  There's no real humor in what's going on and, in spite of their big following as the biggest laugh scenes of all time, they kind of fall flat.  They happen then they're gone.As far as Carrey and Daniels, they basically just play two guys who act stupid and fail to use common sense.  No character traits, just stupidity.  But as they say, give the people what they want....As we speak, there is a sequel in the works by the guys that created South Park.  Well, I guess they won't have to worry about losing the original's sophistication.Two stars.  I almost forgot Carrey's and Holly's kiss.  Now THAT'S funny. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest comedies ever!","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've been watching Dumb and Dumber for the almost seven years now and I still laugh as hard as I do before and the jokes and the quotes never get old. It's funny as hell! To me, Jim Carrey (my favourite comedy actor) and Jeff Daniels (a rather underrated actor) are the best comedy duo ever! And I also think Dumb and Dumber deserved more than just a cult audience. It should be up there with other comedy classics like Monty Python and the Holy Grail and Some Like It Hot. I mean if you don't find Dumb and Dumber funny, you probably have no sense of humour at all. I mean sure it's stupid but that's what even the title says, it's about two stupid, pathetic best friends who make complete idiots of themselves and accidentally get involved in a kidnapping when they come across a briefcase full of money. It's not hard to see why Dumb and Dumber (as well as Ace Ventura and The Mask) made the great Jim Carrey a superstar. I wish I saw Jeff Daniels in more comedic roles since he stars in more dramatic roles though. I just wished that they had never made the awful prequel or sequel. They should've just leaved the comedy classic the way it is. PS Happy April Fool's Day! "},{"Title":"Comedic Genius!","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Though I only give an 8, this is probably one of my absolute favorite movies. From start to finish the humor is gold and endlessly quotable. The humor also comes through without too much crassness; showing true creativity rather than just shock laughs and crassness, which seems to be the norm now.As far as the technical aspects are concerned, it isn't anything special; no innovative camera angles, or well crafted score (though I do appreciate a wonderful 90s soundtrack). And there are a few noticeable continuity errors.Nevertheless, it all comes together somehow, along with some spectacular (or just plain goofy, I'm not sure) acting, to deliver one of the best comedies of all time. Not to mention a tribute to true friendship that endures. Speaking of endurance; this movie is 20 years old and still kicking! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie ever made","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've seen this at least 10 times in my life. It was hilarious the first time, and it's hilarious now. Nearly every line is a LOL worthy line. The fact that this is sub 8 stars just blows my mind. A crap show like Arrow has a better rating. There's nothing I can say to explain why the movie is so good, you just have to watch it yourself. Apparently I still need more words in this review so I'll quote lines from the movie. Austria? Well then, let's put another shrimp on the barbie. There's no jobs, unless you wanna work 40 hours a week. Petey's head fell off. Yea, he was pretty old. I guess it's true what they say. The elderly, although slow and dangerous behind the wheel, can still serve a purpose. Don't you go dying on me! I was robbed by a sweet old lady on a motorized cart... I didn't even see it coming! "},{"Title":"Dumb & Dumber - One of the best Comedies of All-time!! Yes, that's right!","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumber & Dumber is what many may consider a bathroom comedy movie, more or less from beginning to end. However, this movie delivers dozens and dozens of laughs to all age groups & humor types, and has a type of staying power that will cement Dumb & Dumber as a time-honored historic Comedy, that will go down with such greats as Caddyshack, Home Alone and Police Academy. Standout performances by both Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels. The chemistry between these two is unmatched, and the chemistry is simply the icing on the cake for this movie. The performances by both Carrey & Daniels is so natural, silly, hilarious & memorable it is as if these two simply pulled a weeks worth of self-documented video tape of their journeys and experiences and made it into a movie. Though far-fetched from a typical road trip, the casualness and comfort of the performances these two immerse yourself in make you feel as though these two could easily be your quarky neighbors you have always wondered about. One of the only movies I have personally watched over a dozen times, and knowing I'm not alone, I know the vast majority of the one-liners and jokes throughout this whole movie. Numerous classic scenes that have been imitated and improvised over the years by thousands of teenagers, adolescences and adults. Of Dumb & Dumber, and Dumb & Dumber too, the original is by far the best of the series, and in my opinion one of the best Comedies of All-time! "},{"Title":"Much, much better than I expected.","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Really high-quality low-quality humor. I had been avoiding this movie for a long time, since I expected it to be way too childishly raunchy; however, given that it was coming off of streaming and it was a Farrelly production, I thought that I should at least give it a shot. I'm really glad I did. While it's certainly a bit crude and then some in parts, it's not so much so that most women will be very offended, especially since men are typically the butt of the jokes. And what's really great about the humor is that they seldom go for the obvious expected punchlines, keeping you off-balance and guessing. It's simply good, dumb fun which is surprisingly unpredictable and well done. "},{"Title":"Don't watch the extended version, the cuts happened for a reason","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought this was one of the funniest comedy movie of all time when it first came out. It's a bit outdated now and just not as funny as I remembered it. But it still works and the dumb elements didn't really get to the point where it's more annoying than it actually being funny. Jim Carrey gags are getting old now, but I could tell why it was such a hit back in the 90's. This has got to be one of the best duo to be in a comedy flick. If you like immature and yet at least somewhat amusing comedy, this one is most definitely worth a watch. While watching this for the 3rd time after a long period of not seeing it. I got a few chuckles out of it, but didn't find it all that funny. But I give credit for the comedic value when it first came out. I mean that laxative joke has been used over and over again after this movie. I am not sure if they are the pioneers of that joke, but they sure made it a hit in comedy flick to come afterwards. This is most definitely one of the movies that kick started Jim Carrey's career.7.2/10 "},{"Title":"At the very least, it lives up to its title. And that ain't a bad thing.","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" At some point, maybe 10 years back, I finally came around to the juvenile wonder that is DUMB AND DUMBER. Can't imagine why I wasn't fond back in '94 when I was actually 14 years of age, but now it taps right into my inner 14 year-old. It's shockingly quotable (it surprises me much mileage I get outta these lines), and it's just unbelievably dumb; these guys move from one moronic decision to the next, and you just wanna wring their necks for passing on the bus full of swimsuit models. Together with ACE VENTURA, this is Jim Carrey at his funniest and it seems tailor-made for his physical comedy strengths. It even works as a road movie, with a surprisingly catchy soundtrack.These laughs just don't get old.8/10 "}{"Title":"The clue is in the title","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember when Jeff Daniels was doing interviews for 'Dumb and Dumber,' he stated that he had to mentally 'dumb himself down' when preparing himself for the role of Harry. I think that's what anyone contemplating watching Dumb and Dumber needs to do in order to appreciate it.Okay, so Jim Carey is the star (Lloyd) and he and his equally-clueless best mate Harry set off on a road trip across America in order to return what he thinks is a missing briefcase to its rightful owner. So, basically it's a 'road movie.' Now, by definition road movies are pretty 'low on plot.' The 'story' is simply the two dumb guys moving from one daft setting to the next. Yes, it is low on story. But it is pretty damn funny. And isn't that the main thing? It was made at the height of Jim Carey's fame, therefore he was somehow still fresh. If you're looking for low-brow humour then you'll find what you're looking for here. Yes, it won't tax you mentally and, by the time the credits roll, you may actually be thinking with a few less IQ points. However, if you're prepared to trade a few brain cells in for a lot of laughs then you've come to the right place.Best dead bird laughs since Monty Python's parrot. "},{"Title":"It's pretty innovated if you think about it.","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb & Dumber is a movie I pop in and see about two or three times a year. It never gets old and it still holds up to this day. Dumber & Dumber also happens to be in my top five comedies. Ever. It's well titled film and for the film's purpose, it succeeds. It's a stupid movie and it knows it is, and that's why it's so great. First of all the two leads are charming, despite their child-like nature and lack of common sense. Jim Carrey, as Jeff Daniels once put it, is a tornado of comedic wit and timing. Speaking of Jeff Daniels, his character Harry is very good contrast to Jim Carrey's character Lloyd. Carrey is energetic and it's a performance full of power, while Daniels is a bit more mellow and a teeny tiny bit smarter than Lloyd, just a little bit and plays off Carrey, which works well because he's not competing with his performance against Jim, he's just following along. They play off each other very well, and it's just damn funny. The plot is pretty basic and simple, but it's the situations they get into that are real gold. Granted I haven't seen every movie out there or every comedy movie ever made, but with that being said, there are only a couple of films that have made me laugh with tears coming out of my eyes, and there are, not just one, or two but three moments that do exactly that, one of them is the infamous scene toilet scene. The film slightly drags near the ending and gets a bit dull, but the supporting cast is good, including Lauren Holly who plays Mary Sawnson, the love interest of both Lloyd and Harry, mainly Lloyd who considered her the love of his life after he drives her to the airport as his job as a limo driver. She is the reason why the dimwits decide to take a road trip to see her after she purposefully leaves her briefcase at the airport. Mike Starr is also a bright spot and has humorous moments with Carrey and Daniels. I firmly believe this film is a comedic gem and absolutely deserves to in the Hall of Fame of all time great comedies or at least be mentioned or in the conversation. For film to be this stupid, but to also be so funny with all the gags clicking and everything firing in right cylinders, it is impossible to resist. It's one of Jim Carrey's best film's as well as Jeff Daniels. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Farce Is With Lloyd & Harry","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As the Farrelly Brothers' freshman foray into lowest common denominator comedy, Dumb and Dumber lives up to its dim-witted title. The humor is strictly of the adolescent, simple-minded, scatological variety, with pratfalls galore. Nevertheless, you'll your sphincter will dilate because you'll laugh so hard at this farcical inanity that you'll have a bowel movement. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels topline as the eponymous morons on a road-trip from Rhode Island to Colorado to deliver an abandoned attach case crammed with loot that cute heroine Lauren Holly left deliberately behind at the airport on her way to Aspen. When goofy limo driver Carrey does a good deed by latching onto the luggage that the girl of his dreams tried to hand off inconspicuously at the airport terminal, hi-jinks ensue with our harebrained heroes struggling to get the luggage back to her. What our clueless cretins don't comprehend is that she deliberately abandoned the luggage stuffed with $100-thousand dollars to ransom her abducted husband. Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey of the Ace Ventura movies) drives a limbo at the outset out and doesn't know the difference between a babe from Austria, much less Australia, and surmises that she is from New Jersey. This woebegone wiseacre is pals with a dog groomer who has converted his ride into the biggest sight gag in the movie. Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels of Gettysburg) shares the same dream with Lloyd about embarking as entrepreneurs in the business of worm farming. I've got worms, Lloyd gleefully informs his horrified limo customer, Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly), about his aspirations. Meantime, two thoroughly reprehensible thugs trail them across country. Joe Mentalino (Mike Starr of Clockers) and J.P. Shay (Karen Duffy of Reality Bites) are the ruffians in pursuit. Joe suffers from an ulcer, and he lacks a shred of sympathy. After Shay and he break into Harry's apartment to retrieve the valise, Joe twists the head off Harry's pet parakeet Petey. Nevertheless, our heroes manage to eliminate them without realizing the hellacious trouble that they are in. Joe decides to masquerade as a man whose car has broken down on the highway so he can hitch a ride with them. He goes more than he bargained for in the process. The scene at restaurant later on concludes with his demise as the consequence of a prank that Lloyd and Harry play on him. The sight gags are terrific, especially the headlights and Harry's mutt truck, with Carrey and Daniels doing their best 'two stooges' act, and the Farrellys doling out irreverent as well as uneven politically-incorrect humor. The scene when Harry urinates on Lloyd while they are cruising up to Aspen in freezing weather is amusing because like everything else in Dumb and Dumber is about incongruity. Our heroes make Forrest Gump look like Albert Einstein. The prequel that followed not long afterward was amusing but it flopped. A belated but side-splitting sequel surfaced 20 years later, with Carrey and Daniels reprising their roles respectively as Lloyd and Harry. The labored gag when Lloyd has to relieved himself with nowhere else to go than a collection of beer bottles and a cop stops them and decides to sample one of their open container is funny, too. To their credit neither actor behave like everything that they are doing is amusing, and Carrey took the cap off one of his front teeth for comic effect. Mind you, this isn't the Farrelly Brothers' best work, but you can see the seeds of their future. "},{"Title":"Humorously hilarious, very funny all-round, and, well....dumb!","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" It's like most film nowadays, that're meant to be hilarious, funny and are supposedly Comedies just aren't all that funny...so when you look back to the 90's and you think to yourself Well, maybe there hasn't been many funny films in a long time, and all the good ones were from the 90's; they're all 90's comedies and they're funny....dammit, they're truly hilarious.... you're most likely going to think of Dumb and Dumber. Because Dumb and Dumber is by far the funniest, most stupid yet all-round wonderfully cheery film of all-time. For me, the funniest film ever is this (Role models is hilarious too....but Dumb and Dumber's more funnier and is a real classic!)Lloyd and Harry, two best friends that are about as stupid as it gets, go on the ultimate, long-road journey to Aspen, Colorado, in search of a woman who has left a briefcase behind, whom is believed to have left it there in purpose, so that it can be collected (you're going to find that out within the later parts of the film.) The dim-witted, idiotically DUMB duo then come to their senses (or so they think) and head off and reunite this woman with her briefcase. All along the way do some of the most hilarious things happen....one of the greatest and funniest scenes is when Lloyd and Harry, riding along in a sheep-dog designed van, get pulled over by a police officer....what happens is he comes up beside them and says Pullover! and then after saying it a second time Harry says No, it's a cardigan, but thanks for noticing! and of course Lloyd adds in Yeah! Killer boots, man!.After they're actually pulled alongside and they've realised they're needing to stop, the officer sees beer bottles...or at least the leftover, pee-filled bottles that Lloyd filled up. Yes, it happens! He asks for a drink, demanding that Lloyd gives him one over after saying to Lloyd Come on, give me that beer over you little pumpkin-pie hair- cutted freak, c'mon(something along those lines...) and, well yeah, i'll leave you to figure out the rest.All-in-all, funniest film ever made, full of incredible and hilariously- funny scenes that will leave you gasping for air. An incredible film and I cannot wait for the long-awaited sequel Dumb and Dumber To to come out this November! Thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"Yes - I know my 10 is a bit much...but...","Date":"13 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is LAUGH OUT LOUD FUNNY.I'm a guy who is, well,essentially a snob when it comes to films, preferring foreign, dark dramas or Woody Allen flicks (my exception is Zombies...go figure!) BUT how I missed this until now is beyond me. Just caught it last night - performances are brilliant/funny...Physical/verbal comedy...plot twists...genuinely hysterical. Even thought it's 20 plus years old, it holds up well. I read that there is a sequel in the works, and whether or not that's a good idea is hard to say. I will say based on THIS film I'll shell out my 12 bucks to see a sequel with a room full of fans. By the way, this is NOT for kids - even thought the characters are cartoons essentially - the humor would surely be missed on most them. "},{"Title":"Hands down my favourite comedy of all time","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well what can I say this film had me in tears of laughter every time I see it on the TV screen. It's got madcap charcthers,silly plot,over the top humor AND its got enough laughs for the entire family. So what is it about well two men played by Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey are two dim- witted guys who have to go to Aspen to give back a suitcase belonging to a woman called Mary played by Lauren Holly,with whom Loyd(Carrey)is in love with,little does he know that she is a married woman who's husband went missing and she needs the money that's inside the suitcase to get him back. Along the way the two men end up meeting a mafia guy who has a stomach ulcer,a guy who spat on Harry's burger at the diner(Daniels is Harry btw),a cop who thought Harry and Loyd were drinking whiskey that's really urine,a cop who's undercover as a woman who got dumped,the list goes on and on. But for what its worth Dumb and Dumber maybe the best comedy of all time and quite frankly the ONLY ONE on this PLANET that makes me laugh out loud. Now the comedies that we have today suck BIG TIME and the jokes aren't even funny,in fact there overused now and the actors that are in the comedies now like Robert Downey Jr in Due Date,Bradley Cooper in The Hangover Franchise,heck even the other comedies from this decade don't live up to this film at all.All I have to say is roll on Dumb And Dumber II and hopefully it will be as funny as the original. Im giving this a 10/10 it may not suit some but if your looking for some madcap comedy and loves Jim Carrey's old school movies then check it out. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Comedies of All-Time, Hands Down","Date":"18 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Don't let the title of the movie fool you, Dumb & Dumber explains exactly who the two main characters of the movie are; Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) & Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels). They are so out of sorts from the norm that all the basics of everyday life they encounter in this movie turns into a triumph of one-liners that can be used in your everyday life. Watching this movie takes you on a roller-coaster of a ride across the country following Lloyd & Harry. Not only are you following this two dumb characters along the way, but you are following a story that keeps you intrigued until the ending credits.Without letting too much out, I encourage everyone to watch this movie that has endless laugh out loud moments and quirky lines that will keep you talking about this film for years to come. "},{"Title":"Perfect, perfect, PERFECT in every way!","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the funniest movie that I've ever seen, by a long shot. Perfect casting with Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels as best friends Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne two lovable and (mostly) well-intentioned, but monumentally stupid deadbeats who can't keep a job to save their lives. This movie could never have worked so well if either of them were played by somebody else. Every line is delivered perfectly, and the way they play off of each other is legendary.Even the supporting cast is all perfect, down to the smallest part. I'll skip the plot summary, as most other reviews cover it pretty well. The folks who don't like this film just (not sure how) don't seem to understand that it's supposed to be pure idiocy from beginning to end. The things these two do can be so amazingly dumb, that you just can't help but laugh your ass off.The writing and directing in this movie is actually not dumb. It's absolutely brilliant! A film like this one needs an absolutely flawless script, cast, and director to work. It would have been so easy to screw it up, but it's all just handled absolutely perfect! If you've never seen it, please do yourself a favor... leave your thinking cap at the door and WATCH!! In my opinion, easily the best comedy of all time!! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie of all time!","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber came out the year I was born so even after 18 years it is still the funniest movie I have ever seen in my life. This movie has the potential to be the funniest movie I will ever see and one of the best movies in general. I have seen this many many MANY times at least 20 even if you have seen it before it is still just as funny as the first time you see it. Every line is quotable and fun to bring up with friends. You can watch this movie with anybody and have a fantastic time laughing together. I recommend this movie to everybody looking to laugh out loud! I give Dumb and Dumber a perfect 10 out of 10!~Joe "},{"Title":"A Dumb Comedy with A lot of Brains","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber (1994)*** (out of 4)Idiots and best friends Lloyd (Jim Carrey) and Harry (Jeff Daniels) travel from the East Coast to Aspen so that Lloyd can give a briefcase to the woman (Lauren Holly) he's fallen in love with. The two don't realize that they've just gotten involved in a kidnapping plot. DUMB AND DUMBER is obviously a pretty dumb movie with one dumb thing after another happening but it's also one of the smartest comedies in the past few decades. I think anyone could have made a movie about dumb people as they do it all the time but the writing here was just so perfect that you can't help but be drawn into Lloyd and Harry's world as they get into one problem after another. A large portion of the credit has to go to Carrey and Daniels for delivering two excellent performances. It's not easy playing dumb but these two do it so well that it would be impossible for any other actors to fit these roles. Carrey, the maniac, does a very good job at playing Lloyd for this moron who never knows when to give up. Daniels, I think the smarter of the two, manages to sometimes be ahead of his friend but the way the actor plays almost like a big brother was extremely fun. The two of them have perfect chemistry together and the majority of the jokes wouldn't work if they hadn't, one, nailed their performances and two, worked so well together. Holly does a good job looking pretty and playing it straight to the two idiots but I think Mike Starr is the one who gets overlooked. He's a wonderful character actor and has put his stamp on many great films but the comic timing here was just perfect and the scenes with him and boys are priceless and among the best in the picture. The one flaw with the picture is that it does run a bit too long and especially in its uncut version. These extra jokes really don't add enough to the film to warrant them be included. Still, DUMB AND DUMBER is one of the better comedies to come from the 90s. "}{"Title":"When I thought you couldn't possibly be any dumber.......","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember how famous this movie used to be back when I was a young child. I remember many of my older cousins gathering to watch this flick, and I tried to laugh with them, but I couldn't understand most jokes-- not that this is an adult comedy, but I was absurdly young. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play two goofy and naive characters that cross the country to give back a suitcase full of money to its original owner. But until they arrive in Aspen, which is where the suitcase's owner lives, they get into a lot of trouble and luckily get away with all of them. They always do something unintentional and with no fraud, ending up killing a man-- which is a very funny scene. It's been a while since I stopped laughing at comedies, considering them to be unfunny most of times, but in Dumb & Dumber I had sincere laughter all the while. Congratulations for the production team and mainly to Carrey, who is the main funny attribute to this eternal film. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedies of all time.","Date":"18 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'm surprised this didn't win any Oscars. The acting is amazing and the comedy is funny to the extreme. Daniels and Carrey are incredibly stupid that your IQ may drop while watching this; but you won't care because you'll be laughing yourself silly. Carrey plays a limo driver who is astonished at seeing Lauren Holly when he's supposed to take her to the airport. When he does, she leaves a brief case behind and Carrey rushes to give it back to her, but its too late. So he takes his roommate and best friend, equally dumb Jeff Daniels to Aspen to return the briefcase to Holly. What they don't know is that the brief case is full of ransom money and Holly's husband will be killed if the money isn't given to the ones holding the ransom.The quest to give back the briefcase, plus what happens before and after is completely unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Much funnier that you would expect","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember when this movie was first released there was a lot of hype surrounding it and it was the movie that everybody went and saw. It still is a very popular movie (at the time of writing, being the mid to late nineties) and I do think that it is quite funny. Dumb and Dumber seems to be a movie that you either love or you hate. I enjoy it and at some points in this movie I actually find it quite funny.A young lady named Mary Swanson is picked up by Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carey) and taken to the airport. Lloyd falls in love with her and treats her as a long lost friend. Mary has other things on her mind, such as her kidnapped husband and the ransom. She leaves a brief case of money in the airport but Lloyd sees it, thinks that she has left it behind, and rushes up and takes it before the crooks can lay their hands on it.The crooks then try to get the money back while Christmas and his friend decide to travel across America to Aspen to find Mary Swanson and return the money to her. Thus Dumb and Dumber becomes a road movie, though quite a funny one. They set the jokes up quite well and then execute them even better. The comedy is a mix of slapstick and toilet humour, with some dumb jokes thrown it.The main characters are simply idiots. They do not think about what they do, but more so they say things that we consider to be really stupid. Then there is the comedy of ignorance. The two idiots don't realise that they have stumbled into a kidnapping case and the crims think that the idiots are FBI agents who are constantly one step ahead.I consider that Dumb and Dumber is a very clever movie that is thematically dry. It is a plot driven movie and was made for laughs and money. I guess that it emphasises the stupid side of us and in a way we are laughing at ourselves. It is a movie that takes our stupid side and over inflates it. Things such as the dead parakeet being sold to the blind boy. It is not something that we would expect to happen, but it shows up the side of us that wants to rip off those who are less fortunate. There is the scene where Lloyd meets Mary and instantly falls in love with her. Though this is blown out of proportion, it reveals to us the way we will fall in love with people that we do not know.It also reveals the side of us that makes unsupported assumptions. Such as the crooks thinking that Carey and Daniels are very sophisticated and intelligent private detectives or FBI agents, when we know that they are really just a couple of twits. This shows us up as we tend to jump to illogical conclusions and they do tend to be the opposite.I really enjoy this movie. It is funny, witty, and quite smooth. It is one that you either love or hate. I don't love it, but do enjoy watching it every so often. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie all time!!","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Basically if you watch this movie and you don't fall over laughing there is more then likely something very wrong with you!!! CLASSIC!!! This is Jim Carrey at his finest. There are more hilarious lines in this movie then maybe all other comedies I can think of combined! Jeff Daniels usually known for serious or dramatic movies also plays off his character extremely well! But especially if you are a Jim Carrey fan this is him at his absolute finest just the faces he makes in re action are hilarious... We go no food we got no jobs ARE PETS HEADS HEADS ARE FALLING OFF!!! We need to go some where warm... I'm talking about a little place called Aspen!! "},{"Title":"Perfect comedy.","Date":"11 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is Jim Carrey at his peak and will not be, since it is very much him doing what is completely HIM, to everyone's taste. But you are surely the one person who has made a mistake if you've watched this film and disliked it without realising it's called Dumb and Dumber?. I will TRY and keep this brief (impossible), but this is one of my all-time favourite films and for good reason. The same way I have given Lord of the Rings the title of my favourite fantasy adventure movie, Star Wars the Sci-Fi favourite, and so on and so on, is the same way I put this among my top-ten of comedies ever. The duo of Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels is one of the best comedy match-ups since John Candy and Steve Martin. Both are dumb as each other in equally dumb ways but this truly is NOT a dumb movie. It's heart-warming, ridiculous and it's a proper journey of friendship and male-bonding. I won't go into the plot, but imagine the best road trip you could ever go on with your best mate, filled with memories you will never soon forget (for better or worse). THAT is this film.The comedic timing is perfect. The choreography captures the scenery beautifully as they trawl from Rhode Island to Aspen, and I don't think the Farrelly brothers have ever made a film as great as this. I mean, the humour is perfect. The crass and gross moments aren't tastelessly done like in something like American Pie or some teen flick, this is smart yet incredibly thick! If you don't cry laughing at the kind of scrapes these two get themselves into, you've dislocated your funny bone. And serious applause is due to Daniels who isn't overshadowed by Carrey. As a big Carrey fan, I've never found anyone as funny or able to pull off dumb and wacky humour the way he is, but Daniels is the only person I've ever seen who works in perfect harmony with him, and with Jim being the big man of comedy himself, that is no easy feat. Daniels, I truly commend you for that. He confessed he never did a film like this, ever. And for someone I will always remember for Arachnophobia, he was outstanding and I could not imagine a better casting choice. A real shocker of a role for him, but acted flawlessly. The laughs just keep coming, and it tugs at your heartstrings at just the right moments.As a side note, the soundtrack is also a great selection of memorable tracks that suit each mood accurately and work very well with the action on screen.There's really not a bad thing I can say about this film. If you haven't seen it, well... You're dumber than dumb. "},{"Title":"The #1 Best Comedy Ever!","Date":"21 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Aren't the jokes and the writing really smart for this movie? Or was that just me? The characters Lloyd and Harry are certainly really stupid. I laugh harder at this movie than any other. Jim Carrey is hilarious the way he's so reassuring that they're on the right track throughout their constant misfortune. Jeff Daniels really excels at playing an idiot too. He was hilarious! A few of the other characters along the way were good, Lauren Holly is a nice touch, the main villain was actually really weak (not the gasman), but that doesn't matter because Carrey and Daniels provide all the laughs needed. Dumb and Dumber goes down as the #1 comedy in movie history. Thank you Farrelly Brothers. Dumb and Dumber is the funniest movie ever, no competition.''We've Landed On The Moon!'' "},{"Title":"A Funny 90's Classic!","Date":"27 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is a actually a pretty funny movie despite my intentions of not seeing this. This is not the movie that will win any Academy Awards, but if you want a drop in I.Q or you're just bored and want to see some comedy, this is the movie to see.This is one of the movies from 1994 that made Jim Carrey famous. The others were The Mask and Ace Ventura. Carrey plays Lloyd Christmas. He is a loser limo driver who fell in love with a passenger. She goes to the airport and leaves her briefcase. Along with his best pal Harry, Lloyd decides to go from Rhode Island to Colorado to return the case.It took me many years to see this movie because it looked ridiciously stupid. It is in a good way. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels delivered fine performances. I rate this movie 8/10. "},{"Title":"Dumb and Dumber - in bad taste but very, very funny","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I would have to agree with other reviewers which have Dumb and Dumber up there with one of the funniest movies of all time. This is a hysterical movie.The best thing about this movie is that it starts funny and keeps the laughs coming for the duration of the movie. I often find that comedy movies will have a few funny bits (which usually feature in the promotional clip) and very little else.While the humour in Dumb and Dumber is always in pretty bad taste, it is very hard not to laugh. The best parts of the movie for me were the restaurant scene which turns into a bloodthirsty kung fu fight and the scene where Harry and Mary are playing in the snow together and decide to make a snowman. There are plenty of other highlights - for example eating chilli dogs with the hit-man, the collection of outfits Lloyd and Harry wear, particularly to the fund raising event.One interesting aspect of the movie is that it does not make any attempt to teach any sort of moral. Often humorous movies will try to teach a moral, maybe in some vain attempt by the director to justify having made the movie in the first place. However no such attempt is made in Dumb and Dumber - the two central characters start the movie as shallow, bitter weirdo's and that is exactly how they finish up. "},{"Title":"New Footage and Extras are Nice, But You'll Want to Own the Original as Well","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This Unrated Version finally gives the DVD fans what they want -- 6 minutes of additional footage, two alternate endings, and some making-of bonus features. At least... we thought we wanted an unrated version. The problem is, the original was consider a classic in its day, that adding six more minutes of footage (sprinkeled around a number of scenes) really breaks up the almost-brilliant pacing that fans loved from the original film. The footage added also makes this basically an R-rated film now, with what we would call strong sexuality (without given away the jokes. It was nice to see the extra footage, even if it is a little more risqu, but the original PG-13 rating really suits the movie better (and younger teens can watch it without hearing jokes that parents think are too strong). Missing is any kind of audio commentary, and the complete absence of Jim Carrey in the bonus material is rather strange. Swartzenegger was available for the bonus' in the first Conan movie when it got re-released on DVD, so why didn't the studio at least try to wait for Carrey to have some free time. If you're a fan like me, and can almost recite EVERY line from memory, seeing this Uncut Version will be a nice treat, especially when it come to the extras (though everything fits on only 1 disc, so we don't get a whole lot of content). I liked seeing the extra footage, but as soon as I finished this new version, I went online and bought the original PG-13 DVD -- because that's the film that I loved and memorized years ago. Extra footage is nice, and a few sections of the Deleated Scenes are really funny, but they really did leave the funniest stuff in the original version. Still, buy this version for the extras, but buy the original on DVD as well. That's the version that will always be a classic, no matter how much time passes. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece By Carrey","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Carrey's delivery always surpasses just funny or just professional and is subtley maniacle in perfection. There aren't many movies that can make your ribs hurt from laughing, and it takes a certain subtlety in the comedy to push you over the edge into histerics, but that is exactly what you have in Dumb and Dumber. There were some parts that I had to rewind and watch again half a dozen times just to salvage the subtlety of Carrey's hilarious delivery. Carrey is certainly the focal point of the movie. The plot and his character's side-kick are really just props that Carrey uses to bring about painful laughter in anyone watching, (and I'm sure he is responsible for thousands of people choking on their drink whilst watching this movie). The two main characters in the movie are losers living together with an ambition to save up and start a pet store selling worm-farms. The tongue-in-cheek sentimental scene with Carrey and his friend talking about whether to go to Aspen and return a briefcase to a girl or not is hilarious as Carrey's friend shouts, I say we just find some work and scrape together the cash to start up the worm store, (I'm sure it was Carrey that was responsible for the idea of the two character's enterprise being in selling worm farms). Carrey's character says to a woman he is attracted to being driven in his taxi/limo I've got worms. Only afterwards does he explain that that will be the name of his and his pal's pet store. Another hilarious scene is the dream sequence in which Carrey's loser character fantasises and imagines the girl really liking him. He fights waiters as one of them started kissing the girl's arm, and Carrey uses a kung-fu set that made my ribs hurt with laughter. One of the best things about Jim Carrey's comedy is that he seems to be an expert in a number of areas, probably having carefully practiced for years to get his art to where it is here, and he also always has an intelligence about his work, making use of clich hyperbolically at times in just the right way and often using a very classical style that is truly mastered. "}{"Title":"Carrey and Daniels deliver an intelligent yet dumb- in- a- good- way performance","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the funniest films of the 1990's,it has the craft of a comedy classic.Directed by the Farrelly brothers,this movie doesn't fail to deliver some good laughs and some creativity.Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels star as Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne respectively who are, as the title suggests,a bunch of dimwits who find a briefcase and then chase up the owner.It is better than your stereotypical buddy/road trip comedy and some scenes suggest it gives new meaning to the words dumb,stupid,idiotic and toilet humour.It is also a good comedy that doesn't age,it just gets better by age which is surprising for a movie almost fifteen years old. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Comedy","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK this is a really stupid movie, but i mean that in a good way. This movie is about a Limo Driver named Loyd(Jim Carrey) who has to drive a woman, Mary Swanson, to the airport and when she leaves he sees she leaves a suitcase in the middle of the airport not knowing that is a suitcase full of money for two kidnappers who kidnapped her husband so he picks it up and him and his buddy, Harry (Jeff Daniels), go across the country to return the suitcase.If you want to find out anymore see the movie, you will enjoy it. But you have to realize this is a stupid but funny movie. Jim Carrey's and Jeff Daniel's best performance yet and one of the best comedies ever! "},{"Title":"The best comedy of the nineties.","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" 1994 was quite a year for Jim Carrey. Coming right on the back of Ace Ventura Pet Detective and The Mask came this comic masterpiece. Dumb & Dumber tells the story of Lloyd Christmas (Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Daniels), two idiots from Providence, Rhode Island, who get caught up in a cross-country kidnapping plot after Lloyd falls in love. Lloyd is a more down-to-earth character than those Carrey played in his previous two movies, but still posses the same slightly manic, almost childlike humour for which Carrey was now world famous. I found 'loveable loser' Lloyd Christmas a much more endearing and engaging character than Ace Ventura. Additionally, Dumb & Dumber was more story-driven and was instrumental in Carrey's development as a character actor, rather than just a comic-actor. Though Carrey was the star of the movie for most people, it would be hugely unfair to allow him to overshadow what was an excellent performance from Jeff Daniels. Proving his versatility as an actor, Daniels, who normally plays fairly serious or family roles, showed what a good comic actor he could be. Though Harry was by no means the straight-guy, his more laid back character, and occasional moment of clarity was just enough to keep their adventure on the road. Easily one of the best comedies of the nineties and, in my opinion, definitely Jim Carrey's best film of that decade.My favourite moment When Lloyd attempts to board a plane that isn't there and spirals off the end of the skyway.My favourite quote The first time I set eyes on Mary Swanson, I just got that old fashioned romantic feeling...where I'd do anything to bone her.Worth a mention The late Joe Baker as Bernard. Always good to see obscure British actors show up in major Hollywood movies!Owain Bevan "},{"Title":"This Is The Best Comedy Movie Ever !","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I don't know how this movie has such a low rating ! It is genius from start to finish. Every single thing is hilarious. Jim Carrey gives us a brilliant show (as always)but nearly all the jokes would not of been funny without Jeff Daniels! Jeff is very funny in this , and plays off Jim awesome. Yeah the main storyline is not great but the events that happen in this make up for that. I could say that this is one of the best comedy movies ever ! (Thats not just because I'm a huge Jim Carrey fan)If you haven't seen this I highly advise you to watch it 9/10Cameron "},{"Title":"Easily the funniest and greatest comedy ever made.","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the most hilarious movie in the world. Dumb and Dumber is filled with great gags and many, many laughs that I still laugh at. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are an awesome pair. I never get tired of seeing those two acting like complete morons. It may be kind of gross at times but that's what makes this movie so funny. I have seen this movie probably 20+ times. I don't care what anyone says, this is the funniest movie ever. Some may say Animal House or Airplane or Caddyshack but I say Dumb and Dumber. Some people would say that the greatest pair in movie history would be Wayne and Garth or Bill and Tedd but I say Harry and Lloyd. If you guys want to see a great comedy that will keep you laughing for hours then see Dumb and Dumber. Go out and buy it or rent it I don't care, as long as you see this movie. "},{"Title":"One of the smartest and funniest movies ever!","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is hilarious! It is just so funny. It was the first ever PG-13 movie that I ever saw. I really liked it back then, (When I was 5) and I still like it now (I'm 13). I have seen this movie over 100 times. I don't think that this movie will be a movie that I liked only at an early age. I will continue to like it for the rest of my life. It is very funny. I don't want to tell you any lines because that might ruin it for you. This was a funny movie. I just love this movie. This goes under my top ten favorite comedies. My top ten comedies are Spaceballs, Happy Gilmore, Dumb and Dumber, Billy Madison, The Benchwarmers, American Pie, Monty Python and the Holy Grail, Caddyshack, Larry the Cable Guy Health Inspector, and The School of Rock. Those are my favorite comedies. I hope you like this movie as much as me. This is a funny movie. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Perfect Execution","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As you can see, I rated Dumb and Dumber a 10 out of 10, because to me you couldn't ask more of a comedy than what this movie delivers.The interaction and dialogue between Harry and Lloyd throughout is consistently hilarious and believable, and makes for almost no dull moments. The fact that these two guys simply don't get it could not be more apparent, making them the best duo in any comedy I've ever seen.From the out-set everything that happens to these two seems entirely real, and by the end your laughing about the events as if it they happened to two of your idiot friends.So, don't slam the movie for having dumb humor, get your buddies together, put it on, and enjoy the laughs. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies ever!","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen this movie just about 900 times since it came out, and I have laughed hysterically every single time. This belongs with some of the all time great comedies like Caddyshack and Animal House. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels have never been funnier. There are so many quotable lines in this movie you won't know where to begin. However, if you don't like stupid humor you probably won't like this movie. If you are looking for an amazing plot you will be disappointed also. That is not what this movie is about. This movie is about letting two great comic actors do what they do. If you don't laugh a few times at least during this movie, you should probably check your pulse. Anyone who loves a great movie you don't have to think about, this is it. One of the funniest movies ever. From the very beginning to the very end, be prepared to laugh your ass off! "},{"Title":"Probably the funniest movie of all-time","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of those movies where you just sit there for an hour and a half, turn your mind off, and laugh your butt off! People who don't like this movie are either humourless or don't like some of the slapstick material. Jim Carey is his usual hilarious self, probably at his rubber-faced best in this movie, but it's Jeff Daniels as the extremely moronic Harry that steals the movie. Whether it is putting a carrot and two cotton balls on a snow man at his ''waist'' instead of as a nose and two eyes or whether it is lighting himself on fire, Harry will make you laugh as hard as you ever have. If you haven't seen this comedy before (how is that possible) it is fully recommended. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Immortally the best comedy ever made","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is, and always shall be, the funniest movie on the face of the earth, and any other planet who's surface it might grace. From the opening credits, with everything misspelled to the riotously ridiculous theme song, Boomshakalaka, to the final frame of Jim Carrey's and Jeff Daniels's retarded backsides, this movie inspires awe, wonder, and tears of laughter and of the pain from falling out of whatever you might have been sitting in. Nearly every piece of dialog in the entire movie has comedic intent, and it all works. From Lloyd's very first conversation, My that's a lovely accent, New Jersey? Austria Austria! Well, good day mate, let's put another shrimp on the barbie! to the last sentimental yet stupid line of the movie, brilliance unlike anything ever seen before is shown in the writing. Every actor plays their role perfectly. The good guys are unrealistically dumb, but the bad guys are perfect. They're not over the top and they're just bad enough to make us know they're the enemy, but we never get swept up in what they're doing. This movie is all about the 2 man wrecking ball of Harry and Lloyd. I am confident this thing will endure beyond any other movie, and on my dying day of April 4th, 2050, I will watch this movie and laugh my butt off one last time before going to the white light. It's that good. If you have not seen this movie at least 5 times, watch it again for all our sakes, and catch the last 30 jokes you missed in the first four viewings, due to you laughing over them. 10 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A Comedy Classis","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is one of the funniest films of the last 30 years & my particular favourite. It's blend of stupidness, one liners & sick humour make it an all round comedy classic. In my top 10 of all time just for Jim Carreys face!! "},{"Title":"Funny and Unforgettable, an Instant classic","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I am a 14 year old avid watcher of movies, a lot of the older critics may say that just because I'm young that I haven't seen the classics.  But they'd be wrong in that statement because I have seen the classics, like Richard Pryor, and even some of the old silent films.  I must Say that this movie is in my top 10 favorite movies of all time it's even past Animal House, the Toy, and National Lampoons Vacation.  So I think this movie's mixture of spoofs of typical love movies and the sheer stupidity that can result from a hilarious script and Jeff Daniels and Jim Careys off the wall humor is a sure thing. I think there should be a statue of them with the inscription You can have one pair of my mittens..My hands were starting to get sweaty. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels at their Absolute Finest,","Date":"23 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb & Dumber is a brilliant movie with a very well developed storyline and an outstanding comedic cast.The movie is without a doubt one of my favourite comedy films of all time,I have watched it many,many times and it still has me in stitches whenever I rewatch it.Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are both fantastic at playing idiots,they go through a lot of effort in both performance and appearance,Carrey let his bad buck tooth show off and Jeff Daniels didn't groom his hair once while filming to make their characters look more deranged.The movie is filled with many memorable quotes and is the feature film debut for the Farelly brothers,and despite the fact that they have gone on to do great films such as There's Something About Mary and Stuck On You,this is still their finest work.Hilarious from start to finish with even a little sentimentality,I would highly recommend Dumb & Dumber to anyone looking for a great comedy. After a woman accidentally leaves her briefcase at the airport,idiotic best friends Llyod and Harry set off to find her,making one mistake after another along the way. Best Performance Jim Carrey Worst Performance Karen Duffy "},{"Title":"Watch this! Great Great Comedy","Date":"16 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am sorry for those of you movie snobs who cannot admit that this is a great comedy. At some point it just makes you look foolish.This is one of the best written, directed, and (Jeff Daniels specifically,) acted comedies ever.Yes its foolish, idiotic and absurd, but if you didn't understand that it would be a comedy with those characteristics from the title than you are foolish, idiotic and absurd.I would assume that most people that would browse this website would have seen this previously, but if you are a person who will not watch this movie because people tell you that it is stupid please give it a chance.This movie is awesome and incredibly smart, every time I watch it there is one more joke that I didn't catch during the previous viewings.Don't listen to the snobs, watch this movie! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"15 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Farrelly Brothers are the Kings of Comedic Cinema, 'Dumb And Dumber' is the biggest example. 'Dumb And Dumber' is widely regarded as a cult film today, and personally speaking I've been in love with this one since the time I watched it, which was way back in 96 or 97.'Dumb And Dumber' is amongst the funniest films I've ever seen. My bros and my best friend remember watching this film right after coming back from school day after day. It was so funny then, so hilarious, and it remains to be in our all-time favorites. It's simply amazing, and for those who haven't seen this zany flick yet, I'd say watch it right now.In acting, Jim Carrey is Incredible. He's an actor who is yet to get his due, he deserves an Academy Award. Wake up JURY MEMBERS! Jeff Daniels is superb, who again happens to be a highly under-rated actor. When will these Magicians get their due? Lauren Holly is good. 'Dumb And Dumber' is a Masterpiece! Twenty Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"The best comedy ever, great cross-country adventure","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is very likely the greatest comedy ever. It may not be the funniest (like for example The Naked Gun or so), but it wasn't meant to be all about laughter.It has excellently written story that simply makes the movie so good and never boring. Even after many, many times of watching, it always remains interesting and funny.I always liked cross-country adventures, and this is one of the greatest, not only because it shows great scenery, but because it's also funny.It is supported with the very good soundtrack that fits excellently into the plot.It's an all round movie for the whole family. Just an amazing achievement. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I am writing this review 8 years after I saw it the first time. this easily holds up to time its so amazing and over the top. YOU WILL NOT ENJOY THE MOVIE IF U Don't TURN MIND OFF The pacing of the movie is relentless. There is a joke or prank that are hilarious in every scene! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are so dumb I can understand why certain people hate on this movie. All in all great movie with HUGE laughs its entire mentality is its so dumb its funny. The movie delivers so many laughs of sheer stupidity that it hurts to laugh. Unfortunately the sequel is horrendous stay away from that heretic of a filmDumb and Dumber 10/10 excellent "},{"Title":"If you want to laugh....watch this film?","Date":"6 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just watched this on DVD after a few years and it still delivers in spades! I was watching it at 300 a.m. and I had to laugh into a towel so I wouldn't wake up the people in my Apt. building. To those who don't find it funny, I understand. If you don't like certain actors or comedians, you can't enjoy any film they're in. For me it's Adam Sandler, Rob Schneider and David Spade. I won't even watch their films. That said, I think Dumb & Dumber is one of the funniest, laugh-out- loud movies of all time! Yet it wasn't even recognized by the AFI on their ludicrous List of 100 Greatest Comedies. They listed Laurel & Hardy at #99. What a bunch of snobs! Getting back to D&D, Jim Carrey is at his best. Jeff Daniels actually keeps pace with the frenetic Mr. Carrey. He wondered if this would be a bad career move. This performance compared with his previous role in Gettysburg just shows his range as an actor. They're on opposite ends of the spectrum and both are equally great in their genres. I'll admit that a few of the gross out jokes are a bit much, but all in all this movie is hilarious! Yes, it's stupid and dumb but what do you want in a comedy...Shakespeare? I highly recommend this film to anyone with a great sense of humor. "},{"Title":"We've got no food, we've got no jobs, our pets ... HEADS ARE FALLING OFF","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The funniest film I've ever seen.I can watch it over and over and laugh continuously, and I'm English! I don't really like many American comedies, but this is just the ultimate.Jim Carrey is my favourite comedy actor and makes me laugh in every film. I swear he just looks at a script once and then re-writes every part or just keeps doing funny things until the scene is done.The script is great, and has a realistic plot and all the acting is perfect for each role, considering all the actors are revolving around these two idiots.Literally, this movie should be seen by everyone in the world, I love it.10/10 "},{"Title":"Revoluntionary","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie not only changed my life, but the world. If you chart the population of Aspen, you'll see a steady increase since this movie was released. (yes, I know it was filmed in Breckenridge, never-the-less) Clearly, it wasn't just me who was inspired by this movie to drop everything and follow my dreams, but thousands more who were also so effected. They, like me, were tired of being a nobody, tired having nobody. *gulp* I could fill volumes detailing the redeeming qualities of this movie, suffice it so say that despite the comedic overtones, this movie hits you in a way you don't expect. Some label our two heroes, lovable losers, but that falls infinitely short of adequately describing these incredibly complex and deeply layered characters. Lovable Losers!? Dear god, the manner in which these titans faced and overcame life's challenges should eliminate losers from the conversation. Lovable... Indeed! I cannot recommend this movie enough, but be forewarned, your life will not be the same afterward, and be prepared for that sudden impulse to final just go for it. "}{"Title":"A Fantastic Movie!!!!","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well i must say it is not very often one comes across such a marvelous film. I would consider a GREAT film as one that serves its purpose whether it be to entertain, to frighten or in this case to laugh uncontrollably (which it does!) When i walked into the video shop many years ago i came across this movie, automatically i gave it a seconds glance and had the attitude of it containing child humor and of it being not very funny, well lets just say i was wrong about being not funny! I can honestly say iv watched this film about 50 times and every time i watch it i still pick up on things i may have missed. I laugh for hours and it brings a smile to my face and tears to my eyes when i need it the most.Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play both fantastic roles and is some of the best acting iv seen from both. I must say i'm a big fan of Jim Carreys movies but this by far tops the cake! The Farrelly brothers are masters of their field, yet this movie does not get the credit it deserves. Whether your looking for a laugh, don't go past this movie because it is the best money you'l spend!In Conculsion If your looking for wacky humor and a chance to let your youth spring to life, give this movie a go! "},{"Title":"Hilarious dumbass humour...","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is the film that pretty much made the Farrelly brothers. They followed this up with Kingpin, There's Something About Mary etc. I can't stand Jim Carrey and can't understand why everyone else does! But in spite of that I can understand why this movie was a big hit. It's just so hilarious watching the dumb idiot friends (played by Carrey and Jeff Daniels) bumble their way from one idiotic situation to another. It's definitely not the most intellectual humour but it easily gets you laughing, poor taste or not. I would recommend watching this when you need a good, hard belly laugh and don't have anything better to do. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Dare I say classic Comedy","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The Farrelly Brothers before they directed Theres something about Mary directed Dumb and Dumber, Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels star in this very funny movie. This is my all time favorite Jim Carrey movie, and wish he would do some more movies like this. Latelly he has been in more thought provoking movies.There is not a slow moment in the adventures of Harry and LLoyd, two great but incredibly unintelligent friends who decide to move to Aspen. The film also carries some of the best lines ever in a comedy We got no food, no jobs... our PET'S HEADS ARE FALLING OFF! Mary... I desperately wanna make love to a school boy.  Yeah I called her up, she gave me a bunch of crap about me not listening to her, or something, I don't know, I wasn't really paying attention.  Hey, look, the Monkees. They were a huge influence on the Beatles. Anyway moving on, its a great comedy. Just shut off your brain and get ready to laugh. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"They need to make more of these.","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Honest to goodness, DUMB AND DUMBER is pure genius. It's easy to see why Carrey and Daniels jumped at the opportunity to make what could be considered a sleeper classic for the 90s. It is what it is. The movie is downright funny and shameless at that.A lady leaves her briefcase at the airport. Her limo driver goes on a quest to Aspen, California with his buddy to return it.If you are not into the movie right at the Austrian moment, then you will never be. The movie sucks only for two reasons it does drag on for a little bit, despite the actors' brilliant performance and the fact that no one has failed to realize that a second version of this movie is not altogether a bad thing! Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"no brainer... timeless hit","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I can't believe the movie snobs who criticize this movie. If you're one of those people, please... get over yourself. This is not the Godfather, you are correct, kudos. The title says it all, don't expect anything more! Expect dumb guys doing dumb things, and it's great to be able to laugh at such dumb behavior. What makes the movie so funny is how random and chaotic it is. The chemistry between Carrey and Daniels is as good as it gets. I read some guy say it's a remake of Sticky Fingers. Sticky Fingers didn't have Jim Carrey, therefore Dumb and Dumber is 100 times better. Why should they feel bad about making a movie better than one that was very similar in plot? They just did a better. Suck it! "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought it was pure trash and it's pretty obvious that most of the user reviews were written by Jim Carrey fans. The jokes are not intelligent at all and the writers were targetting the tickled-by-toilet-humour audience. If you are not into stupid immature toilet/booger jokes, just forget about this trash.It reminds me of Ben Stiller's Zoolander. Either you love it or you hate it. Instead of watching Dumb & Dumber, spend your money on Zoolander. It's a lot funnier and the jokes are not the toilet-humour variety.0/5 "},{"Title":"High Comedy.","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Oh goodness Dumb & Dumber is one of those films that is just crazed out of its mind. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels star as two dimwits who go cross-country to Aspen, Colorado to find a beautiful woman (Lauren Holly) who left a briefcase full of money in an East Coast airport to pay kidnappers to get her husband back. Of course, Carrey does not know this and thinks she left the briefcase by accident so he takes the money unwittingly. Carrey also has an obsession with Holly to complicate manners. Throughout Carrey and Daniels dominate the action and the strangest coincidences occur as the bad guys think that Carrey and Daniels are after them and the good guys try to figure out the duo's connection with the kidnappers. In short this is one of those films that is just outstanding and serves its demented purpose to the paramount. 4 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"It's funny, the movie is named after the kind of people who like it!","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb & Dumber reminds me of The Hangover in the sense that both movies everyone seems to think are hilarious but they are, in actuality, stupid as hell and don't deserve the hype they received.I will admit that Dumb & Dumber at least has a few funny parts in it, unlike The Hangover although both movies are ridiculously stupid.Why do people like this movie? It's so dumb. It is really just a waste of time and life to sit down and watch this. I would feel perfectly confident in saying I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone.Do yourself a favor and find a different comedy in Jim Carrey's collection to watch. I'd recommend Liar, Liar. It's a whole hell of a lot better in every way shape and form than this movie. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I never thought this was one of the funniest comedies ever, but I found the movie a lot funnier when I was a kid. The Farrelly Brothers are talented writer/directors who have made several funny flicks like Kingpin, There's Something About Mary and Stuck on You. Though Dumb and Dumber is probably second to Mary as far as popularity goes, I think it's one of their lesser flicks. The Farrellys are partially to blame, but I place most of the blame on Jim Carrey. Whoever decided this moron should be paid $25 million a movie should be shot in the head. Jeff Daniels, though less experienced in comedy, gives a much performance in my opinion. Unlike Carrey, he doesn't use the over-the-top, anything-for-a-laugh approach. Instead, he's more concerned with being true to the character. Why does Carrey have to do some goofy eye movement or vocal intonation with every line of dialogue he utters? I always say that the rule of comedy is to act normal in ridiculous situations. In Carrey's case, he prefers to act ridiculous in ridiculous situations. How anyone over the age of 10 can laugh uproariously at a fool like him is beyond me. The film contains its share of funny gags (like the famous toilet scene), but most of them are disgusting or stupid or a mixture of both. One of the most annoying scenes is one where Carrey and Daniels both eat these hot chili peppers. Their mouths start burning, so they squirt ketchup and mustard all over the place, trying to get some into their mouths. And of course, there are other gag-inducing moments, like a man hocking a loogie into someone's burger. I suggest that if you're over the age of 10 and not a sucker for Carrey's incessant mugging, you stay away from this flick. It's simply another overrated comedy. "},{"Title":"A dose of humor from Carrey and Daniels","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber reprised two stupid losers who try to get a briefcase back to it's owner.  Comedy ensues with excellent performances by Carrey and Daniels.  The comedy is different from others and is one of a kind (Dead Parakeet, Chili Burgers)...  One hilarious romp with fun. "}{"Title":"Dated","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Felt like some cheap laughs and don't think I'd ever sat through the whole movie, so thought I'd give it a go on it's 15th year anniversary.Dumb and Dumber stars Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels as Lloyd and Harry, two complete losers who unwittingly get involved in a major incident when Lloyd tries to return a briefcase he thinks a lady whom he's fallen head over heels in love with has left behind at an airport. With little funds and even less brains, they travel across the country to return the briefcase, getting into many zany adventures and cheating death a couple of times.Has aged really badly, and has only a couple of laughs for those inclined to this humour, the best being the two diner scenes. The main actors do their bit, but the script is just a little too weak and lame at times and drags badly. Probably a test case for this sort of humour, but this one missed the mark badly, proved by the fact it didn't win any Academy Awards. "},{"Title":"Perhaps my favorite movie","Date":"22 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I love this movie. Not perfect, a lot crude, but... I like slapstick comedy. The actors were great. The music was dreamy. The visuals were beautiful. Seems like a waste of time writing a review about such a great movie, except maybe for someone who wants to reminisce, but, I must pay homage. If you haven't seen it. You are an idiot. That's right. Don't let the door hit you on the way to get a copy. Watch it, dummy.This is probably the only rating of 10 I will give to a movie. I suppose Star Wars might be another. There might have been one over-the-top scene (in my opinion), but I can't get enough of all the others. "},{"Title":"Simple Plot, Good Fun","Date":"9 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Especially from the title, going into this movie you have to expect a comedy that isn't smart, but isn't necessarily THAT stupid either. Obviously, a lot of the comedy comes from the two titular characters being dumb, acting like five-year-olds, but this doesn't take away from Carrey and Daniels' integrity - it takes talent to pull these characters off in a way that makes you enjoy yourself.As for the plot, it's so simple, yet little of the comedy within the movie revolves around the plot, but rather in episodes of Harry and Lloyd's stupidity. Lloyd and Harry lose their jobs, but Lloyd recovers a suitcase which Mary Swanson left behind at the airport as she departed for Aspen. It turns out this suitcase holds ransom for her husband, and two hit men follow Lloyd as he and Harry travel to Aspen to recover the ransom, thinking the two of them are masterminds (a big laugh).To give you an idea about the comedy in this film here are some examples - Lloyd knows the most annoying sound in the world, Harry has to ask if BOTH skis belong to a woman he meets, a police officer drinks from a beer bottle which Lloyd has urinated in, and the list goes on like that.If you allow yourself to not expect greatness from this film, you will probably find yourself enjoying it. It is a good comedy that features one of Jim Carrey's best characters to date.3.0/4.0 "},{"Title":"the unrated version","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I really got a kick out of the original version of this film. Just a dumb movie about two really dumb guys. You have to take it for what it is. However, I had the original version on VHS tape, so when i found the newer unrated version on DVD I bought it. Unfortunately , the unrated version really doesn't ad to the movie, it takes away from it. There are extra scenes which really aren't funny at all. There is a scene in the hotel with Harry and Lloyd in the heart shaped tub. In the original version it was funny. In the unrated version, it wasn't. Lloyd is listening through the wall to a couple obviously having sex in the next room. He then jokes that if Harry had breasts, he would 'do him' as well. He then goes on in a rather cruel fashion, saying things about Harry then calling him a 'homo'. The response from Harry is very awkward - like I'm your friend,, why are you talking to me like that.? Not funny at all. Sometime the original cut is the best for a reason. These 'added scenes' do not make a better movie. Still loved the original though. "},{"Title":"One Of the best comedies ever,pure in-heart laughing!","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Comedies to act is the most difficult think to do comparing to other kind of films and here is the right recipe,put Jim Carey on camera along with another crazy tick-haired funny (also Canadian) actor (jeff Daniels) and let it role.......When there is so much talent on the screen there is no way not to laugh,i see now after many years that the chemistry between the Farrelli Bros and Jim Carey is something to remember for,if you are a fan o dump and dumper to don't miss the chance to watch there is something about Mary and Me myself and Irene!i am not going to critic the direction,photography or the scenario'if you do ,you r missing the point..just relax and watch! i ll give it 9/10! "},{"Title":"Carey and Daniels do Dumb Well","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I just recently saw a trailer for Dumb and Dumber To and all of the fond memories of Dumb and Dumber came back. Jim Carey has done some amazing movies Ace Ventura, The Mask and Liar Liar to name a few, but Dumb and Dumber is absolutely my favorite of them all. The humor is so sophomoric, juvenile and stupid... And yes I laughed my a** off. I saw it as a teenager so of course the movie appealed to every base teenage male molecule in my body. You would think that as an adult that humor would no longer appeal to me. True. Many times it doesn't. But, for some reason, Jim Carey and Jeff Daniels did that movie so well I can heartily laugh at that movie 20 years later. Their stupidity knew no limits and it just made for the most hilarious moments. As moronic as they were, they were never really vulgar or offensive, just plain dumb.I'll just conclude with this I can't wait for the sequel. "},{"Title":"A comedy classic ; this is a rare gem that remains funny on the 10th or even 100th viewing","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Looking at some of the reviews on here , it is obvious that people simply love Dumb and Dumber. And why not ? It may be 20 years old now but still it remains incredibly popular - so much so that a sequel has gone into production due for release at the end of this year ! The film tells the story of two friends , Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels , who embark on a wild journey across America to return a handbag to a woman who left it at the airport. What makes this film so good is how good the two leads are - Jim Carrey is great as usual, but Jeff Daniels is just brilliant here and actually steals the show for me. The gags are so..well..dumb that it can't help bring a smile to the face. But the script is also remarkably witty and when brought to life through Carrey and Daniel's hilarious facial expressions, it is comedy gold.Dumb and Dumber is an unforgettable treat that has truly stood the test of time . Yes it is incredibly stupid, but there is intelligence behind the humour , which you really get to appreciate after multiple viewings. This is a unique movie that has the ability to have you laughing out loud no matter what mood you're in and , for this reason , I give it a rare 10/10. "},{"Title":"Still funny after watching it 1000 times","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is easily the best comedy to come out of the 1990's and possibly ever. This movie has so many hidden jokes and subtle nuances that I continue to find new reasons to laugh tell my abs hurt after watching it 100's of times. If you enjoy Mel Brooks movies this will be up your alley constant references and one liner's that you will miss if you don't pay attention invite her in for tea and strumpets It's a classic movie that stands the test of time. Yes there is stupid humor on the surface and if you don't like that kind of slapstick comedy you will most likely not be able to watch the movie enough to get to the more intelligent jokes that are beneath the surface. None the less this is a great movie for anyone who likes to laugh. It will forever be on my top 10 list and should be on yours. "},{"Title":"Greatest comedy ever","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Very few comedy films can provide such quality laughs so consistently. In my opinion a great comedy should not be all about the jokes, the actors chemistry is a pivotal part in making the film work. Dumb and Dumber has this and then some. Carrey and Daniels are a fantastic duo and really make this film what it is. Whether it be Carrey's priceless facial expressions, Daniels great one liners or the sheer stupidity of both characters, this film has it all. The plot is not the greatest but the acting and comedy makes up for it. With comet being my favourite genre, I struggle to think of a single film that compares to this genius piece of cinema. The soundtrack is also massively enjoyable and the supporting actors contribute towards the humour. And like all great comedy films, the amount of quotable lines are endless. Other films like Harold and Kumar try and adopt a similar approach but even though I massively enjoy the first two Harold and Kumar movies, none of them come close to Dumb and Dumber. If you haven't watched this film stop procrastinating and do so. You'll enjoy every second! "},{"Title":"Hilarious, smart, and Genius.","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What's not to like about this movie? Hilarious jokes, a funny story lie, and amazing acting from the lead two characters. Line after line makes you laugh and continue trying to find a time in your day to say it to someone. This movie is my favorite comedy of all-time. I watch it over and over, and I continue to laugh and laugh. This movie may have not one any awards or got a great rating, but those who know good comedy will love it. The ironic situations it delivers getting mixed up in a whole kidnapping scheme and bouncing around almost getting killed is genius and was perfectly written. Watch this movie and I guarantee it will deliver lots of laughs and become one of your favorites of all time. "}{"Title":"Fuuny","Date":"24 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play the title roles (though viewers may find themselves debating which is which) in this genially low-brow comedy. Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels) are two intellectually-challenged best friends who share an apartment so messy that gangsters aren't sure how to trash the place; the guys also have a certain problem (not difficult to understand) holding on to jobs. Lloyd is working as a limo driver in Rhode Island when he picks up a beautiful and wealthy woman named Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly) who is being taken to the airport. Lloyd immediately falls head over heels in love with Mary, and when she leaves a briefcase at the airport, he's determined to return it in hopes of impressing her. Lloyd isn't able to get aboard Mary's flight (though not for lack of trying). Harry has a van decorated to look like a dog (to promote his failing dog-grooming business), and the pair hop in the Poochmobile to find Mary in Aspen. What Lloyd and Harry don't know is that the briefcase is full of money, which Mary deliberately left at the airport as a ransom payment to save the life of her kidnapped husband. Incidentally, Lloyd's chipped front tooth happens to be real; while Jim Carrey had the injured tooth capped many years ago, he thought a broken smile would suit Lloyd's character and had the cap removed for the duration of filming. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi "},{"Title":"Funny & Funnier","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is Farrelly brothers' first and possibly best hit. Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels) is a dog groomer. Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) is a limo driver. It's questionable who is dumb and who is dumber. Let's just say that both are world class competitors in the event. Lloyd falls heavily for Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly). He picks up her suitcase and travels cross country to return it. Little does he know that she left it deliberately for a couple of kidnappers.Over the years, I see this movie on TV and every time I have gut busting laughs. The gags work no matter how many times you see it. Jim Carrey is at his hilarious best. And Jeff Daniels is surprising nimble with this outlandish material. The best part is their chemistry together. They have that playful friendship that allows the viewers to laugh at the ridiculousness. "},{"Title":"Its a cardigan.....","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Lloyd and Harry are two very stupid friends, who struggle with every aspect of life. Working as a limo driver, Lloyd drops off the beautiful Mary at the airport and instantly falls in love with her. Watching Mary through a window, Lloyd witnesses her leave her case behind. Grabbing her case, Lloyd is too late, but soon thinks of the next best thing. Dragging Harry with him, Lloyd heads off to Aspen to deliver the case to her personally. However, Mary isn't the only person after the case, as a pair of criminals are after the same case.....Almost twenty years ago, this was comedy gold. Carrey was the biggest thing on the planet (The Mask and Ace Ventura were huge hits), and this was a really different type of comedy, never really seen before, so it was a huge success.Watching it now, knowing that The Farellys haven't done anything of note since 2000, and Carrey since 2003, the film is still good, but you really tend to focus more on Daniels, because he really plays against type in this, and he steals the film from Carrey.Its a simple premise, but the high concept of the two being 'dumb' is just great, and makes a simple premise all the more interesting. Supporting characters are just as funny, and some key scenes play out as sketches, which are funny standalone.So all in all, its a great comedy, and moved the genre a notch or two up, and paved the way of comedy for the next few years... "},{"Title":"While not a fan of most road movies, this is a hilariously memorable film if crude and sad at times","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this film as a child before I was 12 (which I shouldn't have done because its BBFC rating is 12). I'm not really a fan of road movies (with the exception of 'Rain Man,' 'Little Miss Sunshine,' 'RV' and this one) but I still found it side-splittingly funny.This film has a ton of memorable laugh-out-loud, crude and sad moments such as Harry and Lloyd driving in a dog van, Lloyd peeing in several bottles in the van followed by the Pull over joke (That's a cardigan!), an owl being knocked out/killed by a flying cork, a dead bird being given to a blind boy, Harry getting his tongue stuck on an icy lamppost, Harry and Lloyd's makeover-type sequence set to Roy Orbison's 'Pretty Woman (this film was the first time I heard that song)' and Harry suffering from the nasty consequences of laxatives. Upon re-visiting this six years ago, I noticed some innuendo such as when Harry tells Mary she has a nice pair of hooters to which she questions, I beg your pardon? (Because she thought he meant boobs) when Harry means the owls and word play when Lloyd mistakes an Austrian woman for an Australian one as well as the pull over pun I mentioned earlier. The other thing I noticed first time around six years ago was the poor grammar in the opening credits but I soon understood that this was done to reflect the stupidity theme throughout the film. Jim Carrey was the funniest actor here while Jeff Daniels was nearly as humorous. I also remember watching the animated spin-off of this film, which was nearly as good.Overall this is one of the funniest films I have ever seen in spite of its crude and sad moments. 9/10. "},{"Title":"People who gave this movie a little rating , GO SUICIDE","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" IT IS THE BEST MOVIE EVER !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!-Spolier-State Trooper Harry is driving fast and a cop is behind him and Lloyd, he says Pull over! Harry What? State Trooper Pull over!!! Harry realizes he's holding beer bottles that Lloyd urinated in; shows his sweater No, it's a cardigan, but thanks for noticing ! Lloyd Yeah, killer boots, man! What IS AWESOMER THAN THAT !?!?!?!Harry So you got fired again, eh? Lloyd Oh yeah. They always freak out when you leave the scene of an accident, you know? Harry Yeah, well, I lost my job too. Lloyd Man, you are one pathetic loser. No offense. Harry No, none taken. You know what really chaps my a** though? I spent my life savings turning my van into a dog. The alarm alone cost me two hundred. Lloyd Hey, chicks love it. It's a shagging' wagon. "},{"Title":"First movie i ever watched!!","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was the first movie i ever watched and i am glad that my parents let me!Now obviously at the age of three i didn't understand most of the humor such as, Harry putting the snowman's face to resemble its genitals, or Mary's breasts resembling car headlights (I just thought she was robotic!).But still without understanding those hilarious scenes, i still watched this movie almost four times a week!I enjoyed laughing at Harry making a noisy bowel movement, and Lloyd and Harry's sing-a-long in the car!If you love films making fun of dimwits but also embracing them, you will love this film! Even the banter between Harry and Lloyd is enough for me to give this film a SOLID 9! So do yourself a favor and watch this film. "},{"Title":"20 Years Later...Still The Definitive Jim Carey Comedy","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As of mid 2013 this is still Jim Carey's highest rated movie...Believe it! The reason is that it is a perfect palate with his best foil, Jeff Daniels in the co-starring role. Carey has such a unique physical comedy it's a gift and a curse. Though he has proved he can do decent drama, his wheelhouse is assuredly comedy, and all cylinders hit here.Lloyd Christmas is a totally witless loser, except he is so naively innocent that he is lovable...And, damn funny. That is given the right vehicle. Dumb & Dumber is close to that perfect ride. The Farrelley brothers understand how to utilize the special talents of Carey's comedic brilliance. First, they've provided a script that plays to the strengths Carey possesses. Then, they take what would appear to be a left turn and pair him with a formally serious actor, Jeff Daniels, who proves to be the synergistic pairing needed. Daniels shows a straight-man (yet total dumb ass) comedic flair that nobody would guess he had in him. He almost matches Carey and in the process garners unforced knee-slapping laughs.This movie has a real pull for the viewer. Absolutely hilarious sight gags with snappy dead-pan comedic gold dialog delivered perfectly. Add the fantastic backdrop of Aspen, with all of it's pretentiousness for a brilliantly scenic juxtaposition to the low-brow comedy - what you get is an unexpected comedy classic. These guys are better than Martin and Lewis because, mostly, you have two Lewis'! While Martin was the cool in those classic comedies this one uses two comedians and an assortment of cool supporting characters to out-do other classic comedy buddy movies! Even the sophomoric gross stuff rises above the usual into more rarefied air as a result.Nothing can take away from the fun that makes this movie comedic gold. We know in 2014 there will be a sequel. It doesn't matter, like the original Blues Brothers movie, if that sequel works or is an embarrassment. Nothing can take away the crown of this gem. See it again as comedies with so much right like this one are scarce. "},{"Title":"What one doesn't have, the other is missing","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The cross-country adventures of two good-hearted but incredibly stupid friends.Jim Carrey. He places himself in movies we can all laugh to, without realizing it isn't do us better. That's called entertainment. And with seeing the trailer of this, I had expectations... to laugh. I think the main problem with this movie is people's expectations. They expected a smart comedy with smart intelligent line delivery and fast moving hilarity. Well, we got that. Problem is, this movie delivers on both sides. It can be intelligent (not really) but dumb. But the dumb factor is so high it is so brilliant and awesome. You will laugh, if you can lighten up, and enjoy the performances from both people. I wanted to insert my input on this genius comedy. Expect something not to smart; but not to dumb either. That is all. 7/10. "},{"Title":"So dumb its funny!","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is about two lower class under educated buddies who decide to embark on a cross country trip.The movie is about Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne, both of which are under achieving low IQ morons for lack of better terminology. In short...Lloyd drives a limo ''rather poorly'' and this is his job. The movie starts with him shuttling the beautiful Mary Swanson to the airport. Upon seeing Mary for the first time Lloyd decided that it can only be love at first sight, which leads to some uncomfortable small talk on the way to the airport. Upon arriving to the airport Lloyd watches as his ''dream girl'' walks away and out of his life, as he is watching her leave the terminal he is also still moving forward in his Limo, this leads to a minor accident which causes Lloyd to realize that Mary has left her briefcase in the terminal. Lloyd takes this as a chance to pursue Mary halfway across the country. Lloyd enlists Harry, his dog grooming friend and the ''slightly'' more sensible of the two, to drive him across the country.Overall Dumb and Dumber is a good flick for those that have the right sense of humor. Dumb and Dumber is very low brow humor. If that's not you're thing then you probably won't like this movie. Dumb and Dumber has a lot of things in it...From homicidal hillbilly truckers, to an almost gruesome rape scene in a truck stop bathroom, to an unfolding kidnapping murder case, most of which sounds pretty serious, but somehow this movie manages to make light of all of it.I really enjoyed Dumb and Dumber, Back then and currently. "},{"Title":"Our pets' heads are falling off!","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the few comedies that I will never get tired of no matter how many times I watch it. It is definitely Jim Carrey's funniest performance, and also one of his best performances period (second only to Eternal Sunshine of a Spotless Mind). Jeff Daniels supports him perfectly, as the actors display great comedic chemistry together. When I watch this film, it takes me back to the first time I watched it and loved it. But I still get the thrill of noticing new hilarious parts randomly thrown into the movie for the viewer's pleasure. Tonight, for the first time, I noticed the older guy who randomly takes a leak on a brick wall in the scene where Harry and Lloyd leave home. It's these random, simple, hilarious parts that come together to keep viewers laughing during 90% of the movie. This is one of the most quoted comedies of all time, deservedly so... This film is not a sophisticated comedy, but it never claimed to be. Whether you are looking for a funny movie to watch late at night during those slap-happy hours, or want a movie to crack you up during a stressful day, I highly recommend this timeless comedy. "}{"Title":"Classic movie","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a classic. Great launch vehicle for Carrey!I had wanted to see it when I was younger, but of course I wasn't allowed to. I saw this a few months ago and it was even better now. This is one of Jim Carrey's best performances, he nails the role of an idiot perfectly (not to mention his costume...). The movie was one of the first to feature Carrey at his best.This is comedy at its absolute best - makes you laugh.Some might say this does not transfer to the new level of comedy, but It definitely does. If you were once a fan of Carrey or are still a fan of Daniel, this movie is definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"A movie you can enjoy no matter your IQ","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For years, this movie has been one of the funniest Jim Carrey movies ever.This movie is proof that sometimes you just need something dumb to be entertained and that even the smartest of us can't help but love stupidity with their comedy.I think what makes it so memorable was the fact that there were so many quotable lines and probably just for the simple fact that one of the best actors of our time is in it.I can't really say that there was anything wrong with the movie, but I do wish they hadn't made that dreadful sequel.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies of our time.","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well, as far as comedy goes, this is one of the staples among the 20-something crowd. Certainly not art or an epic by any standard but for pure comic and quotable genius, this film takes the cake. Dumb and Dumber has everything you need in a comedy romance, drama, slapstick, one-liners, completely brainless mind-numbing stupidity and above all a shaggin' wagon. I have still have yet to find a movie (even above its contemporaries like Tommy Boy) with more replay value and quotables. Having viewed this countless times I can still get a laugh out especially with friends even though it's been out over a decade. Much to my amazement there has not been a special release of this film until 2006 but alas our day is come. If you haven't seen this comedic gem, please rush to your store be it rental or otherwise and give this a once-over and I'll bet you'll agree with me. "},{"Title":"Great COMEDY!","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've seen so many films i've lost count but this film has to be one of the best comedies ever made and I am quite difficult to please. I can sit through many so called comedies (including TV series like Friends) without even a smile. Dumb and Dumber does seem to struggle towards the end in a let's finish this film quickly-type of budget manner but i am yet to see a comedy that hasn't (except for Police Academy 1). Great films have to have great music and the musical selection in this film is also 9/10. Todd Rundgren Can We Still Be Friends? I was pleasantly surprised when this track just seem to appear from nowhere. A true classic that unfortunately does not appear on the so called original motion picture soundtrack. Why is this allowed to happen? Does anyone actually notice this happening with so many films these days? Surely this is a legal breach of trade description. The last soundtrack i bought that had ALL the songs from the film was Top Gun in 1987 on cassette (remember those IoI). "},{"Title":"I usually hate Jim Carrey, but in this movie he did absolutely excellent!","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" What can I say? Maybe I underestimated this Jim Carrey guy. I always found him annoying, but after seeing him in this movie, maybe I better give him another chance. He was so talented in this movie. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play together in this movie. They both really play their part well. There isn't a scene without Jim Carrey or Jeff Daniels that isn't funny. If it isn't Jim Carrey been funny with his amazing talent it's Jeff Daniels making funny quotes. It also gives Jeff Daniels a chance to show his idiotic/funny side, because mostly he plays in drama.thriller/horror movies. The script put these two characters in some very funny situations. The plot is good. Them setting off on a big adventure to give a lady in Aspen back her suitcase. And along the way funny things happen! The direction is excellent and the script is well written. Sure, two idiots setting out on a big adventure. Who doesn't like that? Everyone will love it. Kids, adults and old people in Nursing Homes will love it. I recommend this to any human being. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A cracking comedy road movie","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is the kind of film that only gets better each time you watch it. It charts the events of 2 broke friends Harry Dunn (Jeff Daniels) and Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) along a journey to Aspen, to return a young ladies' luggage. It isn't a fantastic movie, nor is it wonderfully profound.  It lets you relax into the story, keeps you intrigued by the characters and shapes the story, with the help of a superb soundtrack, in a way that exuberates warmth. Dumb actions and dumb gags might be a turn off for some critic types, but I bet when they started watching it, they can't turn it off. In my view it is one of the best from the Farrelly Brothers. Stick it on when you're down and prepare to be raised. "},{"Title":"Absolute Hillarity!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this I was not prepared. Don't be fooled by the title. Dumb & Dumber is a smart comedy to say the least! Especially if you are a guy this movie is a must just as Caddyshack, Animal House, Fast Times and Slapshots. So go get this movie and Laugh your behind off! "},{"Title":"Want to hear the most annoying sound in the world?","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  An absolute comedy classic. Carrey and Daniels have great chemistry as the idiots who don't realize they have a fortune in a briefcase they are trying to return. The surprise here is Jeff Daniels. He keeps up with the crazy Carrey and both are as good as any comedy team that had worked together for years. The physical comedy and dialogue work. You may hear some educated people claim that this is a stupid movie, but this is screwball on the level of any film of the 1930's. Does a bird's head really fall off when it gets older? Catch this movie and you'll be smiling for days.  "},{"Title":"More hilarious than my looks!","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Truly a classic and a must have. You'll find yourself repeating lines from this movie for years to come. The two characters Lloyd and Harry earn their titles dumb and dumber within the first ten minutes of the movie.This movie takes you on a hilarious adventure across the U.S. with a clueless couple of roommates trying simply to return a briefcase to the rightful owner. Their encounters along the way leave you in tears of laughter. A movie for the whole family with only mild offensive launguage and a graphic bathroom scene. Enjoy this movie with family and friends. "},{"Title":"Great Job By Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a classic for everyone. I've seen it like a hundred times, and not gotten sick of it yet. The more you watch it, the better the jokes become. Story was hilarious and the actors were amazing. The cast was great and incredible soundtrack. The dialogues are unforgettable and make you laugh all the time. I totally recommend this film to be watched by everybody. My friend Josh and I are trying to act out all of the scenes for our friends at school during the day. It's a movie that really put Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels on the top of the charts for comedian roles. "}{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is honestly the funniest movie I have ever seen. I still watch it and laugh so much my face hurts. I must have seen it more than 30 times so far and those times are racking up as I speak. My friends and I love the movie and recommend it to any person with a sense of humor. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The lowest form of wit, but the funniest form of humor.","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is whithout doubt a true modern classic and a masterpiece of its genre. It doesn't mater how many times you view this film, you still find it hilarious; simply because you see something new every time you watch it.I'd like to say the acting is superb, but I can't help thinking that the rolls weren't exactly much of a stretch on either Daniels of Carey. They both just seemed to by playing themselves, thats how naturally they've taken to the parts of the two buffoons, Harry and Loyd.The humor in this film is deliciously crude and wickedly entertaining. Think of Loyd igniting his flatulence, or the traffic cop drinking urine from beer bottles. The movie also contains what I believe to be one of the funniest simple and understated shots of all time; Harry sitting in a mood at the side of the road with just a hint of backside cleavage showing - side splittingly funny!If you don't like slapstick and crude jokes then your opinion may be slightly different, but if we're all honest with ourselves its slapstick and crude jokes that really makes you laugh out loud. Think of it this way when you watch The Simpsons you find the witty gags and satirical humor amusing, but when Homer hits his head on a low door frame, thats when you physically laugh.A hugely entertaing comedy with a laugh every minute and no emotional baggage. Watch it with your gran and see who long she can hide the mirth.ddn gives this film 9.5/10 for no other reason than if I gave it 10 you'd think I was over hyping it.  "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one the funniest movies I've ever seen. This rivals Austin Powers. I love this movie. I've seen at least 7 times and it's still very funny. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are great together. The jokes have become classics to me. This movie is absolute hilarity. I'd give a 9.  "},{"Title":"this movie kicks ass","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this movie is the funniest movie ever. if you havent seen it see it. it's a laugh out loud movie. harry and lolyd act so dumb well that's why they call it dumb and dumber each one of them have half a brain. one has common sense the other book smartor something "},{"Title":"classic Jim Carrey","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of Jim Carrey's best comedic performances.  What makes this film stand out versus his others is the equally as classic performance of Jeff Daniels.  The Farrelly Bros did a great job as usual.  This is a staple for slapstick, screw ball comedies that require no intellectual thought, just ridiculous jokes that make you laugh so hard it hurts.We've got no money, we've got no food, our pets heads are falling off! "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is easily one of the funniest movies of the 1990s, and is probably one of the more hilarious movies of all time.  The comedic chemistry between Carey and Daniels is fantastic, and the Farley brothers have a great understanding of humor.  You will need to see this movie more than once, since you'll be laughing so hard you might miss some of the less-obvious jokes the first time around. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is the absolute best!  It is honestly my all time favorite movie.  Jim Carrey is one of the best actors ever and does not get the credit he deserves; most actors cannot pull off this level of comedy.  Jeff Daniels also proves himself to me in this movie....I never knew he was so funny.  I saw this move twice in the theater when I was a penniless teenager, and it took a lot for me to see a movie more than once.  I can't imagine a move that will ever beat this one out as my favorite! "},{"Title":"Suck Me Sideways!","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Selling a dead bird to a blind kid? Opening a worm store? Crossing a bulldog with a shitsu to form a new dog, the bullshit? A cop drinking urine? Sounds crazy? Well it's just another normal day for Harry Dunne and Lloyd Christmas. The two are making their way to beautiful Aspen California, where to Harry's surprise, people have 2 skis, and to Lloyd's disbelief,  people have actually landed on the moon! Their cross-country adventure begins to return a briefcase to beautiful Mary Swanson. The movie teaches you to be kind to you elders, orange and blue tuxedos are always in style, check the flushing ability of your toilet before you use it, 40 hour work weeks are absurd, and frost is not always a refreshing treat. Rent the movie that produced the best soundtrack ever, and meet these 2 witty guys. So move it or lose it sister and OWN this movie and you will soon find out that there is a Harry and Lloyd in all of us! "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest comedies ever made, if not the funniest. Unlike other comedies which often have long moments of waiting between the jokes, this one will keep you hooked from the beginning to the end. Ratings always tend to be lower for comedies, which I think is unfair. If you're looking for high-class content or an outstanding cinematic experience, pick a classic film. If you want to laugh, pick this one. I voted it 10/10. 'nuff said. "},{"Title":"Parakeet lovers, beware........Farrelly fans, this is a must see!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I almost died laughing at the hilarity of the movie. Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey were a perfect pair in the movie, they played the characters perfectly. This is a great movie for those that love toilet humor and love watching someone act stupidly......unless, of course, you don't want to see a parakeet's head bitten off. "}{"Title":"yep","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You had to be able to laugh at yourself to enjoy this kind of 'dumb' movie. When I saw bits and pieces of the gross parts of the movie on TV, I refused to like it.  Then as I continued on, I have to say it's one of the brilliantly written comedies alive.  I think as a comedy this movie really served its purpose.  Although the two guys in the movie seem dumb, the screen writer and the director by no means are. All the one liners and their vivid imagination have proved so.   "},{"Title":"Samsonite! I was way off!!!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is about two friends Lloyd (Jim Carrey) and Harry (Jeff Daniels). They are not the sharpest tools in the shed. Everything they do seems to go wrong. Jobs, women.. I mean everything. One day Lloyd drives a woman to the airport (he works as a limodriver at the time). He falls deeply in love with her. Her name is Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly) and she is going to Aspen. She leaves her bag in the airport-terminal. Lloyd and Harry decides to go to Aspen to return the bag. The rest of the movie is very much a roadmovie. This is the best movie the Farrelly brothers ever made.  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's Funniest Movie","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The Farrely Brothers (also in charge of There's Something About Mary) take the wheel for their first feature film in Dumb & Dumber (1994.) This movie set the stage for their later work - full of crude humor and gross-out sight gags, yet with a good heart behind it. And while it's not quite as much as a fall-down laugh fest as Mary, it's still well worth your time. The plot involves a complete idiot named Lloyd (Jim Carrey) who spends his days as a limo driver, until he gets fired for pulling a hit and run. But, you see, it was the good-kind, because he was attempting to return a lost briefcase to a passenger of his named Mary. (Lauren Holly) Thankfully, he's not the only one out of a job. His best friend and roomate Harry has been fired from his job as a dog trimmer. What p***es him off is that he spent his life savings turning his car into a dog. With no money, no job, and nowhere to be, the two decide to pack it up and move to Aspen to return Mary's briefcase. Little do they know that her lost briefcase is actually pay-off for a ransom on her husband, and by taking the briefcase, they have a very powerful crime circuit on their tail.Warning - this movie is not for the faint of heart or those turned off by crude humor. To prove my point - one of the funniest jokes in the movie involves a decapitated parakeet. And the intellegence level is downhill from there. But, the important thing is that this movie is funny. At times it's flat-out hilarious. It's a high-speed, low-brow romp through a film that would herald in a new era in comedies. Dumb & Dumber is rated PG-13 for crude and sexual humor, and some language. ***/**** "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's funniest movie !","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A very underrated movie. Both actors put on great performances for this movie. Of course the plot is ridiculous, but that's what makes it funny ! If you were to just look at the physical humor, and not pay attention to the little jokes, you would miss a great deal of why this is deceptively clever movie. Lloyd Christmas is a perfect character for Carrey's screwball type of comedy. That is because Carrey has you believing this character would actually do all the really stupid things he does in this movie. Very, very funny.  "},{"Title":"VERY FUNNY!","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this film by mistake, and what a great surprise!! Of course you would have to be a Jim Carrey fan, which I am. The two main characters are so silly, so illogical, so unpredictable, that you can't but laugh about the things they come up with. In so many words, brainless fun... "},{"Title":"The best kind of stupid","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There are stupid films about stupid people (any Pauly Shore film), and there are cleverly done films about stupid people (Wayne's World, Bill and Ted). Dumb and Dumber most definitely in the latter category. Forget those people who just put all stupid films in the same class... they don't know how to enjoy themselves, and long ago forgot what makes things funny.I must have seen D&D five or six times, and I still end up crying with laughter. Superb performances from Jim Carrey (and you won't see me writing that often) and Jeff Daniels, along with some inspired idiocy in the script and you have a film for the big kid in everyone.Even the most miserable, humourless wretch will giggle at least once... if not, you simply aren't human. "},{"Title":"One Of Jim Carreys funniest Movies Ever!","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey has been known for movies like Ace Ventura or The Mask and The Truman Show but this movie is a lot more funny then all of them.  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels make the perfect pair for a movie full of adventure and comedy.  I Strongly suggest for you to see this movie before you see any other of Jim Carreys movies.  You should also see Man on the Moon  It is a good movie.  I rate Dumb and Dumber 7.0 out of 10 stars.     "},{"Title":"One Of Jim Carreys funniest Movies Ever!","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey has been known for movies like Ace Ventura or The Mask and The Truman Show but this movie is a lot more funny then all of them.  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels make the perfect pair for a movie full of adventure and comedy.  I Strongly suggest for you to see this movie before you see any other of Jim Carreys movies.  You should also see Man on the Moon  It is a good movie.  I rate Dumb and Dumber 7.0 out of 10 stars.     "},{"Title":"The best....","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is one of the funniest movies of the '90's, at least, that  I have ever seen!!!  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels work together perfectly to make this movie earn a 10!!  Jim Carrey is the best actor in the world and one of these days, he has to be nominated for one of his works, he has done so much and has shown that he can do more than silly, toilet-humor comedies.  Anyway, Dumb and Dumber is a must see for everyone (except for maybe little kiddies, their parents might want to think twice, but hey, I say, start the tykes early and show them what good humor is!) It's also educational for me, we watched it in high school two years in a row, now isn't that awesome?  Or maybe my school is just weird cause we watch Bill and Ted, too.  I think Dumb and Dumber is one of Jim Carrey's best works! "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the funniest Jim Carrey movie","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've seen this movie multiple times and I laugh over and over and over still. I must say that for my whole life I've been looking for a movie like this, and when I saw it I was completely satisfied. The kind of humor portrayed in this movie is under the exact category that I love. I never knew that such a semi-serious actor like Jeff Daniels could be so stupid, and it amazed me on how well he played the part. This movie is so ridiculously unintelligent and unrealistic, but that is exactly what makes it so hilarious. I laughed more during this movie than I usually laugh in a month. My side hurt terribly at the end and I couldn't get it to stop.One of the scenes that really got my attention was quite possibly the stupidest scene of the film, at that would be the resteraunt scene that Lloyd imagines. This particular scene (along with the ones that followed) was so stupid that it made me feel like I didn't know why I was watching this trash, but it was amazingly funny. Another scene that grabs me is the burger/pepper scene, particularly at the end when Lloyd uses the phrase check, please (that line was so perfectly placed that I still laugh when I think about it).This movie amused me more than any other movie. It is literally the most hilarious film I have ever seen, but I wouldn't recommend it to the easily offended type. However, if you're the kind of insane person like me who just likes to watch movies for the fun of it and doesn't really think about the main ideas, you'll love this film. ***** out of *****.  "}{"Title":"Excellent!!!!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Man this movie was so great!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I laughed the entire movie and after 4 times of seeing it i keep laughing. Even though it's a comedy movie the story line is pretty good.Very Highly Recommended!!!!! "},{"Title":"what comedy should be!","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film will undoubtedly go down in history as the greatest comedy ever!Now i know thats a big call, but c'mon guys?For once can all those serious critics and wanna be critics pull their head out of their you know whats! This is a hilarious film! This film has one thing that other american comedies dont The laughs are not predictable all the other comedies are so routine and boringly funny, this one actually makes your stomach hurt from unexpected laughter. scenes likethe toiletsea bass taking the billand undoubtedly my favourite moment the bikini girls touring offer at the endUnwind,get your sense of humor and enjoy this film. Anyone who judges this film criticaly has there glasses on too tight and their pants pulled too high! dont get so serious, relax.....sit back....and and get ready to laugh! "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie gets better and better the more you see it. The two main actors have wonderful chemistry and comic timing. Who would have thought that Jeff Daniels would be such an amazing comedian! Each scene is guaranteed to make you laugh.  "},{"Title":"THE MASTERPIECE OF FARRELLY BROS,THE MASTERPLAN OF COMEDY FILMS","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb & Dumber is the best comedy film that I watch ever,Farrelly Brothers are the masters of the comedy in the 90s with matt groening and Trey Parker.The film has got a funny and ironic screen with a lot of gags .Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are Jack Lemmon and Walter Mattau of the 90s.Lauren Holly is great because she never do a comedy role and she play it very well.THE BEST COMEDY FILM OF THE 90S AND MAYBE IN THE HISTORY. SENTENCE FOR DUMB AND DUMBEREXCELLENT.************ "},{"Title":"WELL, SLAP ME SIDEWAYS! A RETRACTION OF SORTS","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I know I blasted this movie, but it was on TV and I decided to maybe give it another chance. Now, it had been edited and cleaned up for TV, so 90% of the gross-out scenes were eliminated, and you know what? THIS FLICK WAS ACTUALLY A PRETTY AMUSING LITTLE COMEDY!!!! Lots of comic situations and one-liners that the gross parts overshadowed when I saw it in the theater. It's too bad,though, that they had to edit out the shower scene (from the dream sequence)and the romantic I feel like a schoolboy monologue.  SCENES I LIKED BEST  The Jacuzzi scene where the gents complain about girls  The Jalapeno scene with Mentalino in the diner  The dream sequence! LOVE that dream sequence,and the music is excellent  The styling parlor  And the scene where Lloyd (Jimbo!) first sees Mary and says to himself, Slap me sideways! (we all know that in the theatrical version, he said something else instead of slap)  All in all,Jimmy the C can be a funny guy when he isn't being gross.  And now, I am going around saying Slap me sideways!  This may not be the original theatrical version of the movie, but once edited and cleaned up for TV, this was the movie as it could have been and proof that dialogue and situations are funnier than whizzing in beer bottles (they deleted that scene)once you pass 3rd grade "},{"Title":"Where the Beer Flows Like Wine","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is, by far, the best Farrelly Brothers comedy to date.  Few comedies can maintain the kind of comedic stamina and brilliance that Dumb & Dumber does from its title to the credits.  It has just the right combination of innocence and absurdity to make it funny.  What is most enjoyable about this film are the numerous and precious one-liners--from John Deere letters to generalizations about senior citizens--it provides so many opportunities to laugh. "},{"Title":"Want to hear the most annoying sound in the world ???","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has to rank as one of my all-time favorites.  I would rank it right there with Blazing Saddles and the original Airplane.  And it REMAINS funny.  I have probably seen it 30 times and still laugh.  So many memorable lines.  And the stupidity of Harry and Lloyd knows no bounds.  Even halfway through the movie, they still do things even stupider than you could possibly expect.    "},{"Title":"Immature, childish and dumb.  I loved it!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This type of comedy definitely isn't for everyone.  This is very corny, but its SUPPOSED to be that corny, which is why some people will love this and others will hate it with few in between.Lloyd and Harry are idiots who constantly tease, prank and make fools of themselves throughout the whole movie.  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are perfect in these roles.  If you like corny movies that are full of one-liners and laughs, this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"just plain funny","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this film isn't masquerading as something its not, its dumb, but its entertaining, which is the whole reason to watch a movie in the first place. A great way to kill some time or to cheer you up when you're feeling depressed, I loved this movie. Who cares if its 'dumb'. "},{"Title":"I LIKED IT A LOT!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Of all the movies that are so stupid that you just have to laugh at, DUMB AND DUMBER is by far the best.  Anyone with a true sense of humor will love it as much as I did.  Carrey and Daniels are perfect as lovable losers Lloyd and Harry and will have you laughing the entire time.  They travel cross country to return a briefcase to dream girl Mary Swanson, and meet many interesting characters along their way.  Some highlights are in the restaurant with Sea Bass, in the car with the hitchhiker, the guy at the phone booth, and when Lloyd finds out just how cold Harry's hands really are.  A must see.  Without a doubt, the funniest movie I have ever seen!  "}{"Title":"A new genre???","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Until I saw Dumb and Dumber I thought of Jim Carrey as blatantly obnoxious. Cable Guy,Ace Ventura,Truman Show-Yuck! I watched this movie with my kids as a favor to them long after the film had left the theatres. I think I've seen it around seven times now and have to say that Carrey has joined the ranks of the great comedians. Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy,Peter Sellers,Jerry Lewis,Don Knotts,Cary Grant these and many more knew the secret of making us laugh. They each had a niche in the broad genre we call comedy.Hi-brow,low-brow,ineptitude,slapstick, farce,black humor, we like it all for one reason. It makes us laugh. I can remember tears coming down my cheeks when I watched Charlie Chaplin in The Gold Rush. That same thing has happened in not nearly enough other comedies I've seen over the years. It's happened every time I've watched Dumb and Dumber. What a great way to end the first century of film-making. D and D will endure like all the great comedies before. Dumb and Dumber is well written and well acted. I can't say that I condone the spirit of crassness that defines so much of our present culture. I think we've suffered as a culture for giving in to cheap laughs too often. There are definitely elements of that in Dumb and Dumber but it transcends even those. There are moments of sheer brilliance both in writing and performance. The timing of many of the gags was also a major driving force. What you end up with is a film that at some point or another has to make even the most jaded film-goer laugh out loud at least once. 6.2 is an insult to this film. Look deeper. Give it the ten it deserves.  "},{"Title":"barrel o' laughs,","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First of all people who rate this movie by comparing it to the Godfather, are just plain idiots.  A comedy is valued on the laughs it produces and this movie delivers funny scene after funny scene.  Most comedy based movies ruin the one really funny scene by showing it over and over again in its trailor.  This movie has too many gut blasting laughs to spoil any one part. This is easily my favorite comedy on pure pound for pound most laughs. Favorite Scene= Lloyd sells petey to the blind kid  "},{"Title":"Hilarious Stupidity! A ten!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I have seen all the bad reviews and all the film critics and experts have ripped it to shreds, but who cares!  Of course they would because it is based on the slapstick, pottymouth humor of the Farrelly Brothers. Basically if you like this kind of humor and can appreciate the depth of the movie, it might be the best movie you've ever seen.  It really is amazing though how much effort must have gone into the writing of the lines for this movie.  While the story is not going to win an Academy Award, every line that is spoken in this movie is part of a joke, NO FILLER!  This means there are few parts where it slows down enough to let your stomach rest from laughing.  Some of the jokes I am still figuring out or hearing after seeing it multiple times (I bet she'll invite us in for some tea and strumpets (prostitutes).  I am both a movie fan and a fan of this type of comedy so I can appreciate it from both angles and I love it.  No matter how many times I watch this movie, it is still funny.  And if you aren't a fan of this type of comedy, then why are you reading this anyways? "},{"Title":"This Movie was funny!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was funny from beginning to end! i loved those parts were they always have accidents or screw up on things! almost every scene was funny like harry and his dog van, that mean guy who spits in there burger but is repayed by harry and loyyd. You should also get a load of them on that moped! Not to mention Harrys Date with a broken toilet ((You gotta see that part)) I would reccomend this movie to anyone who loves comedy i know this movie will fill in the 3 stooges spot as time goes on and be a kickass classic! "},{"Title":"It exists only to crack you up.","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has one point  To cram as many gags about a couple of hopeless idiots into it's run time as possible.  The jokes are low-brow and tasteless (it manages to squeeze in not one, but two urination sight gags) and the story is a bit of flimsy about a kidnaping gone awry.The only thing that could redeem such an offensive picture is if it was funny.  Thankfully, all us low-brow fans can sit back and laugh, because Dumb and Dumber is hysterical.  It's not for everyone -- this is no Kind Hearts and Coronets -- but if you like a good laxative joke (and who doesn't?), Dumb and Dumber delivers.Jim Carrey is Lloyd Christmas, a limo driver who tries to pick up girls by climbing into the backseat at stop signs and pretending to be the passenger. His pal is Harry (Jeff Daniels), a dog groomer who spent his life savings converting his van into a furry pooch.  When they both get fired the same day, they decide to drive the pooch west from Rhode Island to Colorado (never mind why).What comes next are a couple thousand miles of jokes about pee-pee, poo-poo, varieties of phlegm, ulcers, rat poison, vicious assault, hideous fashion and the decimation of 1/7th of an endangered species by champagne cork.Nonetheless for all their stupid, tasteless crudeness (and the movie never lets up) there is a sweet spirit at the core.  Lloyd leaves Providence for love; Harry comes along for friendship and loyalty.  A more cynical script would have sunk the story, but the optimism and good vibes that propel these two across the country keep things and a fun level. "},{"Title":"watched it 10 times in one weekend","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is the damn funniest movie ever! I feel Jeff Daniels was a little underrated though. My favorite scene is the one in which Lloyd and Harry realize they went the wrong way; Harry's sitting on the side of the road with his butt crack out, and then decides to storm off, causing Lloyd to cry in anger. I laughed so damn much the first time I saw this I almost made myself sick. Anybody can play dumb, but it took true dramatic skills to pull off this film. "},{"Title":"Why Dumb and Dumber is the Farrelly Brothers at their best.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is the Farrelly Brothers and Jim Carrey at their best. Even the new 'Me, Myself, and Irene' doesn't even come close to generating as many on-the-floor-laughings as I experienced with Dumb and Dumber.  I think the main reason is because since the main characters acted so stupid yet nice, you could kind of relate with them and feel closer to them, which means more laughs.  I am awaiting a funnier movie from Jim Carrey or the Farrelly Brothers.  But maybe, this movie was one of those flukes where everything just worked perfectly and it will never happen again, let's hope not. "},{"Title":"Quite crude, but still laugh-out-loud funny.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That's right. Every day is a no-brainer for these two clutzesque clowns. Carrey is as funny as ever, this time playing a stupid rather than a sort of psycho wiseguy. His goofy appearance, including the masterpiece chipped tooth is enough of a cue for pants-wetting, floor-stamping laughter. If you can't decide whether or not to watch this film, trust me- just watch the first 30 seconds. You'll be hooked straight away. No probs. Jeff Daniels' performance is also faultless as Carrey's sidekick. The humour is sometimes crude and vulgar, however. There are a couple of token toilet humour scenes which definitely cross the line.The first half of the film is much better than the second, with the scenes in the guys' apartment really hitting the mark.   "},{"Title":"It may be a Carrey vehicle, but he drives it well","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey doing what Jim Carrey does best - oh and there are some other people in it too.DUMB & DUMBER is just that - a big solo spot for more antics from the nineties comedy icon. And on this level, the film works beautifully. Carrey is magnificent, and leaves no humour stone unturned. And amongst all the silliness, his infatuation with the gorgeous Lauren Holly remains believable and touching.However there is one other person in this movie, who one keeps forgetting - Jeff Daniels. Mr Daniels had a hard job keeping up with his co-star, and it didn't really do him any favours. For a lot of the film, I wished he would take on the 'straight man' role which would have made Carrey's performance even funnier. Do the Farrelly brothers not watch Saturday night television??Overall though, this is a thoroughly enjoyable film, and definitely one of Carrey's finest moments. "},{"Title":"Dumb Duos yet again...","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was a lot better the first time I saw it, when it was called Strange Brew and was made back in the early '80s. But no matter. Carrey & Daniels are the Doug & Bob McKenzie of the 90's,  chasing after a woman who has nabbed Carrey's heart. Non-stop gross-out gags and plain stupidity is in sight, and you are guaranteed to bust a gut! From the Farrelly Brothers, the same crazy guys responsible for Kingpin & There's Something About Mary, all  three are worth a few million laughs. "}{"Title":"Best film I have ever seen.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I first went to see Dumb and Dumber, when it came to the cinemas, and brought my entire family along. I had already seen Jim Carrey in the Mask, and Ace Ventura, and loved him in those films. The review of the film was quite good, so I looked forward to this. My father wondered if it really was a movie in his taste... and then the movie started. I have never in my movie infested life had such a journey as I did that day. The atmosphere in the theathre was amazing. From the first moment (when you see Jim Carrey ask a lady about the way) to the final moment (the two dimwits walks away on the freeway), I cried of laughter. So did every member of my family. And every soul in that theathre. The humor was low, witty, crazy and, yes, dumb! This movie is on my top ten list and has deserved it ten times a round.Don't miss the following scenes the Toilett scene, the beerdrinking scene, the one where Jim pours poop-potion in Jeff Daniels coffee (the result is seen in the toilett scene), and the final scene when the goofballs turns down an offering to become oilrubbers for beatiful models. Love this movie!! 11/10, simply "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie of All-Time","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is my favorite movie of all time, and I'll tell you why. It's because I get the strong urge to watch it every 2 weeks or so.  It lifts my spirits when I'm down.This movie is so crazy and irreverant.  Lloyd and Harry aren't exactly stupid people, I just wonder how any one could have culture so messed up in their own minds. The part when they're laid back country folks and Lloyd says..They've got the Monkeys on the jukebox, they were a major influence on the Beatles.Not every idiot like that would make the connection between the Beatles and Monkeys....let alone get it backwards...The crowning moment and line that is so glorious in Dumb and Dumber.....Harry---I was thinking the Rockies would be a little rockier than this.Lloyd---That's what I was thinking. That John Denver's full of s**t man!I just love to listen to them and watch them, it does everything a movie should do. "},{"Title":"HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA!!!!!!","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Keep in mind that my comments are always serious. HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA!!!!!! This was the most funniest movie I have ever seen in my Uncles house. No but for real this is a very funny movie. This is the funniest movie that I've seen that doesn't have to have any sex in it to make it funny, like American Pie. Now dont get me wrong, I love American Pie. Anyway this is a very entertaining movie. My uncle Alfonso Cardoso likes it. "},{"Title":"The funniest movie of 1994!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber stars Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels as two mentally disabled people. One day Lloyd Christmas (Carrey) drives a woman (Lauren Holly) to the airport. He instanly falls in love with Holly. Then he finds she left her suitcase on the floor, and tries to get it to her, but fails. So then Lloyd convinces Harry (Daniels) to drive to Aspen, Colorado, and give Holly her briefcase back.This is an extremely funny movie. It had some great gross-out gags. I think this was Carrey's best film to date. It any of you like the Farrely Brothers movies (There's Something About Mary, Kingpin) you'll like this just as much. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This comedy has future classic written all over it! Jim Carey is a master at this type of humor!! Some people may not like it because of it`s dumb humor but that is why they named the film Dumb and Dumber..Their are some scenes in this film that still make me crack up!! Very very funny stuff. rating (best of 5 stars) .....3..... "},{"Title":"Oh yeah...and one more thing...this movie is still FUNNY !","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I cannot count the number of serious, dramatic, and award winning movies that I either never saw, lost interest in halfway through, or had completely wash over me and out of my psyche forever... so why is it the three movies that I can actually bring myself to watch over and over and over again are all comedies?  Of the three, Groundhog Day, A Christmas Story (Ralphie), and Dumb and Dumber, this one is definitely the...well....dumbest.  If you haven't seen this movie yet and are reading these comments as reviews I can give you a couple of suggestions (1) Loosen up (2) Don't think so much that you are supposed to laugh WITH Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels-- finding funny what their characters find funny--  but actually AT them.  (There is a difference.)  Trust me, you won't be able to help yourself (unless you're in a coma) and you won't be sorry that you rented the movie!  I just don't see how a movie could be any funnier.  I really don't. "},{"Title":"Cool Movie!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a barrel of laughs! I have seen it at least 10 times now and it is also on t.v tonight so i'm looking foward to watching it again. A bit of a spuf but you still have to laugh at the witty Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels. I give it 8/10 what a blast! "},{"Title":"Funniest movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. I've seen it dozens of times, and every time I watch it I find something new to laugh about. It's the comedy movie that keeps on giving. This movie may use a lot of bathroom humor, but it does it intelligently. I don't know how else to describe it. There are few cheap jokes in this movie. If you know what good humor is, you'll love this movie.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is without a doubt one of the funniest films of all time, and definitely Jim Carrey's best performance yet.  There are plenty of obscene jokes at a first glance, but there is a lot of visual and subtle humour crammed into 100-odd minutes as well.  The plot is simple but effective, paving way for lots of humour.  Dumb and Dumber is definitely up with Austin Powers, Monty Python and Back To The Future as some of the funniest films/TV series of all time. "},{"Title":"Pretty Bird","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really thought this movie was absolutely hilarious. Lloyd and Harry's antics are hilarious. I really consider this one to be Jim Carrey's best not the Farrely Bros.'s best thought that title goes to Kingpin. The movie is filled with great and memorable scenes. My faves are the Blind Kid and the Parakeet on A Current Affair,Harry and Mary's snowball fight,Harry using the John and Lloyd's daydream. I could go on and on. This movie is awesome. Highly Reccomended like everything else I review "}{"Title":"Comedy, par excellence.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Seeing Dumb and Dumber in in London of the Spring of 1995, has to be the best cinematic experience I have ever had. The story; two friends, marvelously portraited by Carrey and Daniels, make their way to return a suitcase to Carrey's love interest. Their ambivalent friendship is projected ingeniously, by excellent timing of jokes and completely absurd story development. D & D contains more boyish irrationality and less of the cheap under-the-belt humour found in There's Something About Mary, also by the Farrelly brothers. I find it hard to believe that I will ever find a more complete movie than Dumb and Dumber Comedy, par excellence!  "},{"Title":"This Is A Dumb Movie.  I Loved It!","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First, let me make this abundantly clear.  Dumb and Dumber is a movie for guys.  That is, this is a really really bad date movie.  Girls just won't find it funny, in fact, they'll mostly just find it sick and tasteless.  That's because it is sick and tasteless.  Then again, so is all really good guy humor.  Another reason not to see it with a girl is that you'll end up feeling guilty for laughing at it, simply because the girl is there.I'm a guy.  Still, I am a bit ashamed to say the honest truth  I love Dumb and Dumber.  And I don't mean that I kinda-sorta-maybe-a-little-bit liked it.  I thought it was hilarious from start to finish.For starters, it's dumb.  That much is obvious from the title at least.  I'll try to get beyond that, even though it isn't easy with a movie like this.Dumb and Dumber stars Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels as complete idiots.  I'm not saying this to be mean or politically incorrect, but to be truthful.  They're just dumb.  However, I also encourage you to rent Gettysburg and The Truman Show.  Here are the same guys in intelligent roles, and they're still good.  This is the proof of great acting!  The fact that these intelligent men can act like idiots puts both of them on my top ten list of actors.Where do I go from there?  Well, the comedy is typical bathroom comedy, with bodily function jokes, sex jokes, and then more of both of the above.  Is it really funny?  You betcha.So, what am I really saying here?  Just this  Guys, get a bunch of your guy friends together, get a pizza and a huge bottle of Coke.  Sit around for a while telling dirty jokes and stuffing your face, and then watch Dumb and Dumber.  Be proud of your guy-ness, of your immaturity, of your testosterone!  Here's to guys!P.S.  Bring along a few Mel Brooks movies too.  Guys love them.*** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Harry and Lloyd go on a trip.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Harry and Lloyd go on a trip across America to return a briefcase to Mary. A couple of the jokes are corny but the rest of them are funny. The cop joke is the best next to Lloyd's dream. I have seen this movie six times and the jokes are still funny. Jim Carry and Jeff Daniels are great as two annoying losers. The soundtrack for this movie is great; it has the hit The Ballad of Peter Pumpkinhead by Crash Test Dummies. For Harry and Lloyd everyday is a no-brainer. "},{"Title":"It may be dumb...","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  But this film has very very few peers in making one laugh out loud.  Very few films have been able to make me laugh uncontrollably as did this one. And I never expected to take the movie seriously (Hey!  Look at the title!!).  If you don't laugh in this movie, you're devoid of humor.  It's a high hit with it's low (and I mean low) comedy.I'm still smiling as I think of its sequences.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Crazy Fun","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  So once again, funny man Jim Carrey (Peggie Sue Got Married) returns to bring laughter to his audiences worldwide. His partner, Jeff Daniels(Speed), is also in on the show.If you are a person who loves quick humour, then you will love this film. It probably won't appeal to adults, but for kids aged ten to eighteen, then you will find this extremely good. I highly recommend this. Rating=4/5 "},{"Title":"Hits the Mark Like No Other","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber no doubt hits the mark on great humor. Most comedies have funny parts but aren't consistent all the way through. D&D however keeps the laughs coming. I started off giggling, but finished with tears in my eyes and pain in my stomach from laughing too hard. Few movies have done that to me. I have a feeling some people are too proper to laugh at the bathroom humor of this movie. If they'd only let themselves go and enjoy it, instead of turning their nose up at things that we ALL have done from time to time, then the film is great. It's very much worthy of an 8, 9, or the 10 rating that I give it. Forget There's Something About Mary this is the Farrelly Brothers' best. "},{"Title":"It does its job!","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This masterpiece is not meant to spark any intellectual thought.  It was produced to entertain, and it does exactly that.  This could be THE funniest movie ever made.  The low-brow jokes provide grade A laughter. The bathroom scene left me laughing on the floor (it still does this each time I watch it).When people say that this movie was not one of Jimbo's best movies, they are ignorant.  As well as when people say that this movie was predictable.  It was not...People say that when you smile you lose calories.  If you need to lose weight then watch this movie.  The jokes will NEVER die... Ever...The acting in this movie is so superb and suitable.  There is not one scene in this movie that does not leave you in hysterics.  There must be at least 1000 jokes in this movie.I've seen a lot of movies of all sorts.  I feel that this movie makes There's Something About Mary look like a ride to grandma's cottage. This classic deserves a 9.5/10.WHAT A JOY RIDE! "},{"Title":"How I thought of this movie","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Like other comedy teams, These two are funny, but their characters in this movie get carried away a few times too many. I found that there will be a sequel to this. It might be funnier, because it will probably flash back to their childhood days. But Anyway, I give this movie two and a half stars, which is an average rating. If you notice, really carefully, Jeff isn't as wild ad cocky as Jim Carrey is because he doesn't play nonserious roles in all of his movies like Jim did.  "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is one of my all-time favorites. Every time I see it, I laugh until I cry, especially at certain parts. I'll admit, in some of Jim Carrey's movies he just acts silly, but in this one he says silly stuff. That's what makes it more enjoyable to me. This will soon go down as a classic comedy "},{"Title":"6.2 Average??? Is that dumb or dumber?","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  'kay stupid joke, I know, but really a 6.2 average? That's a grade a Robin Williams or Steve Martin 'comedy' deserve! (a 2.6 would be even more appropriate I guess....). Well, I guess it's you love it or you hate it, with the Farrely brothers, because the ratings are quite polarized (lotsa 10's and lotsa 1's). And I love it, of course. Jim Carrey can be over the top sometimes (eg Ace Ventura 2), but he's just excellent in Dumb & Dumber. Favorite parts the 'sweater' scene, when Lloyd's fantasizing about him and Mary, where he's telling this lame joke and *everyone* is laughing and having fun...and the cop bit. And I don't mean the urine-drinking part, but the dialogue just before itCop, driving a motorcycle (yelling) Pull over!Harry, driving in a van Thanks for noticing, but it's a cardigan!  "}{"Title":"Definitely funny","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely a funny movie.  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels make a great pair, and hilarious in every scene.  Some people don't like Jim Carrey, but I think he is hilarious.  Every movie I have ever seen him in makes me laugh hard.  This is no exception.  This isn't an intellectual movie, but judging by the title no one should think it is.  It is a gut buster that is filled with funny moment after funny moment.  Not as good as Liar Liar or Ace Ventura though.  8/10  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's masterpiece","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Before I saw this movie, I regarded Jim Carrey as the most overpaid, overhyped goofball in Hollywood.  After I saw this movie, I had very different thoughts about him.  He plays his role as a simpleminded, innocent schmuck in his movie to perfection.  Plus, he isn't a shouting screeching moron as in the Ace Ventura films or Cable Guy or a serious person as in Liar Liar or The Truman Show. Being a huge fan of older comedy movies (pre-1990s) a lot of the funny films today just don't compare to the ones of the past but this film is a HUGE exception.  With the year 2000 breathing down our necks, I think it's safe for me to give this movie the Best Comedy Of The 90's award. On a final note, this movie kinda makes you feel all good inside as well.  Think about it  two dumb morons who are plagued by bad luck all throughout their life just say screw this and drive across the country to Aspen to give a beautiful girl back her briefcase while encountering many perils along the way.  Once in Aspen, the perils and the fortunes just keep piling up.  The movie does have a sad ending in a way but hey, they're making a sequel so there's no need to pity Lloyd and Harry too much. Rent this movie right now. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film does what it sets out to do, tickle your bone, the funny bone that is. It's a great comedy from the makers of There's Something About Mary and Kingpin. The thing about comedies from the Farrely brothers is that I can watch them numerous times and still think they're funny, it's the genius comedy that's in them that makes me watch again. Jim Carrey plays LloydChristmas who meets Lauren Holly's Character Mary Swanson when driving her to the airport. In the airport he watches as she leaves her briefcase in the airport, he goes and picks it up and runs. He meets up with Harry at their place and they decide to bring the briefcase back to Mary in Colorado, the adventure begins. All road trip flicks are cool as hell and this is no exception, I think Jeff Daniels steals the show as Harry, Lloyd's dumb friend. I recommend this flick to anyone who wants to chill, drink with a bunch of their friends and have fun. Cool flicks to go with it are There's Something About Mary and Kingpin. "},{"Title":"Classic Dumbfest","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels experiment in all forms of stupidity in this laugh-a-minute comedy.  There are too many side-splitting scenes to name but Daniel's toilet scene and Carrey and Holly's race up the stairs are just a couple of in your face howlers.  If you're looking for intelligent comedy, read the title; if you want to just flat out laugh till it hurts, rent it today!  My rating 8   "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever made!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is destined to become a comedy classic.  Even though it has been out for a few years now, my friends and I still regard it as one of our favorites.  One good thing about this movie is that it never gets boring; I own the video and I still laugh every time I watch it (which is quite often) .This movie has no serious parts, no cheesy romantic moments or attempts to draw tears.  This is a straight in-your-face silly comedy that starts on the jokes at the beginning and doesn't stop till the very end.  You will have to watch this movie more than once because you will be laughing so hard that you will miss some of the more subtle jokes.Rent this movie! "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is absolutely hilarious from beginning to end.  Not one single joke falls flat and that is no small feat in this age of recycled trash that's on the screens these days.  Carrey and Daniels are perfect in their roles as two morons who stumble across a briefcase full of cash that belongs to Lauren Holly's character and is meant for a kidnapping payoff.  Carrey falls in love with real life second wife Holly and when he and his friend lose their jobs he decides to pursue her across the country to find her. All sorts of hilarious acts of stupidity are perpetrated by these two guys and you just have to fall off your chair and spew popcorn everywhere watching them. "},{"Title":"Gut Buster","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After seeing most of Carrey's comedies, I still say this is definitely his finest hour.  Dumb and Dumber captured everything disgusting and purile that gets you right there, you know where.  And, it keeps you off your seat. This is not high brow comedy, but it is the kind that gives sequels a hard run for the money.  I highly recommend this for anyone who is as freely anal expulsive as one of the characters in the movie.  Go watch it!  "},{"Title":"Funny - Really Funny","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey has a natural talent of making you laugh. 'Dumb and Dumber' ranks as high as 'Liar Liar' in his side-splitting comedies. From the first scene where he invites Ms Swanson for a hug after driving her to the airport as her limo-driver (..after all we have been through) to the absolute last scene (..my friend is kind of slow..... the town is 3 miles *THAT* way)...this movie is all the way FUN. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The comedy of Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels in 'Dumb & Dumber' is very funny. It is full of humour with sometimes crude jokes, but often things like 'It's OK, I'm a limo driver!'.  When I watched this with my friends, we were laughing left and right and all around a lot.  It is very funny.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Laugh unlimited.","Date":"10 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film will give you unlimited amount of laughs. Personally I've seen this movie 59 times and still can watch it again and again. Marvelous humor and stupid ideas that are implemented in this movie makes it one of the best films forever. It WILL become a movie classic.  "}{"Title":"Brilliance!","Date":"29 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is so stupid, it's brilliant....The dumb humor and wonderful acting from Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are so  well layed-out, and so well told, that this rates up as good tasteless comedy.  This movie is not for everyone though, a silly mood, and a taste for bathroom humor is required to sit through this, but if you qualify you're in for a major treat.  ****  "},{"Title":"Dumb and Grosser-Way Too Much Potty Humor","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Far too much bathroom humor unless peeing like a race horse, diarrhea, and homosexuality are your cups-of-tea. I thought this was a riot two decades ago when I was much younger. Cleaned up slightly for cable broadcast. However, two more gloriously dumb characters will never be found in any other screwball comedy. They even exceed Laurel and Hardy. In it's own perverse way, it beats any classic comedy from the 1930's. A Farrelly Bros. classic. Two clueless idiots start out with nothing and end up with nothing after chasing a rich heiress from Rhode Island all the way west to Aspen, Colorado. Too dumb to take a ride on the Hawaiian Tropic Bikini Bus and be the girl's suntan oil-us-up party guys! Also one of the funniest and dumbest films you will ever see, but not for the faint-of-heart and certainly enjoyed most by young adolescent males. I will probably wait for cable for the new sequel, and like and dislike it just as much. It rates a dirty 8 because, at it's best, it is hilarious. A guilty pleasure but not for children. "},{"Title":"Fitting Title","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber serves it title well. Before Jim Carrey began starring in dramedies such as Yes Man and Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind he was known exclusively for his ridiculously over-the-top stupid humor which was made known first in Ace Ventura Pet Detective. While immature antics tend to grow old quickly, the duo of Carrey and Daniels is immensely funny, and somewhat original. Admittedly the shenanigans and irreverent humor is at times quite annoying, but it is redeemed by nearly perfect satires, and well-rounded one-liners. Though it remains very mild language wise for the most part, these is nearly pervasive crude and sexual humor, some of which are highly inappropriate. Between pervasive crude and sexual humor, scenes with nudity, some dang close to graphic nudity, the primary focus of sex and farts, and tons of stupid humor. If you are in to that sort of thing it is great. The movie is hysterically funny, but way over the top. It's a stupid, dirty classic. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Lives Up To Its Name","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play the title roles in this genially low- brow comedy which can also be classified as a celebration of stupidity in this film entitled,Dumb And Dumber.The story is about the not-so- dynamic duo of Lloyd and Harry, dunderheads who come into the possession of a briefcase containing ransom money that is intended for Mob- connected kidnappers. Lauren Holly costars as the woman who lost the briefcase, and with whom Carrey falls in love with.It was written and directed by the Farrelly brothers.Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne are two intellectually-challenged best friends who share an apartment so messy that gangsters aren't sure how to trash the place.The guys also have a certain problem holding on to jobs. Lloyd is working as a limo driver in Rhode Island when he picks up a beautiful and wealthy woman named Mary Swanson,who is being taken to the airport. Lloyd immediately falls head over heels in love with Mary, and when she leaves a briefcase at the airport, he's determined to return it in hopes of impressing her. Lloyd isn't able to get aboard Mary's flight. Harry has a van decorated to look like a dog, and the pair hop in the Poochmobile to find Mary in Aspen. What Lloyd and Harry don't know is that the briefcase is full of money, which Mary deliberately left at the airport as a ransom payment to save the life of her kidnapped husband. This is a relentlessly stupid comedy elevated by its main actors. Jim Carrey goes bonkers and Jeff Daniels carries himself admirably in an against-type performance.The wholeheartedness of this descent into crude and rude humor is so good-natured and precise that it's hard not to partake in the guilty pleasures of the exercise.Finally,it is definitely a movie that fully lives up to its name, right down to an opening credit sequence rife with intentional misspellings and grammatical errors. "},{"Title":"Riddle me This What has four legs, four arms, two heads, half a brain, and is so funny you'll wet your pants while laughing?","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you guess Dumb and Dumber, you're a winner! This wonderful movie tells the adventures of two guys who try to find the person who lost her suitcase which is full of money. Along the way, they go into comic situations. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels rocked for performing their roles as two idiotic, fun-loving friends. My favorite scene was when Harry said to a guy Hey, wanna hear the most annoying sound in the world? and he and Harry go EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEHHHHHHHHHHH until the guy says GUYS, GUYS, GUYS!! That was funny and original. I also liked the bit when Harry pees in an empty beer bottle and the cop drinks the pee from the beer bottle. Dumb and Dumber is one of the best and greatest comedies I have ever seen because Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are the 1990's version of Laurel and Hardy. I loved it, I loved it, I LOVED IT!!!! "},{"Title":"All-Time Favorite Comedy","Date":"4 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of the few movies I've watched over and over again. It still makes me laugh! Some of my favorite scenes/dialogue includes 1. Don't you see? We killed their bird. Now they killed ours. 2.Harry and Mary building the snowman at the ski slopes. 3. Just when I think you couldn't get any dumber, you go and do something like this AND TOTALLY REDEEM YOURSELF. 4. Lloyd and Harry in the heart-shaped hot tub. 5. We got no food, no jobs... our PETS' HEADS ARE FALLING OFF 6. Harry gets frozen on to Lloyd's back 7. Lloyd reveals his extra set of gloves 8. Lloyd's daydream about Mary 9. Lloyd getting ripped off by the lady in the wheel chair 10. The orange and blue suits that Harry and Lloyd wear to the benefit. "},{"Title":"Much Better Than I Had Anticipated","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I happened to see a bit of it on TV with my girlfriend and she liked what she saw. So I got the video and we watched it. I wasn't expecting much (from the movie's title), but the end result turned out to be quite good.The movie is light entertainment and hit and miss jokes, but like Monty Python, the actors made the material work through good acting. The chemistry between the lead characters was perfect, and there were clever bits such as the dog van peeing gas and their unwittingly bringing their would-be assassin on the road with them, only to unintentionally have him poison himself. And best of all, the movie didn't overload on gross-out humor. Not for everyone, but it's one of the great lowbrow comedies. "},{"Title":"Wanna Read The Most Annoying Summary In The World EEEIIIAAAYYY","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Lloyd and Harry are two lovable and friendly, but very stupid friends, who struggle with every aspect of life. Working as a limo driver, Lloyd drops off the beautiful Mary at the airport and instantly falls in love with her. Watching Mary through a window, Lloyd witnesses her leave her case behind. Grabbing her case, Lloyd is too late, but soon thinks of the next best thing. Dragging Harry with him, Lloyd heads off to Aspen to deliver her personally the case. However, Holly isn't the only person after the case, as a pair of criminals are after the same case. One Of My Favourite Comedic Actor Plays A Role In This Movie So That Is A Plus(Jim Carrey). After This I Went & Saw Aracnophobia & I Was Laughing Due To The Fact I Could Not Take Jeff Daniels Seriously. One Thing I Did Learn From This Movie Is You Don't Kill People You Don't Know...Just Kidding. The Whole Movie Is Hysterically Funny. Out Of All The Scenes That Are My Favourite Its The One Where Lloyd Comes Home From Being Robbed By A Sweet Old Lady On A Motorised Cart & Harry Says That His Parakeet Petey Is Dead & Lloyd Asks What Happened? & Harry Replies His Head Fell Off It Cracks Me Up Every time I Get To That Scene. If You Want A Hysterical Road Comedy Check This Out But If You Want A Bad Language Road Comedy I Suggest 'Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back'...Those Two Movies Have A Lot In Common. "},{"Title":"So funny it should carry a laxative warning","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If humour is simply a way of coping with the overriding misery of existence then Dumb & Dumber emerges like a cure for cancer. Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels) are the knuckle-headed losers road-trippin' their way to the sunny climes of Aspen to deliver a lost briefcase to the mysterious Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly). (Lloyd fell in love with her, you see, while he drove her to the airport.) Along the way they steal from a blind kid, poison a hit-man, and give a motorbike cop a swig of moonshine he'll never forget... And that's before they've even reached Colorado.Writers and directors the Farrelly Brothers forego the cutesy angst that blunted There's Something About Mary and go flat-out on the sick and the scatological. It's puerile, of course, but Carrey's clown has never had a better home, and Jeff Daniels shows expert comic timing to add to his impressive dramatic range. The script they share is sharp as a shiv, as well as being endlessly quotable. Does the gag count sink ever so slightly in the final reel? Perhaps. But just wait for the epilogue probably the funniest comedy pay-off since Some Like It Hot. "},{"Title":"Has to be watched by everyone","Date":"21 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber (1994, Dir. Peter & Bobby Farrelly) Lloyd (Carrey) and Harry (Daniels) are two lovable and friendly, but very stupid friends, who struggle with every aspect of life. Working as a limo driver, Lloyd drops off the beautiful Mary (Holly) at the airport and instantly falls in love with her. Watching Mary through a window, Lloyd witnesses her leave her case behind. Grabbing her case, Lloyd is too late, but soon thinks of the next best thing. Dragging Harry with him, Lloyd heads off to Aspen to deliver her personally the case. However, Holly isn't the only person after the case, as a pair of criminals are after the same case.Different but funny comedy which would be hailed a classic for years to come. Carrey and Daniels are perfect as the leads in a unpredictable road movie. The humour might not be to everyone's taste but it is still one comedy film that has to be watched by everyone.You know, on second thought, you might just want to run a comb through 'em. &#150; Harry (Jeff Daniels) "}{"Title":"I thought the Rockies were a lot less flat? -- Me too.  That John Denver is full of sh*t, man!","Date":"5 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I didn't like this one much when it came out, but I've changed my mind. It's a great, funny, very entertaining movie. That said, I'd still hold that it's not anywhere near being the best comedy ever, as claimed by some fanboys here on IMDb, or even the best Farrelly Bros. movie. That would be asking too much, it being, after all, their first feature movie, and as a consequence still a bit rough around the edges. Namely the plot is a bit on the thin side in that it consists of little more than our two likable losers traveling halfway across the US of A (a nomial distance of 2,200 miles, which they manage to ratchet up to at least 3,000) to return a suitcase to a girl, because one of them has that old-fashioned feeling, where I'd do anything to bone her, and then rampage through the city of Aspen.This is because the culmination of the plot, an elaborate kidnapping story, was more or less dumped unceremoniously from the final cut. A very wise choice, as the movie is now essentially a showcase for the perfect comedic duo, the gentle and laid-back Jeff Daniels and the obnoxious-aggressive Jim Carey, in their hilarious quest to cast aspersions on the definition of humans as a sentient species.Jim Carey went on to rise to greater comedic stardom, but Jeff Daniels is just as brilliant here, and a lot more likable.Just as a side note, I always marveled at Carey's brilliant chipped tooth prosthetic, until I read here on IMDb that those are his real pearly whites -- he does actually have a chipped tooth and just took the cap off. "},{"Title":"Brilliant stupidity","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Some 'dumb' comedies can take idiotic humour and elevate it to another level. This is one of those films.The story follows Harry (Jeff Daniels) and Lloyd (Jim Carrey) as they trek cross-country, ostensibly to return a briefcase to Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly) but equally motivated by Lloyd's desire to strike up a relationship with her. There is some inventiveness in the situations that the duo get themselves into but the story isn't exactly 'edge of your seat' material.The movie lives up to its name with the humour stemming from utter stupidity in most cases. Carrey & Daniels are adept at imbuing their characters with a sincerity that makes the idiotic comments they make endearing in a way.This is perhaps Jim Carrey's finest hour with his comic timing and rubber-faced mugging frequently drawing laughs. Jeff Daniels is a pretty good complement to Carrey's shenanigans though he isn't in the same league as him. The supporting cast is merely alright, with a memorable turn by Mike Starr, who's usually relegated to smaller roles.There's nothing worth remarking about in terms of direction but I will comment on the music. It's a mish-mash of then-hip alternative songs, featured prominently enough at times to seem like an advertisement for the soundtrack album. Remember Dead Eye Dick's hit New Age Girl? Worse than the songs, though, are the (thankfully) brief snippets of a sort of love theme. On the other hand, there's an excellent use of The Cowsill's The Rain, the Park & Other Things.This film isn't exactly awards material but it's a pretty pleasant diversion. Beware, though, that I've seen it butchered on television (even though it's actually quite tame), so your best bet is to stick with video/DVD. "},{"Title":"The Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels Show","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is pretty much about two idiots who do stupid things every day. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are perfect in their roles as Floyd and Harry. Both are obnoxious and crude, but they are also unique in the different types of humor they deliver. Jim Carrey, as in all of his movies, is the energizer bunny of weird noises and facial expressions. Jeff Daniels is the one who delivers the hysterical sight gags and one-liners.This is definitely not a comedy for everyone. Many people call this movie stupid. It is stupid. But it is so stupid that it is funny like The Simpsons. I have to admit though that nothing can beat the comic genius of The Simpsons. However, Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are the comic masters of Dumb and Dumber. No one else could make the characters they built. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Super funny","Date":"7 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film is about two men trying to hunt a woman down in order to give back a suitcase she left at the airport.Wow. The jokes really work, laugh out loud funny. The script is really good. It's easy to make an offensive or lousy script out of two stupid men doing stupid things, but this film really worked. Killing an owl with a cork, trading a van for a kid's bike are just some really funny moments in the film.Both Lloyd and Harry are likable, despite their stupidity. Sometimes watching stupid stuff in a film makes me think it is a waste of time, but Dumb & Dumber does not have this problem.This film is really funny. It's been a long time since I was so entertained by a film. And this is so much better than the Dumb & Dumber brothers' recent film, The Heartbreak Kid. "},{"Title":"I'd Rate This 20 if I Could","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is a great movie. I saw Dumb & Dumberer before this, and it only made me respect this movie more. It is an excellent comedy that hasn't been so true to the genre in years. Another good thing is that it is one of the longer comedies. I mean, yes there are comedies that are over 2 hours, but nowadays, it seems like there's a rule comedies may NOT exceed 90 minutes, as every comedy I've seen recently is a completely short movie besides Click, where if you only count the comedy part, though, it's about 69 minutes. Another good thing is the choice of actors. Jim Carrey was great for this. Not only is he one of my favorite actors, but he is just plain funny. So if you have 100 minutes of spare time, I recommend this movie. I rated this movie 10, but I'd rate this 20 if I could. "},{"Title":"I Like It, And I Don't Care","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is one of the best comedy ever created and I can say it oh so proudly. I don't care what people say and how it was called stupid and comedy with toilet joke. It is supposed to be stupid and dumb, the name already suggests that and if you're still saying that it is stupid you are dumber than I thought.Staring Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels as Lloyd and Harry; the two best friends are on the road trip to see Lloyd dream girl Mary; along the way they face many adventures.This is without doubt one of the funniest movie, involving almost everything &#150; kidnapping, stupidity, love triangle, friendship, road trip, girl, murderer and twisted joke. The cast is brilliant, I don't think it can be any better; Jim and Jeff are superbly funny and their acting is second to none. And the joke and the situation is a killer, the movie is consistently funny throughout the movie.Everything in this movie seems to be well thought and is a great flow and balance. And though the directing and all the technical work are averagely done it doesn't stop Jim and Jeff to delivered all that humor.I still can remember when it first came out in '94s and how hard I laugh the first time I watch it. I still laugh at it even 12 years later. That is brilliant.My Verdict Get Yourself A DVD.Reason To Watch Jim and Jeff In The Top Class Humor Comedy.Reason Not To Stupid Enough To Think It Is A Moron Movie.Rating 9/10 (Grade A+) "},{"Title":"Movie Schitzo's Review of Dumb and Dumber","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are two very funny men and together create one of the Farrely brothers greatest hits. They take a great title and no concept and turn it into an adventure- comedy. The plot is well dumb, Lloyd Christmas (Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Daniels) are two childhood friends who are struggling to open their pet store specializing in worms, that they will call I Got Worms. One day Lloyd takes a women named Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly) to the airport so she can go to Aspen, Colorado. As soon as Lloyd sees her he falls madly in love with her. Little does he know that she has left some ransom money at the airport and Lloyd saves the day by picking up the money. Harry and Lloyd decide to go to Aspen on vacation and take the money back to her and on the road to Aspen, chaos ensues. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels make a great creative team along with the Farrely brothers and they play off of each other. As for Lauren Holly, she does great with what she is given. The movie kind of drags a little bit in the end, but ends well. All in all a comedy classic.2 1/2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"I Wanted to Write My Paper That Was Worth 25% of My Grade in a Course At USC Cinama School Because I LOVE DUMB AND DUMBER!!!","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Postmodernism and Poop Jokes Dumb and Dumber and the Collapse of High Art (abridged version)Ninety years ago Marcel Duchamp printed his name on a white porcelain urinal. In the winter of 2004 that urinal was named the most influential work of modern art by five-hundred of London's top art experts beating out Matisse, Andy Warhol and Picasso for the top spot. Naturally many found the decision, a bit of a shock but some came to realize that Duchamp's urinal, reflects the dynamic nature of art today and the idea that the creative process that goes into a work of art is the most important thing. The work itself can...take any form (World's Best..., 1). In 1917 critics and audiences alike were appalled by Duchamp's urinal, but today our culture embraces this postmodern fusion of high art with low art. The Farrelly Brothers' Dumb and Dumber (1994) could be considered the Duchamp urinal of the 1990's. Once again critics had a hard time embracing the Farrelly Bros.' use of low culture. They still saw cinema as an art-form that should represent a sort of sophisticated entertainment. Although many critics abhorred the film, the box office success and widespread pop-cultural acclaim of Dumb and Dumber suggest that postmodern films should be judged by the postmodern audience rather than the critics.In an interview with Mr. Daniels, Leon Harris asks, Is this your kind of humor? Is this the kind of thing you'd watch when you want to go out and see something funny? in an attempt to understand how such a qualified actor could sink so low (Daniels, 2). Daniels responds with, I know that I am ready for...an hour and a half of nothing but laughs, and if movies like Dumb and Dumber can do that, then I think that has value. (Daniels, 2).Daniels defends his decision to star in the film and also questions the role of comedy in the artistic world. He recognizes that the Academy Awards tend to favor serious dramatic films that evoke deep thoughts rather than lowbrow comedies that simply cause laughter. He essentially exposes this bias that exists within the critical world that favors sophistication over anti-intellectualism. Does the fact that Dumb and Dumber won the MTV Movie Award in 1995 but was never considered for an Oscar nomination mean that it was a complete failure? Who is to say one human being's opinion is more valid than another's? While some might have seen Harry the dog groomer as a step down for Daniels, his involvement with both low and high forms of entertainment demonstrate this flexibility that the postmodern era embraces.Dumb and Dumber was released on December 16, 1994 and within a few days had become the second biggest December box office opening in Hollywood history (DeRosa, 1). Apparently though, there is quite a market for incredibly dumb comedies about two friends on a road trip to Aspen. The general audience had spoken and $127 million speaks louder than a handful of negative reviews.Headlines for online user comments read, Best Comedy Ever, Painfully Funny, Pure Laughter, Oh Admit it You Love This Movie, If You Don't Like This Movie You're an Insufferable Bore, etc. (User Ratings, 1). Though there are some negative comments strewn about, it is nothing like the critical reviews in magazines and newspapers. Out of over thirty-five thousand user comments, there are only seven-thousand people that graded Dumb and Dumber as average or below (a score of 5 and below on a scale from 1-10, 10 being the best). This means that eighty percent of the people that voted scored Dumb and Dumber above average. Also, about one-third of the voters scored the film with either a nine or a ten. This data illustrates a vast difference between general audience member opinions and critical reviews. After the release of Dumb and Dumber, Bobby Farrelly said, We fully expect to get ripped apart by the critics, but we didn't make it for the critics (Dermody, 1). Again the question arises of whether or not a handful of critics know what is best for postmodern audiences.The human being is a complex organism that can enjoy an opera one moment and laugh at a fart joke the next. Recently the latter tendency has been capitalized upon, but the critic chooses to focus on the finer things in art and culture. Postmodernism attempts to blend these two spheres of the human mind into one while modernism denies its other half. If we follow the modernist assumption that science and technology will lead to a fuller understanding of life than we find ourselves in a bit of a bind. If we study Darwinism and the process of Evolution to find that we, the human species, the children of the Enlightenment are in reality children of apes, the idea that we should only respond to high culture and sophistication is absurd. Millions of years later we still have some of these animal instincts that tell us to laugh at Jim Carrey when he makes a funny face or attempts to wash his mouth out with ketchup and mustard. Some try to cover up these instincts and pretend that sophistication and intellectualism come naturally to humans. If this were the case babies would be born with calculators and paperback copies of Madame Bovary. This is not to say that we should all revert to living in caves and hunting with spears, but we should also remember that we are one chromosome away from being chimpanzees. If Dumb and Dumber does have a message, it is to never become so serious that you cannot laugh at yourself. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films of the 1990s","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well it may not be Fellini, but it certainly takes an iron stomach not laugh at arguably, The Farrelly brothers most rib-tickling movie to date. Jim Carrey does his stuff like only he knows how, but it is Dumb, rather than Dumber, who takes the biggest plaudits. Jeff Daniels makes mince meat out of some of the scripts best lines (She fed me some crap about not listening to her, I dunno, I wasn't really paying attention). There are wonderful site gags (checkout Lloyd's plunge onto the airport floor) and magnificently delivered lines. Some of the material doesn't leave much in the way of subtlety (one moment involving a toilet and a laxative), but as crude humour goes, it's hard to fault. And unlike so many comedies before it, D & D manages to stay true to its material until the very end, eschewing soppy feel goods for dumb, and then some. I haven't laughed this much since I saw The Quest For The Holy Grail, and I do not say that lightly. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!!!!!","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is by far the best comedy to ever set foot on the earth. Now first of all, there isn't a Farelly brothers movie i don't like that I've watched. I love them all Theres something about Mary , Shallow Hal , Stuck on you these to name a few. But dumb and dumber would have to be the best comedy they have made. It doesn't matter how many times i watch this movie, it makes me poo my pants laughing.For anyone who wants to see this movie,buy it!! This is a collectors item, BUT!!! Whatever you do, DO NOT buy, rent or even copy the sequel When Harry Met LLoyd That movie was just pure bull. Unfunny.Thats it for me, remember, buy dumb and dumber, but don't buy or even watch the sequel. "}{"Title":"outstanding","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've got an MBA and have scored 141 on the Mensa unsupervised test.This film is my all time favorite.I have watched it so many times I memorized most of the movie. There are so many classic scenes that it dazzles the mind. How can anyone forget these lines, check please; Did you remember to pay the gas bill?; You're alive...and you're a terrible shot.; No thanks...I swallowed a large June bug back down the road.; Would you look at the but on that..., Yeah, he must work out. I have three copies just in case something happens to one.There's something wrong with you if you don't like this movie. "},{"Title":"Pure,unadulterated comedy","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is special to me for the simple fact that it makes no pretense that it is anything BUT a comedy. Loaded with sight gags,verbal humor,toilet humor,pratfalls,cross-ups,mix-ups and perfect timing,this film employs just about every level of film comedy and makes practically all of them work.The story is almost pedantic and non-essentialtwo hopelessly half-witted buddies,Harry and Lloyd(the very adept Jeff Daniels and the very comfortable-in-the genre Jim Carrey)agree to travel cross country to return the briefcase that a fare who Lloyd(a chauffeur) taxied to the airport lost at the terminal. Of course,they are not aware that the briefcase was intended as a drop for a hostage situation where the fare,a lovely redhead named MAry(perennial straight woman Lauren Holly),was to ransom her kidnapped husband. Naturally,Lloyd and Harry's meddling throws the hostage development into chaos,but not before the dim-witted duo get into various forms of trouble along the way. ONe should have a strong stomach while viewing this,as was the case with most pre-Shallow Hal Farrelly Brothers(who wrote and directed in tandem)films. Definitely a film one will either get or not get,with almost no room in-between. "},{"Title":"Vacation with Beavis & Butt-Head","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is just that, a stupid movie without purpose.  Dr. Strangelove mixes a message with its parodizing view of the world.  The Breakfast Club combines an adolescent fantasy world of detention with the stereotypical self-discovery element.  Monty Python has an edge due to the typical Python wit, that's all I can say about it.Dumb & Dumber is no more than an enhanced, live-action Beavis & Butt-Head cartoon.  All the same pitfalls and baloney circumstances you'd expect from them are here.  Also, the movie goes too long for its own good and winds up being what I call a 'watch checker', wherein you are checking your watch every 45 seconds while thinking Is this EVER going to end?  As much as I enjoy Jim Carrey in Liar Liar and The Mask, his work here is too annoying to be fun (he couldn't POSSIBLY intend on being this annoying).  Jeff Daniels gets my sympathies for getting cast into this movie, I guess there was nothing he could do other than live off the profits from SPEED.Overall, save yourself some time and just rent episodes of Beavis & Butt-Head or National Lampoon's Vacation for the same effect in your brain.  The movie tries too hard to be funny and stupid and, as the saying goes The harder you try, the dumber you look.  The ending was the only high point because it solidified how self-centered and incompetent our 'heroes' are.  1.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Great but crazy movie)","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is very funny! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are really good in it! Lauren Holly is very good and!I don't want to go any further and spoil it but if you like the cast mentioned and silly and/or insane movies then check it out and be sure to watch the sequel/prequel when it hits the theatres!  "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey right at home","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey is absolutely incredible at physical slapstick. I feel a bit more uneasy when Jim Carrey plays smart parts such as the Riddler or when he wears The Mask but in all out slapstick he is perfect and goes way beyond his inspriation Jerry Lewis.Jeff Daniels did a wonderful job because he is usually cast as a mild mannered likeable guy. He reminds me a bit of Daniel Stern in the Home alone series. Of course in both cases the likeable guy comes out a bit. And then again why not? The parts involving the pretty girl are usually very painful to watch in these kind of movies. Something's just not right when we see romance and our heroes making fools of themselves at the same time. Maybe it's because many of us see themselves a bit in this situation. We can trace this problem back to Laurel and Hardy Way out West and most likely even further back.I like the attention to detail How come these two dumb guys can drive a Lamborghini that smoothly? They both are seen having jobs as drivers at the start. I also like the fact that the movie doesn't fall into romance near the end or any they have the heart of gold routine. I love the choice of clothes when they use up the money in the suitcase. Now that is really such a bad taste that it is way cool again -)Great movie, as has been said before not for all tastes, but a great movie anyway. "},{"Title":"Utterly moronic, but very funny","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I feel like an idiot for liking this movie, but I do. I normally can't stand brainless gross-out comedies, but this one I found just twisted and edgy enough to make me laugh. Unlike most fans, however, I didn't find Jim Carrey all that funny. As with ACE VENTURA (which I hated), he bugs his eyes, waves his arms, screams, flails, and seems to think he's simply hilarious, when he's actually little more than amusing (if not a tad annoying). The highlight of this movie is Jeff Daniels. He's done comedy before, but never this broad, as he usually plays the straight man to someone else. Here, though, he turns in a brilliant comic performance that blows Carrey off the screen. The infamous diarrhea scene could have simply been nothing more than a gross potty humor joke for eight year olds, but Daniels turns it into a slapstick masterpiece that would make Peter Sellers and Blake Edwards proud. Unfortunately, the success of this movie (and Daniels' newfound popularity because of it) led him to star in such lame-brained romps as TRIAL AND ERROR, 101 DALMATIONS and MY FAVORITE MARTIAN. Hopefully he'll get back on track and do some real acting again. But DUMB AND DUMBER, like it or not, will forever be one of his very best performances. "},{"Title":"good cast makes the most of the silly material","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Blatantly stupid but broadly funny comedy that 'dumbs down' the buddy genre. Carrey and Daniels star as two naive dimwits who go on a cross-country road trip carrying a briefcase full of cash, totally ignorant of the fact that they've plunged themselves headfirst into a kidnapping scheme. For the most part this film is nothing more than a juvenile exercise in gross-out gags and toilet humor, but the cast is so enthusiastic and so infectiously likable that you almost have to laugh and enjoy this silly little ride. Carrey and Daniels are perfectly cast as two witless morons who just can't seem to get a clue. ** "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels pile on the laughs as two idiots on a cross country road trip to deliver a briefcase full of money. The film is often very funny, and the two leads are perfect, but the gross-out gags get tiresome at times. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Carey at his best","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember the tender age of 13 when I first saw Dumb &Dumber. I love the way Rubberface plays a dumbass. This movie displays Mr. Carey's talent as a comedian and it's a film you can't help but laugh at. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Worst of the Jim Carrey movies.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"     Being a Jim Carrey fan myself, after having seeing this movie during it's theatrical release, I thought, he could've done a better movie than Dumb and Dumber.  In this one, Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play these inept and incredibly stupid best friends who come across a suitcase and set out to Colorado to give it back to a woman (Lauren Holly) whom Lloyd eventually falls for.  And they get entangled in a kidnapping plot.   I didn't like this movie because it was way too vulgar and lowbrow.  The worst part of all was when Lloyd spikes Harold's drink with a liquid laxative and later on Harold gets stuck in the bathroom for obvious reasons that are too ribald for me to explain.  This whole movie was a disgrace and an insult to such an advanced, talented, and charismatic comedian that Jim Carrey is.     To add insult to injury This movie, when it was out in theaters became the number one movie in America and the favorite Jim Carrey movie amongst fans.  Even my friends and co-workers thought this movie was funny.  I understand why someone would like this movie, and that's okay with me.  But I suggest some better Jim Carrey movies like Ace Ventura parts 1 & 2, Cable Guy, Batman Forever, Man on the Moon, Me, Myself, and Irene, and The Truman Show.  This movie is totally brainless, if you don't like vulgarity then my best advice is to skip it!  I give Dumb and Dumber 1 star. "}{"Title":"As the name says","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I can actually say I really really hated.  I tried to like it, but it was just so corny and full of dumb jokes that it couldn't be saved.  The acting is even worse, and I can't believe that crap like this has a huge following while smarter and funnier movies go unnoticed. "},{"Title":"A real no brainer","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies I've ever seen. I laughed all the way through, especially liking the toilet and karate scenes. Never seen 2 people have more chances to do good and be somebody and blow it all away than these 2 morons. I rarely watch a film twice, but could see this one again. 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Two dumbs on the road","Date":"15 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels) are two brainless idiots in this very funny comedy called Dumb and Dumber.At the beginning Lloyd is a limo driver, who is giving a ride to a very attractive woman Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly).Mary is on her way to the airport 'bout to fly to Aspen.But she leaves her suitcase to the airport.So it is Lloyd's and Harry's mission to return the suitcase to the owner.And they hop to their doggy van and head to Aspen.Of course many dumb things  happen to these dummies on the way.And they have bad guys following them who also want the bag.Later Lloyd and Harry find out that the suitcase is full of money so they decide to borrow a little money.Or not so little.They spend it all. Finally they get to Aspen and maybe Lloyd will get his chance with Mary.And he gets it.The chances of him with Mary are one out of million.So there still is a chance.Dumb and Dumber is a  very funny comedy that really makes you laugh.If you have sense of humor.If you don't have one, then this movie isn't meant for you.You don't have to be a dumb to watch this movie.Just alittle crazy.The Farrelly brothers made a great comedy.They know how to make good comedy.Even a dumb knows how to make comedy, but if you want it to be good, you can call the Farrelly brothers to do that.Jim Carrey fits perfectly in this movie.He is like modern day's Jerry Lewis.Fool and funny. And in this movie you can see that Jim Carrey isn't the only one with the comedic skills.Jeff Daniels has them as well. Those two are perfect for the roles of two dumbs.  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Two idiots drive across the country to deliver a briefcase, but they encounter hilarious problems along the way,including a hilarious scene with chili peppers.Bright performances from the main leads.The scene  involving the broken toilet and Jeff Daniels is gross but hilarious.What a great ending !!!Rating**** (out of five) "},{"Title":"Rocketman >>>>> Dumb and Dumber","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" First off, I'm a HUGE fan of comedies - just see my IMDb list called Funniest & Most Hilarious Movies ever; films like Rocketman (starring Harland Williams) & Groundhog Day (starring Bill Murray) which are genuinely funny, family-friendly, and have got appropriate humor in them. And kind of a guilty pleasure but I do like Gigli for a few reasons, too (Never understood all the bashing & hate).But THIS??? Judging by the poster, it seemed like a flick that was gonna be horrendously dumb, awful, and stupid. I WASN'T WRONG!Did those who've written glowing reviews of Dumb & Dumber see the same movie I did?? Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels have done some great movies, but this is not one of them! Look, I wanted to like this flick, I really did. But it's an astounding PUTRID dumb film, and a complete waste of celluloid, IMO.Though to be fair, the scene where Harry slams the bathroom door in the face of the guy who's gonna... *ahem*... RAPE Lloyd, in order to put out the fire on his foot, was kinda funny. Even with some of the worst movies you could giggle a bit.Understand. Nostalgic doesn't mean better - it just means you're more attached to it. It boggles my mind that Carrey is one of the highest paid actors out there. This movie, and the one he appeared in before it (Ace Ventura), are unbelievably awful & overrated. These films utilize slapstick/absurdest humor, as opposed to Carrey's running gag of distorted faces and talking out of his butt. Plus, him having a chipped tooth is NOT FUNNY! Oftentimes I felt like saying, What the &%$#@? are you doing??? The characters of Lloyd and Harry are an INSULT to your intelligence! Even if you liked their brand of humor, wouldn't it get old after 30 minutes or so??? My advice I recommend you go watch Jim Carrey's The Grinch or Jeff Daniel's 101 Dalmatians - they play much more convincing & less annoying characters than in this.But this overrated film was so cringe-worthy that the only reason I sat through it was to see how ridiculous it would get. The story as a whole was difficult to follow, due to the two acting like a distracting fools most of the film. This movie is about a briefcase that never gets mentioned again, bad language, abuse for women, violent homosexuality, gross-out humor, annoying humor, bad pop-culture references, jealousy, unfunny/nonsensical humor, inappropriate humor, and generally other things that I particularly don't want to watch. It's basically a film that tries WAY TOO HARD! And the ending was just awful, left a bad taste in my mouth, being the last nail in the coffin of this bad movie. Long story short, The Mask was the only good Jim Carrey film that came out in 1994.I'm all-round so glad I didn't grow up with this flick; because if I had, I would've likely lost HALF OF MY BRAIN if I did! I would just like it to have my memory erased for acknowledging it exists!Overall, this one is a real dud in my opinion, I give it 3/10PS Happy 20th anniversary... NOT! "},{"Title":"mindless entertainment","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this movie as much as the next guy, but you got to admit that the technical aspects of this film are just not there. If you are a fan of these guys humor, and by some odd chance you have not seen this movie, then by all means buy it.  It is guaranteed that you will like the film.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Not a good movie, 'technically', but one of my all-time favorite comedies.","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I avoided Dumb and Dumber at its theatrical release because I 'knew' a film of this name could not possibly be good.  Boy was I wrong. I've seen it now 3 or 4 times, most recently last night, and for me it never gets old.  In the vein of good farces like Happy Gilmore or Something About Mary, this one manages to strike a good balance, carefully walking the line between belly laughs and actual gross-out.Like the scene where Lloyd (Jim Carrey) puts laxative in the coffee of Harry (Jeff Daniels)and, arriving at Mary's (Lauren Holly) house we start to hear abdominal gurgles.  Frantic, Harry finds the bathroom, pulls down his pants, sits -- when we hear Mary say, Don't use the toilet, it doesn't flush.  Then we see Harry, pants down to his ankles, taking apart the back of the toilet to try and make it work.Or the scene where they are skiing and Harry, like a kid, touches his tongue to the frosty metal support. And later, as his tongue stretches, as mary pulls his head away. Or the last scene, where Lloyd and Harry direct the bus of bikini girls to the next town, instead of volunteering for the job of rubbing oil all over their bodies.And, of course, the whole idea of trading their hound mobile for a small scooter because it 'makes 70 miles per gallon', then riding to Aspen, in the snow, over passes, and arriving with ice growing from their noses, as Lloyd gets off in Aspen, Harry is stuck to his back. Trying to throw Mary's briefcase into a lake, it opens, they see all the money, then spend it all on a $285,000 car, a hotel suite, fancy clothes, all the while leaving IOUs in the suitcase so they could pay her back eventually.Lauren Holly is a fine actress, but also one of the most strikingly beautiful.  Here she was about 30 during filming, and at the absolute height of her beauty.  No wonder Carrey married her, unfortunately it didn't last.  Jeff Daniels is, to me, an even better comic than Jim Carrey, who is mostly over the top in his acting. Daniels is a more subtle, and funnier, comic. No message in this film, just good fun and laughs. The actual story doesn't matter. My wife cannot stand Dumb and Dumber. I guess it helps to be a bit wacky too. "},{"Title":"Dumb is Funny","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The title describes this movie to a tee, but if you want a great movie for vegging out in front of the TV, there are few better than this farce. "},{"Title":"Funny For A While","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of those films you can watch, and actually laugh at for a time or two, but after that, it's just not funny anymore.For a first viewing, this flick will deliver some genuine belly laughs, although you will feel your intelligence slip, as you enjoy it. Watch this one only for the chuckles. If you watch it for any other reason, you're watching the wrong movie.One of Carrey's better performances. His earlier works are far better, comedically, than are his later works. I like the genre change he seems to be experimenting with of late, and I hope it does something to rejuvenate the quality of his performances. Either way, this is quite entertaining, if only for a few run-throughs.It rates a 5.5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Laugh Out Loud Comedy","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is probably the best comedy movie ever.  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are hilarious and I enjoyed every second they were onsceen.  Jim Carrey is officially the funniest man of all time.  His character was very well written.  Jeff Daniel was hilarious as well and I have to admit I would never had expected him to be this good.  I have seen him do much more serious roles like in Speed and Arachnophobia.  He is great playing Harry. Him and Jeff Daniels are a great onscreen duo.  They rank up as one of the best along with Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker.Overall this movie was great from the beginning til the end.  Whoever is a fan of Jim carrey and Jeff Daniels or just likes comedy movies, I DEFINITELY suggest this. Rating 10 out of 10. "}{"Title":"It is dumb, but it's funny","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels, and Lauren Holly.Two idiots are unknowingly carrying millions (they think it's a briefcase) of dollars to a woman who left it there for a ransom.  The guys are also being followed by some criminals who want the briefcase (the briefcase was left for them) and will do anything for it back.  The film provides huge laughs and provides some nice quotes that you should say over and over again until it gets old.  Carrey and Daniels are a great Harry and Lloyd. "},{"Title":"Jim has had much better movies, such as Ace Ventura When Nature Calls","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie to me, is very bad. I commented on Ace Ventura When Nature Calls which is a lot better than this movie. I only compare these two movies because it is a heated argument in my school between a few of my friends. All the comedy in Dumb and Dumber is said as if it is stand-up material. So it's very simple to like a movie like this because they are basically telling you what is funny. I think you should have to think more to find the comedy in a movie. If they just tell you what is funny then to me it doesn't seem to be as funny. A line such as why are you going to the airport?...flying somewhere? is an example of what i mean by telling you the funny parts. With much of the movie like this i consider it obvious comedy, meaning they put 500 of these together and call it a movie. It could also be classified as stupid comedy because both Jim Carey and Jeff Daniels play retard roles basically, anyone can laugh at a retard, and they drive some sort of a dog. And then people say that Ace Ventura When Nature Calls Jim also plays a retard. But i highly disagree with this, there are no parts in Ace Venture Where Nature calls where he gets his tongue stuck on a pole or anything as dumb as Dumb and Dumber. He may make hilarious faces such as when the hot girl starts walking towards him at the campfire in the tribe dance. But my main point is Dumb and Dumber is dumb after 5 minutes, and gets dumber throughout the entire movie. "},{"Title":"My favorite Farrelly brother comedy.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I like this one a lot more than Something About Mary, which was pretty good, but this one was so much more funny to me.  Mary had great moments, but there were also quite a few slow stretches...these are, however, common in all the Farrelly brother movies.  Not this one though.  This is there only comedy where there virtually are no slow stretches...it is one gag after another, never slowing up for a moment at all.  Carrey and Daniels are great with each other, they have good chemistry...it is to bad the sequel will feature neither of them, which means the sequel will probably suck.  The movie is simple enough to follow, as two men of lower intelligence embark on a quest to return a briefcase to a woman.  This woman, though, left the briefcase on purpose as it contained a ransom.  So the two dummies now have killers on their trail and run into a lot of other misadventures on their quest to return the case.  All in all, a very funny flick that is funny all the way through. "},{"Title":"Intelligence Galore!","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber (1994) Dir Bobby Farrelly, Peter Farrelly / Cast Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels, Lauren Holly, Charles Rocket, Mike Starr Farrelly Brothers debut comedy suggesting the reality of coincidence. Jim Carrey plays limo driver Lloyd Christmas who picks up Mary Swanson and is instantly infatuated. She leaves her briefcase in an airport terminal where he nabs it before two villains do. He and his friend Harry Dunne take it to Aspen where she claimed to be going. Not a bad start for directors Peter and Bobby Farrelly who detail this road comedy with many hilarious moments including Jim Carrey going martial arts against an enraged cook, or Lauren Holly receiving a snowball to the face that was much bigger than her head, or Jeff Daniels making an urgent call to the washroom after drinking coffee spiked with laxative. Great comic performances by Carrey as the love struck Lloyd, and Jeff Daniels as the dog loving Dunne. Lauren Holly is a wonderful romantic foil whom isn't the typical damsel. Unfortunately the villains are typical and cardboard but Charles Rocket does his best as the menacing leader. Some humour is adult nature including one involving a parakeet, or a urine joke involving a roadside cop. Another bad moment involves someone being shot at the unintentional sudden urge of another person. Otherwise this mindless comedy stresses friendship and other questionable antics. Score 8  / 10 "},{"Title":"Dumb humour at its finest","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb & Dumber is certainly not the greatest cinematic feat of all time, but it isn't supposed to be. Dumb & Dumber is just that - dumb humour. Watch possibly two of the dumbest people on earth get into one shenanigan after another, all in the name of love (?) and friendship. There will be pee jokes. There will be sex jokes. There will be absolutely ridiculous situations and many, I repeat many, loop holes. There will be plain stupidity. But it's all terribly amusing. And try not to dwell on the stuff that doesn't make any sense - you will enjoy yourself. Seeing Jim Carrey play his early roles from the 90's is always nostalgic for me - he represented 90's humour. I'm really surprised I didn't see this earlier. "},{"Title":"Good Comedy!","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels, Lauren Holly, Mike Starr, Karen Duffy, Teri Garr and Charles Rocket star in this 1994 comedy. Lloyd Christmas (Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Daniels) are 2 inept pals who decide to travel cross country to return a lost briefcase to a woman, Mary Swanson (Holly) whom Lloyd falls for. They head To Aspen, Colorado and discover that there's money in the briefcase. They don't realize it's ransom money for Mary's husband's kidnappers, but spend it anyway and decide to pay back with IOUs. Garr (Mr. Mom) plays Mary's stepmother, Helen, the late, Rocket (Delirious) plays Nicolas, an old family friend who is behind Mary's husband's kidnapping, Starr (The Last Dragon) plays Mental and Duffy (Blank Check) plays Shay, 2 thugs who work for Nicholas. This is a good comedy and Jim and Jeff are great together. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Popular 90's film lives up to it's hype a decade later","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you lived in the 90's and rode the Jim Carrey train of comedy movies, you definitely loved this movie when it came out. It still plays regularly on TV and is probably regarded by a good number of teen-aimed comedies as a legendary duo/road trip film. It's chock full of childish, awkward, visual humor where catch phrases are key. Jeff Daniels' Harry is such a good pairing with Jim Carrey's cartoonish Lloyd that you can't go wrong. The soundtrack was an alt-rock hit in the 90's and featured a lot of one-hit wonders that were solely known for their music for this film. I recommend it you like the other screwball comedies of Carrey's earlier works (Ace Ventura, The Mask) or even other buddy comedies of the time, like Tommy Boy. I enjoyed this one much more than the later prequel made for back-stories of Harry and Lloyd. "},{"Title":"A film anyone can understand!","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie was hilarious! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels were both amazing. They played two men who were (as the title suggests) not the smartest people around the block.This movie gives us slapstick comedy, fresh out of the oven. Even though the plot wasn't the best one, it was good enough for a comedy film! Even better than most plots of comedies. Lloyd and Harry are off to return a briefcase that was left behind in airport, unintentionally getting involved in some very dangerous events.All the scenes were hilarious, I'm not even kidding! You'll be sure to be laughing the entire time. (One time, we successfully mated a bulldog with a shih tzu. Really? That's weird! Yeah, we called it a bullshit!)This one's for the family or if you're having a bad day, this movie is a sure pick-me-upper. Don't miss this! "},{"Title":"Simply the best comedy ever!","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I find it hard to believe that some people actually hate this film and show it by giving the movie a score of only 1.It is true that every single person is different and very few have the same opinions... but only 1!? It's dumb to say this movie is stupid, because it's exactly about two stupid friends and it's even dumber to pretend that it insults your intelligence. The movie works on both levels for those who like good jokes, and for those who like childish fart humor. Not to mention, it also includes sarcasm and socially funny, unusual and awkward moments. So what more could you ask for?What makes this comedy so perfect is the chemistry between Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels. If Daniels isn't funny...Carrey makes you laugh instead, and if Carrey isn't funny (which I doubt people think)...Daniels is there to ensure laughter. But I never felt that either of them was not funny. They both carried out their roles perfectly. If this comedy won't make you laugh for some reason or even just smile...Your sense of humor must be strange. "},{"Title":"Funny but.......","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ...... it is great . You could enjoy in every scene . Maybe my grade is too low for this kind of critic . You can enjoy in stupid movements of Harry and Lloyd . Is it good ? Yeah, it is . Now why 7? This is maybe sometimes movie with empty soul and looks like it is centered only in humor . Everything is so funny and relaxing . Maybe because of it you can sometimes tell that it is stupid . I don't think that it is so hilarious but I liked the way how Jim Carey made this movie great . Jeff Daniels was too good but he wasn't in the same level with Jim .And is it for 7 ? Maybe I should watch it more once . So I will wait for its appearance You can see that it is must watch comedy and I am recommending it . "}{"Title":"Suck me sideways","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I'd find it hard to trust someone who wasn't the slightest bit amused by Dumb and Dumber. After all, what kind of person doesn't laugh at a man firing hot waves of watery excrement out of his horrorstruck anus, or at a blind boy stroking a decapitated bird, or at an owl being shot by a cork? These are all things that should appeal to any right-minded individual &#150; it's comedy at its basest, but the funny bone should never be concerned with good taste.Of all the gags and silly lines in Dumber and Dumber, my favourite moment actually involves attempted male rape (always a prime source for comedy!). The moment I'm talking about is when Sea Bass very nearly forces himself on one of our heroes. But one of the things I love most about the scene is Lloyd's fascination when reading the message on the toilet wall. 'For manly love be here March 25th at 215am sharp' it reads. Lloyd looks amused, even a little bit curious, but then as he consults his watch you hear a 'Wah-wah' on the soundtrack, which translates into 'you're about to get buggered' and the smile on his face vanishes. Wonderful stuff.But the character of Sea Bass himself is just bloody hilarious (even if he only has two scenes and hardly says anything). I could easily watch an entire film devoted to him and his sour-faced, bad tempered homosexual antics. But as it stands we only get him spitting into a burger and him trying to molest someone. But that's enough, I guess. However, there is another great Sea Bass moment. Just watch Sea Bass when Lloyd and Harry are trying to scam him. The way he points to himself and his 'boys' never fails to crack me up.Another supporting character rich in comedy is Mental the gangster. He has quite a few amusing moments, but the best one by quite some margin is when his phone conversation in a phone booth is interrupted by some bespectacled nitwit. The man is so geeky and so annoying that the punch that comes thundering through the glass not only induces laughs but also elicits cheers &#150; you can't help but like this bloke. However, as likable as this mentalist is, die he must. And his death scene includes some of Carey's and Daniels' best acting. Just look at them when they spike Mental's burger. They're like kids &#150; they can't suppress their mirth.Speaking of acting, it's not a surprise that Carey is so good at acting dumb, but it's something of a minor revelation that Daniels is so good at comedy. After all, before this, he was known for more serious roles. But here Daniels' allows his IQ to plummet and he more than holds his own with his more experienced counterpart.One of the most enjoyable things about Dumb and Dumber is how petty and bad tempered the two friends are ('You are one pathetic loser&#133;no offence') &#150; some of the best scenes are the ones where they argue like school kids. A great scene happens near the end &#150; Lloyd and Harry are arguing over Mary. They no longer want to be friends and Harry asks him where he has to sign. 'Right on my ass after you kiss it!' And I can't help but crack up at Lloyd's shooting fantasy when he sees Mary's husband. Both characters are borderline psychotic, which only makes the film even funnier.I also like how relentlessly horny Lloyd is. Just take the scene when he first meets Mary. The quasi-romantic music and the way Lloyd grabs his heart when Mary walks back into her house are bloody hilarious, as is the 'Goodbye, my love!' moment at the airport (also note Lloyd's reaction when he hugs his 'love' &#150; the groan as he relaxes his body is disturbingly sexual). And I've also just remembered the 'Be strong' moment and the little sobbing sound he makes (man this film is funny!). But just as good as this is Lloyd's daydream as he drives. The way he sneaks a look at Mary's butt is priceless (and what a butt it is, too!). And then the schmoozing at his dinner party (if only lighted farts really did impress people at 'sophisticated' parties) and the fight at the restaurant. But although the fisticuffs are brilliant, there's a much smaller and funnier moment in this scene &#150; note the way the waiter chucks Lloyd's plate onto the table and the way he carefully places Mary's; who says the film isn't subtle? But even though there are one or two gags which can rightly be declared as subtle, they kind of pale in comparison to the instances of bad taste. Just take the officer drinking his own urine ('give me the booze you pumpkin pie haircutted freak!') or Harry crapping his brains out. These are the showcase moments. But as good as these are, what keeps me coming back are the little things &#150; Lloyd trying to buy a copy of 'Rhode Island Slut', Lloyd gagging when he sees his best friend hanging out with his 'girl', the 'big gulps' moment, the look on Harry's face when he finds out that his best friend has been wearing extra gloves and Lloyd burping in utter contempt when he gets stuck next to an insufferable woman at a bar. As dumb as the characters are, there's far too much great comedy for it to be written off as a dumb film &#150; you've got to be smart to make stupidity as funny as it is here. "},{"Title":"Is it Dumb? Or is it Dumber?","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" OK, well let's start this review off with a good thing, first of all it wasn't what I thought, it was a lot better. I was thinking, OK, you got funny man Jim Carrey and straight man Jeff Daniels, how on earth are they going to pull it off. Well, let's just say they did, a lot of people didn't like this movie because they said it was DUMB. I got to tell you there are some DUMB parts in the movie, but they make the movie hilarious. We all know Harland Williams for his sense of humor, and yes, he does have a great part in the movie, loved his scene with the two lead actors.Jim Carrey plays a limo driver, who drives Lauren Holly to the airport, and he ends up having a crush on her. Lauren leaves a suitcase at the airport and the movie is about Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels giving everything up so they can give the suitcase back to Lauren. Will the boys make it in time? Well, they might be delayed by a few bad guys, a state trooper and a whole bunch of crazies.I loved this movie though, I thought it was really funny. Jim Carrey is hilarious of course, duh, everybody that's seen one of his movies knows that, and Jeff Daniels he shows that he's got a great sense of humor to, and the guys just play it off one another perfectly. I love Lauren Holly's look that she gives the camera when Lloyd (Jim Carrey) comes up and hugs her, it's priceless. I chose to give this movie a 7 out of 10, because yes it is a good movie, it's one of those movies though where you laugh at the actors and the story because it's so dumb, it's funny. There were a lot of great scenes, and the actors were wonderful, it's got a good story, a couple memorable lines, but the potty humor kind of got to me, a little too much for my taste. "},{"Title":"Low Humor And Expected Insanity","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" DUMB AND DUMBER ***1/2 Two dim bulbs (Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels) unwittingly interfere with the plans of criminals who are involved in a kidnapping scheme At the airport, the money the bad guys are to receive in a suitcase left by a woman (Lauren Holly) is suddenly taken by her chauffeur (Carrey), who believes that she had left it there by accident. Holly is now flying to Aspin, so Carrey and Daniels hit the road for a cross-country trip in order to give her the misplaced item. But the criminals want their money, so they set in pursuit to track down our two heroes. It's all low humor and expected insanity from which point, and I had a couple of laughs from watching it. "},{"Title":"Complete and Utterly always will be a classic!","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is nothing but genius when it comes to outright comedy! I don't know how they thought up SO many obviously funny aspects of life and how some people act, but the way the the Farrelly brothers were able to pull average situations of everyday life (from some peoples lives) and put it into 2 stupid guys lives like this is nothing but impossible genius comedy! It is an amazing movie in just how good it is, and it is sure to fail nobody who wants to go watch a simple, stupidly funny movie! If you don't like movies that are stupid funny, than u will not like this movie, but if u like movies that are stupidly funny as in you can laugh at the stupid things in life, than this is your type of movie because it is dumb! It's awesome though, and you should definitely go and see this! Better yet, buy the DVD and you will not be let down! That's what I did and continue to watch it every once in awhile after like 10 years of owning it or so (10 years=estimate ownership time) "},{"Title":"An absolute classic.","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Never in my life have I ever laughed so many times at a movie after having seen it many times before. Amung my community this film was (and still is) a classic comedy, a cult classic if you will. Clearly it isn't widely accepted by you mature people who laugh at people in awkward relationship situations involving someones mother walking in on two people talking about sex (Now THAT'S classy comedy!), but this movie offers (to those who don't pay to see every Tom Green movie) a hilariously stupid comedy about two morons who go on a messed up adventure.The writing of this movie is (suprisingly) clever. The jokes aren't just people farting every four seconds, they actually have some style to them (if you can call it style...). The movie is fluent, fast paced, and funny all the way through, which is really a rarity in many wannabe comedies.It's the kind of movie you should see drunk with your friends, or even on your own. Do NOT EVER WATCH THIS WITH YOUR GRANDPARENTS! That would be a mistake. Basically, what I'm saying is it's a movie for people with the ability to be immature for 2 hours of their life, or for anyone who just wants to let their guard down and laugh at a vulgar yet hilarious film.So of course I'm going to give this movie a 10. It deserves it. Kudos on a suburb comedy that will be passed down from generation to generation. Those kids are as corrupt as it is... might as well give them what they want. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey is a genius....","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw dumb & dumber a couple of years ago. That time I laughed so hard i almost lost my breath. I forgot the name of the film, but fortunately I found it again in a shop. I didn't expect much, because I was much younger back then. But I laughed just as hard the second time. Yes, the movie has its weaknesses such as when the gas man says after finding the note on the door. He says that they must have been watching him for weeks, but later in the film he hitchhikes with them. Its a small detail you wont notice the first time, but I've watched it a couple of times and I wonder how the Farrelly brothers could Miss this...But when the movie ends you must have had a good laugh, or something is seriously wrong. If Jim Carrey wasn't starring in this movie it wouldn't be as good as I think it is. But Jim Carrey is a Comedic genius. All in all, maybe the funniest movie i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Funny movie with raunchy content","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In my opinion, this is a funny movie with raunchy content. The one thing that made me feel uneasy was when Lloyd (Jim Carrey) did something really vulgar. I don't want to say what it is, though. If you ask me, this movie had very funny humor, even though it was vulgar at times. Another raunchy part was when Harry (Jeff Daniels) was in the toilet. The things I liked most were the feelings that Lloyd and Harry had for Mary (Lauren Holly). Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If I ever have kids of my own, I'm not going to let them see this movie until they're at least teenagers. Now, in conclusion, I'd like to say, Parents, don't let your children see this until they're at least teenagers! "},{"Title":"Dumb and Dumber","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has got to be for me one of my favourite slap stick comedies. When I saw this initially I wasn't impressed at all and it was when I was forced to sit and watch for a second time whilst on holidays and it amused me slightly. By the sixth time it was downright hilarious. There was this camaraderie between Carrey and Daniels and they really look like they had a great time making this movie. This is a rare comedy where it's funny all the way through and doesn't die in the middle or get stale at the end because of Carreys and Daniels great chemistry. These two although are never likely to earn anything from this movie except for a huge amount of money and laughs but thats okay because not all movies are award material. I am thankful for the fact that there has never been a dumb and dumber sequel because I don't think that it could have lived up to the original (which the prequel proved. The funniest parts for me are the travelling in the infamos wagon to Aspen from the meeting with the highway patrolman to the tough guys in the caf (watching this scene should prove to anyone that these two are not as foolish as they appear to be) along with the chilli pepper scene.I recommend this movie to anyone looking for a great slapstick comedy. "},{"Title":"I do love this film","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I do love this film. I have watched it for several times and i watch it whenever i am sad, it makes me happy,refreshed.I still watch it and enjoy it a lot. Jim Carrey is a very excellent actor,and also his partner in the film.i suggest this film to everyone. Watch it and Laugh forever.it's the best that i have ever seen. it's the funniest film and the greatest one. It's the best of all and the funniest. You watch this film and you laugh and you watch it again and you laugh again although you know what will happen next. this film just brings you joy and fun. what a nice funny film ha ha "},{"Title":"This movie is a modern classic!","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is one of my favorite comedies of all time. One of my favorite scenes is when the guys are at the beauty parlor and the camera shows hair being clipped..a big pile of it..and you think it's a haircut, but lo and behold it does NOT turn out to be what you're thinking! I also love how the guys are so confident. Like they think that everyone ELSE is so stupid. And the toilet scene is the funniest. There's just too many funny moments about this movie to list. I think that people either love this movie, or hate it; it really depends on the person's sense of humor. I know many who think this movie is pure brilliance, but then I also know some lost souls who think it's just plain dumb (no pun intended). "}{"Title":"It is almost impossible to overdo what is done here","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie is unsuitable for clever and serious men and women because it is devoid of philosophical content and any deep thoughts. What is worse, the movie is totally devoid of sophisticated special effects and it is a very rapid example of cinema making (the movie has no intermissions when a viewer can think of his own problems). Where is a slow-paced movie with two-three jokes being prolonged and mixed with clever dialogues and fierce gun plays? Where are remarks dedicated to the meaning of life? Where is the perfect English speech? It is only a start of fault-finding.This movie must be re-cut in order to delete all the terrifying scenes (heart tearing, worms breeding, beating of a woman in snowy surroundings, tongue torture, bottle pissing, toilet destruction, spitting into food, rejecting beautiful girls in the end, etc.). Dumb and Dumber is completely inappropriate for our modern high-tech community. Its full version must be banned in all countries and all DVDs with it must be demolished. Hate this movie because...In other words, it is a classic comedy stuffed with some unique gags, grimaces, and dialogues. Do not miss this one if you can endure a few crude jokes, which are quite harmless by today's standards.This disastrous piece of art must be given, without any mercy, a 10 mark (excellence). Thanks for attention. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite motion pictures!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Without question, the 1994 comedy film Dumb & Dumber is one of my all-time favorite motion pictures. I saw this movie when it first came out and I was instantly hooked on it. I laughed very hard when I watched it on the big screen (by the way, I was twelve years old when this film was theatrically released). Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are terrific as the two lead characters. The rest of the cast also really glows. This film will probably still be a favorite with me even when I am past the age of fifty.The film is about two best friends who are unable to keep sensible, steady jobs while hoping to eventually start their own business. Lloyd was working as a limousine driver when he met a gorgeous woman named Mary Swanson. He proceeded to drive her to the airport when he fell madly in love with her. She leaves her briefcase in the airport terminal and Lloyd immediately rushed to get it back to her. He was too late and lost his job following his fall from the jet-way. Harry was also terminated after he failed to deliver dogs to the proper pet show on time. After much deliberation, Harry and Lloyd decide to take a road trip across America. Their destination Aspen, Colorado. Lloyd wants to be reunited with Mary so that he can start a relationship with her, in addition to returning her the briefcase she left behind. Little do the boys know that they are being pursued by a couple of criminals who are after the money that is being kept inside the locked briefcase; they were sent on the mission by Nicholas Andre, a man who is linked somehow to Mary and her family.I have several favorite sequences from this hysterical picture. One is where Harry and Lloyd encounter trouble at a truck-stop diner. A truck driver named Sea Bass is accidentally hit with a salt-shaker from Harry. Sea Bass is irritated and spits on Harry's hamburger. Lloyd decides to seek revenge on Sea Bass and his gang by telling the staff that they are willing to pay for the service that he and Harry received at the restaurant. By the way, the waitress that they talk to is a very cute young woman with black hair. She also seems to be very sweet. They get away with this scheme while the overly tough Sea Bass is left feeling tremendous amounts of anger. I also like it when the duo puts atomic hot peppers on Joe's burger and makes him sick; he has an ulcer and cannot have such edibles. Joe groans and gives a request for his medicine; Harry unknowingly gives Joe rat poison, which instantly kills him. I also liked it when Harry drank the tea containing the Turbo Lax; this made him have to go very bad as his bowels were getting ready to pop.I love this movie! Dumb & Dumber will forever remain to be one of my favorite films. There are so many moments in this movie that are exceedingly hilarious. I recommend this title for anyone who loves to laugh. "},{"Title":"The definitive comedy of the 90's","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber, the tale of two dimwits who go on a cross country road trip to Aspen, is nothing short of a comedy classic. And it's nothing short of well, dumb. But if a movie is to be judged on how well it achieves it's desired goals, then this comedy is a roaring success. Because being dumb is the whole point. But besides featuring top-notch stupid humor, the film has what other dumb comedies such as Freddy Got Fingered and Half Baked lack. Charm and even some touching aspects. Dimensions that bring the purpose of the story full circle. Pedomorphic protagonists Harry (Jeff Daniels) and Lloyd (Jim Carrey) make their journey to Aspen with the noble intent to return what they think is a lost briefcase to wealthy socialite Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly) and pursue Lloyd's on-the-spot infatuation with her. In their stupidity however, never truly seem to understand the real circumstances surrounding the attach and the trouble it could cause.Even if this movie is what you believe to be not your thing, as is the mentality many have toward stupid comedies, at least give it a try. Sit back, put a laxative in your tea, and just go with it. And don't get up to go to the bathroom once. You may just miss a great moment in one of the funniest and at the same time most heart-warming comedies since Revenge of the Nerds. Pee in a beer bottle instead. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Stupidity","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There are two kinds of people in this world-you either love Jim Carrey or you hate him. If you hate him, you definitely hate this movie. But if you love him like I do, there is no better example of comedic genius than this gem. Pretty much every line in this movie makes me laugh, even the stupid throw away comments. But even though Jim Carrey is hilarious in this, Jeff Daniels almost steals the show. There were many other comedies to follow this during the decade of the 90's, but it still reigns as the funniest comedy of the decade. Unfortunately, comedies such as these will never get any credit from real critics because it isn't sophisticated enough for their taste. "},{"Title":"Most Under-Rated Movie","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" People need to look back and an earlier Jim Carrey movie such as this is as a masterpiece! This movie opened the door for experimentally comedy which up until then wasn't fully used to its potential! Jim Carrey ad-libs a lot of this script as well as Daniel's and critics still seem to get joys from writing it off! Can This World please just take a step back and watch this movie for what it is...why is there as need to open is nook and cranny to find something wrong in the script of screenplay or the actors performance! Watch it and laugh because there are not too many people who can you laugh like Jim Carrey...totally Tubeular Movie and i will forever love. Cooey "},{"Title":"dumb and dumber!","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This film will leave you in tears with laughter. The actors were probably the best actors you could ever find for this silly mind-blowing comedy.Harry Dunne, played by Jeff Daniels, is hilarious, but Jim Carrey, he's fabulous, all the films that he has been in are funny. Dumb and Dumber is my favourite film and I watch it over and over again, Jim Carrey is my favourite actor, he is so funny in this film that I pee myself every time I watch it. Every time I watch it I laugh more, and more, and more! If you have seen this film and you agree that it is one of the most funniest, entertaining films you have ever seen, please e-mail me at LeeD394@hotmail.com saying I agree. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie combines brilliant and thoughtful writing with near slapstick and definitely legendary comedy. Jim Carreys over the top demeanor matched with the experienced acting styles of Jeff Daniels makes for one of the best, if not the best, comedic combos of the past quarter century. The storyline, though wildly unrealistic and juvenile, winds up creating lovable protagonists and equally disdain worthy bad guys. If you haven't seen this movie, I really don't know what to say to you or how to react. Every time i meet someone who hasn't seen it, its like going to the zoo and just staring in amazement at creatures whose lifestyles i can hardly comprehend... SEE IT. "},{"Title":"Fuuunnnnnnnnnnnny!!!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber made me laugh so hard my sides were killing me! I'm serious it was that funny. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are great together in this film. Both are extremely corny and funny. Though despite the fact that the humor is dumb, that's what makes it funny! Some of it is a little crude, but that does not mean that it's not funny. I'm telling you Jim Carrey is hilarious in this movie, so if you need a good laugh, get this movie and watch it. This is a comedy classic. You will not be disappointed. I guarantee it! Dumb and Dumber barely has any parts that are not funny. Trust me. So, go buy this movie, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" How funny is this movie? I'd have to say in the top 5. Jim Carrey was exceptionally great and Jeff Daniels was pretty good too. They work good together and it shows. It would be nice to see them do another movie seeing as their chemistry in this was awesome. Who can forget when he sells Petey to Billy Enforsythe, the blind kid. I still get a kick out of Jim Carrey's delivery when he tells Harry he did. And the entrance to the party with them fighting all the way in still has to be my favorite part in the whole movie. IOU's and lines like  Kick his ass, Sea-Bass are just a few of the memorable things from the movie. This has got to be one of the funniest movies and still holds up the test of time and I'd recommend it to everyone who needs a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Normal Farrelly Humor.","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Well seeing Jim Carrey is in this I thought Wow this is gonna really suck but then I saw the Farrelly's filmed and directed this so I gave it a try. I came into the movies and it was a crappy audience. No one laughed or anything I enjoyed this much better when this was on video and I bought it but I thought it was a nine outta ten cause it was funny but Carrey just wasn't his self because it was his younger self in the movie with that wicked horribly awful laugh ughhh. The Farrelly's have a unique was of writing movies but hey works for me. So yeah I was suckered into the movie and came out and enjoyed it. Of course Jim Carrey sucked as usual. So watch it on video yu'll enjoy it better. "}{"Title":"I loved this movie in 1994,I still love it now","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is brilliant. Its a simple premise but thats why it succeeds so well. There's so many memorable parts in this movie, its so hard to remember all of them. Carrey and Daniels are a great pair in this movie. I still see it today on TBS and laugh my *** off! I don't want to give much away, but if you love intelligent dimwitted comedy(oxymoron) then watch this classic. The plot is great too.Carrie is a limo driver in Providence,RI who brings a young woman to an airport. She drops her suitcase at the airport and Carrie attempts to bring the suitcase back to her. Daniels and Carrie are both fired from their job and decide to take a cross country trip to give the poor woman her suitcase. Little do they know, the suitcase contained money that belongs to the mob. Hilarity ensues. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Harry (Jeff Daniels) and Llyod (Jim Carrey)are two low-life Providence men with nothing going for them. Llyod is assigned to drive a beautiful woman named Mary (Lauren Holly) to the airport. After Mary 'accidentaly' leaves her briefcase in the terminal, Harry and Llyod go on a cross-country trip to Aspen to return the briefcase. Carrey is put in the film for more of the goofy comedy. He is off-the-wall funny and always says something stupid that almost sounds right. Nevertheless Carrey puts a lot of thought behind his character and creates good chemistry between himself and Daniels.Daniels surprised me the most. After seeing his work in such films as Gettysburg and Speed you'd never think the guy could do comedy. WRONG! Daniels is brilliant, again. He's put opposite of Carrey for some of the serious humor but soon his role too falls into the goofy side. One scene especially involving a toilet stands out on how good his acting was.Dumb and Dumber is one of the funniest movies every seen with the interaction of Daniels and Carrey. After the movie you try to wonder who really was the dumber one. Some of the gags are just ingenious from Seabass, who was going to kill Harry in a truck stop ends up being gay or Harry licking the frost on the lift and getting stuck to it.Dumb and Dumber. Starring Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels, Lauren Holly, and Mike Starr, 4 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" In the 90's the Farrelly brothers brought a new stream of gross-out toilet humour to the movies, and with Dumb and Dumber they hit their peak. There's Something About Mary may have been a bigger critical hit, but this film, uniting the talents of Carrey and Daniels is the funniest film of the decade, and for fans of this kind of humour, it is the best comedy ever. If you like your jokes subtle, or Frasier style then be warned-here we have lewd sexual jokes, making fun of blind kids, drinking urine, and laxatives...Dumb and Dumber is above all a road movie, following two friends who are dumber than the average person across America in search of a woman who left her briefcase behind. Lloyd (Carrey) works as a chauffeur, and after taking a beautiful woman to the airport he realises she has forgotten her briefcase. He takes it, intending to give it back to her, getting fired in the process. Unknown to him, she left it on purpose as it was full of money for the mob. Soon two hit men are after Lloyd. His friend Harry looks after dogs, and after he messes up another job he too is fired. After hitting rock bottom they decide to look for the briefcase girl, as Lloyd has fallen for her and hopes that she will love him when he returns her case. All he knows though is she is called Mary, and was going to Aspen. So they head out on the road. Along the way the get into a few scrapes, encounter the hit men, get lost, but eventually make it. When they find Mary, Harry goes on a date with her leaving Lloyd jealous. But they are both kidnapped leaving Lloyd to save the day.This is Carrey's funniest performance, every second he is on screen will make you laugh. Daniels is the perfect support, being equally dumb but letting Carrey steal the show. Holly is very good as Mary also, and the rest of the cast are good in mostly small parts, from the hit men to Sea-bass. The cinematography is very good for a comedy, exploiting the scenery to its fullest, the soundtrack is brilliant, and the plot is hardly complex, but nor is it simple. Funny moment are everywhere, and everyone has their favourites. Mine- the fact that when Harry asks Lloyd to buy only the bare essentials as they have no money left, then Lloyd goes and buys a jumbo hat etc, the dream sequence featuring lighting farts and a vicious fight, the Sea-Bass sequence, and the snowball Harry throws at Mary, yes laughing as i type (must watch it later). Other moments include, 'Pretty bird', 'Tick-tack sir?', the laxatives, and various one-liners. Aside from all the jokes, the film has a charm about it, the two friends are constant losers but we love them anyway. 1994 was a magnificent year for movies, many of my favourites come from then, and this is undoubtedly one of the best.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dumb&Dumber music","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" PLease help me!! Does anybody know who has made, or what the songs is called, from the scene where Lloyd dreams, that he hugs Mary an all the pigeons flies behind her and afterwards they are sitting in the restaurant, where he fights with the chiefcook. ... I think its something like....happy..happy..happy... PLease help me - i love that song and I have just bought the soundtrack but to my disappointment is wasn't there..If somebody knows who has made it or what the songname is, then please write me back - i will be grateful forever. -) In this connection i would like to say, that Dumb&Dumber is the greatest movie ever in its genre, and I have watched it at least 30 times - i never get tired seeing it... its fantastic..!! You get to see even more hidden jokes every time you see it... man i love it.. "},{"Title":"Above Average","Date":"2 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I recently watched this movie again on DVD,and well, what can i say? i still found it to be just as funny when it was released ten years ago. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels portray their characters really well, adding humour where needed. I have to agree with others that it is the Farrelly Brothers' best movie!!!! Although a decent movie there are some parts which could be improved. Some of the actors could have played their parts with a bit more enthusiasm.But, overall I can say it is one of carrey's best (apart from Bruce Almighty). I would definitely recommend this movie to any age range as it will make anyone laugh! personally, i feel it will be a long time before the farrelly brothers can match this one.......Hmmm..maybe they should make a sequel(?) Let's not go there, shall we? "},{"Title":"One of my favourite comedies of all time","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Goodness me, I've seen this movie God knows how many times and it never gets boring each time. Carrey and Daniels are fantastic and this is The Farrelly Brothers best movie to date. This is also probably Carrey's best film. I laughed my ass off the first time I saw it and have done every time I've watched it. It never gets boring and the plot is very simple as it develops into a road movie. Recently Road Trip was made which is similar to this and I found that funny, but nowhere near as good as this. I won't give away any of the gags or jokes because they'll be a hell of a lot funnier when you actually watch them, but they are possibly the best ever. I own this classic and I can assure you, this is a must see and even own for big Carrey and comedy fans. Anyway thats enough of me, go and buy it right now! "},{"Title":"Geniously stupid... you don't see that every day!","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you like Jim Carry, you must see this movie.Jim Carry showed the world he can act seriously in films such as Man on the Moon and The Truman Show. But he will probably be remembered as that stupid pet detective, cable guy or that idiotic schizo from Me, Myself & Irene.He created that style and I've never seen anyone even coming close to matching up to him.Dumb & Dumber is an hilarious movie in which Carry forms a perfect duo with Jeff Daniels. Many Hollywood productions try to be funny but few accomplish their mission in the way D&D does. They succeeded in making it funny for a 10 year old as well as for a college professor.I laugh my guts out with Carry's funny faces, the idiotic story line, Jeff Daniels' stupidness and all the foolish remarks they made during their adventure, returning Mr. Samsonite's briefcase they found...My rating 9.5 (because i could laugh at every joke, and that almost never happens...)W.H.  "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Film's of all-time, Jim Carrey's best!","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber was just so hilarious and stupid that I just fell right off the couch, falling right to my face hard laughing. Jim Carrey made his performance in this movie as one of the funniest characters and probably the funniest ever. He is without a doubt, the funniest actor of all-time. Jeff Daniels, which I also I have never seen him play a funny part in his whole film history, was also amazingly hilarious. I think he is if not funnier than Jim Carrey in this movie. Oh well this film is by far one of the funniest films ever made and should get higher than a 6.6 rating. I highly recommendHedeen's outlook 10/10 **** A+  "},{"Title":"great fun for all! Classic!","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really love this movie. It is very funny. Were to begin on such a great movie The acting is good, in that Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are playing stupid guys. The rest of the cast are just as good but don't really make the movie like Harry and Lloyd. We have a very funny story which involves many different misunderstandings involving Harry, Lloyd and many of the other characters.The story goes that Lloyd has just taken a woman to the airport. She leaves a briefcase behind which is meant as ransom money, which Lloyd picks up and wants to return to her. Lots of more funny moments follow.This movie could most easily be called a classic. There is not one thing that does work about this movie. It just all falls together in it's own way through the whole movie.  "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I've been thinking and thinking, and I have finally realized something Dumb and Dumber is my favorite movie. No movie I've seen before can make me laugh or amuse as much as dumb and dumber. I would honestly say its nothing short of brilliant. The Farelly brothers use clever comedy to confidently conjure an extremely crazy yet impressively deep storyline. I've seen all there stuff, and I really think this is the best. Well, as I said before it is my favorite movie of all time. Its about Loyd Christmas and Harry Dunn, two idiotic best buds who embark on a marvelous adventure, and eventually foil an insane mobsters plot, all the while having no idea their doin it. How this happens would spoil the fun of course. Jim Carrey is amazing and at his best, as the more insane of the two buds, and Jeff Daniels is perfect as the more calm, slight more intelligent member of the dynamic duo, even though calling him bright would be a stretch. Beyond that, I really cant describe how great this movie is. Its my all time fave and it should be yours to. So go rent it. Now.......................  "}{"Title":"Jim Carrey is cooler than the coolest...","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One thing i must admit is that i saw this movie only because of Jim Carrey. It's a reason enough to watch any comedy movie as Jim has carved a niche for himself in this category and this film ain't different; rather it strengthens his position of being the most loved and admired comic actor's of all times. Another great aspect of this film is Jim's co-partner in comedy, Jeff Daniels. He gives good company to Jim and adds more humour to already saturated comic situation's !!!  The main plot revolves all around two lovable idiots and best friends Lloyd (Jim Carrey) and Harry (Jeff Daniels) who can easily win the joint-crown for being two of the most foolish guys in probably the whole Universe !!! One fine day Lloyd meets a lady, Mary (Lauren Holly) in due course of his life and his heart-bells ring at once. And he finds a chance to meet Mary again  courtesy her suitcase which she forgets in the airport while boarding a plane to Aspen and which is picked up by our loverboy Lloyd (ofcourse..whom else can you expect to pick it up???). So from here takes off Lloyd's and Harry's adventure to return the lady her belonging and their experiences during this journey acts as the much needed fodder for the film. Jim Carrey is cool as usual. Can't have been better. He is so versatile, so fluid, so PERFECT...Does he realise that he is the best guy around who can use his face so well ?? It's amazing to watch him mould his face into thousand expressions in fraction of a moment !!! Jeff Daniels gels with Jim so well and both of them play the role of being the most imperfect guys in the most perfect manner...Jeff really is praise-worthy in his attempts of matching the skills of Jim, the comedian and gives him serious competition throughout. He makes you think sometimes that who is more funnier?? Also Lauren Holly's contribution of adding a glamorous look can't be ignored. You must watch this movie.It can make dead persons burst into loads of laughter. You can term it Jim Carrey's charisma or Jeff Daniels struggle to outsmart himself as a comic actor but what matters is that you shouldn't give this movie a miss until and unless you are blind!!! as even aliens would laugh at this movie no matter what language it is in... I would give it a 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great comedy, a classic to me.","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is about the two losers Lloyd and Harry who live in Providence. Lloyd works as a limo-driver and Harry works as a dog-stylist or something like that. One day Lloyd drives a woman named Mary to the airport, and he falls in love. But Mary forgets her suitcase on the airport, and of course Lloyd runs in to get it. Mary told Lloyd that she was going to Aspen, so of course Lloyd and Harry heads out on the open road to Aspen to bring her suitcase back.Most of the jokes are very original, and both Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels deliver awesome performances. This is a movie you can see again and again, and never get tired of it. I'm sure I've seen it over 20 times (seriously), and I laughed every time. One of the funniest I've ever seen, if not the funniest.A comedy classic, which deserves a much higher rating than it has.  "},{"Title":"Perfect original comedy!","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, Dumb and Dumber is a very original comedy by one of my favorite directors Bobby and Peter Farrelly. I've seen that movie literally over a 50 times. It just doesn't seem to get old. Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) and Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels) are the perfect pair in this movie; I wish they did more movies together. One of my favorite parts is when they pull that trick on Sea Bass (Cam Neely) in the restaurant seen. Jim Carreys response to Sea Bass' question Alright, who's the dead man that threw the salt?! Was hilarious. He just looks out the window and points his finger at Harry. Then the response to Sea Bass' question Are you gonna eat that? is great when Harry studders and changes his mind back and forth. I haven't seen the prequel yet but will soon and hopefully it meets the standards to be as hilarious as this movie.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies, starring Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels, a great scene revealing Lauren Holly's buttocks, I rate it a strong 10 of 10!","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  My wife Charlene and I have a difference of opinion over DUMB AND DUMBER, the 1994 comedy starring Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels. She thinks it is dumb, and I certainly agree, but it's also quite good fun. It's a dumb movie, with dumb laughs, mostly played dumb, but it's pretty good dumb fun as far as dumb fun goes nowadays. I rate it a strong 10 of 10 for excitement, humor, and buttocks.It's about two goofballs (Carrey and Danielsen) who find a briefcase full of money and decide to give it away to a pretty young lady. They offer it to her for sex, and she lays them both, but afterwards they begin to stalk her, embarking on a cross-country trip to Aspin in hopes of marrying her and having children - both of them!!It's sort of sick but what else would you expect from the Farrley Bros., the guys who brought us LOST HIGHWAY and the hilarious MULHOLLAND DRIVE? I give it a strong 10 for these elements and advise that some people stay away - it's rated R for some scenes of strong sexuality, and believe me, there are some strong scenes! "},{"Title":"it's just funny, that's all that matters","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is just one of those funny movies that doesn't require you to think much. That's not to say only the simple-minded will find this entertaining. It's just a picture about two ridiculously dumb guys that gets its comedy from their stupidity. Some people may consider that sophmoric but in this case for the most part it is very well written, and is executed beautifully by Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels, the ONLY 2 who could have done it that way (not a smart move making a sequel/prequel with 2 completely different and unknown actors). The jokes are consistant throughout the entire movie and the events all fall into place nicely, and the plot for the movie was original. It's a comedy, and as long as it's funny, it's done it's job and this movie doesn't have to go to ridiculous lengths or screw up the plot as an excuse to get laughs, it just does it easily and smoothly.In my opinion this is one of Jim Carrey's best comedys and Jeff Daniels does a great job as well. I understand some people prefer more sophisticated or intelligent comedys or just more advanced ones and I respect that, but if you're just looking for a good funny movie that you can just chill and laugh to, you can't go wrong with this true comedy. "},{"Title":"A favorite of mine","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched Dumb and Dumber on TV one night because all of my classmates were raving about it. Oh, God, it was funny. I can see why this movie has the following that it does. Some great dialogue and excellent comic timing make it even more of a pleasure to watch. If you are depressed and want to laugh, I recommend Dumb and Dumber very strongly. "},{"Title":"Funny...Just not THAT Funny","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I had been hearing about this movie for almost 10 years, yet had never seen it. I finally sat down to view it last night, uncut and uninterrupted on Encore. As my summary says, I found it funny, but not the stuff of legend that most people made it out to be.Most of the Jim Carrey bits had previously been seen in one form or another on In Living Color. I felt Jeff Daniels did a decent job as Harry, while Lauren Holly could have been computer generated.Not bad, but not great. "},{"Title":"Great (dumb) funny movie","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie was one of the strangest movies I've seen. (Exception Monty Python, Mafia) I still thought it was great though. Very Clever. 8/10 stars  "},{"Title":"An Instant Classic","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  One of the funniest movies of all time. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are a perfect match for insane comedy. This proves that these actors are capable of anything that involves laughter. You can really see the image of five-year-olds in this picture. There's nothing much to say about it yet it is a great movie and it really was one of the funniest movies of all time. I GIVE IT TWO THUMBS UP!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Ridiculous.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching Dumb & Dumber, I felt the overwhelming need to wash my eyes out with soap. Once the burning sensation died down, I immediately stormed over to my computer to write this review.First, the prevalence of unfunny humor only serves to deflect attention from the hackneyed, cliche-ridden plot. Obviously, only unintelligent mental midgets would laugh at the juvenile gags that are strewn throughout this infantile piece of trash. I won't even comment on the ridiculous, nonsensical kidnapping story that the story centers around.Next, there are no Hispanics in this film. Obviously, this movie is incredibly racist. And the only gay character is a brute, macho, closeted homosexual. How homophobic! Obviously, the only movies worth watching are done by Stanley Kubrick and Roman Polanski. This is not, so it gets no stars. Pshaw.  "}{"Title":"Funny!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the funniest comedy's i've ever seen. Carrey and Daniels are terrific and makes you laugh everytime they open their mouth's.One other thing is that it's funny all through the entire film.Very funny movie! "},{"Title":"Dumb & Dumber doesn't take much skill, but remains funny for the almost 2 hour movie length","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb & Dumber/ ** 1/2 starsWhile this movie doesn't take much skill (no pun intended), it remains funny enough for the movie length so the viewer doesn't grow bored, but at the same time, the movie isn't a favorite either.Carrey does a great job in this movie though, so don't miss it. "},{"Title":"a classic","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is without a doubt my favorite comedy of all time! It simply could not be any funnier, as Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels embark on a crazy and pointless journey. Even the dumb jokes were still funny. Overall, I have watched this movie over a hundred times, and I still find myself laughing when I watch it! "},{"Title":"GOLD!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb & Dumber back in the day was my favorite comedy of all time, but as I've grown older and wiser other films have overtaken the Farrelly Brothers first assault on Hollywood audiences! But all the same I still have the biggest soft spot for this movie.The team of Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels was inspired and hope one day they could do something else together in some form!The situations that occur in Dumb & Dumber are absolutely brilliant in the hilarious way... Come on who else would have thought they would have got away with selling a dead bird to a blind kid? NO ONE that's who!8/10! "},{"Title":"Dumb but FUN","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I wondered in here out of sheer curiousity and im suprised to see the positive feedback on this movie i really enjoyed it. Its not oscar material butit does provide side splitting laughs, galore..i cant really believe so many critics have to BLAST this movie though, i guess they dont understand CARREY humour..But beware Dumb and Dumberer looks terrible id steer clear  and keep to the classics=) "},{"Title":"If you don't like this movie you're an insufferable bore","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There's not much to say, my summary pretty much says it all.If you can't laugh at the 1) You're It scene with Lloyd, Harry and poor Mental stuck in the middle (You can't triple stamp a double stamp!!!) 2) The whole owl benefit sequence and 3) the aftermath of the Turbo Lax ingestion I have two words for you  Get help. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get any funnier, folks","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the only movie in my life where I literally fell out of the chair in the theater because of hysterical laughter.  I had vapor-lock (I couldn't breathe) a couple of times to the point where my friend thought I was having a heart attack.  Pound for pound this is the funniest movie of all time.  Period. "},{"Title":"So stupid but so funny","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I watched this first when I was just a kid and it was hilarious. I have it on video and its still funny, it is probably my favourite comedy because even though you know whats coming up you still laugh. Daniels and Carrey are classic and the writers and director obviously had some really thick friends. Slapstick insanity that is worth an hour and a half of anyones time. "},{"Title":"A comedic duo born","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels became the best comedic duo to hit Hollywood in 1994.  With near perfect direction and fantastic acting, this movie became one of the greatest comedy movies ever made.Fresh off Ace Ventura, Jim Carrey delivers another brilliant performance as Lloyd Christmas. The laughs never stop when he is on screen with his natural physical comedy and hilarious facial expressions.  A usually serious actor in Jeff Daniels is surprisingly plays one of the funniest characters in all of movie history.  He in my opinion was the funnier one (and dumber one), even though both actors delivered the laughs.Setup as a dumb comedy to make you laugh at dumb things, it turns out to be a genius comedic film.  Just about every scene in the movie was made to make you laugh, but coming up with these dumb things is not easy at all.  The Farrely Brothers delivered their finest movie in Dumb and Dumber, with Theres something about Mary coming second.I can honestly say that every scene in this movie has something to laugh at, whether its toilet humor, physical humor, stupid humor, spoof of something, and of course shock humor.  The Farrely Brothers gave a world a movie that you can laugh at from beginning to end, and not have one serious scene in it.  Usually these movies bomb, but this one happens to be one of the very best.  Watch it over and over and over again and you will no doubt still be laughing!  Are you sad, depressed, lonely?  Well this is the movie that will at least cheer you up for 2 hours and maybe for good.       Perfect 10/10  "},{"Title":"jim carrey is a comic genius (spoilers)","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  one of the funniest, must-see comedies of all time! Jim carrey was born to play the part of Lloyd Christmas! funniest moment is the final scene with lloyd and harry not getting on the bus. an entertaining movie with memorable quotes its ok...im a limo driver and kick his ass, seabass! jim carrey at his best! can't wait for the sequel (or prequel ?!?) sadly without jim carrey or jeff daniels "}{"Title":"Side splitter!","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The title says it all, these guys are really dumb (and it's portrayed brilliantly). Again and again I pull out this film, knowing I've got a real good laugh in store. I have no count on how many times I've seen it. The tears are rolling every time and I almost loose control of other bodily functions!  "},{"Title":"Already a classic","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the absolute best and funniest movies of the 90'es, and it is one of my favourites. Even though it is only 9 years old, I would call it a classic. It will certainly become a classic and will amuse people for many years to come. The soundtrack is excellent, whenever I put this movie on I find myself sitting through the end credits to listen to a song like Crash. This movie is brilliant entertainment. It is maybe not an artistic masterpiece, but then again, how many great comedies are? "},{"Title":"Kick ass funny!","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The film opens with Lloyd Christmas driving a pretty women named Mary Swanson to the airport. It was love at first sight. Lloyd is very dumb,and when he sees that Mary left her suitcase full of ransom money at the airport. He runs,and takes it. He talks his best friend Harry to driving him to Aspen to return the suitcase. The movie is full of great laughs. Though most of them have to do with Lloyd,and Harry's dumbness. They still pack a punch. Very fun! Check it out if you are in the mood for a good laugh. 3.5/4 "},{"Title":"Very funny and original.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is excellent and will guarantee you a satisfactory watching of the movie. Dumb and Dumber is packed with funny gags and idiotic scenes. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play very good parts in this movie and they both deserve there pay checks. "},{"Title":"I can get 80 miles a gallon on this hawk","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Or was it hog?  In any case, I had a great time watching this movie.  I saw it with my Dad and my brother, and I laughed so hard I felt like I was going to choke.  We all did.  You know, I wonder whether a sense of humor can be correlated to individual courage.  There are people who don't find this movie, or lots of funny stuff, funny. I wonder if they are living and acting and having a personal style that they don't really like, just to conform or please someone else.  I wonder if that sort of self-prison keeps them from finding much of anything spontaneously funny. There was a pony-tailed pseudo-intellectual type sitting behind us in the theater.  I heard him in the parking lot afterward, telling his friends that he just didn't see what was so funny or how anybody could laugh at Dumb and Dumber.  Well, I laughed because the stuff was funny, and I wasn't busy trying to act or dress or sit some way that I thought someone wanted me to act or dress or sit.  Doing things my way allows me to laugh at a lot of things (and not laugh at a lot of things).  Maybe I won't have a heart attack, either, or miss great moments in life everyday.  I guess I won't be able to impress guys with pony tails and no sense of humor, but I can handle that.   "},{"Title":"Yes!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Basically, this films contains a certain brand of humour. And you either love it or you dont. I happen to love it and thus i find this film immensely funny.The main thing which makes it stand out from other comedies is the fact that it manages to sustain a consistently high level of humour throughout the film. At no time does it drag, as is often the case with most comedies thesedays. Films like Theres Something About Mary tend to have their funny, laugh-out-loud moments but they are few and far between.Carrey and Daniels play off each other very well. I think this film works extremely well for Carrey (a generally comedic actor) because its not all about him and he is not always relied upon to make the audience laugh, unlike in Ace Ventura where he is forced to be the constant source of humour which thus makes it harder to sustain such a high level of humour. Daniels has his fair share of one-liners and so this periodically helps to take the focus away from Carrey which is probably a good thing because his unique style of humour is not always to everyones taste!All in all, this is a very funny film which is extremely quotable and that is always the sign of a good film (one that sticks in your head). Wanna hear the most annoying sound in the world? "},{"Title":"Very funny movie one of the best!!","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny movie. One of Jim Carrey's best films besides the Ace Ventura movies. Jeff Daniels is also extremely good he is also good in Arachnophobia. This is one of my favorite movies i have seen it like 10 times and it never gets old. "},{"Title":"Rarely, if ever, have i laughed so hard","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a gem! Harry and Lloyd, total deadbeats, go on a trip to Aspen to return a suitcase that one of Lloyd's passengers left in the limo who he is in love with after only a 5 minute encounter. What is it with the Farrelys and limo driving, RE me myself and irene? Anyway, this is probably the best comedy you will ever get the chance to see. There are some classic lines and hilarious doings throughout. This is probably the first film where Jim Carrey showed his true talent as a comedian. I feel ashamed that this is in my top 10 films of all time...and i usually get laughed at for it (understandably its not everyones thing.)A definite must see!5 stars "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE FUNNIEST MOVIES ON EARTH!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was HILARIOUS! Everyone I know absolutly loves this movie. Im sure it's going to be a classic years from know. No matter how many times i see it it just keeps on getting funnier. It took me a while to get the part where Jim Carey kills the owl then says boy this party really died. Hahahahahaha!  "},{"Title":"A fantastic comedy with great lines","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I LOVE this movie. Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey have some of the best on screen chemistry I've seen in a comedy. Right from the opening scene, we realize were not dealing with rocket scientists, and it just gets better from there. This movie is so quotable Nice accent! New Jersey? 'Austria.' I hate goodbyes! etc. This movie will have you laughing so hard, you'll hurt. Stands up very well to repeated viewings. Watch it with a group of friends and be prepared to smile. Highly Recommended! "}{"Title":"Even two idiots can deliver a briefcase across America when they put half their brains together!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Imagine the two dumbest people you've ever met. Now imagine those two in charge of returning your lost luggage. Wow, what a feat it would be if you ever received your luggage back. This film shows that even two idiots can deliver a briefcase across America when they put half their brains together. One of the underlying themes is that this is a love story, plain and simple. It's what really drives Carrey, and Daniels across country to deliver the goods.Most of today's pure comedies tend to have a cast that isn't half as strong as Dumb and Dumber. Thankfully Time Warner made this movie in the early stages of several of the cast members careers. Names like Jim Carry who plays Lloyd Christmas, Jeff Daniels as Harry Dunne, these guys are lead actors equally sharing half the movie, and it's directed by the Farrelly Bros. to boot! It's hard to have a bad movie with those names on the scene, and this is no exception!They say never do business with family, but that couldn't be less true for the Farrelly Bros. Very few first or second time directors have been able to produce terrific films in the same vein as Dumb and Dumber, so early in their careers. A few directors that have had similar movie success are Robert Rodriguez, Manoj Night Shyamalan, and Orson Wells. I can only interpret that we're on the cusp of a lot of laughs and more great movies by the Farrelly's.Several slap stick movies tend to drag but this one continues to keep the audience moving. This is an Airplane, Naked Gun type film that has the viewers just itching to find out what these two numbskulls will say next. It's 101 continuous minutes of unbridled childish laughter.In order to deepen the secondary love theme, the Farrelly's used two techniques music and symbolism. In one scene Carrey goes into a daydream-like state thinking about what life would be like with Lauren Holly, she plays Mary Swanson the beautiful `out of reach' woman who lost her baggage. Carrey tilts his head back, the camera moves in closer, and The Love Affair by Dick Walter starts playing. The audience knows that they are in the dream state because for the entire song they show continuity clips of Holly and Carrey having a wonderful life together. Great use of editing to music, even the proverbial beach running scene even makes a cameo.  One attempt at symbolism is in the same dream sequence, Carrey hugs Holly and about ten doves fly out of nowhere from behind them. The doves symbolize the innocents and immaculate cleanliness that is most typical of a dreamy love sequence.Face time, ego and money rule the silver screen when it comes to big Hollywood names. Every once in a while you can find two lead characters split everything in the film, including jokes, mishaps, and adventures. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels share the screen and script perfectly. This is a movie that left the audience wondering, who's funnier, and who's dumber? "},{"Title":"I should sue...... (PLOT SPOILERS)","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ....After watching this fim.  The acting and jokes very badley split my sides, which is a great thing.  I mean, The team of carrey, and daniels is a strange one for a start, but right from the first gag together, you know that the film is just gonna be AMAZING!!!!!Jim carrey is on top form as lloyd christmats, but for me, it was jeff daniels who stole the show.  I mean the toilet set thing is funny, as is the scene where he and carrey are relaxing in a lovenest.So to sum up, Dumb and dumber is a really funny film.  *** 1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Funniest.....","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the funniest films of all time.  The Farrelly Bros. are two geniuses.  One aspect that makes this movie so great is that it gets better each time I see it.  There are lots of funny jokes in the dialogues that I have not noticed before, and each time there is something new that I find absolutely hilarious.  IF you want to laugh and have a great time, this movie is for you... "},{"Title":"this is a kick ass movie","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  my first time watching this movie was that cold night in march when i came from work and i just thought that me and my cousin would watch this movie and when i watch it was soooooooo funny that me and my cousin pee our pants and my faviote part must be the time when their in the resturent and jim carry tells harry to throw salt on his left shoulder "},{"Title":"Funniest Film ever made","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is the funniest movie ever made.  No matter how many times I watch it, it stills funnier.  Jim Carey does an awesome job playing his part.  Many of the funny things in the movie are hidden in the words.  This makes the movie even more funny because it may take you a couple times to hear everything that is funny in the film.This movie is a masterpiece and I will still watch this movie years from now.  Many generations will watch this movie and think that it is absolutely hilarious. "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy Ever!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the greatest comedy movie ever made!  I don't know how it's not ranked higher.  Every time I watch it, it's funnier than the last time. Not one dull minute in the whole movie.  Anyways, all you Dumb & Dumber fans need to vote this movie higher; give it the rating it deserves. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie of all time","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There has never been a comedy created that matches D&Ders lowbrow genius. No movie from A Birth of a Nation until now, has or ever will tug on the heart strings of quote spewing 20-something adolescents like this treasure. I feel a tear coming....I must part... "},{"Title":"The FUNNIEST movie I have ever seen in my entire life!","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  SLIGHT, ALMOST NON-EXCISTANT SPOILERS AHEAD! This is, without a doubt, the funniest movie I have ever seen. If you  have seen this movie only once, see it at least three more times. I've watched it over 50 times and still am finding new jokes in this outrageous script by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. These guys are brilliant. You can not get any funnier than this. My particular favorite parts of the movie are the snowball fight scene, and the police pulling over Harry and Lloyd in a misunderstanding. If you haven't seen this movie, you haven't lived. This movie is the Exorcist of comedies. RENT IT NOW!!!! "},{"Title":"Funny & Funnier","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was HILARIOUS!The chemistry between Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels was AMAZING!The jokes and gags were hilarious. Especially toilet seat gag which just had me cracking up!The dialogue is both fun and witty.Lauren Holly looked pretty good.And performances were great!3 1/2(***1/2)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"CLASS","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What can I say? This is JC at his best! This film is full of laughs and jokes, people on toilets and fluffy cars.  I must have watched this film over 50 times just for the lines, such as 'there is not a single job in this town there is nothing not a zip!'Yeah.unless you wanna work 40 hours a week!!'.  BUT, im sure im not alone when I say what im about to say...don't you just hate that scence when the Blind Kid is stroking his new pet bird? His voice is soooo annoying! This scence gets the FF treatment straight away. Pretty bird..Pretty..SHUT UP!! Anyway apart from that, this truly is a Class film. Enjoy while you can, cos life is a fragile thing!  "}{"Title":"Prepare For Some Big Time Laughs","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're a fan of Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels and lots of stupidity, then this is the show for you. I just watched it again and I still have to crack myself up laughing everytime. It's funny to see Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play Lloyd & Harry, a couple of halfwits who travel across the United States from Providence to Aspen without letting State Troopers and a couple of people stop them. I mean you can't help laughing at the fact they give cops beer bottles full of urine, rat poison as medication to an ulcer patient or wearing orange and powder blue tuxedos. This film had to be the best comedy film that came out in 1994 and now you see why everybody is still talking about Dumb and Dumber, so if there is a little bit of an idiot (no offense) in you, then this film is worth watching, 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"funny, mild gross out, but worth it","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just as I said  it's funny, mild-to-moderate gross out humor, but on the whole, a worthwhile comedy.  I really admire Jim Carrey's rubber face; he is one gifted mugger.  Jeff Daniels was excellent as well.  They worked well together.  Plus, these guys really took Curly Howard (of the 3 Stooges) and ran with the ball.   "},{"Title":"I think this is the best comedy film ever made ...","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film is a succession of gags, jokes and funny things... Each time you think they've done the worse, they manage to do worse again, you're going from a surprise to another surprise. I assure you that you will not stay more than 2 minutes without laughing. So do not hesitate anymore, buy it and enjoy it ! "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie about 30-40 times and I still laugh every time I watch it. There is some stupid humor, like in Police Academy's movies, and some humorthat is more clever, that you do not get the first time you watch the movie.A big TEN to this movie! "},{"Title":"Carrey and Daniels Are FABULOUS!!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Meet Harry (Jeff Daniels) and Lloyd (Jim Carrey). They're basically losers with no careers. Lloyd was a limousine chauffer for a short while. One of his passengers was a woman named Mary Swanson. He drove her to the airport, then realized she forgot her briefcase. Lloyd wants to return it to her and, when Harry is convinced, they jump in their van and head west, to Aspen, Colorado.        Harry's van looked like a huge dog, because he used to be in the dog grooming business. They stop at a roadside diner and make friends with a trucker named Sea Bass. (Memorable line TRUCKER Kick his ass, Sea Bass!)       They encounter more disaster down the road, like when Lloyd accidentally drives them in the wrong direction! So he does the only sensible thing to do trade in the van for a mini-bike that get's 70 miles to the gallon. On to Aspen!       They make it and again are down on their luck, until they realize Mary's briefcase was full of $$$! They go on a wild spending spree and run into Mary at a fancy party. Harry goes skiing with her the next day while Lloyd waits for her at the bar. Harry had told him that she would meet her there. Lloyd was heart broken she didn't come, so he played a joke on Harry for making up the story laxatives in his cocoa. Pretty soon, Harry, Lloyd and Mary are held hostage by Nicholas Andre, the rightful owner of the briefcase.Before long, he's arrested and it turns out Mary was married. So Lloyd and Harry leave Aspen and try and find luck someplace else. They may just catch a break.         Pretty funny movie! I heard constant rumors that there would be a sequel. Something like Dumb, Dumber & Dumbest, but haven't seen hide nor hair of it in eight years. There was a dull Saturday morning cartoon version of the movie the following year. Didn't last too long. It was part of an Animating Jim Carrey routine where they made animated series' of Ace Ventura and The Mask. The Mask was drawn the best. So if you're in the mood for a crude and crass comedy, see D&D! You'll be glad you did.-- "},{"Title":"6.4 out of ten are you serious!","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has been totally screwed by imdb voters. This movie is one of the best comedies ever made..by far! I can only think of one that is better really. Is this corn hand chucked? that is of course What About Bob. Dumb and Dumber has so many good scenes that if I started naming them we'd be here all day. I give this movie a solid 9 out of 10 and I am not moving baby. That mark stands. Big V is over and out. "},{"Title":"I could watch this movie 374,018 times and still laugh","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  As a college student, this movie speaks to me on many levels. Just thinking about some parts make me laugh. The dialogue is so simple--there isn't anything to not get, and the jokes are thick. It might take 2 times through to hear all the jokes and gags, because I bet for every 2 jokes one sees, there's another one they'll miss. Watch this movie, you'll laugh. For me, it never gets old... "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie was with my dad, on the cinema... And know I tell you the truth I have NEVER laughed as much as I did then. I mean, every scene in the movie was a danger for the annoying sound of my laugh. And when I saw the movie for the second time, I laughed as much as did the first time. And the third time, and the fourth time and the.... You can never get tired of this movie! This is a brilliant comedy! And Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels have never been funnier!Favorite quote(s) Harry I can't believe we drove around all day, and there's not a single job in this town. There is nothing, nada, zip! Lloyd Christmas Yeah! Unless you wanna work fourty hours a week.My vote 10/10  "},{"Title":"The funniest movie I have ever seen!!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   This is my all-time favorite Jim Carrey movie. I laughed really hard when Jeff Daniels' stomach was churning when he was driving. The bathroom scene is also funny. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are both very funny in this movie. I highly recommend it. **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars.   "},{"Title":"funniest movie ever","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was the best movie in '94 and continues to hold its title today.  If there was a heavy-weight champion with movies, this one would get it and keep it. We are talking about Ali here. I have watched this movie more than any other movie and the lines never get old. It was the best, is still the best, and will always be the best. A sequal sounds tempting but how many sequals do you know of that are better than the first? It's not hard to add zero with nothing. This was by far Jim Carey's best work and that is pretty good since all of his movies have the best comedy. "}{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and dumber is one of the greatest comedy movies ever, it has non stop laughs and funny Action. For a comedy movie, it has a well writen script, it has a good storyline and down right funny.  I have this movie for DVD VHS and on my cpu. I suggest if u like Jim Carrey, get this movie! "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE TOP 10 COMEDY OF THE NINETIES","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Why?Well, if you like original jokes (sometimes silly, but hey, what can you expect from 2 dumb guys), nice story and mostly black orientated humor (ahhh, the unforgettable scene with parrot...) than these is the movie for you.Sure, some will dislike Jim Carrey's impression of Jerry Lewis, although his monkey scenes goes along in this movie (hmmm, what is hard to say for Pat detective 2 & Me, myself and Irene). Jeff Daniels did his part O.K. too. And yet we must not forget super-sexy Lauren Holly who fitted perfectly for her role.  If there will be a little less Hollywood-movie-style involved, than this movie will certainly  be marked as one of the best comedies ever.But, none the less, it's just two hour of pure laughing and some memorable jokes, for which you gladly remember this movie and that's why a great rate of9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Very dumb,but also funny.","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a no-brainer and is all about dumb humor. The two main characters Harry and Lloyd is played by Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey. They do a good job looking stupid and playing stupid. The movie has many comedic highlights that will make you laugh for a long time. The story is very weak,but most comedies are.I enjoyed it very much the first time i saw it and also the second time. But after having seen it many times,it starts to get boring and only few highlights will make you laugh.Really good as a silly/stupid comedy,but nothing else. "},{"Title":"Dumb & Dumber gets Funny & Funnier!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  How can a movie be bad if the more you watch it, the funnier it gets? That basically sums up this masterpiece of comedy! Slightly corny at times, this movie never lets up on the laughs. It's hard for a movie to keep you laughing from start to finish, but this one somehow does it. Too many histarical scenes to mention, but the two that stick out in my mind is when Harry inadvertantly breaks up a fight between Lloyd and a bully they swindled earlier in the movie and Harry finds Lloyd sucking his thumb in complete fear; and of course, the Toilet Scene with Harry (I'll leave it at that). The plot isn't fancy, but Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels make you ignore the simplicity of the whole thing because they are so funny together! A born classic, this movie is in my Top Five of all time - and I've seen some very funny movies! "},{"Title":"WELL, SLAP ME SIDEWAYS! A RETRACTION OF SORTS","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    I know I blasted this movie, but it was on TV and I decided to maybe give it another chance. Now, it had been edited and cleaned up for TV, so 90% of the gross-out scenes were eliminated, and you know what? THIS FLICK WAS ACTUALLY A PRETTY AMUSING LITTLE COMEDY!!!! Lots of comic situations and one-liners that the gross parts overshadowed when I saw it in the theater. It's too bad,though, that they had to edit out the shower scene (from the dream sequence)and the romantic I feel like a schoolboy monologue.  SCENES I LIKED BEST  The Jacuzzi scene where the gents complain about girls  The Jalapeno scene with Mentalino in the diner  The dream sequence! LOVE that dream sequence,and the music is excellent  The styling parlor  And the scene where Lloyd (Jimbo!) first sees Mary and says to himself, Slap me sideways! (we all know that in the theatrical version, he said something else instead of slap)  All in all,Jimmy the C can be a funny guy when he isn't being gross.  And now, I am going around saying Slap me sideways!  This may not be the original theatrical version of the movie, but once edited and cleaned up for TV, this was the movie as it could have been and proof that dialogue and situations are funnier than whizzing in beer bottles (they deleted that scene)once you pass 3rd grade "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever.","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have seen this movie more than a dozen times, and still I laugh as hard as I did the first time I saw it. Lloyd Christmas'(Carrey) dream sequence to me is the funniest scene that I have ever seen. Although I'm not a fan of Carrey's, I found him to be hilarious throughout, my favorite line being I like it a lot. Even if you are not a fan of Carrey's, like me, you will still find him and Jeff Daniels to be a hilarious duo and save the film from a weak supporting cast.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Best comedy ever!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest movie ever!! I have seen it over 15 times and still laughing as hell. Jim Carey is the best and i havent seen him in better shape since Dumb & Dumber, and that movie is 7 years old now. Breathtaking comedy performance from the cast, and an excellent plot. Go rent it now! "},{"Title":"A well-deserved sleeper hit","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Even after its huge success, I can still say this movie is not for all tastes.  But, like almost any Farrelly Brothers movie, the tastelessness factor gets elevated to a work of art.  Of course, it's hard to visualize anything involving Jeff Daniels accidentally taking a gulp of Turbo-Lax and having the worst case of diarrhea (which I believe is the pinnacle of the film, and will ALWAYS make me laugh again and again and again) art, but if you look at the word in a figurative sense and observe how the Farrelys handle each situation with perfect timing and delivery--you'll get what I'm saying.  The Farrelys are underrated geniuses in the comedy genre, who sometimes tend to overdose on the crudeness, but their style of humor is often effective.  Peter and Bobby (Farrely) are aware that these characters are dumb and don't use it as an excuse to have the audiences laughing at them, rather than with them.  Of course, there are moments--like the jalapeno scene where Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are squirting mustard and ketchup into their mouths--that are just plain...dumb.  But this is not a hit-or-miss comedy.  The misses happen only on occasion; the hits happen very often.  The plot is very original.  I'm sure the concept of two simple minds with almost nothing to live for is a concept that's been used before, but it's the way the concept is handled that makes it special.  Most of the time I was either laughing or laughing relentlessly.  Another memorable moment is the Harland Williams, urine-sipping cameo.  That is bound to make you laugh 'til you're senseless!One minor flaw I found was the soundtrack  a compilation of melancholy, easy listening crap that would've been appropriate for a seventies melodrama.  I felt the music brought down the mood a tad.  Other than that, the combination of original writing, slick direction and a stellar cast (including some Farrely favorites) is quite a delight.My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Hilirious Road Movie!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"    This is a fantastically funny film! it's the story of Lloyd and Harry (Carrey and Daniels) who are tired of the same old boring, hard life. When Lloyd drives Mary Swanson (Holly) in his Limo and falls in love, it only seems right that Lloyd and Harry should return her briefcase that she forgot at the airport...to Aspen! It's a hilirious movie with some crude sexual references and toilet humour but it comes off great! Jeff Daniels is hilirious in this movie and i was surprised he was so funny! Especially the 'Turbo Lax' scene in which he's just hilirious!  All in all this movie is well worth seeing, there's never a dull moment in it and it's a great laugh throughout! There has been so many movies like this since it's release but it can't really be touched!  A big 'Thumbs-Up' for a very hilirious movie. Check it out. "},{"Title":"This movie makes me laugh even if I am not watching it...","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I personally am not all that shocked to see that there are some people who thought this movie was childish and stupid.  I personally do not agree, but this still remains the only Farrely Brothers movie that I did not completely hate. Kingpin sucked.  Something about Mary sucked.  Even Me, Myself, and Irene was pretty terrible.  But Dumb and Dumber rose above those movies by never claiming to be intelligent. It took two stupid guys (What's the soup de jour?  It's the soup of the day.  Mmm.  That sounds good. I'll have that) and gives them a reason to really display their lack of intelligence.This movie transcends all comedies and will remain a classic amongst true comedy lovers.  Those of you who hated this movie probably think that The Piano WAS a really great movie, and are way too intelligent to like a movie like this.  Those of us who enjoy the movie look beyond the relative stupidity of the script and enjoy it for what it is  a true, unadulterated comedy.Mock. Yeah. Ing. Yeah. Bird. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.Thanks, Jim and Jeff. "}{"Title":"The Absolute Funniest Movie In History","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is only a few times in ones lifetime that a movie comes along that makes you think, makes you laugh, makes you cry , and changes your life. Dumb and Dumber isnt one of those movies, but its damn funny and it makes my life worth living....I love everything about this movie, from LLoyds goffy haircut to Harrys wonderous thought process.If this movie isnt a ten the I dont know what is...... you had an extra pair of gloves this whole time.... Yea , its the RockiesPRICELESS! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made..","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Picking a top ten list of the best comedy films ever made is a lot more difficult than, say, picking the best Science Fiction films, War films, Westerns, or many other genres.  Comedy ain't easy to do.  It's tough to sustain a level of hilarity for over an hour and a half, but Dumb and Dumber ranks right up there with the best comedies ever put on film.  It is consistantly hilarious from beginning to end.  A non-stop romp buddy film in which just as you think it couldn't possibly get any more absurd, it does.Asked my favorite comedy of all time, it'd still probably be Planes, Trains and Automobiles, oddly enough, another buddy film.  Dumb and Dumber would be in my top three.  Why?  Well, Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are simply superb.  Carrey has built his entire career on portraying rubber-faced idiots.  Daniels, however, has a much more eclectic body of work, but as an idiot, this is absolutely his finest hour.  This film is rude, crude, obnoxious, loud, uproarious, and if you don't find yourself with tears of laughter streaming down your face at some point, then you're probably either unconscious or asleep. Daniels graces us with what is the single best toilet scene ever put to film.  In the grand scheme of things, that may not be saying a lot, but compare it to other similar scenes like the one in American Pie or the farting scene in Blazing Saddles and you'll get what I'm talking about.  If his experience after unknowingly gulping down a bottle of Turbo Lax doesn't have you howling, then there's something seriously wrong with you.A very very VERY funny film.  One of the best comedies of all time.  Highly recommended.  Twelve thumbs up. "},{"Title":"My perfect 10 comedy movie","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the only comedy movie I've ever given the perfect 10 rating. The first time I saw it I almost died of a heart attack in the theatre, and now, watching it again five years later on dvd for the 20th time, there's no difference to that at all. Make sure you don't miss this one!! "},{"Title":"THE BEST COMEDY OF ALL TIME","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this was the funniest film i have ever seen. every time i see i cry with laughter. it seems to get better the more times you see it, as more a more jokes become notisable.i first watch it at the cinema, back in 94', and i am still watching it today. i must have seen it around 40 times...at least.my friends get annoyed as i am allways quoting from the film..and when we watch it they can never hear the film as im quoting over it.0ne of my favourite scenes is when jim carry is putting the vibe out at the bar. some of his expressions and movements are cryablei don't think there will ever be another comedy that comes close....it's a shame but true.10 out of 10 for this hit "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Comedies ever made!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is absolutely hilarious. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels give their best and funniest performances. I have seen this movie 7 or 8 times and it is just as funny the 8th time as it was the first time. I have seen Jim Carrey's other movies, but this one is his funniest ever!!! Overall 10/10  "},{"Title":"BEST MOVIE EVER","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  To keep it simple... this movie is the best ever.  Every single line is quoteable and memorable.  Lloyd Christmas will go down in history as one of the all time greatest characters!  This movie left me only inches away from dawning an Orange Tux to my senior prom.  There may be no better line in any movie than when Lloyd goes, Why you goin' to the airport?... Flying somewhere?  Jeff Daniels is better in this than in any other movie.  I have watched this film at least 20 times and it seems to get funnier every time! It makes me long for a sequel but at the same time I know that the greatness of the original could never be duplicated! "},{"Title":"Phaaaarrrpp!","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I just thought of this movie again today..not sure why, though.. I saw it when it was new, and laughed myself silly. I especially remember something close to the end of the movie Jeff Daniels has to go to the bathroom real bad because of the laxative-laced coffee Jim Carrey gave him. So, he sits down on the toilet and lets loose a riptide of fart sounds... I laughed so hard at that, I screamed and hollered and lost my breath, tears were streaming down my face. Just as I thought I had managed to regain composure, he (Daniels) lets out this little squeaky fart and there's a look of ultimate bliss on his face. Well, I just lost it all over again. At that point, I was very glad that I was in a dark movie theater, so nobody could see me and wonder about my age. (I was 29!!!!) I noticed an earlier comment here saying that Dumb and Dumber is a movie for guys, because it caters to their immature humor. Well, ex-squeeze me, I'm a woman, and I still laugh at body functions!! "},{"Title":"Great movie.  See it as often as you can.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The obvious humor of this movie can be seen on the first viewing but it should be seen many times as possible to fully appreciate all of the subtle jokes.  Very witty details that you have to pay attention to notice. "},{"Title":"This film is defiantly a 10/10","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest film i have ever seen in my life and the only film i have watched over 20 times , non-stop laughs makes you cry all the way through , great acting , great comedy, great film 10/10, Go out and buy this film now your video collection will be worthless without it trust me. "},{"Title":"Still makes me laugh after 6 years...","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why this still makes me laugh out loud.  I mean, how many times can you see a man go into near prolapse after his best friend filled his glass with laxative?  Well, i admit that has got a little old, but the great dialogue and the amazing (and believable) perfromanaces here will make this movie stand out as one of my favorite comedies of all time. One reason this movie will endure is because it doesn't insult the viewer.  Alright, maybe the endangered snow owl being killed bya  cork will offend the nature lover, but never will this movie insult your intelligents. (Re Deuce Bigalow)  The movie works i think because of the reason that these two goofs don't realize what they're doing is so...well, dumb.  They don't get it.  We do, and we laugh.  The movie makes you feel smarter.  And people like being smart.  It works.  Carrey is wonderful here (his only comedy I can stand) and Jeff Daniels is just the good friend following blindly...Great movie.  Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"one of the funniest movies ever made","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Clerks....Dr. Stranglove....Dumb and Dumber. A few of the funniest movies ever made. Each having a technique of dialoug for laughs. Tea and strumpets, falling off the jetway, its all perfect. Although not as gross as somthing about mary, its still much funnier. A pinnicle of american comedy. "},{"Title":"A very, very funny movie!!!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie filled with sick humor, just the way i like it. Sometimes i laughed so i couldn't catch air! The many funny details makes it even funnier the next time you see it. So if you have seen it just once, see it twice, or three times, or four times, or... "},{"Title":"My stomach hurts, my legs are shaking, and my mouth goes like a automatic gun Im dying of laughter.","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First time I went to the cinema and watch this, I had the luck of coming to the premiere - which makes its part to the cake. I was in good company since everyone (and I mean everyone) Laughed uncontrolled through the whole piece. It was an experience unforgettable to mankind.First things, first I LOVE Jim Carrey!!! Thats why I went to see the movie in the first place. And I must say, its his best movie ever! So be sure not to miss this jewel.Best scenes The camel, The Dreaming, The Toilet and the ass, Playing in the snow and The snowowl.What to say? I LIKE IT A LOT! 10 of 10 or ++++ of ++++. "},{"Title":"Destined to be a classic","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Despite being shunned by many, DUMB & DUMBER is one of the brightest, funniest, and well-crafted comedies of the 1990's.Those who shun this film probably... 1) haven't seen it 2) have seen it only once 3) don't get the humorYes, the film has its share (and then some) of scatological humor, but the pure genius of the film is displayed through the intertwining of gags with plot, as opposed to a separation of the two, as evidenced in fodder such as THE WATERBOY and AUSTIN POWERS THE SPY WHO SHAGGED ME.  D&D uses humor as narrative and not as the sole reward of the film (i.e. the two examples I previously mentioned).Carrey's physical humor is very reminiscent of a Lloyd (Harold, that is, not Christmas! ) ) ... not to mention, the hard effort that Mr. Carrey put into his performance shows through and transfers to us.Perhaps when the next generation of film professors begin entering our university's halls, they will be presenting this film as a quintessential example of (well-designed) American comedy of the 1990's. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies EVER!","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I laughed my head off!  And I laugh each time I watch it again! Infinitely better than Something About Mary.  The best Jim Carrey movie. "},{"Title":"The best I've ever seen!!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have always thought that Jim Carrey is hilarious, but I never expected him to play his role with such radiance as he did in this terrific movie. This is my all time favourite movie, and I must have watched it about 10 times or more. Both Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels were great in this movie, and you can never stop laughing at their jokes, and their witty sense of humour.  "},{"Title":"Continuous laughs","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is the funniest film I ever saw. I just had to switch it off from time to time because all the laughing started to hurt. It would be impossible to list the best scenes because then I might as well write down the whole script. Watch and don't drink anything that stains when you spill it.  "},{"Title":"Farrelly Brothers Do It Again!!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If I had a list for the ten funniest movies ever made, this is on it. Jim Carrey in top form as usual, with a funny performance by Jeff Daniels. Don't rent if you have no sense of humor or basically no pulse... because you have to laugh at this movie! Best scene is Jeff Daniels on the toilet. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever made!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is destined to become a comedy classic.  Even though it has been out for a few years now, my friends and I still regard it as one of our favorites.  One good thing about this movie is that it never gets boring; I own the video and I still laugh every time I watch it (which is quite often) .This movie has no serious parts, no cheesy romantic moments or attempts to draw tears.  This is a straight in-your-face silly comedy that starts on the jokes at the beginning and doesn't stop till the very end.  You will have to watch this movie more than once because you will be laughing so hard that you will miss some of the more subtle jokes.Rent this movie! "},{"Title":"On the silly, in your face funny scale of 1 to 10, this rates a 23.5.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  If you're looking for an intellectual comedy, please run and hide.  But if you are willing to throw plausibility out the window, sit back,relax and take in the funniest antics Jim Carrey has to offer.  When it comes to silly, slapstick, in-your-face funny  Dumb and Dumber beats everything ever put on celluloid.  If you giggled at Kingpin, you will fall out of your seat laughing at Dumb and Dumber.  If you laughed heartily at There's Something about Mary, you will need to be hospitalized after this.  I recommend it to anyone who has the ability to laugh or has ever contemplated smiling! "}{"Title":"The best Comedy ever made!","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A hilarious comedy about 2 screwballs who can't stop screwing up.  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels make a perfect duo.  The screenplay and acting are superb.  I watch this movie every month, and still end up rolling around on the floor laughing. **********-10 stars!  A must see to anyone who likes to laugh.  I never have and never will get enougth of this movie.  Jim Carrey was exceptional for his 3rd movie, and since then he became my favorite actor. "},{"Title":"Two complete idiots in a very smart comedy.","Date":"9 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first and still the best major release by the Farrelly brothers, Dumb and Dumber can be watched time and time again with the same result side -splitting laughter.  Despite the hair-brained nature of Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunn, the Farrellys' comedy is a far cry from lowbrow, fall-down slapstick.  Tracking these two morons' trek across the country to return a lost briefcase provides nary a scene without a classic moment.  From Providence to Aspen, they are trailed by thugs, Feds, and boatloads of idiocy.  I laughed, I cried from laughing, I nearly threw up from laughing.  "},{"Title":"Moron bro-mance","Date":"6 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Slightly uneven, yet fitfully funny comedy about an inseparable pair of dimwits (Carrey and Daniels) who stumble upon a brief case full of tainted cash and then attempt to return it to its owner, living in Aspen. Pursued by mobsters, police and hindered by their own incompetence, the pair eventually find Aspen and the owner of the brief-case (Holly - with whom both men become enamoured) only to find themselves unwittingly the target of a murderous extortionist.There's some great scenes along the way, including the truck-stop bully at the diner, then again in the service station toilet, the patrol officer who takes an ill-advised swig from a tainted beer bottle and though entirely unrelated to the story, the immortal scene where a bus-load (literally) of bikini models offer the pair the dream job as oil-boys. Daniels is surprisingly humorous considering he's not essentially known as a comedian, while Carrey is, fortunately, more restrained than at times in other movies. Teri Garr, Felton Perry and Hank Brandt have minor supporting roles, adding some depth to the cast.A decent soundtrack developed by Todd Rundgren contains some memorable tunes, not least of all by The Cowsills and Rundgren himself, and the tone of the picture is generally pleasant and easy-going. Nothing too distasteful or gratuitous and so long as you watch it in the right frame of mind, should keep you entertained. There's plenty of conjecture over the tone of the ending - not the crowd-pleaser you might expect - and though frustrating, it's consistent with the narrative and probably just what needed to happen. "},{"Title":"BEST comedy ever","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've watched a lot of comedies and this is so far above everything else that I've ever seen.Haters say this movie is stupid. Why don't you try to come up with jokes that reveal how dumb a character is? Not so easy is it? Some of the jokes will break ribs cuz you'll be gasping for air so hard.The chemistry amongst the leads is fantastic. It's easy to dismiss the movie for it's crap settings, crap costumes, and crap set pieces. However, it is impossible to dismiss the writers and their masterpiece.Just so you know where I'm coming from - my favorite comedies are wedding singer, big daddy, happy gilmore, austin powers 1 and 2, meet the parents, and of course, dumb and dumber. "},{"Title":"Gotta say it.....Greatest comedy ever","Date":"8 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I've never had an easier time giving a 10/10 rating to a movie then this one. After all, when I approach a site that asks my favorite movie...I don't have to think twice......Dumb and Dumber. I guess the truth is, you have to LOVE comedy to truly appreciate this movie. Sure, there are other great comedy movies, but I just feel like no movie really uses every second to other second to make you laugh like Dumb and Dumber does. You have to see the true art of being able to make a pun or underlying joke out of any simple phrase....Big gulps, huh?.If you want to see a clever, well-educated, plot heavy, witty comedy.....go see a Woody Allen movie. If you want to exercise your right to let go, relax, not think too hard about everything, and just LAUGH... this is it. I've been quoting this movie since I was 15, and probably will till I'm at least 50. Anchorman is the closest I've seen to a movie like this that's purely quotable and makes you want to pause the movie just so you can finish laughing before something else makes you feel like you'll throw up from laughter.I say any movie can really be depressing and dramatic and friggin win an Oscar.....but comedy is an under-appreciated art form. One that makes you feel good. Makes you want to be a fun person. Makes you want to soak up life and take it a little less serious. Since when has an award winning movie like Memoirs of a Geisha provoked such joyful feelings in a person. The only thing it gave me was an unhealthy interest in Asian women.This movie is solid gold. There's a reason why nearly every Farrely Brothers movie that comes out uses the tag line From the guys who brought you Dumb and Dumber......cause it set the bar for comedy in a whole new way and those guys are still trying to pull that off again. If you're one of those people that think this movie is stupid...lighten up. Watch it again and WANT to laugh. Enjoy it for what it is and bask in the pure insolent joy that comes with a perfect comedy.Well.....see ya later.... "},{"Title":"Dumb like a fox, baby!!!!!","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is probably my favorite comedy of all-time. The dialog is hilarious, utterly hilarious, but the real reason this film is such a gem is faces the characters make in-between the dialog. I have to mostly attribute this to Jim Carrey and his brilliance in his early career. I can still laugh at jokes I've heard a hundred times before because I will notice subtle nuances I never noticed before in Jim's face. For a film focusing on the dumb, it is intelligently written. Yeah, there is the usually toilet-humor (hilarious nonetheless) but there are very intelligent jokes happening to mix things up. The pacing of this film makes it seem to fly by and it's story is interesting to boot. I like it, I like it a lot. "},{"Title":"Fav movie of all time","Date":"21 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This has to be the best movie to quote of all time. There is a time you can just bring out a quote and it works. You got to watch it 3-4 times to actually get the movie but it is the best movie. I got this cousin well I had this cousin.This is what new age comedy lacks is the stupid humor that the actors are so good that they do not show that they are being stupid. It goes back to the old SNL type where if it works it work no action you get it or it bombs and this movie is all get it.Who doesn't go some where, where they know some one who will stick them into the social pipe line. Also who hasn't wondered who the person is don't we all have a friend named Samsonite, or am I way off?Each and every person should watch this movie at least once. "},{"Title":"One of the top-five funniest movies ever!","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is definitely one of the top-five funniest movies of all time. It's the perfect vehicle for showcasing Jim Carrey's substantial comedic talents, and Jeff Daniels delivers an impressive performance as well. I've seen this movie at least thirty times and it makes me laugh out loud every single time. Yes, the characters are stupid (hence the title), but the comedy is genius. The dialog and layers of comedic devices render silly visual and verbal jokes into sublime hilarity. This movie is like a treatise on comedy--employing irony, satire, slapstick, scatological humor, puns, mistaken identity, and double entendre. Sometimes they come in rapid succession and sometimes they are used simultaneously. This is why the movie is so re-watchable...you can pick up on new layers of jokes with every viewing.If you love movies like Old School(2003), The Big Lebowski(1998), There's Something About Mary(1998), This is Spinal Tap(1984), or The Jerk(1979) then you can't help but love Dumb & Dumber! "},{"Title":"What a total disaster!","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Wow, a very hard out crazy movie indeed. The dog van, how silly is this? LOL. This movie was a total disaster, Harry and Loyd seem to be travelling together and not helping anybody, they both just mess things up and make it hard for others, well not just hard but complicated hard. I rate this a 10/10 because the humour, man is it crazy. I recommend you go see this but watch out, you're probably going to be like WHAT THE the whole way through because some parts are just, well very random. This movie is a lot funnier then the 2003 remake Dumb and Dumber, when Harry met Lloyd. Well, i'm telling you this because the 2004 remake isn't that funny at all, some parts are but the humour just isn't what i expected. "},{"Title":"Funniest Film of the Century","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have seen Dumb and Dumber over 20 times. It is in my opinion the Funniest Film of all time. I cant think of any other movie, that has made me laugh over and over again. This is a very intelligently made slapstick comedy from a great director. Jim Carrey delivers a Superbly entertaining performance, I really hope he makes more movies like this. We have seen Jim in many Funny movies including Liar Liar and Ace Ventura. This is his Funniest film out of the lot. Jeff Daniels gives another comic performance, in his Best film of his career. The movie is full of Jokes, it is impossible not to laugh. I have seen many films that made me laugh like Scary Movie, Hot Shots part deux, My cousion Vinny, Kung fu Hustle etc. If you haven't seen this movie and enjoy comedy, then no doubt this is a Must See. "}{"Title":"This movie is the FUNNIEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the funniest freaking movie ever!!!! Jim Carey (Lloyd Christmas) did it again!!!! Even Jeff Daniels (Harry Dunn) was hilarious, even though hes not a comedian!! This movie had me laughing so hard from beginning to end. Some people might say its too childish and stupid, but i bet even they were laughing at some parts. I first saw this movie when i was like 5 so i didn't get all the jokes. But as I watched it countlessly throughout my childhood and into my teenage years, I understood ALL the jokes and found it even funnier every time!!! This movie is soooo funny, that i actually payed to see Dumb and Dumberer in 2003. THATS HOW FUNNY THIS MOVIE WAS!!! (Cuz Dumb and Dumberer was a complete disgrace to Dumb and Dumber) I definitely recommend this movie to all ages and will watch it every time i need a good laugh! THIS MOVIE IS HILARIOUS! AND TRUST ME, I'm A HUGE MOVIE FAN! I COMMENTED ON A COUPLE OF OTHER MOVIES TOO AND I'm SURE IF U SEE THE MOVIES AND MY COMMENTS, YOU WILL AGREE WITH THE WAY I CRITICIZE MOVIES!!!!! "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey at his best","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love Jim Carrey. He is honestly one of my favorite comedic actors. And I heard so much about this movie, that I just had to see it, and I laughed up a storm. Every joke in this movie gets a giggle at the minimum. I would recommend this if you enjoyed Liar Liar.8/10 "},{"Title":"haha","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't have much to say if you haven't seen this movie where have you been?? it is not a must see it is a must own. Jim Carrey is at his best as Lloyd Christmas and Jeff Daniels as Harry Dunn is also classic, memorable lines and scenes that will live on. Dumb and Dumber has to be one of the best comedies of all time. "},{"Title":"Excellent Comedy! 101 Minutes of Pure Fun!!!","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be one of the funniest films of all time!  I absolutely love this film from the first second to end credits.  Peter and Bobby Farrelly did a fantastic job for their first directing gig!  What a great way to start out their career.  The comedy in this film is nothing you have to think about, it's just good fun and just plain dumb humor, hence the name of the film.  If you're looking for a film to just sit back, relax and have a good time with, then this is your film!Jim Carrey has got to be one of the funniest comedians of his time!  I don't care what anyone says, he's a fantastic actor and really knows how to get the laughs.  Jeff Daniels also pulls of a phenomenal performance.  He really deserves some credit for this role, I don't think anyone is going to argue that Jim Carrey is the main draw for this film.  Jeff has to play someone that is going to be with Jim Carrey for the bulk of the film and will have to get just as many laughs as Jim.  ...And Jeff Daniels pulls it off!  He gets just as many laughs as Jim and was an excellent choice for the role.  Lauren Holly, Teri Garr, Mike Starr, Charles Rocket, Karen Duffy, and everyone else does a great job with their roles as well.  The one other guy that I have to mention is Harland Williams.  This guy is excellent!  I was sad that he got so little screen time, but he plays the part perfectly (he's the cop that pulls over Harry and Lloyd and drinks the beer).The story in this film is nothing terribly complicated, but it is very well done and well thought out.  Everything about this film is well done and very funny.  I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that likes Jim Carrey, if you aren't a fan of Jim Carrey, then I don't know what to tell you.  If you see the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thank you for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"The funniest movie ever made!!","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I own this movie, and I've probably watched it at least 500 times. This movie is a laugh a minute! No movie, not even Blazing Saddles is even close to being as funny as this. Most comedies i have seen start out very funny, but get very boring  quickly. Not this one, this movie will keep you laughing from start to finish. If you like to laugh, you have to see this movie. "},{"Title":"How Can So Much Humor Be In One Movie?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"   This is a hilarious and brillaint film that I LOVE!! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are brillaint!! This film has a great and hilarious story about two men who know absoulutley nothing. This is a great comedy film!! I like this film so much that I bought it!!! All the movie is is an hour and forty-five minutes of non-stop gross humor and hilarity. This is great film and a must-see! I give this film an 8 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  dumb and dumber has a lot of laughs,but it's not always paced well. it's not big on plot,but has a lot of laughs. it's carrey's second funniest movie. second only to liar liar. dumb and dumb isn't as well paced as liar liar,but still a lot of laughs. i give dumb and dumber **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Fun for a while","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is one of those films I watched when I was a kid. I watched it up until Lloyd was daydreaming at the wheel of the car about his dreamgirl, Mary and then shut it off. I liked it up until the state of events about the bumbling crooks, the suitcase full of money, etc. I didn't want the film to be about that. I wanted it to be about two idiots getting into trouble. Not all this serious crap going on.Now that it's been about eight years since I've seen it, I appreciate the film a bit more now. The first forty five minutes of the film are very entertaining and very funny. I laughed a lot in that time frame. Then once the film gets more and more about the crooks, and less about the antics of the two goofball leads I started to care less and less about the outcome.The plot Lloyd (Carrey) and Harry (Daniels) are two slackers who are trying to save enough money to go into business selling worm related novelties and worm-farms. Lloyd is a limo driver, and Harry is a dog-groomer. One day, while taxiing a beautiful women to the airport (Holly), Lloyd noticed she leaves a suitcase on the ground (purposely). The suitcase was left for two henchman to have. Lloyd swoops in and retrieves the case much to the dismay of the henchman who now believe Lloyd works for someone who is planning to disrupt their plan.Lloyd and Harry aren't aware that they are prey to two dangerous henchman, so they now go on a trip from Rhode Island to Aspen to give the beautiful women her suitcase back. Which obviously leads to slapsticky antics by both of the leads.The jokes are hit or miss, but there are scenes like at the diner and when the guys get pulled over that I can help but laugh at. They are right up my alley those kind of scenes. My favorite line in the film is when Harry and Lloyd go to Nebraska instead of Aspen. Both are expecting to see The Rocky Mountains, but seeing Nebraska is flat as a board Jim Carrey states John Denver is full of s**t, man! Had me laughing out loud for minutes. Both Carrey and Daniels give surprisingly great performances. I say surprisingly because I'm rather not too fond of Jim Carrey because in many of his films he seems to be off his own medicine, or just running around like a dumbass for ninety minutes. In this film he does a rather humorous role, and is actually a pleasure to have on screen.I would give this film a better review it had been about the two trying to start their own business. I'm rather not too fond of the film's plot because I don't care about the goofs trying to flee from thugs. The whole joke is that they don't know they're prey, and are pretty much going with the flow on the whole trip. If the film would've played like a better comedy instead of throwing this ho-hum plot at us maybe I would've appreciated it more.Dumb and Dumber is good slapstick material, but it doesn't compete to slapstick gold like Tommy Boy and Black Sheep. Black Sheep is one of my favorite films, and has one of my favorite actors in it too, Chris Farley obviously. Dumb and Dumber was said to put The Farrelly Brothers on the map. This was followed by films like Me, Myself & Irene and There's Something About Mary. Who would've thought that a movie about two dopes would've gave two brothers a successful career. That is so dumb, fo' real.Starring Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels, and Lauren Holly. Directed by Bobby Farrelly and Peter Farrelly. "},{"Title":"The funniest road movie of all time","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  While some people think it's annoying, crude and juvenile, Dumb & Dumber is still on of the funniest movies of the 90's. What carries it is Carrey's willingness to go overboard and still be funny. The funniest scene is when Carrey gives CPR to the bad guy. I laugh as I write this review. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Oh admit it, you love this movie!","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hot off Ace Ventura Pet Detective and The Mask, Jim Carrey affirmed that 1994 was his year with Dumb & Dumber. As the hilariously stupid Lloyd Christmas, he lets it all out. Jeff Daniels is equally funny as the equally brainless Harry Dunne. On a quest to return a suitcase to Lloyd's passenger Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly), the two imbeciles have a series of crazy adventures.I will say that the diarrhea scene was unnecessary, but the rest of the movie was a hoot, especially ski lift scene. Among other things, the Farrelly brothers truly made their mark with this movie, paving the way for There's Something About Mary. A classic. "}{"Title":"This is my favorite movie ever!","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is my favorite movie ever! Whenever i'm in the mood for comedy I go straight for this movie! Jim Carrey is a genius in this movie and also I got into Jim Carrey's work and now he's my favorite actor from this movie! I laughed the hardest when Jim Carrey was peeing in the beer bottle and couldn't stop going. 5 bottles later he finally stops. Then a cop comes over and drinks it. I'll never forget that part! Same as when Jim Carrey was driving Lauren Holly in the beginning and then he wasn't paying attention and all the cars in his way were just exploding! Then he turns around and sees that nothings wrong! There's a lot more but these 2 are the ones I can think of the most. There is without a doubt ...MY FAVORITE AND ALSO THE BEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Dumb and Dumber","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Growing up, this was probably the funniest comedy I had ever seen at the time, and still today it is one of the funniest, no matter how many times I watch it, from directing brothers Peter and Bobby Farrelly (There's Something About Mary, Shallow Hal, The Heartbreak Kid). Basically in Providence, Rhode Island, Lloyd Christmas (Jim Carrey) works as a limousine driver, and his best friend and roommate Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels) works as an operator for a mobile pet grooming service called Mutt Cutts, they are the friendly and lovable, but together probably the stupidest people ever. One day Lloyd drives Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly) to the airport, she is travelling back home to Aspen, he instantly falls in love with her, but then he watches her leave a briefcase in the terminal, before kidnappers Joe Mental Mentalino (Mike Starr) and J.P. Shay (Karen Duffy) can collect it Lloyd retrieves it and tries to return it, without success. Lloyd is unaware the briefcase contains ransom money for the return of Mary's husband Bobby (Brad Lockerman), he is fired from his job, as is Harry for delivering dogs late and accidentally dirty to a show, Mental and Shay have followed them, the duo mistake them for debt collectors and escape out the window, when they later return Harry's parakeet has been decapitated, upset by everything Lloyd suggests they should get away to Aspen. Harry knows Lloyd wants to return the briefcase to Mary and at first opposes the idea, but knowing Lloyd wants to find happiness agrees, and they set off the next day in Harry's dog looking van, Mental and Shay find out their plan and follow them. The kidnappers catch up to the pair, Mental poses as a hitchhiker to be picked up, while Shay follows, they stop for lunch, Lloyd and Harry prank Mental with chili peppers in his burger, and trying to help him give his medication for his ulcer they unintentionally poison him with the pills he planned to use on them. The pair continue towards Colardo, but Lloyd takes a wrong turn and ends up driving through Nebraska, Harry realises the error and is angered, eventually giving up on the journey and deciding to walk home, but Lloyd returns after trading the van for a moped and persuades him to go on to Aspen. The two arrive in Aspen but are unable to locate Mary, at night they stand by a fire to keep warm, and in a scuffle over gloves Harry throws and breaks open the briefcase, discovering the money, they borrow it to get a luxury hotel, clothes and a Lamborghini Diablo. In the newspaper they find out Mary and her family are hosting a gala, they prepare to attend, Lloyd is too nervous to talk to Mary, so gets Harry to bring her over, but through the influence of Mary's mother Helen (Teri Garr) reluctantly agrees to go skiing with her the next day, lying to Lloyd he has a date with her. The next day Harry spends the day on the slopes with Mary, but Lloyd finds out he lied to him, knowing Harry is seeing Mary again that night he gets revenge, he spikes Harry's coffee with laxative, Harry unintentionally ends up crapping in a broken toilet, while Lloyd arrives at the house, telling Mary he has her briefcase. Lloyd takes Mary to the hotel and shows her the briefcase, and tries to confess his love for her, but she rejects him, then Swanson family friend Nicholas Andre (Charles Rocket) shows up with a gun, he is the mastermind to Bobby's kidnapping, he is angry to discover most of the money has been spent and replaced with IOUs, he takes Lloyd and Mary hostage, and Harry when he returns. Before Nicholas can kill them, the FBI raid the suite, he and Shay are arrested, and Bobby is returned and reunited with Mary, to Lloyd's jealousy. The next day Lloyd and Harry are walking home, all their items have been confiscated and their moped broke down, when a bus full of beautiful bikini dressed women stop they unknowingly decline the chance to be oil boys for their competitions, Harry ironically tells Lloyd they will get their break one day, and the film ends with them having a game of tag as they continue to walk home. Also starring Victoria Rowell as Athletic Beauty, Joe Baker as Barnard, Hank Brandt as Karl Swanson and Cam Neely as Sea Bass. Carrey with his chipped tooth (real with his cap removed for the film) gets his many moments to use his facial and bodily hilarity, especially in a hilarious dream sequence, Daniels is equally great being comedic and getting his great moments, especially the hilarious toilet scene, together they are a pair of morons. This film at the time got mixed reviews, but you surely cannot help but disengage and enjoy, the kidnap format is only slight and allows you to laugh much more at the great slapstick, sight gags and toilet humour during a chaotic road trip, a fantastic comedy. It was number 17 on The 50 Greatest Comedy Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Lives up to its title and then some...","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I realize I'm in the minority by not being a gushing fan of potty humor and a lot of scatological and very graphic sound effects, but DUMB AND DUMBER is definitely a movie that clicked with its targeted audience. And I can't ignore the fact that JIM CARREY and JEFF DANIELS have the ability to mug with the best of them, both showing lots of dexterity with comic material that they play to the hilt.But the film is a series of sight and sound gags more than a tightly constructed plot and it's just a matter of time before the Beavis and Butt-head type of guys driving cross country to return a valuable suitcase to its pretty owner (LAUREN HOLLY) would drive any normal person insane with their stupidity.The joke with the state trooper is probably the low point of all the tasteless humor, but here too, I'm sure I'm in the minority. Seems to be the highlight for others inclined to view potty humor as nothing more than harmless fun.If this sort of low comedy appeals to you, it's a funfest of crude jokes and imbecilic humor. It's either a comic masterpiece or a dud of titanic proportions, depending on your point of view.Carrey won a Razzie award as worst new star--although I don't agree with that designation at all. He's obviously a hyperactive, manic personality who can give Robin Williams a run for his money--and Daniels, too, is a talented chap. But I just wish they had a script more worthy of their peculiar talents. "},{"Title":"This is NOT one of Jim Carrey's better movies!","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The reason why I never even smiled when I saw this film was because you could predict almost EVERY punch line throughout the whole movie. The surprise moment were completely gone!Take for instance the Bus with girls joke at the end, You knew right away what was going to happen.But I guess that you wont mind if youre one of those people who can see a joke on a trailer a million times and then still laugh at that joke when you go and see the movie.Also, why do the characters (Harry & Lloyd) have to be so childish? Its not funny at all, you get the feeling that the movie was intended for 9 year-olds.If you want to see a good movie with Jim Carrey you should go and see Liar liar or The Truman Show. They are a bit better. "},{"Title":"about as funny as a toothache.","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a perfect example of whats NOT good about comedies-Dumb and Dumber was a movie I never wanted to see, finnaly did and wish fervently that I hadn't. Jim Carey was great in this year's Bruce Almighty. But this movie isn't good enough for him. Actually its just not good period. "},{"Title":"dumbest","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Rating 1 Jim Carrey at his most silly and irritating Very juvenile humour which I personally found almost unbearable when I was forced to sit through it by my kids. It seems ironic that it has a USA PG-13 rating when it seems only likely to appeal to persons below that age. Perhaps we need a new category to denote films unsuitable for anyone over 21 with an IQ over 100. The worst thing about this movie is that it put me off Jim Carrey so much that I really didn't want to see another of his movies and nearly missed two great movies, the wonderful underrated Liar,Liar and  the Truman show.  "},{"Title":"The humor's so dumb it's not funny","Date":"29 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Released in 1994, Dumb and Dumber stars Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels as best friends and likable morons; one's a limo drive and the other a dog groomer who drives a silly dogmobile. The former falls in love with a client (Lauren Holly) and the duo chase her to Aspen, CO, to bring her a brief case that she (intentionally) left behind. Meanwhile, gangsters who want the briefcase follow them with intent to kill (Mike Starr and Karen Duffy). Teri Garr and Charles Rocket are also on hand.I was hoping for a funny and entertaining flick in the manner of Ace Ventura Pet Detective and The Mask, both released the same year as Dumb and Dumber, but, unfortunately, Dumb and Dumber just isn't that funny. There are a couple laugh-out-loud scenes, like the karate fight, but most of the jokes either fall flat or are so dumb they're not funny (and I'm speaking as one who likes dumb humor &#x96; GOOD dumb humor). Another thing that didn't appeal to me was the potty jokes, which also weren't funny. Thankfully, there are a few things that make the film worth checking out, like the camaraderie of the two protagonists, Holly's incredible beauty, the road-trip element and the great locations.The original film runs 110 minutes and was shot in Providence, Rhode Island; Pennsylvania; Nebraska; Utah; and Colorado. I haven't seen the unrated version and don't want to since it adds a bunch of tasteless or gross bits, like the guy spitting into the burger and worse.GRADE Borderline C/C- (4.5 out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"Crazy, silly, absurd and what not, but delivers what is expected","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" As the title suggests, this film is ridiculously dumb. Even if there isn't much of story and whatever is there quite predictable but the characters and their actions are hilariously unpredictable. The characters here Llyod (Jim Carrey) and Harry (Jeff Daniels) who are good-for-nothing goofy friends are innocently admirable and extremely funny. The performances of Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are one of the best in any comedy film. They take the not so special story to a completely different level. In the end it drags a bit too much, but the first half was lots of fun and entertainment. Much like Home Alone, even after 20 years of release the film holds on very well.RATING 3/5 "},{"Title":"Fun but not funnier","Date":"17 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Dumb and Dumber is regarded as a classic of the stupid, simpleton type of comedies. Its unusual casting because although Jim Carrey was an upcoming comedy actor, his co-star Jeff Daniels was known for serious film roles.Despite the gross stupidity on display our two protagonists have heart. Lloyd (Jim Carrey) drives a woman to the airport and retrieves a bag she left at the terminal, with his friend Harry (Jeff Daniels) they go to Aspen to deliver it.However the woman was delivering a ransom as her husband was kidnapped and Lloyd took the bag just before the kidnappers could get it. The kidnappers follow our hapless heroes.Twenty years ago this was very funny and influential leading to a glut of similar but more gross comedies. With a belated sequel now released, I decided to re-watch Dumb and Dumber and sadly its not stood the test of time. I watched it with my kids who did not find it funny and they know who Jim Carrey is.Looking back at it the comedy seems mild, the scenes could had been funnier. It has a charm, still made me smile but not laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"An absolute classic! One of my favorites of all time!","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This was one of the first movies I ever saw, and NASA couldn't count how many times I've seen it since I was four years old. I have this movie 99% memorized, though I can't remember what it is I don't remember in this. Ironically, this movie never loses it's hilarity, and I laugh endlessly whenever I watch it for the hundredth time.The title explains it all. Two insanely dumb buddies (you can't really tell who's dumb and who's dumber), Lloyd (Jim Carrey), and Harry (Jeff Daniels), who's lives are going nowhere for obvious reasons. One day, Lloyd drives the beautiful Mary (Lauren Holly) to the airport while working as a limo driver. Mary drops off a briefcase full of ransom money at the airport, and Lloyd, thinking she forgot it, swipes the case, and he and Harry set off on a cross country journey to return it to her in Aspen, oblivious to the fact that they have kidnappers on their trail, intending to kill them and claim the money. Of course, the two idiots have a knack for getting out of danger and/or defeating bad guys without ever knowing they were in danger, so everyone who crosses them is in for a humiliating surprise.This is the kind of movie that you can NOT leave running while you take a bathroom break. You are bound to miss an abundant amount of classic lines. I don't know a movie that I've spent more time in my life quoting than this. The plot of the movie is nothing more than a setup for an endless stream of hysterical jokes, gags, and rampant silliness. And the talented Farrelly brothers do not waste a second. Every chance they get for a clever gag, they take it.The movie actually runs longer than you'd expect. It could have easily been one of those crappy, 80 minute movies where the characters qualify as retarded, and every other character is just as dumb as they are. Well, let me just say that for a dumb comedy, this movie is surprisingly intelligent. The two main characters are EXTREMELY dumb, no question, but are far more realistic and convincing than any of those other retards such as the characters from Dude, Where's My Car. The movie resists any temptation to stoop to the pure stupidity of that crapfest. Instead of everyone being as dumb as the title characters, the title characters are the dumb ones, and the supporting cast, while quirky, are far more mentally stable, and are constantly affected the the ridiculous antics of Lloyd and Harry. When there isn't some riotous line being spoken, or outrageous slapstick being inflicted, the supporting cast is reacting to it.This movie is a tradition in my family, and is still tied with There's Something About Mary the funniest of the Farrelly brothers work. I know nobody who's seen this who doesn't think the movie is great. I probably have the most sympathy for it, however. I give this movie my fullest recommendation of 10/10.It is rated PG-13 for Sexual Content, Crude Humor, Some Violence, and Language. Sex 5/10 Violence 5/10 Swearing 4/10 Drugs 3/10 "}{"Title":"Two odd balls inadvertently get into trouble while traveling across the country.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" If you like humor you don't have to think about, this movie is pretty close to the perfect comedy. The first time I saw this movie I cracked up the entire time. Some movies start out funny and then die down as they try to fill the plot with bad jokes, but this movie doesn't disappoint. Jim Carrey's role in this movie is the perfect fit for him and Jeff Daniels is surprisingly funny as well. Their characters' lack of social skills and general knowledge (hence the name dumb and dumber) keep you entertained throughout. Also, this movie contains one of the funniest bathroom humor scenes I've ever seen. If you haven't seen this movie and you're a fan of comedies, you have to put this one at the top of your to see list. "},{"Title":"laughs and more","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the best comedies of all time. The story is a bit patchy and besides the acting of Daniels and Carrey the movie totally suck. I like the movie because it has classic slapstick Farelly comedy but this was one of the first movies where Jim Carrey showed he has a dramatic side. It is few and far between but the scene where Lloyd convinces Harry to go to Aspen actually has quite a bit of drama. When Harry gets shot in the hotel room we also see a dramatic scene from Carrey. Most importantly to remember though is that so many people passed on this movie and when it was released no one really expected too much. This movie along with Ace Ventura made Jim Carrey into the 20 million a movie actor he is today. NOTESLauren Holly's one and only decent film. Yes it is stupid, yes it is easy to follow, but what makes it simple is what makes it good. If you don't enjoy this flick than you must not like to laugh. "},{"Title":"A classic comedy, that's absolutely hilarious! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are just wonderful together (Big *Spoilers*)","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a classic comedy, that's absolutely hilarious! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are just wonderful together. All the characters are fantastic, and the story is just great, plus Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are simply amazing in this!. I'm not that fussy over Jim Carrey however he was absolutely hilarious in this and had amazing chemistry with Jeff Daniels, plus one of the funniest moments in the movie for me is when Lloyd (Carrey) urinates in the beer bottles and the cop drinks some of it. It has plenty of great gross out humor and Lauren Holly was great in he role, plus I thought the finale was really cool, and it had somewhat of a twist as well. The ending is hilarious, although why they would turn down an offer from a bunch of hot girls in a bikini contest is beyond me, plus This movie is an acquired taste and it may not be for everyone, even though it does seem to be pretty popular and rightfully so!. This should be higher then 6.7 in my opinion and I loved the dog veichle they had as well, plus Carrey's facial expressions are the best!. This is a classic comedy, that's absolutely hilarious! Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are just wonderful together, and I say go see it now!. The Direction is fantastic!. The Farrelly brothers do a fantastic job here with awesome camera work,and keeping the film hilarious and at an extremely fast pace. The Acting is a lot of fun!. Jim Carrey is amazing here, he is extremely hilarious, likable, had the best facial expressions, had amazing chemistry with Daniels, seemed to be enjoying himself, was wonderfully wacky, and he's really starting to grow on me now, because he annoyed me before. Jeff Dainels is just as good, he is also extremely hilarious, seemed to be having fun, and I never knew he was this good in Comedy. Lauren Holly is great here in he role, she was pretty and did a good job I liked her. Mike Starr is good as the villain I liked him. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall go see it now!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"The best movie of all-time!","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie is the kind of movie where one never stops laughing, it is that good. Meet Harry and Lloyd, two Rhode Island idiots, both of whom are unemployed after both being fired> But that day, Lloyd, working as a limo driver, is attracted to a woman he drives to the airport. As she heads to her gate she leaves a briefcase full of ransom money for a kidnapped family member. He doesn't know this and tries to give it back, but it's too late. He and harry travel to Colorado, unknowingly are dodging criminals. Will these two goofballs make it? Will Lloyd get the girl? And who is that family member. Learn all this and laugh your head off all at the same time in the epitome of Jim carrey's career, Dumb and Dumber! "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Starting a dog washing business Lloyd Christmas(Jim Carrey)and Harry Dunne(Jeff Daniels)find a bag full of cash that a girl named Mary Swanson(Lauren Holly)has left behind. Soon they are running off to find her and in the process they are running from a crook named Joe 'Mental' Mentaliano(Mike Starr). Funny antics follow them as they ski through cold(freezing)tundra and try to get away from big gay dudes in bathrooms.Starring Jim Carrey, Jeff Daniels, Lauren Holly and Mike Starr. So with this cast and title you have to know your in for a night of laughs and giggles. "},{"Title":"Simply the funniest ever","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Now I am sure some of this comes from the fact that I was an eighth grader when this movie came out, but simply put nothing holds a candle to this movie. I remember the first time I saw it my friends and I made a pledge to see how long we could go without laughing and we made it about a minute and a half till Harry's Sheep Dog van goes flying over the hill. From then on, the laughs never stop. Fast forward 11 years and every time I see the movie on TV while flipping through channels, I know I am about to be stationary for the next hour or two. I am not alone when saying this is a very re-watchable movie (there's always something in the next scene you want to stay tuned in for). Just reading through the favorite lines on here brings back so many funny memories such as You're one pathetic loser, Big Gulps Huh, Kick His Ass Sea Bass, and Samsonite, I was way off. Jim Carrey was obviously the hot comedy actor, but Daniels does a great job hanging with him in terms of comedy. One of my favorite examples of Harry is when he spends the day Mary and they get in the snowball fight. While with a group at a movie a few years back, we saw the first teaser for Dumb and Dumberer where all you hear are Carrey and Daniels voices. I and my friends never had more chills up our spines as we thought they were making a new Dumb and Dumber movie with the same actors and hopefully the Farrelly Boys. If you haven't seen this movie, I beg you to do so. I think this is the type of movie that will appeal to all generations younger and older. "},{"Title":"A critique on the film's techniques.","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The film is a comedy that keeps the viewer laughing and well entertained for the entire film. Jokes are abundant and often subtle; watching the film multiple times does not bore the viewer, it often makes it more enjoyable. The laughs start in the opening scene and don't end till the credits are rolling. The cast is lead by Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels. Their interactions with one another and the supporting cast make for a memorable comedy. The film takes across the United States, from Rhode Island to Colorado. The soundtrack in the film is very fitting for the gestalt of the movie as a whole. The film doesn't employ many special effects but a wide range of shots, including crane, close-up, and zoom are used. My rational for giving the film a rating of 9 is that a few parts break from the comedic tone and become to serious. Despite that, the movie is great to watch alone, with friends, or with family of all ages. I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good genuine laugh. "},{"Title":"Toilet humour galore","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This is a great film, well worth seeing a few times and just as funny now as it was over a decade ago. It's essentially a vehicle for Jim Carrey to show off his array of face pulling and odd voice skills with Jeff Daniels starring as his retarded mate. The film is all about their journey across the States to deliver a briefcase to some chick that Carrey has the hots for. Naturally she doesn't feel the same! There are plenty of laugh out loud moments, especially when Carrey can't stop urinating into beer bottles whilst Daniels is driving. The subsequent stoppage by the Old Bill sees the cop make a poor choice when he decides to take a swig from one of Carrey's offerings... That pretty much sums up the film, toilet humour, but its all well done! The undoubted highlight of the film is Daniel's frantic attempts to find a toilet to relieve an urgency brought on by Turbolax! Ensconced on his bird's bog he's let it all out and then some before she utters the immortal line 'I hope you're not using the toilet, it doesn't flush'! Comedy gold! There are numerous other funny scenes, too many to mention really. When the focus switches to the serious characters the pace can be a tad slow, but thankfully these scenes are fairly short. The soundtrack features plenty of easy listening 90s and late 80s rock, all harmless enough. Dumb and Dumber is Carrey's best film by far, its a shame that we haven't seen anything of this calibre from him for so long. Another of those films best seen as a group. "},{"Title":"my all time favorite comedy!!","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" To this day, no other comedy has hit me like this one, it is my all time favorite and its not one of those all time favorite comedies, then out of nowhere there is a new all time favorite. This one is the king of the mountain until another comes along to knock it off and going on 11 years there is still no other. The writing, acting, everything to make a classic comedy was here. Carrey gave us the role of his career, that he will always be remembered for. The real surprise here is Jeff Daniels, he comes from mostly dramas and other genres but not comedy but he pulls this role off to a perfection. This also will be the role everyone remembers him for. So, 2 iconic characters were defined here. There aren't that many movies you can say that about. From the gags to the pranks to the downright stupidity of the characters, this is a classic hands down. There isn't a scene in this movie that isn't well known by the people who have seen it. From the opening scene where Lyoid ask for directions to the ending scene where they turn down a job oiling down models, there is not 1 scene that isn't memorable. Some of my favorite scenes are the snow ball fight, the Dante's atomic pepper scene, the dinner preparations scene, the Jeff Daniels bathroom scene, the Sea Bass scene, the urination in the Beer Bottles, Carrey's dream sequence, the Mockingbird singing scene, The apt. scenes, When they find the money scene, the airport scene, the Pete bird scene (his head fell off), the crying like girls watching TV commercial scene, both of them driving into Aspen on a motor cart. The great part about this movie, is about friendship and all the ups and downs friends go through on a trip like this. Its something you should watch with friends. If you look at it as a whole, its actually a heart warming movie about something sacred like friendship and thats something no one should ever mess with. The Farrelly Brothers best movie. "},{"Title":"what's  wrong  in  laughing?","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have read so many reviews by critics and IMDb users getting all over this because what it makes you laugh. Maybe this doesn't have the smartest plot, but all that matters is that you're entertained. We all knew Carrey would be good in a ''slapstick'' comedy. But the real surprise is Daniels. After being usually in dramas or some comedies, but never in ''slapstick'' comedies. Both Carrey and Daniels are hilarious. Check out those haircuts. ( Spoiler Alert! ) The only scene I don't like is the scene where Lloyd( Carrey) sells Harry's( Daniels) dead bird to a blind kid. That's not funny. Other than that, this is one of the best ''slapstick'' comedies of the 90's. Also, the best Farrelly Brothers' comedy. "}{"Title":"Funniest Movie of them all","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this was the funniest movie of all time. jeff daniels and jim carrey make an unlikely comedy duo, but it works. i'm a fan of road-trip movies and this one has the 2 no brained buddies going cross-country to return a briefcase to a wealthy owner. at certain points you have to ask how can 2 men be so dumb? the make or brake point in this movie was the casting. the casters chose the perfect 2 to play there roles, if they chose the wrong 2, this film would be a flop. the funniest thing throughout the movie is that the 2 failures never even bother to check the contents of the briefcase and drive 1500 miles just to deliver it to a girl Carrey thinks he's in love with. good work guys, even after 10 years this movie still gives me a good belly laugh.  "},{"Title":"Carrey's and Daniel's best performances","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb and Dumber is one of the funniest slapstick movies of all time. The farrely brothers finest movie. Jim Carrey is at his funniest and doesn't stop delivering the whole time. This is also the best I have ever seen Jeff Daniels act, by far his best job ever. Dumb and Dumber is in my top ten list.  "},{"Title":"This movie is much more intelligent that many people think","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best movie ever. Farrelly Brothers have a different style to make people laugh. When a comic sequence appears you laugh times two. First, because of the sequence, then because of you. All the stupid things that Loyd and Harry do, everybody had already done it at least once. In every Farrelly movie we can find this kind of humor and I love it. "},{"Title":"Top comedy","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are Harry and Lloyd, two complete nitwits who go cross-country to hand back a briefcase to Lauren Holly, who happens to be the object of Lloyd's affections.Brilliantly funny, it's one gag after another, but one of the highlights is when Jeff Daniels is forced to take a dump after being fed Turbo Laxative by Lloyd.See this today and laugh your socks off - top comedy from the Farrelly Brothers "},{"Title":"This is a must see!!!!","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a very funny plot Jim carry and Christopher Lloyd made a great couple in this movie this was a great movie I would give it a 4/5 and  recommend this to anyone.   "},{"Title":"funniest movie ever","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  this really is the funniest film ever made. Directors bobby and peter farrelly have been trying to recreate it ever since, but with kingpin, and there's something about mary, they dont even come close.Jim Carrey in an insane role does an amazing job, both physically, and emotionally. While jeff daniels also does great as his best friend. The script is pure gold, for a comedy anyway, with a laugh out loud gag on every other line. With some of the craziest set pieces ever put on film. If you are grumpy, then watch this movie, and you will be cured.  "},{"Title":"Hands down, Funniest movie ever","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  the funniest movie ever. jim  carrey's breakthrough performance. Go to any High School in America and youll hear teenage boys repeating all the lines from beginning to end and hear them singing carrey and daniels rendition of the Mockinbird song. beginning to end its non-stop laughs "},{"Title":"Best spoof ever.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jeff Daniels was classic.  One to watch over and over...I find myself irresistibly drawn to it. The snowball scene had me in stitches. Where the weather is warm and the beer flows like wine...ASPEN. "},{"Title":"Really stupid, pretty hilarious, terrible ending","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" There aren't a lot of movies dumber than Dumb and Dumber. I say that because the movie is purposefully dumb, but also just dumb dumb. It's the directorial debut of the Farrelly brothers who have gone on to create such comedic masterpieces as Stuck on You and Shallow Hal. Really, when you're going into a Farrelly brother movie you know what to expect. It's going to be stupid, but it might be good for a laugh or two. You can't expect much and you shouldn't plan on having the time of your life watching any of their movies.But I digress. Dumb and Dumber is the film that began their career and it stars Jim Carey and Jeff Daniels and Lloyd and Harry, respectively. They're two idiot best friends who drive across the country to return a briefcase to somebody that Lloyd met while working as a limo driver. They get themselves into a lot of trouble as soon as they pick up that briefcase, however, and end up getting a lot more than they bargained for during their misadventures across America.Dumb and Dumber is a comedy that is well aware of its own stupidity, and that's where it garners all of its laughs from, being completely brain dead. It's littered with poop and fart jokes, with a few intelligent quips thrown in here and there. It's story is all over the place and is incredibly convoluted for such a simple buddy comedy movie.Honestly, the script here doesn't have a whole lot to offer, but Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are very funny together. They throw in a lot of their own humor and make the characters of Lloyd and Harry worthwhile. After reading a little bit I learned that some of the film's funniest moments were improvised by Carrey and Daniels which is ironically hilarious, but it makes the film itself that much worse.But, again, I can't be too harsh on this film. It's just another stupid comedy that has nothing more to offer than, as I said before, a laugh or two. In fact, I actually sort of enjoyed Dumb and Dumber. This brand of comedy isn't my thing but the movie entertained. However, it has the most pathetically thrown together and ridiculously abrupt ending I've ever seen in a comedy, and this really left me with a bad taste in my mouth. I was actually close to saying this was a pretty good film, but after it's awful ending I'm going to have to go with pretty bad instead. "},{"Title":"Dumb with a capital 'B'","Date":"23 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Hollywood has been accused of dumbing down comedy over the last couple of decades, and if anyone in particular could be held accountable for this trend it would be The Farrelly Brothers, Bobby and Peter, who between them have been responsible for some of the most puerile, bad taste, gross out comedies ever made. All I can say is 'God bless 'em both', 'cos I'll take a good poo gag over dry wit or a clever play on words any day of the week.In Dumb and Dumber, the film that first brought the brothers' manic brand of inane humour to the public's attention, Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play best pals Lloyd and Harry, a couple of morons who take a road trip to Aspen to return a briefcase to pretty socialite Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly), unaware that in doing so they are risking their lives.Although this might not be the best of the Farrelly's outrageous comedies (that honour would go to There's Something About Mary or Kingpin), it sure is the dumbest the plot is dumb, the jokes are dumb, and the characters are dumb... and dumber. If jokes about blind children, boobies, gay truckers, and uncontrollable bowel movements make you bust a gut, then come on down... this'll give your chuckle muscles a more than satisfying workout! If, on the other hand, you find amusement from more sophisticated material, like those movies by neurotic New Yorker Woody Harrelson, then give Dumb and Dumber a wide berth, 'cos it is dumb with a capital 'B'. "}{"Title":"Wouldn't have been anything if it wasn't for Jim Carrey's amazing talent(s)...","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I have to say, this movie really would have been bad if it Jim Carrey hadn't been in it. Every single scene without him is hardly funny; Jeff Daniels if miles away from Jim talent-wise. Jim can make you laugh with a simple movement of his face, whereas Jeff hardly could make me laugh at all. The script does put the two in some pretty funny situations, but hadn't it been for Carrey, the movie would have been very bad. I especially thought the dream/fantasy sequences with Carrey very unbelievably funny; they really let him display his full talents, making extremely funny facial expressions and hilarious noises. This movie holds a few of the greatest moments with Carrey that's on film(in my not particularly humble opinion, at least), but apart from those few truly great scenes, the movie isn't all that funny; as mentioned earlier, especially the scenes with Daniels were usually barely funny at all. I would recommend any fan of Carrey to watch this, at least to watch the few very memorable, incredibly funny scenes in which he shows his potential. It has a lot of crude humor though, and a lot of it is downright disgusting, especially if you're not used to that sort of humor, but apart from that, it's just barely worth watching for any fan of Jim Carrey. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Dumb, Dumber, and Dumbest","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Am I too old? I just don't get Jim Carrey.  I like bad films, I go out of my way to see bad films.  But usually when these films are bad they are usually somehow intelligent on some level.  Except for Lauren Holly, I cant see anything worth while.  Benny Hill does scatological humor, urine humor and it is funny.  What happened here?  You probably want to see this film along with a 4 or 5 year old to appreciate this. "},{"Title":"plain old cr*p","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never was a fan of Jim Carrey. To me he's not more than a stupid actor who has no idea how to play his roles and to get out of this monotony he keeps making faces all movie-long. This is why, of course, i did not like this movie at all. It's plain old stupid, and i can't believe the rating is of 6.2!! This proves the low intelligence of most of the users in here... This movie is really bad. Actually it's normal, it's a Jim Carrey movie. Full of stupidity, stupid people and stupid situations. It didn't make me laugh at all, i just smiled a couple of times at some good gags. Gags that were good not because of Carrey, but because of the ideas of the screenwriter. Except those the movie sucks.Vote 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's WORST","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A true disappointment from a comedian with otherwise great movies behind him (The Mask, Ace Ventura, The Truman Show). Boring through and through and trying too hard to be funny when it's not. The only memorable scene is the explosive bowel-blowout diarrhea scene at the end. Because of that, I'll give it a 2/10 instead of 1/10. Highly overrated.... "},{"Title":"A classic!","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels star in this hilarious classic that launched the careers of Carrey and directors Peter & Bobby Farrelly. The gags are crude and tasteless, the comedic performances by Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels are great, the music is excellent, the dialogue is sharp, and throughout the entire 101 minute running time, the laughs never stop. It's part buddy road movie, part crime comedy, and part slapstick all rolled into one. Despite all these different elements, the film never feels uneven. This is one of the rare comedies that can be watched over and over again without getting old. There are so many jokes that I catch a few that I missed every time I watch it. It is one of the funniest movies ever made. "},{"Title":"non stop laughter, pure genius .....","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this movie rocks! never have i laughed so much, unless talking about other Jim Carrey flicks such as liar, liar and Ace Ventura Pet Detective. Jim Carrey is a comedy legend in his own right, and to me he stands head and shoulders above any other comedian on screen. he MAKES the movies that he appears in. OK Jeff Daniels is a funny guy too, but it would never work without the irrepressible Carrey. i don't remember laughing until I've cried this much, i was out of my seat on several occasions, especially the first time i saw it at the cinema.this movie is toilet humour through and through, and is not for everyone, people who will not like it are people with no sense of humour, uptight people or people who just don't get that they are meant to be THAT stupid. what a great movie! 10/10 "},{"Title":"still the best comedy ever","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Hi,I've seen this movie over 15 times now and it still makes me laugh until I'm sore all over. The goofiness of the characters is unchallenged up to this moment and their frolics come in an interval of 30 seconds and this trend is being kept up over the entire duration of the movie. If you don't like absurd humor and goofy faces then you should avoid this movie. If you do and you haven't seen it yet then don't hesitate and buy it on DVD. You will not regret it.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"The superleague of comedy.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Watch Dumb and Dumber if1.  You have no prejudices.  THis is a film that liberally mocks everyone for what they are - only people with Politically Correct OCD will be offended.  True liberals embrace it.2.  You have some pop-culture and historical knowledge.  THere are great hidden jokes.3.  You're attentive.  There are loads of subtle jokes amongst it all that you'll miss first time round but will get on your fourth of fifth time round.4.  You love Carey and Daniels. They shine in it, they could even convert you if you're not a fan.5.  You like jokes about blacks, gays, cripples, Jews, the elderly, the ill, cancer, death, blindness, murder and poo.6.  You have a fully developed and heathy sense of humour.DO NOT watch if1.  You are a stuck up Politically correct loser whose too concerned with being clever and boring to embrace this brilliant comedy.Thanks. "},{"Title":"Easily the funniest movie of all time","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I think that this is the funniest movie of all time. Every minute there is a joke in this film. This is the movie that made Jim Carrey what he is today. The jokes are so funny though. If you are having a bad day or if you are feeling upset, I recommend this movie. I rate it 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Greatest Ever!","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I remember when i first saw this movie, i was 12 yrs old, and instantly knew this would be my favorite movie ever, and to this day it still is!! I love this movie, do not care what others say about it, and will stand behind it 100%, even if they use torture techniques on me) "}{"Title":"funniest movie of all time","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is truly the greatest and funniest comedy of all time. Jim Carrey's facial expressions alone cause countless numbers of laughs. The Farrelly Brothers really hit the nail on the head with this one. Lloyd Christmas and Harry Dunne are best on screen duo ever. Great movie...if you haven't seen it, see it immediately. "},{"Title":"If laughter is the best medicine then play this movie on and on","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Dumb & Dumber truely establishes Jim Carrey as the king of comedies. The movie is backed by great direction,cast and script.Dumb & Dumber's strength lies in it's crystal clear silliness.The on-screen chemistry between Harry(Jeff Daniels) and Lloyd(Jim Carrey) is perfect.Each line muttered in the movie is kind of joke because of their complete insanity.The movie begins with both our guys losing their jobs.Lloyd drops Mary Swanson(Lauren Holly) to airport and falls in love with her.Mary drops her briefcase with some intentions at the airport but Lloyd grabs it.From here Harry and lloyd's journey to Aspen takes place with sole intention of returning the briefcase to Mary.I could not stop laughing at some no brainers like Lloyd saying to Harry-You are one pathetic loser(while Lloyd himself loses his job!).Lloyd wearing a extra pair of gloves while Harry freezes.There are many others like this in the film.There is a feel good factor about this film which makes you watch it again and again.My rating 10/10. "},{"Title":"Legendary Comedy","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie defines comedy and it probably the funniest movie of our time. I'm surprised this isn't on the imdb top 250 of all time. Anyone who doesn't like this movie ISN'T HUMAN. Jim and Jeff are awesome and the plot even makes sense. By far one of the best. "},{"Title":"You will not be unhappy with this one!!!!!!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The cast is perfect. The humor is funny. Jim Carrey and Christopher Lloyd are perfect. THIS IS A MUST SEE!!!!!!!!! I recommend this to every one. "},{"Title":"Greatest Comedy Ever","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This maybe one of the funniest films ever if not the funniest. I think they deserve oscars for this film being so funny. This was the movie that made the Farrelly brothers and brought Jim Carrey beyond Jim Carrey. I could watch this movie over and over and over. "},{"Title":"This and SCARY MOVIE are two of the funniest films ever made!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Whatever happened during the making of this film has been captured for all time within its images - the thing just gets funnier however many times you watch it - even if you can recite the entire flick in sync with the actors. Some years ago two of my daughters then 11 and 15, put together without prompting, the entire scene in the restaurant when Lloyd dupes Sea Bass into paying for their meals. Their performance was as good as Carrey's and Daniels. I mention this to show the influence this film has had on kids even that age.With the passage of time and fifty or sixty viewings, even the crude edges have worn away, leaving a dearly loved film and a comedy I can't see anyone ever topping. It wasn't just funny in places but simply right the way through it. When I saw the original karate sequence when Carrey is wining and dining Lauren Holly, I cracked up in the theater like I have never done before or since..and it takes a lot for me to lose it!Jeff Daniels, you realise more-so after multiple viewings, has contributed equally to the film in a role totally alien to him, yet the two of them are simply brilliant together. Add to this one of the best soundtracks backing up any film I can recall and you have a grade A winner.If you don't find this funny, you have no sense of unrestrained humor and I would suggest an immediate cat-scan! "},{"Title":"Brilliant!!!!","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is just such a good comedy, carrey is excellent as usual and Daniels is great. The gags are brilliant Do you want to hear the most annoying sound in the world classic!!! Great movie, just go out and rent it people!! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies you'll watch!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie! I've watched this movie about 10 times and it was just as funny the tenth time as it was the first time.  The gas station scene,when Harry had the runs and when Lloyd confesses his love for Mary were pure genius!  The ending (I won't spoil it here) was also very hilarious. 10/10!!!!! "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Even Better","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I did enjoy parts of DUMB AND DUMBER , notably the blind boy with the parakeet , the cop tasting the beer and the manly love in the toilets , but I can`t help thinking it could have been a whole lot better if the two main protagonists played by Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels had a little more depth . As it stands they`re both stupid , they both sport ridiculous hairstyles and they`re both in love with the same women and that`s about all the character naunces we get . It`s very difficult to believe in them as real people due to their stupidity becoming just a little too incredible and it`s not helped by Jim Carrey`s slightly OTT performance , though to be fair he`s not as bad as he usually is . It is good to see that the Farrelly brothers improved this protagonist flaw with their next movie KINGPIN and hit the button with THERE`S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY by having the main characters play everything straight in comedy situations All in all DUMB AND DUMBER is a fairly good comedy ( A genre I usually despise ) let down somewhat with silliness . Not a comedy classic but entertaining enough    "},{"Title":"gag!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"16 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is horribly made, badly scripted, boring and an insult to anyone's intelligence. The sophomoric humor is one thing; I like a good pratfall as much as the next person, maybe more. Here unfunny gags are repeated over and over and over. Why do the 2 stars trek off from Rhode Island toward the west? To chase some woman. How silly and pathetic. Typical Hollywood druling ugly guy(s) wind up with bombshell dame.  "}{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"15 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was forced to watch this movie on an overseas flight, when I would have much rather have been sleeping. Instead, the other passengers laughing at jokes on the screen kept me up, so I resigned myself to watching it.I won't sugar coat this I hated this movie. You know when people are telling jokes, but some jerk keeps blurting out the punchlines halfway through each joke? It really ruins the point of the joke. That's exactly how I felt watching this movie. Every punchline to EVERY joke is telegraphed so far in advance as to suck the humor out of every one of them. The stars are two very talented comedians, but the lake of spontaneity and creativity of the comedy totally wastes them her.So, if you want feel smarter than not only the title characters, but the writers and director of this film, watch this movie. If you want a genuine laugh, watch something else. "},{"Title":"Stupidity on Film","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"15 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  There is no way that I would give this movie two thumbs up; more likely two middle fingers.  Why does Hollywood keep marketing this crap as comedy? If I ever open my own video store, this and the American Pie series will be banned from the shelves.  I'll probably even put up a sign If you're looking for Dumb and Dumber, get out of my store.  I don't want your business.  I have seen funnier stuff in horror films. "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie made me ANGRY. How can such trash actually draw people in or for goodness sakes, ENTERTAIN? This movie was in one word TERRIBLE. Not one part is worth watching, and after spending an hour and some minutes of my life watching this garbage, I am ANGRY. If you are a fan of real comedy, please heed my review and do yourself a favor by going out and renting an Abbot and Costello movie. They aren't that funny, but trust me, you'll get many more laughs. My score 1 "},{"Title":"Simply awful; about as funny as a hernia operation","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Jim Carrey was one of the first diagnosed sufferers of ANTS (Absolutely No Talent Syndrome, a disease that exploded onto the Hollywood scene the day Sylvester Stallone got famous and has been devastating the community ever since), but this movie is bad even for him.  In fact it's so bad it's almost worth watching.  On second thoughts no it isn't.The Dumb and Dumber here really ought to be the writer/director brothers who are responsible for this pile of unadulterated bat guano.  Who gives the Farrellys money to make movies, and why aren't they heavily sedated in secure accommodation? "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever.","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Of course there are worse movies than this, comedies and others. However, this film (for anyone with a correct upbringing) is embarrassing to sit through.It is like Adam Sandler films - terrible acting, terrible ideas, and hideously immature and blatant jokes. It is difficult to call this movie a comedy, I call it a horror.Adam Sandler does bother more than Carey does, but hey, I won't ever watch another movie by either again. When someone tells you that this movie is funny, immediately discount anything they may say in the future. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever!!!!!!!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"14 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I realize that with a title like Dumb and Dumber one should not be expecting oscar caliber performances. But this movie just stinks!!  NOt only was I offended by it, but I found nothing in the movie to make me laugh. In fact the first time that I tried watching this, someone else rented it, I fell asleep about halfway through the movie!  And the second time that I tried to watch it, my roommate owns the DVD, I fell asleep during the credits!  "}]