[{"Title":"Expert story-telling+fine acting=good entertainment","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"70 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I first saw Dolores Claiborne when it came out in 1995 and have seen it again some 3 or 4 times since, a practice I dedicate only to certified masterpieces. At first, I couldn't figure out why I kept revisiting D.C. when it showed up on cable - it's not a cinematic wonder or a work of art (something it doesn't strive to be, by the way), not even a story that you can say it's really original. But as I became more familiar with the film, I could see why it always pulled me in it's a triumph of story-telling, of the WAY and PACE the story is revealed in small precise doses much like slowly completing a puzzle, the kind of film you can only let go when the last missing piece (Selena's final flashback) fits into place. How the story manages to make such initially repulsive characters (all of them!!) develop into sympathetic (or at least pathetic) ones is of course Stephen King's special talent, expertly translated by the fine jobs by the screenwriter, actors and director of Dolores Claiborne. The cinematography is kind of obvious in its distinct color treatment of past and present, but the entire cast is inspired, including Kathy Bates' best-ever performance (she has stated so herself), especially in the flash-back scenes; delightfully virtuoso Judy Parfitt (you just keep hoping along for more Vera's scenes, and each one of them is a knockout); and reliable pros Christopher Plummer, David Strathairn (such an underrated actor!) and John C. Reilly. Even Jennifer Jason Leigh for once has her irritating mannerisms fit perfectly to build her terribly tormented character.That's what good story-telling is all about even if you already know the plot from A to Z, you just want to see once again the way it unfolds, like a good scary fairy tale. Dolores Claiborne is not without faults, but it's certainly worth your time, and even more than once. "},{"Title":"Very successful film","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"50 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kathy Bates made quite an impact, so to speak, on the movie-going public with her bravura performance in another Stephen King adaptation, 'Misery.' But showy (and fun) as that role was, it wasn't really much of an acting part--the real heavy lifting in that film was done by James Caan in his quieter, subtler role as the object of Bates's affection.In 'Dolores Claiborne,' Bates finally gets a King role fully worthy of her range and subtlety. She pulls off the age transformations beautifully--I actually wondered at times whether young Dolores or old Dolores was closer to her real age. She still gets to have fun with King's trademark Maine dialect ('Now you listen to me, Mr. Grand High Poobah of Uppah Buttcrack!' is a line that gets me every time), but she never goes too far, and her every gesture tells of her great loves for her daughter and her friend, without ever exaggerating or sentimentalizing them. It's a remarkable performance, and the actress is probably right to remember it as her best role.The rest of the film into which the performance fits creaks a bit in places (the final melodramatic scene at the hearing is pretty hokey), and it's complicated somewhat by Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance, which may be *too* good--her Selena comes off as so angry and selfish that we don't particularly *want* her to reconcile with her mother. But overall, the film's an artistic success, done in a classic American style, and using the simple but effective device of changing the color scheme to ease us from the present to the past. The supporting cast more than stands up to Bates, too. Judy Parfitt is all too believable as Vera Donovan, especially in her younger incarnation--those of us who grew up in tourist towns are very familiar with this kind of harpy queen who comes to town and sets up shop for good. But the part isn't a simple caricature--those tears of anger and pride that Vera cries for Dolores and her daughter feel very real indeed. Christopher Plummer, with his mushy red nose and schoolteacher's diction, overdoes it a bit, perhaps, but it basically goes with the character he's been given. And David Strathairn's Joe St. George surely deserves a high place in the canon of Stephen King movie villains. Strathairn makes him as bad as can be, and yet there's occasionally a playful touch that *almost* makes us see why Dolores married him in the first place.In the end, a rather underrated film, successful on many levels. 8.5. out of 10. "},{"Title":"Excellent, underrated, Bates is brilliant","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"48 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Somehow this gripping, brilliantly-acted thriller was overlooked and underrated when it was first released in 1995, but it's probably the best movie ever made from a Stephen King story.Kathy Bates has never been better. Her acting is so strong, deep, and subtle, it's outrageous that she wasn't even nominated for the Academy Award. I think it's because the film was released early in the year and was out of theatres already when the nominations were made. She's better here than about ten Oscar-winning actors I can think of, put together -- a one-woman textbook of how to act for the screen.Bates won an Oscar for MISERY, but she's better here, because the story and the character are more interesting, complex and challenging. With flawless technique, and great depth of feeling, she delivers one of the finest screen performances of the 1990s.Okay, the denouement's a bit strained, and there's a sprinkling of stilted, hokey lines (Stephen King was never good at writing believable dialogue, and his addition of forced scatology and cussing doesn't make it any less stilted.) But overall the complicated story, which flashes back and forth over a period of twenty years, is extremely well-told. The constant shifting from past to present is never confusing -- an achievement in itself!This film never found its audience, somehow, and even some critics missed how good it was. I notice Maltin's book now raves over the film, giving it 3 1/2 stars, the same rating he gives to THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. The violence here is more psychological than bloody, but DOLORES is every bit as good a thriller as LAMBS, and Bates, quite frankly, can act circles around Jodie Foster. "},{"Title":"What Is Past Is Prologue...","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Few Stephen King works of fiction translate well to the screen. Horror elements are best left described rather than shown - so that the darkest recesses of our own imaginations can fill in the details. The horror visions of others may or may not affect us the same way - more often than not, they fall short of true terror.But DOLORES CLAIBORNE is the exception - a masterful condensation of the Stephen King novel of the same name. More compact and deeply psychological than the novel, the film focuses almost exclusively on telling the story (in both present-day AND multiple flashback story lines) of Dolores Claiborne and her daughter, Selena.Charged with murdering her wealthy but crippled employer, Dolores (Kathy Bates) is reunited with her estranged daughter, Selena (Jennifer Jason-Leigh). Sullen, brilliant, but deeply disturbed by a past that still obviously haunts her, Selena returns to the lonely and isolated Maine fishing village to help her mother face the legal and familial issues raised by the murder accusation.We learn that Dolores had previously been suspected of killing her abusive and alcoholic husband. The same detective who had been unable to press the case 17 years earlier is now assigned to the new investigation. And as his work proceeds, secrets from the past reveal themselves, through brilliant use of flashbacks.The acting by all concerned is first rate, with Bates giving probably her finest non-Oscar-nominated performance. Jason-Leigh is spot-on as the psychologically damaged and cynical Selena - more a victim than even she knows. Christopher Plummer is excellent as the detective.Taylor Hackford's direction is absolutely brilliant - as is the use of color saturation and creative scene blending and transition to move seamlessly between present and past.This is an outstanding film - well worth the Oscar nominations it received (as well as those it did not!). HIghest rating!  "},{"Title":"Quite amazing and scary","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When I picked up the DVD of Dolores Claiborne, I wasn't sure of what to expect. I remembered that a lot of people were complaining that this wasn't Misery, starring Kathy Bates, who stars here, and the pacing was a bit off. However, when I was watching it, I was fully gripped into it's very gripping storyline of Did she or didn't she? and Kathy Bates pulls off another stunning performance (she never dissapoints me). All the other actresses, from Jennifer Jason Leigh, Christopher Plummer, to a then unknown John C. Reilly, also put out great performances. The direction of Taylor Hackford is top notch, and probably the biggest thing here is the cinematogrpahy, which is stunning with all the period photography (dull and grey at present, colorful in the past) and the eclipse photography is nothing short of stunning. A very surprising and entertaining watch, "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"26 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I fell in love with this movie and that is a feeling I still have today. I especially love the blue tint that they put in the film....it encapsulates the cold and barren feeling of the house and the previous events. I give this movie a ten because the acting is amazing, the scenery is beautiful and the transition between the past and the present is seamless. My two favorite actresses in the movie are Jennifer Jason Leigh and Kathy Bates. They did an amazing job of portraying a estranged mother and daughter too haunted by past events to once again come together. The movie is a must see for everyone and it helps greatly to read the book before seeing the movie. I believe this movie should have received more than one award. "},{"Title":"A Stephen King drama before he was really writing dramas.","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It was so many years ago that I read Dolores Claiborne that I don't remember how closely the movie follows the book, but I've found that Stephen King movies in general are pretty faithful to the original material, and I'm sure that this one is no exception. Released at a time when a drama, even a dramatic thriller, coming from Stephen King would be known more for being a drama from the master of horror than anything else, Dolores Claiborne is still a surprisingly capable legal thriller with a remarkably intricate story. Dolores Claiborne is an unskilled housewife living in Maine with her abusive husband and abused daughter, and things get progressively worse until she finds herself with an sexually abused daughter and a dead husband on her hands. The indictment for the murder of her husband doesn't stand in court, and years later she is again faced with the capital charge as the woman that she has been working for as a maid for so many years falls or is thrown down the stairs of her house to her death, and it's up to the town's Detective, played brilliantly by Christopher Plummer, to prove that it was not an accident. Oh no, not an accident at all. Detective Mackey (Plummer), let Dolores get away once and damned if that nonsense was going to happen again.Unfortunately, Jennifer Jason Leigh, a genuinely gifted actor, is saddled with a part that forces her to play within the confines of a tortured soul, making her performance come off as forced and unconvincing, meanwhile Kathy Bates once again fills the screen with her powerful presence, delivering what has to be one of her best performances. The story takes place in cold Maine weather that is so effective that it almost makes you want to put a jacket on, and in a house that is so gray and lifeless and empty that after watching the movie I had to go to the supermarket and buy a steak. That may not make sense, but here's something that does, the characters in this movie are so well rounded that it almost seems like a documentary. Definitely worth checking out, even if you're living so far in the past that you still rent from Hollywood Video and pay their late fees. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Don't be mistaken by the seemingly ordinary story","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If there is one thing I always fear, than it must be movies about bad marriages, an abusive husband, child abuse ... How often do you get a good movie with such subjects. Not very often, because most of the time these are awful TV-movies that seem to be written at a rate of at least one an hour. Always following the same concept, always trying to make the poor viewer cry his eyes out while saying that that poor woman / child didn't deserve to be treated that bad. Now don't get me wrong, I'm certainly not saying that it should be tolerated. Men who do such awful things can't be punished hard enough, but the movies that are made about this subjects are complete crap most of the time.Dolores Claiborne tells the story of a woman who is accused of murdering the wealthy woman she worked for as a maid in Maine. When her daughter Selena finds out that her mother is accused of this crime, she immediately returns home from New York, leaving her job as an important reporter behind for a while. But she doesn't return to support her mother as you might expect. No, she's almost certain that she did it and she seems to try to get a good story out of it. But gradually she finds out what really happened and in the meantime some awful things about Selena's troubled childhood, the awful family life,... come floating at the surface again.I know that I said in the beginning of this review that most movies with such a subject are plain crap, but there are always expectations to every rule and Dolores Claiborne certainly is one of those exceptions. It was written by Stephen King and it shows. The man knows how to build up suspense and certainly can give you an uneasy feeling while reading his books or watching one of 'his' movies. And Dolores Claiborne has a lot more depth than you might expect at first. The only thing is that they have managed to disguise it, not giving away too much information at a time. Only at the end of the movie you'll fully understand what has happened and what the reason was for both women to react the way they did.What I also liked, next to the story, was the way everything is shot. All the scenes in the present are shot in those cool blue tones, but these blend seamlessly into the flashbacks that were shot in vivid colors. This gives an extra touch to the story that certainly works. You know exactly what is the present and what is the past, but those colors also add a lot to the drama. But the way a movie was shot alone doesn't make it good of course. That's what good actors who do some excellent things are for. And that's also exactly what you'll get from Kathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Christopher Plummer... Jennifer Jason Leigh is nice as the daughter, but it's Kathy Bates and Christopher Plummer who give away the best performances in my opinion. Bates is stunning as the tormented woman who's personality seems so strong, while in reality she is a broken soul who wishes for nothing much but to die as soon as possible, so all her misery can end. And I also loved Plummer as Detective John Mackey who's hate against Dolores is so big, because she is the only spot on an almost spotless career. He has solved all his cases except for one and he'll not rest until he can send Dolores to jail.All in all this is a very good and suspenseful movie that never tries to become a tearjerker, despite the heavy subject. It offers some great acting, nice photography and a good story. That's about all I can wish for in a movie and I give it at least a 7.5/10, maybe even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Bates & Parfitt dominate","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"31 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a woman's movie, meaning its about women but a guy is able to enjoy it on several levels.  Most womens movies (Thelma & Louise comes to mind) exclude the male segment of the audience and you have to be a woman to gain anything from watching the movie. This is also adapted from a Stephen King horror novel and it might have been assumed that Kathy Bates was just re-visiting her familiar Misery territory.   That assumption is very unfair here, just as the assumption that this is a horror movie.All the acting is great but special mention must go to Kathy Bates.  She even moves like a woman who has a bad back (you find out why that is) and slaves for that monster Vera for all those years. She is completely magnificent and believable and I thought she deserved another Best Actress nomination.  Parfitt deserved her own in the Supporting category, for her portrayal of Vera, a person easy to hate who becomes easy to understand.   "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates Shines","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It isn't quite fair to say that 'Dolores Claiborne' is a one-woman show, but let's face it; it's pretty much a virtuoso performance from Kathy Bates. She dominates virtually every scene she's in, shows tremendous range, from tender to sour and bitter, to borderline maniacal, and leaves you wondering who else on Earth could possibly have pulled it off.That's not to belittle the rest of the cast. The other actors are  adequate at very least, and Judy Parfitt puts in a performance as the bedridden Vera Donovan, which is the one time that Bates is slightly overshadowed.Briefly, a middle-aged, working-class widow (Bates) in a small Maine town (where else, for SK?) is suspected of murdering her rich, elderly employer (Parfitt) in an apparently open and shut case. Christopher Plummer is the nasty lawman who is convinced she also killed her husband years before. Meanwhile, her estranged daughter from New York comes up to cover the story for a newspaper, and... well, you don't really need to know any more details before seeing the movie.It's adapted from a Stephen King novel, and being a drama rather than a supernatural story, it has a flying headstart, being in the company of 'Green Mile', 'Stand By Me', and 'Shawshank Redemption' rather than 'Christine' or 'Salem's Lot'. Whereas it isn't in the exalted league of those movies, it's miles ahead of most of the horror adaptation of King stories. Take Bates out and it might be rather ordinary, but as it it, Dolores gets a very solid 7.0 from me. "}{"Title":"A Beautiful, Beautiful, Powerful Film","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's rare that a film can capture a story from a novel and beautifully adapt it for the screen and in fact turn it into something somehow unique at the same time. So it is with Dolores. A co-worker, who is a Stephen King aficionado, cited this one shining example of a movie version of one of his books that she actually preferred to the novel. Right away, as the viewer, you are thrown into a car with a broken family, an unstable mother and her estranged stand-offish grown daughter, glimpsing a small, isolated, suspicious island community on the way to the old family home full of painful, bitter memories - and you spend the rest of the movie discovering their hidden secrets. Kathy Bates is once again equal to the task of the marvelously enigmatic title role character but I found Jennifer Jason Leigh spell-binding as the spiteful, lost, embittered daughter. It is her slow, slow shedding of this bitterness towards her mother that is the essence of this movie. There is a scene between the two that I consider one of the best scenes in all of film - period. How JJL failed to garner attention for her performance here is incomprehensible. The film's use of flash-backs throughout places you 'back' and enables you to get a feel for Dolores and her thoughts and actions for yourself as well as her family, her marriage, her home, and her small community. YOU get to decide if Dolores is guilty of murder. Christopher Plummer is also well cast as the thorough, relentless investigator who pursues her and who has his own secrets. Lastly, I have put a spoiler warning here because I want to mention the last scene. Fittingly, it is between mother and daughter. Earlier in the film, Dolores had told her daughter I don't CARE what other people think (about what she did)! It's what YOU think that matters! At the end, JJL solemnly declares I'm not sure how to feel about what you did. Maybe I never will. But I know you did it for me. I recommend this film to anyone who has ever suffered because of, or ever been hurt by, the ones he/she loves. It's a gem. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Dolores, an accident can be an unhappy woman's best friend","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is an adaptation of a Stephen Kings novel of the same title and among with Stand By Me and Dead Zone is one of my favorite films based on the master of horrors' writings. Ironically, all three books (and the movies) don't belong to horror genre. They are the combination of many genres, including crime, drama, and thriller. Dolores Claiborne which is the story told by its main character explores many difficult subjects &#150; failed marriages that result in dysfunctional families, relationship between a mother and a daughter and how far would mother go to protect her child.Dolores Claiborne works for many years as a maid for wealthy and demanding Vera Donovan and after Vera's suspicious death is accused of murdering her employer. Det. John Mackey (Christopher Plumber), the shrewd investigator is absolutely sure that Dolores not only murdered Vera who left her a fortune but is also guilty of murdering her husband many years ago but never was charged for that crime. Dolores's daughter Selena (Jennifer Jason Leigh), a successful reporter who had not talked to her mother for years comes from New York City to cover the story. Who is Dolores &#150; a greedy monster and a murderer or an unhappy woman for whom an accident is sometimes a best friend? Kathy Bates received the Oscar for her portrayal of a psychotic nurse in another King's adaptation, Misery but I believe that Dolores Claiborne is her best role. She carries the film and I don't think that any other actress could fit the part as well as Bates did which brings the question &#150; maybe King wrote the book with her in mind, who knows? Judy Parfitt is extremely well cast as Vera Donovan, an arrogant ice queen, who was capable of understanding and care for Dolores and her daughter and who knew too well about loneliness and despair. David Strathairn deserves high praise for his Joe St. George, Dolores's abusive husband and Selena's father from hell. "},{"Title":"Wonderful performances, compelling story","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Selena St George returns to her Maine island home to be reunited with her estranged mother Dolores.  Dolores has been charged with the murder of her long time wealthy employer Vera, and all the evidence points to her guilt.  Inspector Mackey leads the investigation, however his view is tainted as he failed to convict Dolores for the murder of her husband Joe, almost 20 years ago - his only unclosed case.  As the present murder is investigated the truth about the past is slowly revealed.How many Hollywood films give good roles to women.  Not many - certainly not older women.  This stands out because it has three good roles for women and a very strong supporting cast.  The story is compelling, the present murder is slowly revealed, while the back story between Dolores, Selena, Joe and Vera is slowly spun out in memories.  The various strands are all gripping - the level of detail and back story is excellent.  The way the past is weaved into the present is well handled and you never feel like there's too much going on - each strand compliments the others.The flashbacks are well filmed - each memory is painted bright with sunshine and gaudy colours.  Like Selena's memory, it all seems better in hindsight.  The present is filmed in pale greys, not even flesh colours come across  - everyone looks ashen and grey.  The director also deserves praise with the way he blends the present scenes into the past - the camera moves slightly revealing past action.  At the end, every story is revealed and it's very satisfying.As I said, the cast are excellent.  If Bates got an Oscar for Misery then she more than deserved one here.  She is superb in older and younger roles.  She has some annoying habits, mainly the phrases she uses - but she brings out so much hurt, so many layers and so much resentment really well.  Jason-Leigh is as good as always and is suitably disturbed - she is very well matched by her younger version, Ellen Muth, who matched Leigh's manner and speech well.  Parfitt is an excellent Vera, she has a smaller role but deals with the changes very well.  The support cast are all excellent - three stand out.  Strathairn is excellent as the abusive Joe, Plummer is great as the cop, who turns out to have as many unresolved issues as Selena.  The cast is rounded off by John C Reilly, who is always great.Overall this is a well-acted compelling story.  It lacks the sudden horror of Misery, but is a much more fully developed character piece. "},{"Title":"brilliantly crafted Stephen King adaptation","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has it all brilliant script, superb direction, great acting. It's a revenge melodrama, a dysfunctional family drama, a mystery/thriller, and a feminist take on the 'woman's picture', all rolled into one. Sixty years ago, Bette Davis would have had a field day with the title role, but back then Hollywood would never have had the nerve to make a picture with so radical a socio-political point of view. Hackford virtually re-invents the use of flashbacks, and the eclipse sequence is a classic. This film was pretty much ignored by critics when it was released, but it will be around long after most of 1995's films have passed into oblivion. "},{"Title":"Chilling character study.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike most Stephen King tales, Dolores Claiborne is not a 'horror' film, yet it still manages to have terrifying and unsettling undertones that will satisfy anyone looking for an intelligently-made character analysis.Actually, this film manages to pull off three character analyses, and each one has something uniquely chilling to add to the forboding atmosphere of Dolores Claiborne's world. Many critics unfairly panned this film as merely Kathy Bates' second attempt to earn an oscar, by comparing her work in this film to her performance as Annie in Misery. Unfortunately, this comparison would preclude much of the nuances of inner turmoil that Bates adds to her exceptional turn as the film's title character. The open-minded viewer will come to feel a remarkable depth of sympathy for Dolores' plight, and this is a direct function of the quality of Bates' performance.Equally as impressive is Jennifer Jason Leigh as Delores' sullen daughter, Selena. Brooding and Tortured is a character type the Leigh does better than just about anyone (re watch her performance in Georgia), and very few cinematic characters carry the emotional trauma of Selena. As the film progresses and Selena comes to confront the demons of her past, her character becomes a victim of her past, and the image of a resentful daughter that is so prevalent at the outset of the film fades away.The character of Vera, the invalid that Dolores is accused of murdering, is also mutifaceted. Judy Parfitt conveys all of the blase and patronizing attitudes of the affluent, but as her character deteriorates, she, like Dolores and Selena, reveals the extent of her own victimization. When she says that sometimes being a bitch is the only thing a woman has left to hold onto, (which is STILL one of the best lines EVER) it is perfectly evident that she has earned the privilege of making such a statement, although she may not have previously seemed to have that much depth.Rating 9 out of 10. Absolutely brilliant acting, with fascinating, engaging characters and intelligent dialogue. The plot and the direction progress effortlessly towards the eventual, horrifying conclusions that each woman must face. Could be misconstrued as overwrought by those who were expecting to see a repeat of Misery. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates bites again! A Wonderful drama!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King+ Kathy Bates is a winning combination. Though unlike Misery, this movie is not focusing on the horror aspect.There is some shocking violence in this movie, but it's not the main thing. If you're looking for action look somewhere else. If you're looking for a great drama with a wonderful cast then this is your movie.I just loved it! Stephen King is a master of story-telling as the past and present unfold in front of our eyes and we get one piece of the puzzle at the time up to the great climax at the end.Taylor Hackford also did a great job directing this movie. There are some really cool visual effects quite similar to what Hackford did later in Devil's Advocate two years later. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked this movie. It was so good. It kept me in suspense the whole time. The acting was great. By Bates and Leigh was excellent in this movie. The music was really thrilling. The plot of it was really good too. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves a good King film. it was worth watching! "},{"Title":"One of Stephen King's best movies","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this movie on TV a couple of years ago but recently purchased it on DVD and watched it for a second time. It certainly is worth a second viewing.IMO this is the best adaption of a King book after Shawshank Redemption. If I described the plot it would sound boring - the movie is anything but - it's fast paced, interesting and has a serious point to make. Because it's based on a (good) Stephen King book then the plot is deep and detailed. Kathy Bates is absolutely brilliant in this movie - and the rest of the cast is good too - but she is fantastic. It's a feminist movie in the sense that the story is about Delores (hard) life but I can highly recommend it to anyone.How come it's an 18 certificate in the UK? This should be prescribed viewing to every 13 year old girl and boy. "},{"Title":"Sometimes being a bitch is all a woman has to hold onto.","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne is directed by Taylor Hackford and adapted to screenplay by Tony Gilroy from the novel of the same name written by Stephen King. It stars Kathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, David Strathairn, John C. Riley, Christopher Plummer and Judy Parfitt. Music is scored by Danny Elfman and cinematography by Gabriel Beristain.Plot sees Leigh as Selena St. George, a big-city reporter who travels to her home town island in Maine when her mother is accused of murdering the elderly woman that she was caring for. Her estranged mother, Dolores (Bates), is also widely suspected to have killed her husband and Selena's father some 20 years earlier, even though that was ruled as an accident. As mother and daughter come together, secrets of the past merge with the harshness of the present.A terrificly well acted and well mounted drama doing justice to a great book, Dolores Claiborne thrusts family trauma to the front of an on going murder investigation. King adaptations are well known for being very hit and miss, but this is certainly one of the better ones, it sees a shift from standard horror monsters, to monsters of a different kind, the human ones. Played out to a perpetually dank backdrop of rain, grey skies and a sea devoid of beauty, film unfolds to reveal the sadness of one family's roots, where emotional discord hangs heavy, constantly. The structure is well handled by Hackford, as present day scenes merge into those from the past, giving off a perfectly ghost like feel to the plotting. Plummer's weary detective John Mackey is a bit too underwritten for my liking, and the time afforded the pre-trial debate and inquest is simply not enough to make the required impact once all the revelations come tumbling forward. The latter unforgivable given the film runs at over two hours.However, slight irks aside, this is still great stuff and if only for the trio of lead lady performances then this is a must see for the drama seeking film fan. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great performances from two great actresses","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While this isn't a film I'd watch often because of the subject matter it is none the less a brilliant film starring two great actresses on top form. There may not be vast amounts of action but that doesn't stop it being an exciting thriller which is fairly disturbing in places.The film opens with two women struggling at the top of a flight of stairs, we can't see what is going on, just hear it. One of them falls and the other comes down the stairs, goes to the kitchen and gets a rolling pin, she stands over the fallen woman with the rolling pin over her head when the postman enters. This woman is the eponymous Dolores Claibourne played by the excellent Kathy Bates. The police suspect that Dolores has murdered her employer but don't have enough evidence to hold her. Somebody in the town sends a fax of the local newspaper report to Dolores' estranged daughter Selena, played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, who is working as a reporter in New York, when she gets this she returns to Maine.What follows is a gripping story which not only includes the present case but the death of Selena's father many years before. The police officer who investigated the earlier case was certain that Dolores had murdered her abusive husband but couldn't prove it, now investigating the second death he is determined that he will convict her. Much of the story is shown in flashback to when Selena was a child before her father died.The acting to top notch throughout, not just the two leading ladies; David Strathairn as the abusive husband, Ellen Muth as the young Selena and Christopher Plummer as the detective stand out in particular. The juxtaposition of the grey and wet present with the bright and sunny flashback scenes means we are never in any doubt about which time period we are watching even when both periods are on the screen at the same time. "}{"Title":"Minor Stephen King Work Gives Great Material to Two Great Actresses","Date":"18 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The minor Stephen King novel makes for a surprisingly good film.Credit for the film's quality must be given largely to Kathy Bates, in the title role, and Jennifer Jason Leigh, who plays her estranged daughter. Bates plays a victim of spouse abuse who plans the death of her husband to release her from her own hell; Leigh is the daughter who hates her mom without truly understanding her. Both women are terrific. In performances like this and her turn in Fried Green Tomatoes, Kathy Bates was able to quickly evade the typecasting danger that followed her after her success in Misery, while Jennifer Jason Leigh gave just one more in a string of under-appreciated performances throughout the 1990s.Worth checking out.Grade A- "},{"Title":"Hollywood injustice...","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ms Bates showed us what an actress is supposed to do....one of the best performances I've ever seen. Yes, even better than her performance in Misery! I've watched this movie several times just to experience her brilliant performance....just incredible! Why she wasn't deluged with awards I'll never understand! After seeing this movie, I became an avowed Bates fan and she has never disappointed me in any role she's done. This role was executed with particular skill because Bates is, in real life, a Southern girl from Memphis playing an aging woman of Maine and her accent and mannerisms seemed amazingly authentic. What a performance! "},{"Title":"This movie is a deeply insightful portrayal of the dynamics of VICTIMIZATION and the overcoming of it.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Besides a good story and fantastic filmography, this production reveals how victims become further victimized by being so deeply misunderstood.How is it that when victims react to their abuse, THEY are the ones who are reviled?? This movie is a perfect portrait of this outrageously common injustice -- and how, in this case, a victim's strength of character prevailed and exonerated her on all fronts.I had the impression from trailers long ago that this was a typical Stephen King horror flick -- okay, maybe it was Kathy Bates smashing a window with an ax??That was very misleading. She IS angry at what some yahoos have done to her house, but the oh-so-brief ax scene is not gratuitous violence, as you will see.This moving, instructive film ought to be shown in every mental health center throughout the land! "},{"Title":"A second Oscar for Kathy Bates...","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Misery was good and it takes great skill to make us feel for a raving lunatic. But what Kathy Bates does in this film is otherworldly. I don't follow these awards shows but I hope that she was, at very least, nominated. EVERYONE involved in this film did an INCREDIBLE job. I especially loved the relationship between Dolores and Vera -and- I'm a dude. I haven't seen any of Judy Parfitt's other works but her work in this film makes me want to seek out everything she's ever appeared in. The soundtrack, pacing/ editing, the cinematography - EVERYTHING in this movie works on many different levels. I've purchased/ gifted this film at least three times now and it's easily my favorite story from Stephen King. Dolores Claiborne (film) is about perception, forgiveness and love and anyone would be a better human being for seeing it. "},{"Title":"Underrated!","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is my first review ever. Just saw the movie, and I'm thrilled by the performances! Kathy Bates, David Strathairn and Christopher Plummer are all, way too underrated as actors. In my opinion they are true artists! As an actor, they seem to make everything so easy and natural! And you never know where they are going with their characters. This is becoming more a review of the actors rather than of the movie. One of the reasons I haven't seen this movie until now is actually because of the dreadful title and cover! But it is another great Stephen King-film! As the movie goes on, what you think you knew isn't as simple as that, and your judgement of the characters might seem to be made to soon. But the storytelling and the acting is just perfectly done! I can't believe this film didn't win or at least was nominated for more awards?! The acting is just great. Wish there were even more scenes with Vera, all of her scenes were amazing and you never could see where it was going, which I think is great! The only negative thing I have to say about this movie is the lighting. I find it to depressive, even though I understand it is a deliberate choice it doesn't serve the movie. Just a little brighter would have been fine by me. But King is a truly great storyteller and the actors are masters of their craft! "},{"Title":"Sometimes being a bitch is the only thing a woman has to hold on to....","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ......or so we are told in Dolores Claiborne - three times in the course of the film - and the wisdom has since become a widespread audio clip on many a drag queen's answering service. Campy it is, and to a great extent due to some friendly motifs a mother/daughter dysfunctional relationship (borrowing from Hitchcock's Marnie, in a way, also venturing into Bergman territory); two women living together in an isolated house, one of them incapacitated, the other one the carer (shades of Baby Jane, n'est-ce-pas?); a lurid family secret and childhood trauma involving (or not) sexual abuse (Marnie, again, and others), an so on. On top of that, Dolores Claiborne is heavily filtered and moody, has two strong central female performances (three, counting Parfitt, who flees into mannerisms a little too often but has her moments) - and features a very efficient male bitch (Christopher Plummer). It contains a very descriptive fully blown symphonic score by Danny Elfman, and Taylor Hackford cuts back and forth in time and narrates the story slowly and with elegance and style. The dialogue is on a high note, but fits in well in the atmosphere, and fans of both Bates & Jason Leigh get united here for a special treat from both actresses - one-liners fly like knives in Carrie, words are bitter and feelings deep. The pivotal scene of the film - the one revealing the event which triggered Jason Leigh's neurosis in adolescence - is memorably directed and genuinely unsettling to watch time and again. Good support from John C Reilly and Ellen Muth as young Selena. Enjoyable though occasionally over-expressive sombre adult drama. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Thriller.","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne is a very great/different movie. This acting was excellent, including Kathy Bates, the brilliant Jennifer Jason Leigh, and great actor Christopher Plummer. This movie is about Selena, whose mother is accused for the murder of an old woman whom she worked for for the past years. Then, when Selena comes up to Maine to visit Dolores, she remembers her terrible childhood growing up with an abusive, alcoholic father. This is a very dramatic thriller. I recommend it. I give Dolores Claiborne a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Remarkable Performance by Kathy Bates","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For some reason I missed seeing this picture in 1995 and was spellbound from the very beginning of the film to the end. Kathy Bates,(Dolores Claiborne),Bruno,'2000 played a very down to earth woman who loved her daughter very much and did everything to make certain she had a good education and free from the conditions that prevailed in her home town. Jennifer Jason Leigh,(Selena St. George),In The Cut,'03, played the daughter who is a very successful reporter/writer living in New York City. Selena found out that her mother was in trouble back home and needed her help and it is about this time that the story starts to unfold and plenty of action starts happening. Judy Parfitt,(Vera Donovan),Ever After,'98, was a very wealthy woman who hired Dolores Claiborne to be her live in maid or so called, SLAVE. Christopher Plummer,(Det. John Mackey),Blizzard,'03, gives a great supporting role in trying to solve all the mystery that seems to surround the life of Dolores in her past and present day happenings. This story keeps you wondering just what happened in the past and how this film will end. Great entertainment and outstanding acting. "},{"Title":"Under-Rated movie of the 20th Century","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A brilliant mix of scenes' that come together to tell a very unique story; its not for the faint-hearted but its an important story to tell. It includes a good deal of profanity, sexual references and brief violence. It's a masterpiece that is extremely underrated, it contains the same atmosphere as Stephen Kings Misery, The small town with a close community that has just the bare necessities and is still happy to survive. Family challenges are abundant, and that's what makes this film so special as In the end the family bonds that have been tested to endurance remain between Mother & Daughter. I actually called my own Mother after the movie just to say hi. "},{"Title":"Bates Does It Again","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kathy Bates stars in another Stephen King project and again she does an excellent job. When a young woman, Selena St. George played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, comes back home she returns to a place of many bad memories. Her mother, Dolores Claiborne (Kathy Bates), faces charges of murder when Judy Parfitt (Vera Donovan), the lady she was caring for, ends up dead.The movie is really about Dolores Claiborne's struggles in a small town in Maine. She suffered through an abusive relationship with her husband, a demeaning relationship with her employer and a volatile relationship with her daughter. Dolores wasn't the smartest nor the prettiest but she was strong. She bore her hardships and found ways to push past them.We all love a tale of triumph or overcoming oppression, especially when it is done with good acting. Dolores Claiborne was just that. A movie light on blithesome moments still provided glimpses of satisfaction to restore your hope in all that's good. "}{"Title":"Outstanding!","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From the first time I saw it, Dolores Claiborne became on of my favorite films. I'm surprised there wasn't more Oscar recognition as everything about met or exceeded expectations. Kathy Bates turns in a stellar performance as the frumpy recluse with a past and a daughter who is not sure whether to love or hate her. Christopher Plummer stars as the vengeful detective with his own agenda. But the real star was Judy Parfitt as the wealthy, eccentric Vera Donovan. Having not seem her before, I was pleasantly pleased with her performance as her character was the cornerstone of the story. I couldn't have casted Vera's role any better. All cast members came together to make one great story about dark events from the past coming forward. I have not read the book from which the film was made but I'm thinking this may be one of those rare cases where the film is as good as its book. "},{"Title":"For the three women who act like bitches to survive!","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It all starts with Dolores (Bates) wields a rolling pin and tries to finish the life of Vera (Parfitt), a decrepit lady in wheelchair, so the first thing jumped into my mind is, is this MISERY (1990, 8/10) part II, another Stephen King's creepy thriller starring Kathy Bates? Yes, the movie will blow you away, yet&#x1B; in a very divergent way, DOLORES CLAIBORNE is a majestically hatched harangue to the male-dominant society with a pungent tint of misandry, and miraculously, as a male audience, I am not repelled at all, because a trio of actresses thoroughly win me over with their powerhouse rendition, they all act like a bitch to survive in the inequitable world, the undertone oozes with bone-chilling malignity which as if we are reaping our own consequences to disparage the worth of womanhood. Director Taylor Hackford (Mr. Helen Mirren) maximizes the juicy script (adapted by Tony Gilroy with superb grasp on verbal tit-for-tat) with contrast palettes (seamlessly segue between bleak present and balmy past) to channel us into two unsolved death cases. 15 years later, Selena (Leigh), a young reporter in New York, reluctantly revisits her mother Dolores in remote Maine, who is accused of murdering the aforementioned Vera, a rich widow and the longtime employer of Dolores, who works as a maid in her house for over 20 years. Local detective John Mackey (Plummer) keeps his suspicious eyes on Dolores and steps up offensively, while the friction between the mother-daughter pair exacerbates since there is an irreconcilable one-sided estrangement (Selena to Dolores) or even hatred standing between them. Soon what really troubles all these people comes to light, it is many many years ago during an eclipse day, Dolores' domestic abusive husband Joe (Strathairn, heinous, smug, but dangerously sexy) accidentally (or not?) fell to his death near their home, and Dolores gets away with it (and thus ruined Mackey's perfect career record), but the truth is never that simple, the justification and motivation behind a premeditated murder is converted to a self-defensive protection, it is a familial harassment with a much dark and more reprehensible secret, but the repercussions haunt and torture the pair for so many years although the maltreater bit the bullet long ago.Firstly Kathy Bates is robbed for an Oscar nomination say the very least, compellingly affectionate and decisively bold as a desperate mother who will do anything to offer a better prospect for her daughter, a selfless love which she asks no recompense, even though Selena completely cuts her out of her life, she is just contented to collect her newspaper articles and be as proud as a mother can be. Bates is simply a nonesuch to be a big-screen diva with her killing bearing fluctuating between a vulnerable housewife and redoubtable matron. Jennifer Jason Leigh, the most under-appreciated actress among her coeval, strikes as an unthankful and wayward stuck-up hipster at first, but she slowly unwinds her wound with aching perseverance and she is pretty amazing too, we are all fully aware there must be a reason behind all the bickering and rebuffs, then we discover her deepest trauma which she wholly obliterates, it hits like a big bang, and she generates wonderful luster of compassion no lesser than Bates. The biggest surprise is the lesser-known theater actress Judy Parfitt, a bona-fide scene-stealer, plumb pivotal to the sinuous storyline, who registers unsettling incarnations during two different time frames, the younger Vera who is haughty and fastidious on the appearance, far-seeing and astute underneath; then the elder Vera, paralyzed and miserable, death is her only salvation and she wants to culminate it in her own way for the last time. Although the She is my current win for BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS of 1995 while Leigh comes strong as the third. Last but not the least, Christopher Plummer never fail to attain the limelight with his incisive gaze and lucid utterance, even the character is not particularly interesting. DOLORES CLAIBORNE radiates phenomenal visual potency by juxtaposing the eclipse marvel with the accentuated action set piece, only when the sun is blocked by the moon, as if it symbolizes, that's the time the cold-blooded retribution can be consummated with heightened sentient venting! A truly remarkable movie and let's not diminish the merit of the perfectly aligned score by Danny Elfman. "},{"Title":"Excellent psychological/suspense mystery","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Selena St George reluctantly returns to the small Maine island where she grew up, and where her estranged mother Dolores is being held by police. Dolores worked for bitter old crippled woman Vera Donovan, and following Vera dying after falling downstairs, Detective Mackey is holding her on suspicion of murder after all, he is convinced she murdered her husband, but he couldn't prove it.This is adapted from one of Stephen King's shorter and most subtle books though not without its nightmarish elements, it is far from a horror story, and King wrote the character Dolores with Kathy Bates in mind.The story unwinds through flashbacks, and the intermingling of recollection, reality and prejudicial interpretation keep the mystery element working throughout the film. All five principle performers (Bates as Dolores, Jennifer Jason Leigh as Selena, Judy Parfitt as Vera, Christopher Plummer as Mackey, and David Strathairn as Joe St George) are excellent, as is the adaptation by Tony Gilroy and the direction by Taylor Hackford.This is not only the great overlooked Stephen King adaptations, it is also probably the classiest. "},{"Title":"Great talent at work in this movie","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne brings together a number of great acting talents in a highly entertaining movie that probes the dark past of a small town. The cast was outstanding, including Kathy Bates, Judy Parfitt, and Christopher Plummer; as well as Jennifer Jason Leigh and David Straithairn in a movie with a number of overlapping themes - strained family relationships, small town animosities, alcoholism, the overbearing boss, marital discord, murder... it's all there. This movie weaves all of them into a great story that reaches a climax with a solar eclipse above cabin cruisers in a bay of the Atlantic Ocean. Based on another Stephen King novel set in Maine, this complex set of interesting characters keeps us fixed to the screen. The story revolved around the relationships between Dolores Claiborne (Bates) and the people in her story her drunken, abusive husband (Strathairn), her overbearing employer (Parfitt), her estranged but feisty daughter (Leigh), and the tough local cop (Plummer). I particularly liked Judy Parfitt, a star of the British stage and screen, the elegant but exploiting employer, who counted the number of clothespins on the line and who became a bedridden tyrant. Plummer was at his best as the sheriff out to nail Dolores. Jennifer Jason Leigh was the offspring of Dolores and her husband Joe St. George who carried the scars from childhood of their strained relationship. The movie was shot in Nova Scotia, not Maine, and there are a number of dead giveaways that a Nova Scotian or Canadian would notice. The Josua Slocum, the ferry running to the island, is one of the ferries off The Digby Neck. There are great shots of the Lunenburg Academy and the scrubby coastal landscape of the south shore of Nova Scotia. The visuals add to the pleasure of this well acted and smartly scripted movie. I think Stephen King's novel was well presented in this movie. There were violent scenes of course but to my mind, the characters and acting did the novel justice. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"3 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne, who lives in Maine, is accused of two mysterious deaths. So the Maine State Police calls Selena who lives in New York to come to Maine with Dolores. Selena is Dolores's daughter, and they haven't seen each other for 15 years. Dolores and Selena are two different people. While Selena only has a weekend with Dolores, Dolores pieces back evidence from the past to prove she did not kill Selena's father, and Dolores's best friend, Vera Donovan, who she has been working for for 22 years. Selena does not believe what Dolores has said, so the morning that Selena leaves for Arizona, Dolores makes a tape for Selena stating the truth so Selena would listen to it in the car. After Selena hears the tape, she feels ashamed of herself for accusing her mother. So when Dolores is at Town Hall talking to Maine State Police, Selena decides to visit and defends her mother. At the end of the movie, Dolores and Selena now agree with each other and Selena heads for Arizona. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Taylor Hackford directed this compelling adaptation of the Stephen King novel that stars Kathy Bates as Dolores Claiborne, a feisty woman living in remote Maine who is under investigation for the death of her long-time employer Vera Donovan(played by Judy Parfitt). Dolores' daughter Selena(played by Jennifer Jason Leigh) now a big city reporter, goes back home to help her, but secrets from the past involving her father(played by David Strathairn) are uncovered that will change both women forever... Superb performances, especially Bates, highlight this imaginatively directed and most interesting mystery. Christopher Plummer costars as the detective with a grudge. "},{"Title":"What really happened on the island?","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A movie as real as life itself about a selfless woman who was scorned as a murderer. And who knows, maybe she was a murderer even though she seemingly dedicated her life to taking care of others. But did she? Maybe she harbored dark secrets of the worst kind. Why else would her daughter ostracize her and turn to drugs and booze? Why was the police chief so relentless in prosecuting this woman for something, anything, without any proof? What is really going on with this in this little town? One thing is for sure, you can trust the performances of these great actors to be so perfectly nuanced that they will deliver a crystal clear understanding of what's really going on with Dolores Claiborne.And when you find out you may find yourself questioning your assumptions about everyone you meet. Are they as they seem or are they not? "},{"Title":"Sometimes being a bitch is all a woman has to hold onto.","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A talented group of filmmakers take a particularly interesting Stephen King novel, one that basically amounts to one long monologue by the main character, and fleshes it out quite well, giving each of the main characters their own chance to shine. It's a long but heavily engrossing story of damaged people affected deeply by the past and living in a dreary present, and a story of the fractured relationship between a long estranged mother and daughter with differing memories of long ago events. Eventually truths are revealed and they are able to finally able to make some sort of attempt at coping.Kathy Bates, who'd performed so superbly and memorably as the villainess in the previous King adaptation Misery, here plays a more sympathetic person, the title woman who's had to put up with a lot of garbage during her life. In the present day she stands accused of murdering her longtime employer, Vera Donovan (Judy Parfitt). This brings Dolores's bitter daughter Selena (Jennifer Jason Leigh) home for the first time in a while. Selena still hasn't forgiven Dolores for the past, and a weary old detective bearing a grudge (Christopher Plummer) is determined that this time he will prove Dolores to be a killer.Set on a fictional Maine island dubbed Little Tall Island, this was filmed in Canadas' province of Nova Scotia (which is close enough to Maine geographically), and there's plenty of atmosphere to be enjoyed in the presentation. The films' biggest visual hook is the way that director Taylor Hackford and director of photography Gabriel Beristain differentiate points in time, by having the '75 period be bright and sunny and well lit to having lots of overcast skies and a somber mood to permeate the '93 scenes.The tale itself is one of Kings' best, and it receives respectful treatment from Hackford and screenwriter Tony Gilroy, who with the assistance of some very good actors create a rich gallery of personalities. Bates, Leigh, and Plummer are all wonderful; David Strathairn is very much slime personified as the worthless husband / father, Parfitt is a delight as the rich society type with more heart than she likes to reveal, Ellen Muth is touching as the teen aged version of Selena, and John C. Reilly is likable as well meaning constable Frank Stamshaw.Everything is further enhanced by a haunting and emotional score composed by Danny Elfman and good visual effects; the climactic solar eclipse is well realized on film.Those King fans disappointed with the quality of some of the films based on his work need only check out or revisit this resonant gem. Dolores is one of those great King characters whom you know you'll remember.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great stuff from the pen of Stephen King!...","Date":"25 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As some of you may know, I am a fan of the work of Stephen King and as such I'm interested in film adaptations of his work. Unfortunately, many of them are quite bad, fortunately this isn't one of those. I hadn't got round to reading the book before seeing this, but I don't think that affected my enjoyment of it. King invents such great characters and this is a case in point, some really well rounded characters and a mystery thriller to boot! Who couldn't ask for more? Here's a brief summary before I give you my take on it.We begin with the death of Vera Donovan, a rich old lady who lived alone with her carer, Dolores Claiborne. We find Vera at the bottom of the stairs with Dolores standing beside her, arms raised with a heavy rolling pin in her hands. She expires before Dolores uses it, but on that evidence, it doesn't look good for her. In New York, Dolores has a daughter, Selena, a journalist, who is faxed a copy of a local news report about the case. She arrives in the small town on an island off the coast of Maine to find her mother at the police station. Detective John Mackey, who is running the investigation is keeping here there because the house she was living in, Vera's, is now a crime scene. Dolores decides to stay in her own house, the one she had shared with her abusive husband, Joe St. George and Selena, before he died many years before. Detective Mackey had investigated that death too, and had been suspicious that Dolores was responsible, but couldn't prove it. There is a lot of tension between Dolores and Selena, both have secrets. Secrets that are about to be revealed&#x85; I'll leave it there so them Spoiler Police don't try to throw me down a well or something.This is a very well made film that obviously had a decent budget. The sets and locations match the mood perfectly. I admit I was a little disappointed at how dull it all looked at first, but I soon realised that all of the flashback scenes, and there's quite a few of those, are all in vivid colour. As far as performances go, well I can't fault Kathy Bates as Dolores Claiborne, she hardly put a foot wrong, a masterful performance! Jennifer Jason Leigh also put in a good turn as Selena St. George, as did Judy Parfitt as Vera Donovan. I should also mention Christopher Plummer as Detective John Mackey and David Strathairn as Joe St. George, both also put in fine performances. John C. Reilly had a minor role as Const. Frank Stamshaw and finally a special mention for Ellen Muth, who did an excellent job as Young Selena in some of the flashback scenes.I really enjoyed this film with its intriguing characters and a plot that always keeps you guessing. It has quite a slow pace and is quite melodramatic, but I didn't mind that particularly, I was more interested in the characters and the plot. If I have one criticism, it is that it is a little too long and, because of this, it does seem to drag on a bit towards the end. Over all though, a film I very much enjoyed and one I can recommend to you.My Score 8.4/10 IMDb Score 7.3/10 (14,832 votes when this review was written). Rotten Tomatoes Score 85/100 (33 reviews counted when this review was written). "},{"Title":"Sometimes all a woman has is being a bitch","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I rather like this movie better than the novel.  I suppose it's because the movie has to tell the story in its allotted time and  unnecessary elements then get stripped out.  Kathy Bates does an outstanding job of portraying the New England Islander self-sufficient woman who works a number of menial jobs and saves in order to get a better life for her child.  Unfortunately she is also married to a man and living in a time when the man can destroy that world.  However as we've seen in Greek plays and other stories of oppressed people, it is sometimes possible to be victorious.  Dolores and her employer find they have more in common than just being women. Overall, I found Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance to be stilted.  Ellen Muth, playing her as a young woman, gives a much stronger and believable performance in a most difficult ferry scene.   "}{"Title":"Sometimes Being A Bitch Is All A Woman Has To Hold Onto.","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In 1990 Kathy Bates delivered a memorable, Oscar-winning performance as the crazed fan Annie Wilkes in MISERY, based on the Stephen King novel of the same name. Five years later, once again in a King adaptation, she gave arguably an even better and more multi-faceted performance in the title role of DOLORES CLAIBORNE, a non-horror story about a woman's past and the daughter she will do anything to protect. She is aided and abetted here by great performances by the ensemble Jennifer Jason Leigh as the adult Selena, Dolores's daughter, a pill-popping, hard drinking investigative reporter who dresses all in black and whose entire affect is one of leave me alone; Ellen Muth as Selena at thirteen (a particular coup; much of this movie is told in flashback and the resemblance between Muth and Leigh is astounding); Judy Parfitt as Dolores's imperious employer, Christopher Plummer as a detective with an axe to grind against Dolores for something in her past; and the great David Strathairn as Dolores's alcoholic husband Joe. Yet this move failed to garner a single Oscar nomination, something I shall never understand.The flashbacks in this movie are perhaps the most arresting thing in it the story is memory, and what makes this film special is that the now is filmed in unrelenting shades of grimy grey, while the flashbacks are in brilliant color, a stroke of genius for director Taylor Hackford, as it delivers a powerful message that the past shapes us more than we even realize.Running through this film is the leitmotif Sometimes being a bitch is all a woman has to hold onto. Spoken by the adult Serena, Dolores's employer Vera Donovan, and Dolores herself, this is in many ways the central theme of the story the ways in which women are mistreated, judged, and often abused by the men around them. It is probably the most feminist story King ever wrote, a gritty and realistic tale about women taking care of one another and bonding together in defense against the various cruelties inflicted on them by the men in their lives.Bates is sensational in the title role; in many ways this is an even better performance than that which she gave in MISERY; it requires her to play a great deal many more notes, age something like eighteen years, and create a woman who is has become her own person through blood, sweat, and tears. Dolores is cranky, has a bit of a temper, and is eccentric in that there's always one in every small town kind of way. But not crazy. She is as sane as you and I (assuming of course that we are sane, but eye digress), and when faced with an abomination, she takes matters in hand out of sheer desperation. Yet to call her simply a victim would not be correct; she's tough, and she fights back. Fights dirty, too, when the need arises.Judy Parfitt as the snooty Vera is terrific; she gives the film a few laughs at unexpected moments despite the fact that at the end of the day she turns out to be the most tragic figure in the film.Perhaps the only member of the cast who can truly be called a victim is Selena at thirteen; Ellen Muth, a brilliant young actress, delivers the goods with a powerful performance that dovetails seamlessly with Leigh's portrait of the same character grown up. The adult Serena is better termed a survivor; she may overdo the booze and the pills, but she's still standing. Leigh is virtually flawless here.Special mention must be made of Christopher Plummer as the detective, so certain that Dolores has committed a murder that he enters the film with his mind made up. Condescending in the extreme, his final showdown, when it comes, is not with Dolores, but with Selena.And last but by no means least, the marvelous David Strathairn as Joe. Joe is a hateful character; he abuses Dolores both verbally and physically, and gets meaner when he drinks. Yet Strathairn somehow manages to make him rather a pathetic character; you might hate him, but you'll also pity him.This is a truly great film that was completely overlooked by the Academy. Shame on them. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates is Frumpy Good in Gripping Story ***1/2","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Obviously, a drunkard, such as the role that David Strathairn played was one where he was forced to marry a very frumpy looking Kathy Bates.Bates easily topped her Oscar winning performance in Misery in this creative film dealing with a variety of social problems.Bates is equally matched by an outstanding supporting cast including her neurotic victimized daughter, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and the town sheriff, played with relish by Christopher Plummer. He is out to get Bates for the murder of her husband as well some 18 years before.Bates plays a housekeeper to a very vicious, perfectionist woman for many years. You have to wonder why she stayed with her that along, especially when the woman becomes bedridden. The surprise of the lesbian angle between the 2 women must have come as a jolt to the audience.Go know that Leigh was physically abused by her father as well.These interlocking problems certainly serves this movie quite well.Bates, as a victim of circumstances all around, is terrific here. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates' best performance in her best movie","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dolares Claiborne is an almost perfect movie.  The story is excellent(by Stephen King), the acting is outstanding, and the scenery is beautiful.  I cant think of anybody else playing Dolares Claiborne other than Kathy Bates, she was excellent and deserved an oscar nomination for her performance.  Many people say that her movie Misery(also by Stephen King) was better than this, but I disagree.  Overall an excellent movie, one of the genre's best. ***1/2 out of ****. "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It is rare that a movie manages to be better than or at least as good as the novel from which it was adapted, as books generally have deeper plots and characters, and the movie that emerges (condensed into easily viewable stories) are mere shadows of the actual story, stripped bare, essentially missing all (essential or otherwise) padding...However, Dolores Claiborne is a delight. Adapted from King's novel, the screenplay by Tony Gilroy is very different from the novel but tight and clever.Kathy Bates gives a fantastically rounded performance; with fine support from Jennifer Jason Leigh, David Straithan, Christopher Plummer, and Judy Parfitt.The direction by Taylor Hackford is suprisingly good. And the movie has a unique visual impact on the viewer. Scenes in the present filmed in cold stark blue, while scenes from the past in vibrant brightness. Images of the sky and clouds dominate the movie, with the clouds either blood-streaked/dark/grey/white and fluffy - as befits the current mood of the upcoming scenes.A joy to watch, I highly recommend this movie. It's just a shame it has been so underrated, ignored at the Oscars; perhaps it was marketed too much as a follow-up (but not sequel) to Misery rather than on its own merits... "},{"Title":"The movie Dolores Claiborne is an excellent look at a mother's selfless love and a daughter struggling to come to terms with her bitter childhood memories.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The tension between Dolores (Kathy Bates) and her daughter Selena (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is very real.  The dreary New England environment, the constant taunting of Detective Mackey (well done by Christopher Plummer), and the suspicions and coldness of her daughter are not enough to demoralize Dolores.  The love Dolores has for her daughter Selena gives her the conviction to withstand years of hard living so that her daughter's life could be better.This is one of Kathy Bates' best roles.  The oppressive employer Vera Donovan (Judy Parfitt) is more than just the one dimensional character she initially appears to be.  Vera and Dolores, though living quite different lives, realize they have much more in common than they thought.  I was totally engrossed in the storyline and the depths of all the characters. The movie switches between the present and the past as the layers of each character's story and motivations unfold, showing a deeper side to Dolores and enabling Selena to finally grow up and see her mother for the resilient woman she is.  The movie is serious and suspenseful.  This is an example of how a strong storyline and exceptional acting are what make a movie a classic, not over-reliance explosions, sex, or special effects. "},{"Title":"Simply a Classic film!","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Of all of Stephen King's stories, Dolores Claiborne is one of favorite movies with an excellent cast, writing, and directing. For starters, I am shocked that nobody received Oscar nominations especially Kathy Bates, the excellent Judy Parfitt, Christopher Plummer, Jennifer Jason Leigh, John C. Reilly, Ellen Muth, David Straitharn just to name a few all provide excellent support in telling a story of a lifelong Maine woman Dolores Claiborne St. George who has an abusive husband played well by David Straitharn and a daughter Selena equally played well by Jennifer Jason Leigh and Ellen Muth. The death of Vera Donovan opens the movie to reveal flashbacks to the past. The unlikely bond of two very different women like Dolores and Vera is fascinating to watch over time. Vera is a difficult woman who expects everything to go her way. She is one of the most difficult employers too but somehow Dolores understands her ways. Despite their backgrounds, they become the closest of female friends. Vera says Sometimes being a bitch is the only thing a woman has is a classic line from the film. I love Kathy Bates and Judy Parfitt in this film. The director Taylor Hackford does an excellent job in depicting Maine's beauty in the fall. The solar eclipse is also inviting to see and the drama that occurs during it. King keeps getting better with his work. Bates' narrating over the action allows us to understand the character's harsh working conditions bestowed by Donovan. Plummer plays a district attorney bent on proving Claiborne's murderous ways in this film. The film allows the audience to determine how we view Dolores Claiborne, a simple Maine woman with a complicated life who made fateful decisions in a male dominated world. We leave asking ourselves what we would have done in that situation and that is what is makes it a great film. Not only that, we enjoy watching these actors and characters over and over again. "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I and my wife watched it already twice on dvd and it will not be the last time. It is really worth seeing again. The reasons1) The dramatic bestseller story from Stephen King with.2) The professional direction of Taylor Hackford.3) The beautiful but in general cold pictures.4) The wonderful music from Danny Elfman.5) The great performances from all the actors, especially Kathy Bates.6) There were some funny dialogs where we could laugh.7) The makeups were very well made and the introductions into the telling story well executed.For every film fan of this genre I highly recommend it to see. Dont expect very much action but it is dramatic enough to see an emotional and dramatic movie in another dimension. Dolores Claiborne will keep its place in my dvd collection.Rating A good 8/10. "},{"Title":"most gripping Stephen King screen adaptation","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Most people would without hesitation nominate Kubrick's The Shining as King's best screen adaption.  Even putting aside my reservations against the film's *major* deviations from the book, I have to say Dolores Claiborn is the more powerful film. Jack Nicholson and Shelley Duvall (and Scatman Crothers) are great, but not as great as Kathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Judy Partfitt, Christopher Plummer, John C. Reilly, Eric Bogosian and David Strathairn together!  What an incredible ensemble cast--excellent performances all!Although this is from one of the few King novels I haven't read (yet), I think it's fitting that the most thrilling suspense in a King flick would come from his one major non- supernatural outting.  This is rough territory, folks--if Sigmund Freud were to see this film somehow, they'd be dragging his sweaty, passed-out body out of the theatre about two thirds of the way through!  It only works because you care about the richly- developed characters.  (Any veteran King fan will tell you the spooks are icing on the cake--the characters are what matters.  King's love-affair with the American character, warts and all, is what makes him a national treasure.)And the plot?  I'll say nothing about the specifics, because (like Resevoir Dogs and Memento) the narrative structure, the very order in which the plot is unfolded, is the central pleasure of the film.  (Along with Kathy Bates' alternately chilling/heartwarming preformance, that is!)  One little thing this film has the best visualization of memories being superimposed on present-day vision that I've ever seen in a film.The less you know about this film, the better; don't even read the blurb on the back of the video or DVD case.  If you love King's writing, if you love suspense, best of all if you just love great movies, SEE THIS FILM!Warming this'll be an extremely rough ride if you've just lost or are about to lose an elderly family member.  That shouldn't stop you, but be prepared. "},{"Title":"A moving,absorbing thriller that stays with you.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dolores Claiborne is a moving,absorbing thriller that stays with you.Kathy Bates is a revelation in the title role.She deserved another oscar.Jennifer Jason Leigh is just as good as the daughter.Christopher Plummer,Judy Parfitt and David Strathairn are also excellent.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"wonderful!","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This one really hit me hard. I had never even heard of the movie, (guess I must have been out of the mainstream at the time... Well, of course I was! I was going through a divorce and ending of a marriage of 41 years as a result of almost the same stuff in the movie.) (Finally got my guts in order!!! And did it!) Just lucked upon it late night running thru the available channels. Current DH told me to TURN IT OFF, and I replied, I don't think so... WOW! Could I relate to a lot of this movie and all I could think was Go for it girl!!! When ya' gonna' get him? And get him good when you do!! Dad and daughter scenes go way back with me, almost same comments. Little gifts tend to capture a young girl's heart, esp. when Mom is out of state for 2 weeks and a 13 year old is left alone with Dad... Go figure. Thank God I was strong. I feel as though I may have lived all three of the women's lives in one form or another. Each one, sadly, to say the least. This one is a definite Do See!!!! My name is Emma Seeley and I am proud to stand up and say that women should not have to put up with any of this abuse...verbal, mental, or physical... "}{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This story is one of the best but least appreciated films based on a Stephen King story. I am not sure why it wasn't more widely acclaimed...perhaps Kathy Bates' prior performance in Misery overshadowed this one. All I know is that thought the story was terrific...with some nice twists.The story is, naturally, about a woman by the same name (Bates). She lives alone in a house...and is widely thought to be a murderess following the death of her friend, an old woman. Dolores' daughter lives in the big city and when she returns home due to the sensational story, she slowly learned what really happened through flashbacks. And, naturally, what the audience and her daughter THINK happened actually didn't.The film has terrific acting, a great story and keeps you guessing. Don't believe me, give it a try...you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Underrated and Ignored","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I won't bother to repeat a summary of this flick as so many others have done so already. What I will tell you is not to be foolish by not seeing this movie. This is a film you must pay attention to. Close attention. The films shifts from past to present in the blink of an eye. You don't want to miss a second.The mere fact that this movie didn't make a clean sweep at the Academy Awards and walk with every Oscar is beyond me and probably the majority of the comments on IMDb. Stephen King's writing at its finest, the best possible dream casting, Kathy Bates and Jennifer Jason Leigh gave monumental performances, I would say their career finest. But the Academy in their infinite wisdom chose to turn a blind eye to this masterpiece. Perhaps you can decide for yourself; I think this film was robbed of its true merits. "},{"Title":"Keeping secrets","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne is a film about keeping secrets. Everyone does here and when they are revealed we have the sum and substance of the film. This film will be quite the revelation to those who think Stephen King can only write about otherworldly creatures invading our space. Dolores Claiborne shows that we humans can be terrifying in and of ourselves just being who we are.The title role is played by Kathy Bates. She's a widow suspected in the death of wealthy widow Judy Parfitt for whom she was housekeeper and general factotum. Parfitt fell down a flight of stairs in her home and the authorities in the person of Christopher Plummer think she had help from Bates.Plummer several years ago investigated the death of Claiborne's husband David Strathairn who was a drunken lout and something even more sinister I won't reveal. He couldn't make the case, but he's determined to get Bates and make up for the fact this was the one case out of 86 homicides he did not make an arrest.Jennifer Jason Leigh who is the daughter of Strathairn and Bates who is an investigative reporter working in New York. She comes in to town to see if she can help her mother. It's between Bates and Jason Leigh that we learn about how everyone is keeping secrets and as the secrets are revealed we see how the characters true nature is.The climax of the film is the coroner's inquest where Jason Leigh and Plummer go head to head. The last of the secrets are revealed and Jennifer who covered enough homicide cases rips the arrogant Plummer into shreds. As they dialog, Kathy Bates sits by and watches and does some of her best acting with her eyes. It's a touching scene with highest quality of acting all around.In fact Dolores Claiborne ought to be required viewing for potential thespians. Not all of it involves written words even if they're written by a writer as acclaimed as Stephen King. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates great again","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" On an island in Maine, housekeeper Dolores Claiborne (Kathy Bates) is detained after her employer Vera Donovan falls to her death. The mailman stops Dolores before she smashes Vera's head in with a rolling pin. In NYC, Dolores' journalist daughter Selena St. George (Jennifer Jason Leigh) receives a mysterious fax with a news report about the incident. She returns to her hometown to help her mother. Dolores' abusive drunken husband Joe St. George (David Strathairn) is revealed in flashbacks.Kathy Bates is great once again in another adaptation of a Stephen King psychological thriller. There is nothing supernatural except for Bates' acting abilities. If there is a problem, it's a bit too long with so few thrilling moments. The reveals are terrific. Strathairn is a great villain. It would be better if the movie is tighter. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates is wonderful as usual, but it is hard to believe David Strathairn was her bully husband and Meryl Streep's wimpy husband in The River Wild!","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kathy Bates and Jennifer Jason Leigh are a mother and daughter team in Dolores Claiborne traumatized by the past and present. Dolores Claiborne aka Dolores St. George is a long-time resident of Little Tall Island in Maine. JJL is her daughter, Selena a troubled journalist. She is played by Ellen Muth as a teenager. Dolores works for this horrid rich woman named Vera Donavan (Judy Parfitt)who is very particular about how the chores around her huge mansion are done (i.e., mildew is grounds for firing, 6 pins, Dolores!--for when Dolores hangs the laundry on the lines in front of the house. Dolores has no relief at home. Joe St. George, her alcoholic, brutal husband talks in a strong Maine accent with a slur to his speech. He abuses her by smacking her with a piece of wood. Dolores can't take it anymore and smashes him in the face with a vase. Selena sees this and her mother tells her to go to bed. Dolores defends herself with an ax and neither of them want to use it on the other. Dolores's misery doesn't end. After years of being Vera's housekeeper, she is demoted to being the woman's nurse. Vera is stroke ridden and she falls down the stairs. Vera begs Dolores to finish her off with a rolling pin and the mailman comes by thinking Dolores killed Vera. Detective Mackey played by the always great Christopher Plummer and an officer played by John C. Reilly come to Vera's house and put everything in plastic bags to keep the evidence intact.Pretty soon, Selena comes over because of a fax about the alleged murder she receives in New York City where she lives now. Selena is a prescription-drug abusing, chain smoking, troubled journalist who is quite bitter and wants nothing to do with her mother and past life on the island. Soon, it is revealed that Joe St. George was probably murdered by Dolores during a solar eclipse in the 1970s. Dolores found out he was stealing money from their daughter's bank account and that is not the real catalyst for Dolores's rage. She finds out from her their daughter that the father has been molesting Selena. Dolores makes Joe chase her across the lawn and he falls to his death in a hole in the yard the two of them didn't know about. Vera's death was also an accident because she fell down the stairs after a physical altercation with Dolores.All of the performers were excellent in this movie about trauma and coming to terms with the past. Dolores is played to perfection by Kathy Bates and JJL as Selena is also very good! Christopher Plummer as Detective Mackey is determined to see justice done and John C. Reilly in a dramatic role is a surprise as well. I was amazed by David Strathairn as Joe St. George. One year earlier he was Meryl Streep's wimpy, studious husband in The River Wild and now he is a complete total opposite as Joe St. George. It takes a lot of range for an actor to play a role that is a total 180 degrees from what he played earlier! "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" she does one of the most seductive roles of her career. the entire dust and sand and fury and cold compassion and wise manner to define the events, the strange innocence and the form of angry are reflected in admirable manner. a film about justice. and survive. and an unique atmosphere. because it is one of the films who preserves in high manner the spirit of novel not only as adaptation but as the precise exploration of the small details who defines the force of the lines. a film about the struggle of a mother . and her strange victory. the landscapes, that Maine from the book,the dialogs, the special logic of Dolores are pillars of this film who has the rare gift to be a Stephen King in a not ordinary form of accuracy. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's Dolores Claiborne.","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film absolutely spoils the viewer for the first hour and fifty minutes. It really does screw up when it turns from a greatly constructed thriller from the mind behind the most terrifying novels that have sold million. Turns into a badly leaded, and cheaply constructed court room movie. A girl has to go to her hometown. In small pieces of sea-bedded land, in a small community. Where her hardworking mother has been arrested for killing someone. But when she returns, she opens a door to old memories, about nasty little things she had forgotten that had really happened. She hated and judicated her mother for it. Its a dramatic movie, that moves, loses and scares the viewer in ways the contemporary audience would'nt have expected from a King inspired story. Its ending is its only flaw. It dribbles on too long when the film should finished, but it had to tell what happens to the protagonists. Before that, it feels like a film directed by Sam Raimi with close ups and inventive shots of painted scenes and dark subject matter scenes have the contrast liquefied. And the film is always jumping into the past with injecting the colorful years back into the shot as it tells its story non-linearly in flashbacks.Its story is its attraction. So I will not spoil it in this review. But give you idea of what you're going into; get ready to be uncomfortable, both for an old film that has a slow start; and pathetic characters who wont be easy to like. Now to contradict that, this must the best casted film I've seen in awhile. Kathy Bates as Dolores Claiborne; she showed how good she is as a frighting number 1 fan in Stephen King's Misery and she is just as phenomenally entertaining in this film. Jennifer Jason Leigh is probably the worst casted member, she falls through most scene and makes it when its counts.But to be honest she playing a pretty messed up and broken, conflicted young woman in world where she has no control over what she wants or has any idea how bad thing really are. Christopher Plummer is easily the best performance and Judt Parfitt. But more memorable is the supporting role by John C Reiley; he's easy to dislike but makes the final scene a bit more bearable when his character finally makes sense.It has a cut-off small town in New England with each actor giving away that, with a borderline accent. It has two main plots, one about the past and redemption and revelation and the present that is like I said always coated in a dead dark and dramatic aesthetics that makes the well tolled tale more moving. A long time housekeeper is the main suspect to a murderer, but of course its not all that easy; its find by Selena (Jennifer Jason Leigh) that in fact they loved each other and even help each other in terrible moments in the past. Then the second plot is about Selena herself taking control of her life by reciting her abusive alcoholic father and accepting her mother has always been there for her. A very sweet film when you don't think about some moments that are really dark, but King and the director Taylor Hackford; mash up their story telling talent with some really great filmmaking. with scenes like this; when the character is effortlessly looking into the past without prompt to whether the audience is ready. Or this scene when the mirror resembles how ruined their lives are. And this just amazing looking transcendence scene from the second act to the final act with a polarizing moon eclipse.But again; the only thing that would stop me from watching this stylish mystery drama is the ending. It could have ended somewhere before the final moments, before Jason Leigh gave the whole second degree in an unshabby courtroom scene and makes the other actors seem like they're saying your ruining this film. But I digress, a nice film is a nice film. And Dolores Claiborne is a Stephen King film made by Sam Raimi -- that's what the film felt like for me. But more seriously its a drama film for dramatic narrative. And looks way too nice not work on some less hardhearted viewers. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates Kathy Bates Kathy Bates","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mother and daughter get to grips with the past.Hmmm. Old-fashioned flasher-back with swooping violins. And a right old Stephen King cheesefest - but with one outstanding element Kathy Bates. A beautiful actress who brings this story to heights it almost doesn't deserve. Like Nicholson in The Shining. No idea what it is with King - his stuff attracts some real film talent.The daughter's performance is a real weak link, but what ya gonna do with the ridiculous trial scene toward the end? The detective is good, and the wealthy widow too, and it's charming to hear all those Maine accents.The skies looked great, and there's a lot of praise for the eclipse sequence, but I thought the masking of the dying man's cries by the flotilla's horns was more dramatic.There is one forced moment of horror, with the perverse reflection in the mirror, but really this is just a folksy family drama - which runs maybe 10 minutes too long.Overall, one merit Kathy Bates Kathy Bates Kathy Bates. "},{"Title":"Performances Avoided by Oscars?","Date":"26 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne (1995) Dir Taylor Hackford / Cast Kathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Christopher Plummer, David Strathairn, Judy Parfitt Compelling thriller about endurable secrets. Kathy Bates stars as Dolores Claiborne who is in police custody for the murder of her boss. She claims to be innocent even though she was witnessed holding a rolling pin over the victim's head. Her daughter Selena arrives home due to an anonymous fax. Christopher Plummer portrays the lawyer out to prove Claiborne guilty. Their hatred dates back to the 1963 eclipse when he was unable to prove that she murdered her abusive husband. Director Taylor Hackford does a remarkable job going from past to present using lighting. Powerful performance by Bates whose past harbours scars but her future contains hope with a confession to her daughter to unearth buried pain. Jennifer Jason Leigh is flawless as her daughter Selena who uses pills to block out scars yet come to grips when she is her mother's last line of defence. Plummer is outstanding as the cynical lawyer whose only loss is to Claiborne but can he risk losing again? David Strathairn is vile as Claiborne's abusive liquor guzzling husband whose death is questionable moral. Judy Parfitt plays Claiborne's boss Vera Donovan whose presence is icy yet steers Claiborne to her ultimate option. Powerful and compelling film regarding carefully hidden sins. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Amazing Story but Even More Amazing Acting","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie years ago and the story so intrigued me that I bought it on video. It's a story by Stephen King and although I'm not a fan of the science fiction he writes, his drama is always surprising. This does not disappoint. Kathy Bates as the abused wife who is accused of killing the wealthy woman she has cared for for many years, is a tour d'force. Jennifer Jason-Leigh is another who gives a wonderful performance as her daughter who returns reluctantly to help her estranged mother. She is convinced that her mother did this crime but decides she must delay her return to her high profile journalism job in order to find a lawyer for her mom. While in the process, all the family history comes to light with a dramatic climax. The telling of the family history and the story that unfolds is so well acted by Bates, Jason-Leigh and Christopher Plumber that I was sorely disappointed when this was overlooked by the Academy Awards. I've seen many movies staring Kathy Bates but in my opinion this was the best performance of her career. I felt that this certainly ranked higher than her performance in Misery. However, I understand that the subject matter of Misery was more commercial. I've seen this movie many times and I always have the same reaction - Kathy Bates is simply a great actress and this is a fantastic performance. "}{"Title":"A touching, engrossing movie","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'll skip the synopsis since most of the other reviews cover that.This movie was great. It really gets you sucked in and you can't wait to find out what happens next. Kathy Bates is GREAT as Dolores. All around great acting. I didn't really like the blue color tones, I think I'm smart enough to figure out which part are flashbacks, but it didn't bother me much.I thought a lot about this movie the next day. To me, that's the sign of a great movie. Don't think it's all drama, there is quite a bit of excitement and a little bit of mystery thrown in. (No car chases or shootouts though if that's what you like... )) Loved it! 8 stars from me.... "},{"Title":"One of King's Best Translations to the Screen","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It will grab you from the beginning, and hold your interest until the end.It is very moving.Not everyone can relate to poor, struggling, hard-working people while immersed in their usual aspect of life. I believe even dividend collectors, whose worst daily trial is the walk to the mailbox to collect their checks, earned off the backs of workers, can connect with this one.Interwoven is a story of repressed memory child abuse, and you are presented with a riveting tale that's horrific as well as compelling.Please give this one a try, even if you're not a Stephen King fan. You will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most underrated adaptation of Stephen King's works","Date":"21 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne, based on Stephen King's novel, is a great film that has been overshadowed by films such as The Shawshank Redemption and The Green Mile. Like King's other works, Shawshank and Stand by Me, this book/film is firmly grounded in reality and details an tragically familiar tail of a woman (Dolores Claiborne played expertly by Kathy Bates) forced to make impossible decisions because of an abusive husband. Though the book the entire story is told entirely in flashback by Dolores to the police, the script writers decided for Dolores to tell the story piecemeal to her daughter (Jennifer Jason Leigh) as they are forced to reunite after Dolores is named a suspect in a murder. This provides a different focus to the plot, of mother and daughter reconciling, that is absent in the book. The acting overall is excellent (though it is sometimes a bit hectic) and the locations and setting are gorgeous and make the film visually interesting. Also, having a full-blooded, involved score from the great Danny Elfman works well for the film, though at some moments I found the music a bit too strange. Overall, I would say Dolores Claiborne isn't quite a classic as it does not come together perfectly, though it is dang close. "},{"Title":"Holy Cow... very underrated film...","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores is an overweight, crass and nasty woman... however she is just covering up her emotions and traumatic past. The thing she cares for more than anything else is her only child, Selena. She works as a housekeeper for a bitter snobby woman, Vera, to raise some money for Selena's schooling. Then one day she finds out that her abusive and alcoholic husband Joe has stolen it to buy booze and gamble. She also learns of a horrific secret, Joe has been molesting Selena. Vera suddenly becomes caring and kind for a few moments when alone with Dolores, and Dolores confesses the molesting to Vera. Vera answers, with tears in her eyes, husbands die all the time, maybe even now while you're here crying... they die, and leave their wives their money... I should know, shouldn't I? Sometimes they drive home with their mistress, when suddenly their brakes fail. She secretly helps Dolores with a plan, and Dolores murders Joe during a rare lunar eclipse. Several years later, Dolores is working with Vera, taking care of her in her old age. Vera has become depressed because of her old age and loss of her high status, degraded to wearing ugly cotton old lady nightgowns and diapers. She attempts suicide, and the postman assumes Dolores killed Vera. Selena, hearing of the news, travels home. Selena, after Joe's death, became deranged and depressed, relying on what Dolores calls happy-pills (most likely Prozac), to stay sane. She denies the past with Joe but Dolores still wants the truth to come out, to make it up to Selena once and for all. Amazing movie, (my aunt made the teapot featured in the scene where Vera attempts suicide). I watched it because it was filmed in my home province, Nova Scotia. I'm also a fan of Stephen King. I have to say it was a very intriguing film, I'd read the book and not really enjoyed it, but the movie was amazing! There was the scene right after Joe is killed, where Dolores looks up at the lunar eclipse, it was a beautiful scene, the one scene where it shows Dolores' true motives; to help her child lead a better life than she ever could. It was very sad, especially the scenes with Vera, she seems like a horrid old snot until in one scene she admits to Dolores the murder of her cheating husband, also helping Dolores with Joe's removal. In the end it turns out that Vera and Dolores loved each other, having nothing going for them, both being alone in the world and hated by all the neighbors. Yet they both want Selena to not have to live as they did. It wasn't really a horror film in my view, more a drama film from the point of view of the oddball women we see every day. The old woman you see in the grocery store every day, the fat housewife in the jogging pants at Wal-Mart, they may have a story very similar to Dolores Claiborne's. This film is the eyes of the women everywhere who are never noticed, but should be, the ones who don't matter to society, but to each other. Don't pass it up, it's an amazing film to see! "},{"Title":"One of the best Stephen King movies!","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" ^^SPOILERS* I absolutely fell in love with the book so I had to see this and boy oh boy did it ever come through. Book is a masterpiece and so is the film. This really should have won for Best Movie of the Year and Kathy Bates really should have received a second Oscar for this. Dolores is accused of murdering her employer for her money so she is put on trial and her daughter comes back to deal with it and in doing so she learns truth about her father's murder years before. Dolores is a woman who has been through some tragic incidents in her life and the character is really an empowering character brilliantly portrayed by the always great Kathy Bates. Watch it! You will not be disappointed. You don't even have to be a Stephen King fan to love this. "},{"Title":"Shocking film","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I watched this last night and woke this morning still thinking about it. The horror of this film is on par with King's best -- except this time its real, and believable. With stunning cinematography of the (typical King) New England coastal town, and fine performances by supporting actors Leigh, Plummer, and Parfitt, this film kept me on the edge of my couch until the end, where, sadly, the plot seams begin to stretch and fray, a bit. Even so, the strength of the story, and performances carried it through for me. What shocked me today, was realizing that Kathy Bates did not receive an academy award nomination for her stunning work in this film. She is simply awesome, by Gob.. "},{"Title":"A great thriller. equal to High Noon and Citizen Ruth.","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a great movie and had to watch it about 3 times in order to get all the flashbacks put together. These sudden changes were similar to the quality of David Lynch, but done a little better. After a few flashbacks, when Dolorles was crying in front of Vera, I began to realize that Very was telling in a quiet way, the her husband's death was no accident when the brakes failed. Vera's eyes had an indication of evil all the way through the movie. Delorles worked for Vera for 22 years and saved her money, but her husband stole it. It was never known why Vera left her $1,600,000 in her will, and that is what kept the detective going, trying to prove Delorles murdered her. This was acting at it's best, and a storyline worthy of these fine actors. "},{"Title":"Well worth a watch...Bates great again....","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Okay, where do I start here? I like Stephen King (I read the book and thoroughly enjoyed it - even though the fact that I read it on a sunny beach will colour my recollections). I like Kathy Bates and John C. Reilly. And I really like Jennifer Jason Leigh. Things are looking good for this movie so. And it delivered in almost every aspect. Almost. The film relays the story of a tough woman trying to get through her bad marriage, abusive husband (both to his wife and his daughter) and her penchant for being suspected of murder not once but twice in her lifetime.Dolores (Bates) is accused of murdering the wealthy woman she works for as a maid. When her daughter Selena (Leigh) finds out that her mother is accused of this crime, she returns home from New York. Not exactly to support her Mom - she is a reporter looking for a story. The fact that Dolores was a suspect in her husband's demise some 19 years earlier hasn't helped her in this particular case or in her life in general.The problem with most King adaps - is they can come across as trite and simplistic and what works on a page does not translate to the screen. There are exceptions of course - The Shining, The Dead Zone (terrific film), The Green Mile and of course The Shawshank Redemption. But for every Shawshank there is a 'Riding the Bullet' or a 'Maximum Overdrive'. Dolores Claiburne fits in the middle of these extremes.The story is good, the acting is good and the direction is good (I particularly liked the way that the flashback scenes are in vivid, bright colours whereas the scenes set in the present are in cold, blue tones).Bates is another Annie Wilkes type character here and she handles it just as well. She truly is a great actress and her portrayal of being a tough cookie with a strong heart was totally believable. Leigh is as intense as she always is. Her usual good looks washed away by the cold colours used by the lens to correctly depict her character as a washed-up, drugs-laden, hard drinking, lonely, bitter, sullen young woman. She has been eaten up by all sorts of insecurities buried so deep that even she has forgotten them over the years. Yet, in some way she still blames her mother. For Leigh (a beautiful woman IMHO) to allow herself to be shot in this way - pale face, lank hair, bad skin, chain-smoking - is testament to her commitment to the project. i.e. TOTAL. Strathairn is excellent as the evil husband - a truly unsavoury part. Plummer too, is good as the dogged, not-to-be-denied detective. As is Parfitt as the bitchy - yet ultimately generous - Vera.The only gripe I have with the whole movie is the ending. The inquest seems tacked on, too short and not at all believable. And the last scene as Selena departs on the ferry is an anti-climax of the highest order.Other than that - well worth a watch....7/10. "},{"Title":"Dolores Claiborne","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kathy Bates is the title character, a working class mother of a driven &#x96; and clearly damaged &#x96; journalist daughter who returns to her home town after fifteen years when Dolores is accused of the murder of her wealthy long-term employer. Given that Dolores was found standing over her alleged victim with a rolling pin raised above her head, the future looks bleak for her.Based on one of Stephen King's least typical novels, Dolores Claiborne is a leisurely paced study of the self-deceptions practiced by the mind in order to survive an unmentionable childhood trauma, and of how such self-delusion can push away well-meaning loved ones. In its way it's every bit a horror story as King's more typical output. Only this is the quiet horror of within, the type that can visit even the most ordinary of people.Bates is entirely believable as the no-nonsense mother who has become something of an outcast in her small Maine home-town since her alcoholic husband died after falling down a concealed well in their garden. Christopher Plummer's tenacious detective was convinced of her guilt, but she proved to be the only case out of 86 that slipped through his fingers. Now, more than fifteen years later, his determination to put right what he believes to be a mis-justice blinds him to his own impartiality. Plummer's performance is equal to Bates', and it's interesting how the story essentially paints those who have killed in a better light than those who seek to make them pay. Jennifer Jason Leigh is Dolores' daughter, a highly-strung neurotic, dependent on pills and alcohol to get her through. Her performance is OK, but the character itself is slightly too annoying &#x96; even though her mental fragility is entirely understandable.Taylor Hackford is the director. He's not generally recognised as one of Hollywood's better directors, but he had a couple of sizable hits in the 1980s and 90s. He does a good job here, keeping a talky film visually stimulating, and emphasising the link between the present and the past by seamlessly introducing brightly coloured flashbacks that emphasise the relative innocence of both Dolores and her daughter when compared to the relentlessly grey palette of the present. "},{"Title":"Best Acting in Recent Memory, Possibly Ever","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As far as the subject matter is concerned, it is very adult and I would not recommend allowing children to see it. Cinematography is excellent, but the reason every adult person should see this movie is the acting. Rarely can you assemble a cast so varied, but so capable. Every principal actor gave a riveting performance. Kathy Bates has to stand out as over and above, but every actor in this was able to convey a persona carefully cultivated but completely natural. Compelling dramatic scenes, and the little dark comedy that occurred was also skillfully performed. Heck even the background actors were great. This is also a movie crafted as a whole, rather than various scenes thrown together, like a Merchant Ivory film in that respect. Rarely can a mature audience be treated to a show of talent like this. "}{"Title":"Well-acted, decent movie, but the book is too good","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Kathy Bates does an amazing job of portraying one of Stephen King's most powerful characters, and the supporting actors are also quite good. Hackford uses color really well to employ flashbacks quite efficiently. Ultimately however, if you've read the book, you'll probably find the script lacking a lot of elements, namely Dolores' two sons, that provide a lot of depth to the novel. And while the elements that ARE covered in the film are done so very well, the book is just far too good to have been turned into a movie. Personally, It's one of my favorite books. See the movie if you want, but please, READ THE BOOK FIRST!!! --K "},{"Title":"Well-made film but can't hold a candle to the Novel","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is based on the Stephen King novel of the same title. The film is very well directed by veteran filmmaker Taylor Hackford. It is very well acted by all the actors, especially Jennifer Jason-Leigh. But this movie BELONGS to Kathy Bates. Bates is one of the best actresses we have. Furthermore, she is exactly how I imagined Dolores Claiborne when I read the book. Dolores is one of the most richly penned literary characters I have come across; almost up there with Atticus Finch in Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird. The book showed that Stephen King could write a story about human emotions and unstable families and still make it real, vivid and moving. A good movie, but read the book if you can. "},{"Title":"Superb Thriller","Date":"6 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Here is another great Stephen King's novel adaptation...And, as a lot of Stephen King's juicy psychological horror thrillers he delivers here quite different look at the dark sides of human nature...Kathy Bates is again at her best, after MISERY for which she DESERVED an Oscar she done it again, pity cause no one actually nominated her for any other awards. Not only her that delivers great performance but Jennifer Jason Leigh both with Christopher Plummer and Judy Parfitt did a stunning work. Great photography, direction and lights. Total Eclipse sequence is one of the best pacey thriller dramatic moments that I 've ever seen on film. A MUST SEE.... 10/10 "},{"Title":"I was sucked in within minutes","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One evening, I flipped the TV on just to watch a few minutes before falling to sleep.  It was nearly midnight and a week night.  I had to get up in the morning.  I flipped through the channels and found myself near the beginning of movie, which one I didn't know.Kathy Bates was in it.  I like her work, so I watched a few minutes.  Next I saw Judy Parfitt who was FANTASTIC in The Jewel in the Crown.  The dialog was fantastic.  The scenery fantastic.  And it is a movie that is just plain wonderful.  The always delightful David Straithairn appears as Dolores' no good husband.Two thumbs up in my book.  The movie was over quite late and I only got 4 hours of sleep!  But it was worth it.  The entire cast was fantastic.  A lot of movies disappoint me, but not this one.  It delivers suspense, drama, interesting characters, and fascinating relationships (albeit not always good relationships).   "},{"Title":"walk a mile...","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Indirect Spoilers We've all heard the old adage, don't judge a person until you've walked a mile in their shoes. This saying perfectly sums up 'Dolores Claiborne.The movie begins with Salena coming back, contemptuously, to her childhood hometown. Her deliberate hostility toward her mother leaves the viewer thinking, What could have possibly happened to provoke such anger? Well, we've just seen her murder an old woman, so Dolores must have done something equally vile to her daughter. Also, the characters of Vera and Detective Mackey are shown in a similar dislike. Salena, Dolores, Vera, and Mackey are all shown to be gloomy and friendless despicable characters.The eventual plot twists leave the viewer to muddle over his/her too-easily former misconceptions. Though I enjoyed the layout of the plot and the dream sequences, it was the playing with the viewer's emotions and preconceived notions that makes this movie more than another dark drama.    "},{"Title":"Beautifully crafted emotional powerhouse that will hauntyou","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A deeply brilliant Academy Award performance by the long suffering Bates, this is a rumination (as other Hackford films are) on duty, honor, obligation, challenge and their sometimes horrible costs. Bates is truly incredible, with one of the richest, most multi-faceted performances you will ever see. How her face reacts to pain, displays dawning knowledge, hardens into crackling Maine sarcasm is a revelation.Hackford is a truly great director Officer + a Gentleman is one of the best films ever made, + this has the same elements- perfect casting (except for Plummer, who with his British accent never rang true for rural Maine), magnificent location scenery, roundly superb performances, and a gripping story about real people with real problems. His use of flashbacks, morphing from the dreary cloudy black + white to the sunny color of yesteryear is masterful + moving. Like To Kill a Mockingbird, flashbacks emotionally suck the viewer into the movie, and he does them well characters are snapped back into previous versions of a scene, even walking around and watching their earlier self. The effect is magical + wonderous, heightened as step by step he strips back the layers of time + mist that cover the truth.An underlying theme is one of class divisions and the hard plight of Maine's poor working class. Dolores's fortitude, will + patience are awe-inspiring, but to her there is no choice. Jennifer Leigh is excellent as the neurotic pill-popping writer daughter- I've known women just like her (who had suffered the same abuse). This is a movie about the dark side of male dominance that'll have the men squirming AND cheering. It will move you, wound you, and stay with you. 10 stars out of 10. The best version of any Stephen King book.  "},{"Title":"High-Quality Stephen King Adaptation","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For some reason or another, the highly revered Oscar awards have some sort of grudge against Stephen King movies.  Stand by Me, The Shawshank Redemption, and now Dolores Claiborne are great films that have gone mostly ignored.  There is no better advertising platform than the Academy Awards, and no doubt these three movies have all done dismally in the box office.But thats beside the point.  Kathy Bates, who I'm beginning to like a lot, did win an Academy Award for a King portrayal in Misery and gives a solid performance here.She is a tough-as-nails woman who has crafted some sort of image as the town she-devil as she was once accused of having murdered her husband.  It doesn't help much that she has spent most of her life working in solitude with a decaying old rich woman, far away from a daughter who hasn't visited in fifteen years.Although Dolores' comedic ability is overdone a bit in the beginning, we are taken through a series of flashbacks that reveal the terrible events that have brought her here to where she is now once again the prime suspect in the murder of someone who is in the position to provide great life insurance benefits.I thought the handling of the script was ingenious.  The characters are presented to us, the situation established, and then the director proceeds to completely turn everything upside down as we dive beneath the surface and discover what really was  going on here.  One scene that stands out in particular was the one between Dolores and Vera, her strict employee, as they discuss methods to handling a deviant husband.  More than just a plot device, there is a reaction created between the two and you can see the bond that is growing there that will hold them together for those fifteen-plus years of solitary confinement.If there was any fault within the film, it has to lie with the incompleteness of Detective John Mackey.  He seems very driven to crush Dolores, but why?  There never was any inquiry by the flashbacks as to what was the history between the two, and there fore the character lacked a little something to make him believable.  He is the only cardboard character in the movie.Most of the so called chick-flicks are unbearable movies.  This one, however, is a classic.  Add it to your collection, next to Shawshank.9 of 10.  "},{"Title":"Why no oscar?","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the greatest of Stephen King adaptations to screen.  The flashback plot line is superb as is the acting, cinematography, and musical scores.  This should definately have been nominated for an Oscar and should have won it.  This is an often overlooked movie and overlooked best of the Stephen King adaptations. "},{"Title":"A brilliant performance by Kathy Bates","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am the kind of person who goes to the movies mainly because of the actors involved, I mean I am attracted by great performances. This movie means a lot to me. Kathy Bates and Jennifer Jason Leigh are simply wonderful, those were truly unforgettable performances. I just can't understand why they were not even nominated for the Oscar. Kathy Bates is much better than she was in Misery. The only advice I can give is buy this movie and watch it every once in a while. "},{"Title":"Not just another 'chick flick'","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that you tell all your friends about, and one they have to see for themselves because you couldn't fully express the complications of the movie to anyone with as much excitement as you felt yourself when viewing it.  Cathy Bates was wonderful and should have won another award for the portrayal of her character.  If you didn't catch this one at the theaters, rent it today. "}{"Title":"Misery doesn't always want company","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Delores, the title character of this movie, spent her whole life in misery.  First she marries an alchoholic who calls her ugly and fat and she endures it UNTIL he starts molesting her daughter.  Her daughter, however, blocks out the molestation and decides that her mother killed her father for no reason at all.  Delores' daughter goes away, becomes a successful reporter, and an emotionally  garbage can.  Only after Delores is accused of killing her employer (an old witch) does Delores' daughter come to terms with what happened during her childhood and what lengths her mother went through to insure her a successful future.The movie is outstanding and Kathy Bates and Jennifer Jason Leigh were gems as always. "},{"Title":"Catharsis in Cinema","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm no fan of Director Taylor Hackford or writer Stephen King for that matter, but something here just clicked. Perhaps it's the fact that they used real actors and not hollywood cutouts to play the parts, perhaps it's the overwhelming color that fills this picture, perhaps it's the brutality taken in everyday events that makes this film so cathartic for me. I tend to think it's Danny Elfman's score combined with the excellent acting that alllows me to invest some caring in these characters, to suffer with them, to feel desperation with them, to ultimately end with a positive note. Not a candy coated ending, but a real ending where progress has been made, but with the realization that the healing doesn't and won't happen overnight.If you've lived at all, and seen exactly what the world is capable of, this movie may  hold for you the same magnetic power it has for me, if not, it may be too close to the skin. "},{"Title":"Greatly underrated","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A highly underrated film, the story tells of a woman seemingly outrunning the law on murder charges, like she previously did 18 years earlier after the death of her abusive husband. Into this comes her estranged daughter with some heavy baggage of her own. Mesmerisingly crafted film offers a razor sharp script and some dazzling presentation from director Hackford, but the piece-de-resistance is Bates' powerhouse (and Oscar-worthy) performance as the title character. Parfitt also provides a carnivorous portrayal as the domineering woman Bates is accused of killing. A gem! "},{"Title":"Convincing and entertaining","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm most definitely not a Stephen King fan, but this complex and fascinating study of a woman's life in hell is both convincing and entertaining.Strong cast and almost devoid of the usual worn-out Hollywood thriller tricks. Well done!   "},{"Title":"Bates knows how to get even!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow! I must say that I was very impressed with the screen adaption of Dolores Claiborne. The things that really impressed me was Kathy Bates and Jennifer Jason Leigh's dazzling performances (also, keep your eyes open for Ellen Mull, who plays a younger version of Leigh's character, and couldn't look more like her, unless she was her.) It is a story about a New England maid, Dolores Claiborne (Bates), who is accused of killing the older, sick woman she worked for (Judy Parfitt.) Dolores's daughter, Selena (Leigh), comes back, and old secrets are revealed about the death of Selena's father (David Straithairn.) With two cops (Christopher Plummer and John C. Reilly) after her, Dolores must prove that she is innocent...Or confess that she is guilty. Suspense, drama, and wonderful performances makes Dolores Claiborne a winner! "},{"Title":"A mature vision of psychological horror","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A superb effort on all accounts, Dolores Claiborne is the kind of horror movie intended for adult audiences despite a lack of gushing blood and bodies stuffed into woodchippers. The decades of suffering endured by the title character is illustrated deftly through the performance of Bates and through subtle touches (the monotone colors her present-day life are presented in, for one). The psychological (and physical) abuse Dolores Claiborne receives wears on her noticeably, creating a sympathy for her without being overly manipulative. In a nutshell, send the kiddies out to the theater to see the latest Scream clone, and rent Dolores Claiborne for the adults...that should make everyone happy.  "},{"Title":"Magnificent!!!","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very strong and impactful movie witch I found stunning. The actors are great, particulary Kathy Bates. She is truly talented, and by the way the only actress/actor who was above average in Titanic.I would also like to say that the cinematography was excellent in this movie. It reminded me very much of Contact and Forrest Gump. The colors are beautiful, and one can clearly see the difference between presence and past tense.All together a movie worth seeing!!   "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates Rules!!","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A compelling story and a fabulous cast all-around make for a very good movie.  Set in Maine, Stephen King weaves a very interesting story and for once, it's not a scary one!  Jennifer Jason Leigh and Christopher Plummer turn in fine performances, and Kathy Bates is fabulous, as usual.  Judy Parfitt also gets a special mention.  "},{"Title":"As a Woman","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With the first scene and her strong image in Misery, I thought it's a kind of horrible or suspect movie. But it's fall short of my expectations. 3 women show up in this movie. Dolores, her daughter and her master. They have a common problem-violence from the men or from the society. Being a Woman ? Patience, Obedience, Tacit, Weakness and on is she limited to? Becoming a Witch might be better choice like this movie. The world have been changed a lot, Woman is not recognized as human but as opposition sex of man. I want to compliment Mothers on her being, itself . They make a beautiful world that had ruined by Man*s Power before. With Love.  "},{"Title":"Some bravura performances and a strong script","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I usually don't review films that 100 or more people have already reviewed, but on rare occasions -- either because a film is exceptionally good or bad -- I make an exception. As I am doing here, for a film which is exceptionally good.Above all else, this film excels due to strong performances by an excellent cast. And at the top of the list is Kathy Bates. This was just one in a series of bravura performances by Bates in the 1990s, and she was at the top of her form here.I can't say that I enjoy Jennifer Jason Leigh in this film, but there's no denying her acting as the bitter now grown daughter was very good. Judy Parfitt, as the murder victim...or not, turns in a riveting performance, particularly the scenes where she subtly suggests murder and where she is an almost total invalid. Christopher Plummer, in a not so likable role as a police investigator, also posts a strong performance. This happened to be the first film in which I saw (or at least noticed) David Strathairn, here in a strong performance as the abusive husband.The script is also strong. I think flashbacks in films are overdone, but here they work well in relating what is a two-part story that ultimately centers around child molestation. Most of the photography is somewhat stark, but that works well for the story and the location; the photography during the eclipse is quite stunning.I rarely give an 8; my rule for that is that it has to be something unique. This is a rather unique film, and I think one of the better translations of a Stephen King novel to the screen.Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Engaging Mystery","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" After a maid is accused of murdering her rich employer, her estranged daughter comes to see her. This is an engaging mystery, but what keeps it from being more effective is silly melodramatics and some cartoony characters, especially Strathairn as Dolores's abusive, red-neck husband. Leigh's performance as the bitter daughter is also somewhat uneven. However, the film belongs to Bates and she is quite impressive in the title role. Also notable is Parfitt as her eccentric employer. Hackford does a good job of peeling back the layers of the mystery, although he goes a bit overboard with his visual style, settling for cheap thrills instead of using a more subtle approach. "},{"Title":"Solid acting and entertainment","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This Stephen King inspired drama/thriller stars Kathy Bates as an abrasive Maine housemaid who is accused of murdering her elderly boss. Jennifer Jason Leigh plays her daughter who travels home from New York City when she learns the news that her mother is once again in trouble.Tensions between Leigh's and Bates' characters mount as Leigh believes that Bates killed her father years ago. There are many very compelling flashbacks that show how Bates' character was battered and demeaned daily by her husband(who is played very well by David Strathirn). This causes us to not help but feel bad for the Bates character and sympathize with her many problems.This is a good film with fine performances by all involved. For those that enjoyed the other Stephen King based film starring Kathy Bates, Misery, then those viewers should enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"Bates in best performance of her career","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I caught Dolores Claiborne on video - probably like most people. This film unfortunately disappeared from movie theatres quickly. Kathy Bates gives, in my opinion, the finest performance of her career as Dolores Claiborne - a tough woman who has been hardened by life. Dolores is married to a stupid, drunken loaf of a man (David Straithern in his usual great acting)who dies under mysterious circumstances. Jennifer Jason Leigh as Dolores' estranged daughter, now an adult and successful writer, comes back to the lonely Maine village where her mother lives. Her mother has been accused of murdering her wealthy, but now seriously handicapped, employer, Vera Donovan (Judy Parfitt in an amazing performance). But the daughter is seriously troubled herself, turning to booze and pills to hide a painful childhood and other family secrets. These family secrets are the subject of this film - and director Taylor Hackford handles it with skill and a blunt, straightforward manner. Christopher Plummer plays a lawyer out to get Dolores not just for the murder of Vera, but also suspects her of being involved in her husbands death decades earlier. Plummer is a bit over the top in his performance, and struggles with the New England accent, and Leigh at times seems stiff and not natural, seems to be reading her lines. But Kathy Bates is a wonder here - as well as Straithern and Parfitt. What a crime Bates was ignored for an Oscar - Parfitt was honored with a supporting nomination. Catch this wonderful movie - it will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"One of Stephen King's, best one!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dark secrets, family torments, and two murders swirl around the stoic, hardened figure of Dolores Claiborne (Kathy Bates), a housekeeper accused of murdering her employer of 22 years. Then there was that timely accident that took Dolores's husband (David Strathairn) during the solar eclipse of 1975. Yet with all the somber suffering that follows Dolores like a miasma of pain, none of it compares with the heartache of a relationship she has with her grown daughter (Jennifer Jason Leigh). Although this flick is rife with horror, it is not of the supernatural kind, but rather of the torment only real people can impose on one another. The script is full of colorful language, and director Taylor Hackford successfully weaves several plot threads and psychological dilemmas throughout this engrossing tale without diminishing any of them. He not only culls intense performances from his cast, but he also brings to life the landscape around them. When the film's best-kept secret is finally given up, it occurs under the surreal backdrop of a solar eclipse that is a truly sensational bit of cinematography. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric thriller","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I've just returned from mid-coast Maine, and must again watch this amazing movie. There is an unutterable pathos at the heart, it is a story of deep loneliness and love, especially the love of a mother for her child. The setting is bleak, the story believable and the acting is superb. It is a tour-de-force for Kathy Bates who is given a vehicle that allows her to show her range and genius. The pacing is just right for this type of suspense. This is a movie that I never grow tired of seeing, it is of the calibre of The Silence of The Lambs and The Deerhunter, dark cinematic poetry that weaves it's spell around the viewer and haunts one long after the final credits have rolled. This film may well become a classic. "},{"Title":"Addicted to this movie","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I cannot say enough about this movie. I LOVE IT..I watch the DVD at least once a month..Jennifer Jason Leigh and Kathy Bates in the same movie..brilliant acting duo! And Judy Parfitt , FABULOUS!! The atmosphere of the film is 'haunting' to say the least...Having read the book then seeing the movie, my only complaint is , the water well scene in the book is way more suspenseful , I was hoping the movie would have duplicated the book concerning this particular scene, but it did not....The movie locations in the film I have got to one day visit.....I also wish the DVD had of contained more 'extras'...but the director commentary is really good...DOLORES CLAIBORNE' is my #1 favorite film. There is just something about this movie that really attracts me to it, on many levels. "},{"Title":"Next time, one of us is going to the bone yard.","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You don't have to have a great Male lead, and a thousand extras to win the Oscar, but it helps. It's a depressingly masculine world, Dolores. Vera Donovan (Judy Parfitt) had most of the best lines in this powerful Mother and Daughter film, which had a cast list in single figures, and was mostly shot on one location, unlike Oscar winner Braveheart. Not a coming of age film, but a story of a mother (Dolores / KathyBates) and daughter (Selina / Jennifer Jason Leigh) who should have been so together, but were so far apart. (I see too much of this in life.) Flashbacks are becoming so common in films nowadays that I'm beginning to think they are compulsory. However, in this film,they are very relevant to the story line, and are done extremely well. A film that I wasn't expecting much from, turned out to be a very good film. The last ten minutes, when Leigh is at her best, beats many of the great court room dramas that I have seen lately. Many of the one liners are brilliant, but I just have the feeling that this should'a been a contender. "},{"Title":"Emotional, gripping stuff","Date":"15 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Like Shawshank Redemtion, this is one of Stephen King's best stories, and one which is devoid of horror or supernatural elements. Instead this is really an excellent drama since it focuses strongly on human relationships with a fair bit of a thriller emphasis thrown in.The acting is simply faultless, with Kathy Bates in her best role, amply supported by all the other actors. Judy Parfitt is particularly good as Vera Donovan, the wealthy socialite and employer of Dolores Claiborn. Later on her failing health, her sad plight and her ever closer bonding and dependence on Dolores, provides the key to the whole film.What makes DC work so well is the empathy one develops towards the characters. Dolores, who at first appears as a well-weathered and hard headed, stormy individual, gradually reveals to us the circumstances that led her to behave the way she does. Vera, who at first appears to be a cold-hearted, fastidious snob, who treated her former housekeepers more like slaves, is eventually shown to have a warm heart, and genuinely cares very strongly about Dolores, her long term and last housekeeper. Dolores's daughter, Selena comes across as an uncaring, bitter and selfish girl, but as the story unfolds, again we learn why and understand. The cynical detective, John Mackey is intent on nailing Dolores for the death of Vera, having failed many years earlier to convict her for the suspicious death of her husband. Again, we can see why he has become so frustrated, cynical and bigoted, and that perhaps he got hold of the wrong end of the stick, regarding the death of Dolores's husband's, or did he? Only Dolores's abusive and drunken husband, convincingly played by David Straithhairn fails to arouse any sympathy.All in all, a wonderfully gripping drama with some heart rendering moments and urging you to discover the truth behind the deaths. "},{"Title":"Winning Drama!","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" If it's horror and/or action you want, then this isn't it. But if you're looking for a dark, disturbing, thought-provoking drama, this is the movie for you.This is a woman's movie in that it details the dysfunctional family life many women experience, from both perspectives; the daughter and the wife. It empowers, and makes for great drama, without regard of the subject mater.As a general rule, King's books translate poorly to film. A fact which made this endeavor a delightful surprise. While not the most faithful of adaptations, this endeavor works well on film.Kathy Bates is more than convincing in the title role of Delores Claiborne. Her acting in this movie is exemplary. While this movie is pure drama, it is some of the darkest drama you can envision, although many families survive events such as these, it will definitely make you realize how lucky you are, should you not be one of them.This is a nice dark deviation from King's usual formula which is well worth the time.It gets a solid 8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"One of the best dramas/thrillers you'll see","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There is no doubt about it that this movie should have been up for the Oscars and Golden Globes. It was well acted, well written, and well directed. In my opinion, one of Kathy Bates' best movies. If you are into drama or thriller this is the movie for you. Two thumps up and a terrific movie. "}{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen.","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I think this is an excellent thrilling film with a great story. You will be excited from the beginning until the end. The actress Kathy Bates played very realistic. You should buy the film, because I think that you will find it also excellent. I think this film is one of the best film every time. "},{"Title":"A Real Tear-Jerker","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is heart-wrenching, witty, emotionally exhausting, and hauntingly unforgettable.  It defines familial love... the love of true friends and the love of a mother for her child.  Kathy Bates was at her sarcastic best!  "},{"Title":"ohmigod! Jennifer Jason Leigh and Kathy Bates - what a pair!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This amazingly good movie is based upon the bestselling book by Stephen King. Leigh put up such an amazingly good act, she was at her ultimate best, really! She and Miss Bates both deserved an Oscar, for the excellent acts which they played the mother and daughter, disturbed by their past. It is shell-shock into thinking why this electric pair never won an oscar each for their outstanding performances!) "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  one of the.... actually the very best stephen king movie ever adapted next to carrie. this movie is such an excellent drama that tells the story of a struggling mother with haunted visions of the past.this movie never lets go.  **** "},{"Title":"Should have been a second Oscar-winning performance for Kathy Bates !","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best, most enjoyable thrillers I have ever seen! Like the role that won her Oscar #1 (Misery, Best Actress), this was another Stephen King departure (i.e. devoid of monsters, axes, gore, etc.) -- and a very different sort of story. Leigh, Plummer and Parfitt are all equally convincing and quite superb in spinning the story that surrounds and engulfs the seemingly hopeless and hapless Dolores (Bates) in not one, but two exciting intrigues during a life of almost total suffering and drudgery -- almost!  Get it on video. (Rating 4.5 stars of 5.)   "},{"Title":"..entertaining character-study..","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Taylor Hackford produced an excellent film from Stephen King's novel Dolores Claiborne. One does not need to be familiar with the plot. The film presents an easily-understood format, the characters are fully developed and all of the cast were stellar in their performances.Kathy Bates (Dolores) was her usual best in that role. I'm not sure why people make such a comparison to Misery (I'm unfamiliar with that movie), or feel Ms. Bates was looking for something better to star in. For me, Fried green Tomatoes certainly gave her a great venue, again providing her with a chance to use all of her talents. Claiborne did the same, and she made good use of its doleful story. Jennifer Leigh-Scott (?) was excellent as the repressed, abused daughter upon whom Dolores lavished such love. Judy Parffit was a wonderful, cynical ice-queen; to me, there wasn't enough filmage to show how she got from queen to nut. However, Dolores had to have some person to lavish her strong love upon without her daughter and an abusive husband.Christopher Plummer (Det. John Mackey) certain shouldn't have to again prove his acting ability in any role. He was fabulous, although cold, for which the role called-for. Jesus of Nazareth should have convinced any viewer he has star-power. I'm unfamiliar with David Strathairn (Joe St. George) - although I'm sure I've seen him in other roles - was perfect for that scoundrel. I'm not sure what role Eric Bogosian (Peter) played, but the entire movie was gripping and convincing. I agree the difference in present-day cinematography and full-color, the flash-back action was extremely effective.I also agree Ms. Bates was overlooked for Oscar considerations in this role. Perhaps the film's plot prevented it from being nominated for best picture. At any rate, this film will remain great entertainment for many years, as it's a tale of what happens in real life.I had never heard of Dolores Claiborne - but I have watched it several times in a week, so it's a winner with me. I gave it a 10 for its clear telling of a story that happens to many people. Character-development and a good story is all a movie needs. "},{"Title":"Very well done!!","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Stephen King can be known to write a lot of second rate stories, but I think Delores Claiborne was done very well. In my opinion, one of his best. It's almost definitely up there with Misery, the Green Mile, Secret Winow, the Shining and the Shawshank Redemption. I think it is both introduced, and directed well. Kathy Bates, once again after Misery, performs absolutely brilliantly. Jeniffer Jason Leigh is extra-ordinarily convincing; and, as always, Christover Plummer is terrific. With the brilliant directing and a good, convincing cast. Delores Claiborne turns out to be an excellent movie. Definitely worth watching and buying. "},{"Title":"Truly Amazing Performances.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne is an excellent adaptation to Stephen King's psychological novel. The film concerns a woman, Selena (played by the underrated Jennifer Jason Leigh), who returns to her hometown island off the coast of Maine after her mother, Dolores (the brilliant Kathy Bates) is convicted of the murder of an eccentric woman she took care of for many many years. Selena, who suffered a rough childhood with her abusive alcoholic father, Joe (David Strathairn), isn't happy to be back, and she holds a grudge against her mother, suspecting it was Dolores who was also involved in the death of her father. While Selena stays at the dilapidated home which used to be hers as a child, confrontation and memories of both their troubled pasts cause the two to clash, and the horrible memories of what they suffered through years before come back to them, all amidst the murder investigation where Dolores is the prime suspect.Wow, this was one great movie. The acting here was the most powerful point in the film, Kathy Bates was perfect, she and Jennifer Jason Leigh had some great chemistry together. Both of their performances were as believable as one could be. The story to the movie is actually quite good, and the disturbing flashback sequences with Selena and Dolores that take up a huge part of the movie were very well done. While the murder investigation is taking place, the flashbacks are incorporated in to represent Selena and Dolores' past, and are intermingled very naturally. The pacing is good, not too quick but not too slow either. The direction by Hackford was great, the whole contrasting tones of the film (between the present time, which is very dark and grey), and the flashbacks which are much more bright. The color schemes were quite interesting. Christopher Plummer plays a detective investigating Dolores' case, and David Strathairn plays the abusive, drunken husband very well, making the audience really not like his character.Overall, Dolores Claiborne is an excellent adaptation to the novel by Stephen King. For some reason (to me at least), many of his novels don't translate well into film very well, but this one was perfect, keeping the viewer intrigued and interested the whole way through, topped with pitch perfect performances. A highly underrated psychological thriller/drama. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Awesome!!!!!!!","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I will not give anything away on this incredible movie. I'll just give a basic synopsis, and my personal feelings about this film.After not watching it for years, but knowing it was great from it's release years ago, I finally bought it on DVD.Here we have the great Kathy Bates, who plays Dolores Claiborne. Her daughter, Selena, played by Jennifer Jason Leigh. Both of them, turn out outstanding performances!!!!!!! Selena, who hasn't seen her mother in 15 years, comes to her in her time of need. She is up on a murder charge...Cinematography is wonderful, as is the acting, suspense, sentiment, drama, and story. No wonder, the story was written by Steven King. Enough said.The flashbacks are awesome, as you get to the true answer. Is Dolores a killer, or is she innocent??? The movie will draw you in from the start, unless you're not too bright.This movie gets a 10 out of 10, in my book. If you've never seen it, do yourself a favor. WATCH IT!!!!!!!!!! -VM You honest to God don't remember? -Dolores Claiborne. "},{"Title":"Taylor Hackford & Kathy Bates Terrific Combo","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Steven King is an American treasure.Kathy Bates, one of the most talented actors ever to grace the silver screen, demonstrates the depth of emotion she is able to convey on screen, in Dolores Claiborne, as does Jennifer Jason Leigh.Drawing its viewer deep into the world created by Steven King, and then crafted into a screenplay by Tony Gilroy, Dolores powerfully recreates a fictional world full of pain, anguish, contempt, revenge, and denial. Director Taylor Hackford, who's other accomplishments, An Officer and a Gentleman, Against All Odds, and most recently Ray, have established him as a Hollywood legend, creates a visually and emotionally stirring dark drama about evil, struggle and living a painful life with dignity.Hackford's ability to create a visual image, through his actors, the photography, the colors, settings, and locations, is, in my humble opinion, no more better showcased than in this film.If you are a fan of Steven King, Taylor Hackford, Bathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh or dark family dramas, this is a MUST SEE film.I would be remiss if I didn't mention the exceptional performance by Judy Parfitt. Not a widely known name, but in this instance, an actor truly absorbed in her craft.Watch it! "}{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is a good example of a film doing justice to the novel is was based on. Made in 1995, this film's special effects are just as stunning as some of the most recent films I've seen. When I originally read the novel by Stephen King, I found it difficult to understand Dolores' thick accent... in the film, Kathy Bates portrays Dolores wonderfully and now when I read the book, all I can hear is Kathy Bates as Dolores. I found her performance was remarkable. Judy Parfitt portrays Vera Donovan very nicely, giving her exactly the kind of attitude that was seen in the novel. Certain scenes from the novel were changed or removed, but the main story is unchanged. Well done. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers!!!!Everytime I see this movie, I always want to watch the scene when Dolores cried in front of Vera. I love Vera and the way she delivered the famous line accidents can be an unhappy woman's bestfried -), love it!!!!Judy Parfitt is one of the best character actresses in the industry.I also love Kathy Bates here as well as David Straithairn, young selena and Jennifer Jason Leigh.It is a well crafted film and I'm disappointed that Kathy wasn't nominated in this film.I think she's better here than in Misery.  "},{"Title":"WAS DESERVING OF MAJOR ACCOLADES........","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i have recently purchased this on DVD here in the UK at a very reasonable price and I heartily recommend that anyone who recognises powerhouse perfomances buys it too.This film is deeply moving; the performances by the three main females are all mesmerising.But it is the ravaged face of Kathy Bates that lingers in the mind long after this film has ended.Kathy Bates deservedly won her Oscar for Misery, but was equally as deserving in her astounding performance as Dolores.She has proved that she is one of the truly great living Hollywood legends.You would be hard pressed to find a more poignant and utterly absorbing film which should have at least been nominated for awards.The Academy should be ashamed.ASTOUNDING 10/10 "},{"Title":"Best Family Drama EVER","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all, it's rather embarrassing that I cried when I frist saw this movie.Not once, but 3 times.That's how moving this picture is.You can probably find out about the story elsewhere, I won't repeat that here. I'm sure you already know this is a drama, not a horror movie. What is so wonderful about this movie is what's unspoken/unseen. So let me elaborate. It helps if you already saw this movie. And for the record, I haven't read the book.***** The Untold Stories *****Dolores is a very heartbreaking character who had to live with a mountain of sorrow on her shoulder, yet she never cried (except in one scene) and always an insult-cracking tough lady who can handle herself even in front of the big guys. She hadn't seen her daughter for 15 years. Why? Because she felt guilty, she felt responsible for her daughter's torment. She did what she had to in order to save her daughter, yet it's what she did on that faithful day that caused Selena to have a nervous breakdown, and had to send her away. For 15 years she lived with this guilt, so much that she couldn't even hop on a ferry to visit her daughter, who lived right across the water. She let her daughter blame her, never tried to explain what happened, because she already thought herself was guilty. That's the punishment she made for herself -- to possibly never see her only child ever again. That's the incredibly deep sorrow that she lived with, for 15 long years.Kathy Bates communicated that, not with dialogues nor gestures or even body languages, but simply with HER EYES.I've never seen so much sadness and sorrow in an actor's/actress' eyes. Her performance was unbelievable, 10x better than she was in Misery.And then there's Selena. For 15 years she blamed her mother, believed what everyone else was saying about her mother and what happened that day during the eclipse. She did it simply because it was the only way to erase the OTHER part of her childhood memory -- the one that of her father. At the end of the movie, when she said, I never want to lose you again, it was Selena realizing that the love of her mother was there all along on the island all this time. A love so much deeper than she ever remembered, yet for 15 years she thought it never existed. She denied it and erased it and rewritten the past for her own comfort and sanity. She did what she had to, at the expense of her mother.Those were the untold stories. While the flashbacks were filmed and edited beautifully and displayed fluidly as the story unfolded, you only get to see the present and what happened 15 years ago, you can only imagine what's in between those 15 years -- the eternal guilt of a mother, the (wrongful) grudge of a daughter, the loneliness of 2 aging women who are universally hated by everyone, who ultimately developed such a bond that they'll probably die for each other. If you haven't thought of them when you saw the movie the first time, see it again now with those untold stories in mind. Try to get into each character's shoes, you'll realize that there's a whole other movie in each and one of them for their lives during those 15 years. You'll see how much deeper the chracters are, how much more fanastic the performances are, and how faithfully the picture translated all that history of sadness and unfolded it into a heartbreaking story of a broken family. The movie did a very good job of hinting at those passing years and let you use your imagination. Though I think it's a frequently overlooked aspect of the film because of how emotionally over-the-top the movie already is.***** The Flashback sequences *****The flashbacks were not simply plot devices and cinematic icing, it's crucial to the storytelling. Neither Dolores nor Selena had set foot in the old house for 15 years, and for those 15 years they did everything they could to lock up their painful past and forget it ever existed. We see the flashbacks as soon as they walked in the house, much like how they began to be reminded about the past as soon as they arrived. They were literally haunted by the past, for the first time in 15 years. So, naturally, it came in pieces. We see the past as how they would see it -- fragmented, disorienting, vivid, and inconclusive. It was the best use of flashbacks as a method of storytelling in a film, until Memento came along.***** The Screenplay *****The screenplay is superb, the emotions ran deep and complex, the characters were very realistic (despite the extreme circumstances surrounding them), the way the flashbacks melted with the present was, at the time, truly original and integral to the story.The movie also addressed many social issues in those days how women were treated, class division, the helplessness of a mother against a abusive father. It's a rather novel achievement considering how drama-filled the movie already is.***** The Performances *****Kathy Bates was undeniably extraordinary in this picture. It still bugs me that she won an Oscar for Misery but wasn't even nominated for this.On the surface, Jennifer Jason Leigh played a rather typical role for her, but it's a role that had a lot more deep background and emotions. She lacked the depth in the beginning of the movie I think, but by the very end of the movie she exploded into this multi-layered performance that Kathy Bates was carrying throughout the entire movie.They both showed incredible restraints in their performances, more the reason why their emotions screamed out of the picture, even though they barely showed on their faces or in their dialogues.***** Conclusion *****This movie, ultimately, is an extreme dramatization of how family members misunderstand or misread each other, yet nobody has the nerve to communicate and reconcile the situation, and continue to let it deteoriate to the point of unrecoverable, until the family falls apart.This is an incredibly human story that many can relate to, told with inventive storytelling. For anyone who grew up in a less-than-perfect family (especially if your family went through a messy divorce in your childhood and you happened to have blamed one of your parents for it, and later reconciled), this movie will ring VERY DEEP in your heart.-----P.S. I'd have to say that considering how multi-faceted the central characters (Dolores, Selena and Vera) were, the husband and the detective really feel like cardboard cut-out characters. That's unfortunate. Though it doesn't take much away from the film since they 3 women are such deep, rich characrers, especially if you put yourself in their shoes and imagine what their lives had been in those 15 years that the film didn't get a chance to show. "},{"Title":"Haunting movie.","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a haunting movie. I saw it a few years ago. Kathy Bates isvery good.  So is the daughter, and the woman that Dolores worksfor. It's all  very creepy but the dialogue is good and so is thescenery and the cinematography. The story all comes togethernicely.  "},{"Title":"Where were the academy awards??","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Every time I see this movie, I'm reminded that this is probably the finest screen adaption  of a Stephen King novel (and what was probably his best book).Kathy Bates performance as Dolores is nothing short of superlative, even better than her  turn in Misery.  With a story that moves back and forth through time, you see not only  her physical, but emotional and spiritual changes through the years.Another award worthy performance that was neglected was Judy Parfitt as VeraDonovan.  As Dolores' rich employer who teaches her that sometimes being a bitch is  the only thing a woman has, she is astounding.  Her performances as both rich/cold  matron with a soft spot to stroke victim years later is compelling to watch.Jennifer Jason Leigh as the distant daughter who returns to face her own past and  Christopher Plummer as the Javert-like investiagtor are well worth watching.  So is David  Straitharn husband who is nothing short of pure malice.What makes this movie even more interesting was its transformation from book to  screen.  The book was originally told as a first person narrative by Dolores to the police  following her arrest.  The addition of the other characters as 3 dimensional people, plus  the added plot point of having Dolores' estranged daughter return to her home town  only added to story.  "},{"Title":"sometimes, an intense movie can be anyone's best friend","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember back in March, 1995, when my grandparents were visiting, my grandfather took me to see Tommy Boy while my parents and grandmother went and saw Dolores Claiborne. When I eventually saw the latter, it blew my mind. Kathy Bates goes beyond her Misery role, playing a more intense role than most people could probably imagine. Her good job with the Maine accent almost made me fear her, though I understood perfectly well why she did what she did. But the characters who really made my blood freeze were Christopher Plummer as the cruel police chief and David Strathairn as Dolores's creepy husband. As for Jennifer Jason Leigh as Dolores's daughter, I didn't find her as intense as the aforementioned cast members, but she still did a good job.Anyway, if this movie doesn't make you feel like your breath got cut off, then I don't know what will. It portrays some pretty ugly events, but you have to agree with what Dolores does. Also starring Judy Parfitt and John C. Reilly. "},{"Title":"6/10 = very good - a mysterious thriller, still impressive 20 years after its release","Date":"18 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores is accused of murder, therefore Selena visits her mother for the first time after 15 years. So the film reveals the underlying family problems and the murder process step by step, which merge into a great story. The movie is strong the whole time and hasn't got any noteworthy flaws, unfortunately it doesn't serve any extremely outstanding facets either, so it's &#x84;just very good.Enjoyable for everyone, so go watch it if you're OK with older films.================================my IMDb-rating scale 10 over the top / 9 perfect / 8 must see / 7 extremely good / 6 very good / 5 good / 4 OK / 3 so-so / 2 bad / 1 don't watch it "},{"Title":"Women on top","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Stephen King has been my favourite author since the 70s. Many of his novels have hit the big screen and I have over a dozen of his books in my bookshelf. Dolores Claiborne was also made into a movie and when I saw it recently I was thrilled and wanted it for my DVD collection.I guess most of the audience was unsure if the protagonist Dolores Claiborne were guilty or not for quite a while, and so was her daughter Selena in the story. So there is the excitement on two levels, one can say. The strongest aspect of this movie is the female actors, especially Kathy Bates as the main character. She is very credible as the wounded, bitter - but strong Dolores, and this peculiar love/hate relationship between the snobby Vera and hard working Dolores is a great interplay between Bates and Judy Parfitt. One other great performance is Jennifer Jason Leigh as Selena - the nervous, stifled and pill eating daughter of Dolores.The screen version of this superb book has become an absolutely great movie. Kathy Bates is at her best. She has earlier said that King's novels made her a superstar and she proves it here; she shines! And with the presentation of the beautiful environments of Maine, which is almost a standard in King's novels, I was really pleased with the outcome.Something to put my finger on? Unfortunately, yes. Leigh's character became too indistinct at times, it's difficult to figure out if that was the purpose. Also the make up on the women is not very good; at times it looks artificial. but okay, But all in all, this is a very good movie based on a great book! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie from King's Work","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have been a fan of Stephen King for over thirty years. Unable to wait for the less expensive paperback editions, I've read the first printing hardbound editions of almost everything he's written.Dolores Claiborne is, in my opinion, the best film produced from a Stephen King novel. (But it's the second best story King has written to date, following The Stand.) Dolores Claiborne is not a horror film in the classic sense of monsters and demons. But there is plenty of horror in the lives of the ordinary people who live in the story.These are stellar performances by Kathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, David Strathairn and Christopher Plummer. (The look of sad resignation and defeat on Plummer's face at the end of the coroner's inquest is absolutely masterful. And the halo of the eclipse behind Bates' head is stunning.) As a movie in general I rate it 8/10 stars not only for the story but the fantastic filmography -- the blue tint through most of the film is a remarkable tool that sets the tone and mood of the story.As a movie produced from a King novel, however, I rate it a 10. The best to date. "}{"Title":"Sometimes being a bitch is all a woman has to hold onto.","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Selena St George has seen better days. She was once an award winning writer, but now it looks like she may lose her job and she can't seem able to get through the day without a drink. To make matters worse, her mother, Dolores Claiborne, has just been arrested for murder. The strange thing is that it's not the first time Dolores Claiborne has been accused of killing someone. Selena is forced to return home. However, it's not for a happy family reunion because these two women have dark secrets that they both are trying to forget...Dolores Claiborne is one of those films that men just don't get (which is ironic since the novel and the screenplay were both written by men). I can understand why men get somewhat agitated when watching Dolores as in this story they are definitely the villains. At their best, they are just guilty of adultery, but at their worst, they are violent child molesters. In fact, you almost get the impression that John C. Reilly's nice guy, Police Constable character was just thrown in to appease male viewers and remind women that not all men are violent lechers. But if you can get over what is arguably some blatant guy-bashing, you'll find yourself enjoying this film. It is wonderfully written, brilliantly acted, and you will not be able to keep yourself from cheering Dolores on, as she watches her husband fall down that pit.You can look at this film in two ways-- as a blatant misandry or as a drama about one woman who will do anything to protect her child. "},{"Title":"Review restricted to a couple observations","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I consider this film wonderful, and any praise I have for it has already been said, and recognized, on this excellent thread of reviews. However...A couple of observations of this film's brilliant sense of detail I have to mention. The first is a case of what I think is mistaken interpretation.Much has been said about the colour saturation of the flashbacks, compared to the contemporary storyline (dull grey compared to vibrant) and I have to respectfully disagree. I think this is based on a certain, strikingly done, sequence.I experienced a three-quarters eclipse here in Montreal, during the 1990s. That eerie, other-worldly cast of colour on the world was like nothing I've seen ever since. Except in Dolores Claibourne! That sense of colour, during the murder sequence, was the work of an art director who has seen an eclipse and registered its exact look, and recreated it precisely for this movie., with a perfect sense of colour.What has been praised as the symbolic was, in fact, a brilliant approximation of a visual reality rarely seen.My other observation, much more modest, is how people tend to absorb the speech patterns, and witticisms, of those most important in one's life. Notice Vera saying Dolores has a hair across her ass -- guess whose repertoire that expression came from. Then, notice how many of Dolores's big statements are essentially paraphrases of Vera's grand bon mots from the past, as we find out in flashbacks. (Sometimes all a woman has left is being a bitch...) A huge part of these women's unlikely friendship is a mutual intellectual fascination. "},{"Title":"Amazing Scenery & Atmosphere","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I just caught this movie last night on a Mystery movie channel. The fact that Stephen King wrote the original novel immediately sparked my interest. The synopsis also sounded intriguing and different from what we are used to seeing Stephen King do. From the beginning of the movie, we are introduced to this dreary and dark atmosphere in a cold island of Maine. The first few scenes are reminiscent of a classical film noir - where you have your typical opening murder scene that leads to an interrogation scene in a police department's office. That's just what you have in the beginning of Dolores Claiborne and it was indeed the perfect way to start off such an amazing movie like this one. We are introduced to a mystery that only paves way for other mysteries in the plot. The setting of the movie goes perfect with the story. We go back and forth with very colorful scenes of the past and very dark scenes of the present. As a viewer you almost become scared of finding out what really happened. Is Dolores a murderer or no? and also, What other secrets can she be holding? Kathy Bates gives an amazing performance and throughout the movie you realize only she was able to pull of the role of a strong, long suffering woman. I was BLOWN AWAY by Judit Pafitt's performance of the demanding boss. We begin to see her as a strong self-assured lady, and back and forth through the flashback scenes we can see how vulnerable she really is. Her chemistry with Bates is truly unforgettable. The only slight problem I had with the movie is Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance, which gradually gets better throughout the movie but is definitely not up to par with the rest of the cast in the first half. In the last half of the movie, we become more sympathetic with her character and at the same time we can detect that she understands her character better.Overall, a 9 out of 10 for this amazing movie of secrets, redemption, but most of all the many layers of a woman. "},{"Title":"great, but read the book","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" first i read the book. stephen king has got one of my favourites. there are characters (son!) and details missing, but cathy bates, christopher plummer and jennifer jason leigh are making this film special. wonderful touching acting. the film starts a little slow, but is getting better with every minute, so endure the first 20 minutes, it's worthwhile. the end is not satisfying, cause a clich Hollywood ending. of course there are also missing some stephen king harder stuff and many things are just indicated cautiously. OK, this maybe director's freedom, but what i really don't understand is why the film does not rely on the storytelling point of view of dolores. her thoughts, her motives, her struggle are the heart of the book, the film is just a common thriller with great actors. "},{"Title":"Flashback aboard the Ferry *SPOILERS*","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In a scene following the flashback showing Selina and her father on the ferry- specifically showing daddy diddling with Selina- the adult Selina (JJL) goes into a bathroom while riding the ferry. The camera shows her standing in front of the sink looking in the mirror. Then something weird happens- like a hand comes out of her hair at her neck- or something like that. This is accompanied by strange music and then Selina has a mini- freak out and hurries out of the bathroom. What exactly happened? Please help! Thanks! "},{"Title":"I thought it was purely brilliant!","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this movie a few years ago on TNT or something and I thought it was an amazing piece of work. It always had my interest. The acting was also amazing. Everyone did an outstanding job in that movie. I was really impressed. All I can really say is that I thought it was a great movie. It had a great script, great director, great cast, and the author was Steven King. Just great! "},{"Title":"Utterly Moving","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw this film, my stepfather's mother had taken me to see it with her. I wasn't too interested at first, but the more I watched it, the more enrapt I became.A lot of the story (except for the child sexual abuse) really hit home with me and I could very much identify with the domestic abuse going on in Selena's youth because at the time, I was living in a household where my stepfather was treating my mother in very similar ways.I remember cheering in the cinema when I saw what really happened to Joe on the day of the eclipse...All I have to say really is that this film deserves 10/10 and that it is a very worthwhile watch. However, if you are living in or have lived in a home where abuse was commonplace, it might really bring out some of those raw emotions that one hides so well. "},{"Title":"A fine story accompanied by excellent acting keep the movie alive.","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What makes Dolores Claiborne a movie worth watching is the characters which have been brought to life by so many wonderful performances.Does the movie have weaknesses?  Yes.  The flashbacks come a little too often and sometimes detract from the story, but they are usually easily recognised from the present tense part of the story and in the end make the story work.  Some of the motivation needed to drive a few of the minor characters is lacking, but that too can be forgiven when seen in the light of the total story.In all, the story keeps you interested and deserves repeated viewings.  I know I've seen it almost a dozen times and each time is as pleasurable as the first time.The dialog is intreging and realistic as can be.  The settings adds to the story.  And, the mystery of what has motivated the main characters keep the story moving.If you can forgive a few minor setbacks and live with constant flashbacks, you will enjoy the movie for the acting and the outstanding Stephen King story, adjusted as it is. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie...A must see for any Bates & Leigh fan","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best overall dramas I've ever seen.  Kathy Bates & Jennifer Jason Leigh both have exceptional performances.  Bates' witty, strong dialog is humorous, talented and very well done.  Jennifer Jason Lee, well what can I say...she is awesome - she makes the character very real with her talented acting and her ability to play very angry, emotionally engaged roles.  Put two great actresses like this together and you have one of the best drama movies of the 90's.  I give this movie 10 stars - it's a must see...especially if you are a victim of childhood sexual abuse, spousal abuse, or if you grew up in a disfunctional family.  I bought this DVD and I find myself watching it over & over again - just to watch the witty one liners between the characters.  If you are a Kathy Bates and/or  Jennifer Jason Leigh fan - you will not be disappointed - they are at their best. They also have an outstanding supporting cast.  For people who give this film a bad review - they are just unable to relate to it's content.  After seeing this movie, you'll realize that sometimes being a bitch is all a woman has to hold on to...    ) (You'll understand when you see the movie) "},{"Title":"Very very good.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great story, great acting.  Kathy Bates outstanding and heroic, Judy Parfitt also.  David S. also very good.  Plummer's role would have been better if he'd been a little less narcissitically nasty.  Jennifer Jason Leigh a weak link, but not terrible.     An excellent watch. "}{"Title":"Pretty Inventive","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Having read the novel a few years ago and not seen the movie I was wondering how they managed to translate the text into the film. The novel is 99% flashback with Delores narrating the story which does not unfold in chronological order. But somehow they did manage to accomodate this and it is a pretty enjoyable film. Kathy Bates steals every scene as usual. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates is awsome","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very impressed with this movie.  I loved it from start to finish.  I loved how the story was mainly told in flashbacks.  The abusive husband was pretty intense and the daughter played a good part in this movie as well. I wanted to know why she was so rude to her mother all of the time and i found out why.  You have to see this movie to find out.  The ending is a wonderful climax to the story that I really loved.  I enjoyed everything about this movie and I would not change anything in it.    I highly recommend this movie.         "},{"Title":"A poor plot beautifully acted and filmed","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King has managed to write a screenplay completely lacking in suspense.  The movie is entirely exposition and backstory Delores reveals a piece of family history to her daughter (presented in a flashback), then another, then another.  The revelations are, themselves , cliched and overdone.  However, the cinematography is gorgeous; Kathy Bates is superb, as is Judy Parfitt in a small role and David Straithorne as Delores's abusive husband.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is another weak link in the movie--she overplays her character badly, and the big scene she is given at the end is written so badly it is embarrassing.  Worth watching?  Well, the movie stimulated me to analyze its weaknesses.  I would definitely show it to a creative writing or screenwriting class as an example of mishandling plot.  But while I watched it, I wanted to like it, but could not. "},{"Title":"Why melodrama doesn't have to be a bad word","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Melodrama of the highest order.  Bates is a marvel as Dolores, running through the gamut of emotions from frightening to heartbreaking.  She's even better here than in her Oscar-winning role in Misery.  The supporting actors, especially Judy Parfitt and Christopher Plummer, are memorable as well.  Much has been said about the eclipse sequence--rarely has such a great combination of cinematography, subtle special effects, acting and writing come together so successfully.  The way this sequence is delayed and teased will have you riveted to the screen 20 minutes before it even begins. Why can't they make more movies this smart?   "},{"Title":"Stephen King's story works even better on film...","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" KATHY BATES is the title character, an aging woman from a fishing village in Maine with a dark past and a daughter (JENNIFER JASON LEIGH) with whom she shares a dark secret. It's based on a Stephen King novel that has been fleshed out with deeper characterizations, some excellent vistas of New England providing realistic atmosphere, and a satisfying conclusion to a dark tale.Bates and Leigh (as the far away daughter Selena who returns to help her mother through tough legal problems when her mother is accused of a crime), are excellent, and all of their scenes together have a ring of truth. The supporting roles too are in the capable hands of actors like CHRISTOPHER PLUMMER (as a detective who is convinced of Claiborne's guilt) and David STRATHAIRN as Joe St. George, Bates' abusive alcoholic husband.Just as Grace Metalious' PEYTON PLACE was transferred to the screen from a rather trashy novel and improved considerably by a more tastefully written screenplay, this Stephen King story benefits from the expansion of character and development as a psychological tale of an abused wife and daughter.KATHY BATES gives one of her most heartfelt performances as the victimized woman suspected of murder. Well worth watching and the authentic Maine atmosphere adds considerably to the flavor of a good story. "},{"Title":"To be honest...Stephen King is brilliant....","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" and even more so- because he does not ascribe to the celebrity chic nonsense in the US; when this film was made he was already at the top of his game, yet he was not plastered all over 'People' or other magazine trash.That being said, each performance in this film is unique; David Strahairn, Kathy Bates, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Christopher Plummer as the befuddled town sheriff.The story is realistic and surreal at the same time. I have never been a fan of special effects and gore, because realistic mystery is so much better. King delivers it all. From the scenes with Kathy Bates intoning...sometimes being a bitch is all a woman has to hold onto... and Judy Parfitt as wealthy doyenne on the small Little Tall Island in Maine who hints; a husband may be driving home one night...his brakes may go out, there may be a five car collision.King uses a straight edge to deliver real life rage and homicide, as disguised in the daily chores. Dolores Claiborne was a faithful servant. She took care of her mistress. Would she club her over the head?. For what reason?.Jennifer Jason Leigh as Bates' daughter is also noteworthy. She escaped the town to attend Vassar college, and is now a prolific writer. But there are still many secrets and rages to be revealed. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Moving maternal love","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Selena was a reporter. She had a bad relationship with her mother Dolores. They had not contact with each other for many years. It was the accidental death of her father 15 years ago that broke up the family totally. They had their respective unspoken secret. One day she learned that her mother was involved to a murder case. How to handle with the murder case made them stay together again. The stubborn cop who still thought that Dolores killed her husband would never let her go easily this time.Dolores' love for her daughter really touched my heart. Although Dolores was a tough talker, she loved Selena very much. Just take an example; she collected every article written by Selena, though they did not talk each other. Parental love for their children is great. They would do anything for their children.Kathy Bates kept her normal level and played sympathizing Dolores. Now I am eager to watch her Oscar winning film Misery.A thought-provoking family drama. 7/10 "},{"Title":"stunning judy parfitt","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This King novel is so different from his other work (uptil then). Adapting it for screen was interesting, as the novel is told with Dolores voice.How successful it did turn out ! Fully justice to the novel, and beautifully setting the right feel for the story. Still, the real credit is due to the cast. We know Bates is good, and she is very good here. But for me, Judy Parfitt is simply sensational as Vera Donovan. Her performance is acting of the highest class, and her not getting an academy award for itWell, says what you need to know about the awards.. Also David Strathairn gives a great performance, and Chris Plummer is a good choice as the intense detective. I can not say that Jennifer Lason-Leigh is bad as Selena. She is not. But her interpretation gets to stereotypical in my opinion. In her defense, she is up against the very best.A great movie, a good story and superb acting. "},{"Title":"Dolores Claiborne is no. 1!!","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie enough that I watch every time I am home from work. I really don't know why I like it so much. The scenes in the mansion(beautiful house) are some of my favorites. However I would have loved it had they left out some of the language and the scene on the dock with her father. I just think everyone could have figured it out without that scene and then I could have shared the movie with my family. It just kills me that I can't sit and watch it with my mom..but it would be a bit embarrassing. Even so I think Dolores Claiborne is the no.1 movie. Kathy is an outstanding actress as was everyone else in the movie. I can only hope they will come out with a sequel and show how she lives the next 20 years!!! Wouldn't just one more great movie from Kathy be wonderful?? Does anyone know if there are any thoughts of that happening? I will bet it would be a box office hit...no doubt in my mind. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Dolores, sometimes you have to be a high riding B*TCH to survive...","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I feel as if I'm torn....in that I absolutely love Kathy Bates. She is and amazing actor with a superior ability to transform and project emotions. She did this in Misery and in Fried Green Tomatoes and of course in Dolores Claiborne. She is very effective as Dolores, a woman whose been hardened over years of work, abuse, and loneliness. You can honestly feel the years of pain coming from her...I needed to say what I did in that last paragraph because I didn't want to take anything away from Kathy, but the performance that I was most impressed by was that of Judy Parfitt. I COULD NOT take my eyes off of her. She is absolutely OUTSTANDING as Vera Donovan!! It reminds me of Angela Lansbury's performance in the original The Manchurian Candidate, when you're just waiting for another scene with her in it. Judy dominates every scene that she is in and you're thinking about her when she's not in one. When she is explaining to Dolores how husbands die every day after she finds out about Dolores' home life, it is heartbreaking and almost terrifying how convicted she is about the subject. She is really something to see in this film as a younger socialite and as a bitter old woman who is longing to die. How she was not recognized by the Academy with a Best Supporting Actress Oscar nomination/award is beyond me.Oddly, Jennifer Jason Leigh, who I usually love, was quite irritating to me in this film....not a bad job necessarily, just not an effective one. On the other hand, David Strathairn was brilliantly disgusting as the abusive, in SO MANY ways, husband and father...I love this film and just about all the performances, but Judy Parfitt is the reason why I can watch it over and over and over... "}{"Title":"Another hollywood snubbing","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dolores Claiborne is just another example of how the academy doesn't show its recognition of well-made,poignant,well-acted films if it doesnt't fit their criteria or a certain genre.Dolores Claibourne was simply one of the best films of 1995.Even if the viewer didn't especially care for it,there's no denying the absolute stellar performances from the cast.Kudos to Kathy bates,Jennifer Jason Leigh,David Strathairn,Christopher Plummer,and ESPECIALLY (the great)Judy Parfitt(in an amazing performance as Dolores'employer).When performances like these are not recognized at all by the academy,I feel much better- I snubbed them 10 years ago.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not as flashy as MISERY, but Bates may be even better in this unbearably sad tale of spousal abuse and incest mixed in with a murder mystery that in the end is not what it appears to be at all. Surprisingly strong film from a very uneven director, and certainly worth a look if you like Stephen King stories and/or Kathy Bates. Could it have been the nondescript (or chick-flick) title that caused few people to see it on its initial release? "},{"Title":"Taylor Hackford's Dolores Claiborne","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Stephen King's change of pace novel was brought triumphantly tothe screen...and fizzled at the box office and award shows. Now isthe time to rediscover one of the best films of the 1990's.Kathy Bates is the title character, who is under suspicion after herbattleaxe employer is found at the bottom of a staircase with Batesholding a marble rolling pin over her head. Cue angry pill poppingalcoholic New York City reporter daughter Jennifer Jason Leighwho is called home to Bates' aid. Bates is the town weirdo, andlawman Christopher Plummer wants to put her away for good,considering her first escape from a murder charge.Almost twenty years before, Bates was implicated but notprosecuted in her abusive husband David Strathairn's death. Thefilm then takes two courses a modern day mystery, as Dolores'relationship with her employer reveals the death not to be cut anddried; and what really happened on the day of the eclipse eighteenyears ago when Dolores' husband fell down an abandoned well.A basic plot summary cannot do justice to such an outstandingfilm. Kathy Bates does a better job here than in Misery, asDolores is completely unapologetic about her actions over theyears. Jennifer Jason Leigh is also great in a role that goesbeyond bitter daughter, as she and her mother try to get alongdespite some very deep dark secrets. Christopher Plummer isalso good as the obsessed investigator who decides he will makesome kind of murder charge stick to Dolores. David Strathairn isone of the most evil characters of all time, becoming a domesticnightmare, but not in the TV movie sense. His first initial act ofviolence with Bates is both disgusting and shocking. John C.Reilly is also good in an early role as a constable.Placed in Maine, and filmed in Nova Scotia, the location isabsolute perfection. This is the cold ruddy setting of all of King'snovels, and the best east coast small town since NeedfulThings. Hackford, who has done such quality work in the past,shows King's novel a real reverence that is often missing fromother King adaptations. He does a professional job, both with theeclipse sequences, and especially with the smooth transitions inthe film from past to present and back again. No blurry or blackand white sequences, you know when and where you are  constantly.This ranks with Christine and The Dead Zone as one of thebest big screen adaptations of King's work, which have becomethe stuff of television miniseries lately. This is not a horror film, ifyou appreciate the nuances of Agatha Christie's murder mysteries,or just a good detective story, check this out. In case you haven'tfigured it out, I definitely recommend it. This is rated (R) for physical violence, sexual violence, some gore,strong profanity, sexual references, some drug abuse, and strongadult situations.   "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the best Stephen King adaptations along with The Shawshank Redemption, Stand By Me and Misery, Dolores Claiborne is an excellent film.It looks striking while not straying too far from the intended atmosphere, the script is well written and tense, the atmosphere is chilling and evocative and the story is ceaselessly gripping even with the length.The direction also impresses, as does how the characters are developed and written especially the title character. The acting is one of Dolores Claiborne's best assets. Jennifer Jason Leigh is very, very good, Christopher Plummer is magnificent while Kathy Bates steals very single scene she's in in another superb performance.In conclusion, this film is most excellent and highly recommended. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"ordinary    story","Date":"12 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" but not an ordinary Stephen King adaptation. because great performance of Kathy Bates change everything. story about sacrifice, abuse, rude existence, silent crime, it is only slice from many existences. picture of a fight, touching, profound, dark, seductive, it is one of films who define piece by piece its public. because line between life and fiction is very fragile. because important is not the word but the rumor of silence. because each detail makes a strong building of feelings. because it is a testimony , like many others, about nuances, cruel nuances of pain. and nothing more. it is not a Stephen King but only a mirror. because victims and new version of Javert, the hole in garden and Vera, the confession on tape or the joy of meeting are crumbs of many existences far from every script. "},{"Title":"Dolores Claiborne","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I hated Joe St.George I hated his guts making his daughter do things like that makes me want to puke but I love it when Dolores hits back and makes him have that accident in the result of death he deserved it F*****g B*****d!!!!!!! He Had it coming to him he bloody well deserved it WELL DONE DOLORES!!!! He molested his daughter on the ferry no wonder her grades went from A's and B's to C's and D's in the space of two semesters I am not one bit surprised and Detective Mackey had no right to do what he did to Dolores she did nothing wrong absolutely nothing wrong he should have got Bone Cancer instead of his wife at least then he would be off her back about something that happened 18 years ago I mean can't the dead stay dead Joe had it coming if he didn't die by accident he would have died of Liver failure of that I am sure "},{"Title":"The mind of Stephen King.","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is yet another dark tale from the mind of Stephen King but cinematically speaking, it turns out better than a lot of 'em. The movie is not action packed and therefore relies on the intriguing story to hold the viewer's attention, which it actually does for the most part. The twist introduced by the character of Vera Donovan was great! All the performances are nicely done, with Kathy Bates stealing the show. She fits the role to a T and shouts some wonderful lines from time to time. All in all, this is not a bad little murder mystery and is well worth the price of a rental. It may be just a touch too long though. "},{"Title":"Not your usual Stephen King Fare","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are no spoilers in this review. Delores Claiborne is more than the story of an abused woman and her daughter overcoming their past. It is the story of how that past won't ever really be behind them.It is riveting, shocking and scary as any monster movie out there, mostly because there is the feeling that this is all real, not a story thought up by the master of horror. It is understated, never in your face, and can be hard to watch at times.Kathy Bates gives dignity to a character that could have been so flat. David Strathairn is great as the sleazy Joe St. George. This is a great movie. It's on my Gotta See It list! "},{"Title":"Better than Misery","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think this film is a little piece of unassuming brilliance.Essentially based upon the actions of five characters, it tells a deceptively simple story of two deaths with both economy and emotional depth.I'm not going to give too much - or any - of the story away, suffice to say that the acting is impeccable. Kathy Bates as Dolores ably faces down the whispering town, yet remains helpless in the face of the past, manifested in her estranged daughter. Jennifer Jason Lee is as great as ever as the bruised, vulnerable, passive-aggressive daughter; while Christopher Plummer extracts subtle pathos out of a fundamentally unsympathetic role.Judy Parfitt is simultaneously demonic and regal, while David Strathairn demonstrates artistic bravery in convincingly playing a man with no virtues further than his own mortality.I would stick my neck out and say that this is the best Stephen King adaptation. The Shining is overblown, slightly dull and not the least bit scary; The Shawshank Redemption and (particularly) The Green Mile are too twee. Misery and Carrie are great tense shockers, but seen once, some of the attraction fades slightly. The closest in regards to plot, emotional punch and characterisation are Stand By Me, Apt Pupil and The Dead Zone. Dolores Claiborne has, for me, the edge over these films due to the sheer quality of storytelling.Besides, none of the films I mentions has a line like this Sometimes you have to be a high-riding bitch to survive. Sometimes being a bitch is all a woman has to hold onto. "},{"Title":"You should have seen it by now","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had never really watched this movie all the way through, but this movie was really good. One thing I remember about it when it was in the theaters, was that the trailers for it kind of made it look like a different style of movie. . .Anyway you should definately see this one, its one of the best Stephen King movies there is. "}{"Title":"Kathy Bates is fantastic","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  See the movie to catch another great performance by Kathy Bates. This isn't Misery again-- her strengths as an actress really shine through. You see her old, haggard, worn and tired and also younger, happier, and so convincing as a mother who dearly loves her only child. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a great performance by Kathy Bates (she was the only decent part of 'Primary Colours' and a talented actress) and an interesting story. Nothing like dysfunctional families to inspire movies! Certainly not the 'typical' King fare, this is a classy and intelligent character drama (I have no idea where the 'thriller' tag came from). I would certainly recommend this film. 7/10 (almost an 8).  "},{"Title":"Meh","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A big-city reporter (Jennifer Jason Leigh) travels to the small town where her mother (Kathy Bates) has been arrested for the murder of an elderly woman that she works for as a maid.Aside from the performances of Chris Plummer, John C. Reilly and the young Selena, I really was not terribly impressed. Not that Kathy Bates did a bad job. She did a fine job. But the plot was so blah and the script did not seem to flow right...Something was missing, and it was not made up for by the mention of Shawshank Prison (although that helped). I would have to give this film another look to properly analyze it amongst King's other works, but frankly I have little interest in doing so. "},{"Title":"i feel for dolor-es","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this move is fantastic, yet i cry at Dolores's' life.what a strong woman to go through so much.i really feel for her. I always think about her putting up the washing on the icy days, and making dinner and everything for Selena.as she really was a good woman to help her daughter, its a shamehow she gets treated. There are scenes in this movie where she tears up and i my throat just croaks. Vera was a good woman, and a hard boss, but dolor-es needed that escape to get away from her husband.The fact that dolor es worked her butt of for her daughter who left her, makes me really sad.Anybody else feel like this too? "},{"Title":"What a waste of a good storyline","Date":"6 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first read Dolores Claiborne I said to myself I can't wait for them to turn this into a movie, and they did, unfortunately it was worse than Ellen Degeneres' movie MR. Wrong. For a book that was so wonderfully written to be turned into the hideous movie that is now Dolores Claiborne, well it's sad. Where did the son of Dolores go? They tried to go in at a good angle, I'll give them that, but to turn something good into something as putrid as the movie, well it should be against the law! The ONLY reason to watch this movie would be to witness Kathy Bates, she is, as always GREAT! If you don't like Kathy Bates then, not only should you get your head examined, you should read the book. "},{"Title":"Weird, not nearly as entertaining as other King pictures","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Usually horror movies with wise-cracking villians are silly, but maybe they're just essential for Stephen King movies. All I know is, without a PennyWise the Dancing Clown or Andre Linoge present, this is kind of a lackluster movie, which was too bad, considering the talented cast and sort of interesting looking commericals(with the lovely music ripped off from Ordinary People). While not my favorite actors, Kathy Bates, David Straitharn, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Christopher Plummer are all considered talented in my book and they all play their parts well.Maybe I just didn't like the characters, or something. Dolores is sort of interesting as a poor maid who is accused of murdering an old woman and is a probable suspect, since she is also accused of killing her husband. It all spins into a web of flashbacks and present, concentrating mostly on Dolores's relationship with her husband(who is oh-so-creativly abusive) and her troubled daughter(who grew from a beyond annoying child to a so-so adult). While it makes for an interesting character study, there are lots of plot holes and confusions and some parts were, well, quite dull. I survived my viewing, though. So that's nice, at least. "},{"Title":"Mediocre Stephen King movie","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A bit different for a Stephen King movie, this one is relatively gore-free. It's also better than most of his movie adaptations.  Bates is a great actress as usual, but Jennifer Jason Leigh stumbles through her lines at times.  There also seems to be some kind of weird blue tint though the whole movie, except when a flashback occurs, when the movie goes to normal color. This can be annoying.  The story also kind of drags at times.  7 of 10 "},{"Title":"No Misery, but it's not bad","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dolores Claiborne is a very solid adaptation of a book by a man who is probably the king of modern horror literature Stephen King (I haven't read that many books, so I can't say for sure). I haven't read the original source material, but judging by this film it is safe to say that it wasn't meant to be horror-per say, as the film follows more of a psychological thriller pattern when it comes to plotting; despite some blatant horror influences. The style of plotting is relatively exciting, and it shows both the current events, which it then intertwines with flashbacks of the past. This sort of film can easily get muddled, but you have to give credit to Dolores Claiborne as it successfully manages to keep itself on the straight and narrow with regards to plotting. The film follows the story of a housekeeper who has allegedly murdered her employer by throwing her down the stairs. The plot thickens when her daughter, who still blames her mother for the mysterious death of her father, comes to town to see what's going on with her parent.Kathy Bates, who impressed in the 1990 Stephen King adaptation of 'Misery', overacts here, it has to be said, but in spite of that she still brings believability and a relative degree of sympathy to her character, and it's very easy to see why director Taylor Hackford would have cast her in the title role. She is joined on screen by a woman who is one of today's most underrated performers; Jennifer Jason Leigh. Leigh impresses throughout the film and although her character is definitely second to Bates' in the film's hierarchy, Leigh still delivers the best performance in the movie. While the film is always good enough to be called interesting, it is overlong and had the action have been compacted, the resulting movie would have been far more thrilling and as it is a thrillers' main aim to be thrilling; shortening the movie down would definitely have been a good idea. While this movie isn't exactly a fine example of the genre, it's a solid thriller and if you find yourself with nothing better to do one night while this film is on television; you could do a lot worse than watch it. "},{"Title":"Boring and Dumb","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dumb is not only the movie, but Kathy Bates is too. Never liked any of her movies at all. Not just because she is unattractive, but just because she just sounds dumb altogether. I don't think she is acting at all. She is mostly being herself.Not trying to be an arse, but just can't stand her, and she just looks evil on every single movie she is in. It is like she does not care about anything at all. Now that I said how I feel about Kathy Bates. The movie is one long boring movie that just takes forever to get somewhere that gets no where at all.These kind of movies are for the bored that want to stay bored. Nothing pulled me in this movie at all. Want to watch a movie to actually lose concentration on, this is it. Jennifer Jason Leigh is not attractive to me either, but is better looking than Bates. I was disgusted watching Single White Female with Jennifer.She took showers, but she still looked as if she was right off the streets she lived for many years. She had mold on her feet. Single White Female was way better than this crap. "},{"Title":"nothing like the book at all","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie is nothing at all like the book. in the book there is no detective John Mackey. In the book, when Deloris lures Joe out into the field and Joe falls into the well, he comes up again and again and grabs Deloris she almost falls in her self until Deloris smashes his head with a rock. When in the movie he just falls in and dies. Selena in the book is suppose to be 44 years old. in the movie she looks a lot younger than that. In the book, Vera Donovan does not intent ally commit suicide, she is driven to it, or pushed down the stairs by what she and Deloris refer to as the dust bunnies and in the book she has two sons. little Pete, and Joe Jr. However i believe the actors/actresses did a great job. Kathy Bates was the best. "}{"Title":"More misery!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Kathy Bates plays an apparently psychopathic woman living in a lonely house, in a film derived from a Stephen King story you might be forgiven for assuming Taylor Hackford's movie is merely 'Misery', part two. And with Jennifer Jason Leigh playing an alcoholic, you can certainly not accuse the director of casting against type. As always in King's tales, the plotting is efficient but mechanical, with each character playing a clearly defined role in the story. But strong performances from the two leads add a dose of depth and humanity not often present in such adaptations. In the end, the final solution is just a little too neat, but the film deserves credit for making the most of its starting material. "},{"Title":"Dolores Claiborne","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From director Taylor Hackford (An Officer and a Gentleman, The Devil's Advocate, Ray), I recognised the title after seeing it mentioned once before and because of the lead actress, but I didn't know it was based on Stephen Kind until I watched it. Basically Dolores Claiborne (Kathy Bates) is the woman working in remote Maine as a maid for the rich, elderly and paralysed Vera Donovan (Judy Parfitt), and she is caught after possibly pushing her down the stairs and ready to finish her off with a rolling pin. The old woman dies and she arrested for her suspected murder, and her daughter Selena St. George (Single White Female's Jennifer Jason Leigh), now a big-shot reporter, has returned from New York to support her. Dolores insists she did not kill Vera, but the entire town believe twenty year ago she murdered her husband Joe St. George (The Bourne Ultimatum's David Strathairn), so she has little sympathy, especially from Detective John Mackey (Christopher Plummer) who wants to put her away for life. Selena also believed the suspected murder of her father, and through flashbacks we see Dolores suffering abuse from the alcoholic Joe, as well as him stealing from Selena's family account, but worse was her suspicions that he molested his own daughter. There is an argument after the will from Vera claiming she left her a fortune is shown and Selena refuses to help her mother, and Dolores decides to finally reveal the truth. Through flashback we see Vera being mean giving Dolores too many housework and chores, but she softens when they bond through home troubles, and she decides enough is enough. The past reveals Young Selena (Ellen Muth) was sent away, and during a total solar eclipse Dolores gives Joe some whisky and she tells that she knows about his stealing and the molestation, and she makes him fall into the well to die at the bottom. In the end, after remembering a suppressed memory Selena confirms that she was indeed molested by her own father, and she confirms Dolores is innocent, Vera wanted to die, and the case is dropped. Also starring Eric Bogosian as Peter, John C. Reilly as Constable Frank Stamshaw, Bob Gunton as Mr. Pease and Roy Cooper as Magistrate. Bates, who won the Oscar for Stephen Kind based Misery five years before is great, even with the dotty possibly Canadian accent, and Leigh is also really good as her daughter who is not sure what to believe for a while, it is a film with some eye-catching moments and an engaging story, a most watchable mystery drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Overlain Truth","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Stephen King is cursed most of the tricks he pulls in writing seem like they can be  translated cinematically. But when the time comes they fall down a well.The trick this time is simple Two realities. The one we think we see and understand,  running concurrent with a past that annotates and changes the future so that at the end  we see a changed reality.The agent and as it turns out fulcrum of the past story is a reporter, whose eyes we use.  The clever fold is the reversal of the detective form. There is a detective, and he is  persistently working on a hunch as the form requires.Detective stories are a game between reader and writer for who successfully invents  reality. Usually, the reader is given the detective's eyes. Here, the reader is given the  writer's eyes JJ Leigh does her fast talking writer from `Hudsucker' and `Dorothy Parker.'The cinematic translation is Dolores' visions. But it just doesn't work on screen as it does  on the page. In the written version, WE see the past and can map it onto Selena's  discovery. Here, Dolores sees and we do too. It confuses us about who we are.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates is at the top of her game--but this is an impossible story...","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Taylor Hackford, not known for working well with actresses, helps Kathy Bates give another superb performance (in yet another Stephen King drama, following Misery). Unfortunately, this King-derived plot verges on the ridiculous, concerning ornery woman in a tiny Maine community who was once involved in the death of her abusive husband and is now the suspect in the death of the rich old dowager she cares for. Stuffed full of sub-plots, the picture almost drowns in melodrama. Bates gives a colorful, involving, multi-layered performance, however, and has some well-written, big show-off scenes to sink her chops into; Jennifer Jason Leigh has far less to work with as Bates' estranged daughter, but Hackford does a good job at slipping in and out of the present, and although the story is overwrought, his fluid work commands attention. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A bloated Lifetime movie conceived under a full moon and best viewed during menstrual cycles","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"7 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In other words, extremely overwrought melodrama with wronged women who act like they desperately need to get some action.Honestly, it's one of those movies where everyone screams their dialogue, no matter how banal it isWhere's the damn Sweet & Low?It's going to rain today and tomorrow!!!There's no MORE Tide!!!!! But this being based on Stephen King novel, who's not known for his subtlety, the overly-wordy dialogue makes this turgid melodrama almost unbearable. No one and I mean no one talks like the way these characters talk.The highlight of the film is the eclipse scene, which makes me laugh nonstop. The whole moment is so artificial. Seeing Kathy Bates jump over the abandoned well is too much. Watch out Indiana Jones, here comes Dolores to take your place.In fact, the entire film feels artificial and forced. Director Taylor HACKford wouldn't know how to create realism if his life depended on it. To make things even more cringe-worthy, the music apes every dramatic moment as if the overacting and the overwrought dialogue weren't enough to clue us in over what's going on.As a work of dramatic fiction, DOLORES CLAIBORNE rates a tiny 2 stars but as a It's so bad it's good film, well, it is good for a constant stream of giggles and will be viewed in the future as pure camp, like THE BAD SEED or MOMMIE DEAREST. "},{"Title":"Pretty Horrid","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" What happens when you get a Stephen King novel made into a movie and get a pretty decent cast? Surprisingly, a pretty awful movie. About the only redeeming thing about this movie was the acting. Other than that, it was quite unbelievable. I guess if you are an alcoholic in a small town that automatically makes you a psychotic. If only we could all be prim and proper country folk - in Stephen King's bourgeoise paradise. Dolores Claiborne (played by the usually excellent Kathy Bates) is a woman who was the prime suspect in the death of her alcoholic husband (Straitharn). Now, she is the prime suspect in the murder of her employer - a wealthy widow. So, what horrible thing happens to Dolores Claiborne. The authorities allow her loose in the community. Along comes her daughter (Jennifer Jason Leigh). After being away for many years from the small Maine community, she is a reporter. Somehow that makes her qualified to be a defense lawyer. In a ridiculous, improbable ending, she defends her Mom successfully, somehow bypassing the need for a trial. This movie was hopelessly bad. "},{"Title":"Too Depressing","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It`s not all that often that we get to see a Stephen King adaption with absolutely no supernatural or horror elements hit the big screen but DOLORES CLAIBORNE is far more disturbing  than stuff like GRAVEYARD SHIFT  , NEEDFULL THINGS or SALEMS LOT due to the subject matter . It involves trailer trash , unlawful killing , child sex abuse , mental breakdown , wife beating and alcoholism , so it`s not got much in the way of  entertainment even though it is very well acted by all the cast especially Kathy Bates in the title role . This is a very bleak depressing story which I found to be a total turn off and I`m in no great hurry to watch it again  "},{"Title":"Good Acting, But 'Unpleasant' Is The Word For This Story","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"10 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a very unpleasant movie, thanks to the two leading ladies who were loud, nasty and profane. Those roles were played by Kathy Bates and Jennifer Jason Leigh, two women who have played these kind of characters in other movies, especially Leigh. Bates has mellowed with age but this role here reminded of another nasty one she played in a film called Misery. That movie, as this one is, was based on a Stephen King book. This film was unpleasant in other ways because topics in the movie dealt with trashy people, alcoholism, wife beating and included tons of profanity, child sex and more.....so be forewarned Leigh's role - playing a defense attorney and defending Bates - seemed very improbable. These ladies are good actresses but the material in here is hard to handle, is all I am saying, and I certainly can't recommend this. "}]