[{"Title":"Great characters, great scenery, great lines","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are people in this world who think Barcelona is just a film about soft-living, navel-gazing preppies with perfect hair and term-paper vocabularies. These are the same people who like Vinyl Hampton music.What's not to love about this sensitive, off-kilter love story about a young, too-earnest salesman Ted and his sly, disruptive Ugly American cousin-with-issues Fred? Nothing. The film grabs you from their first bickering exchange in Ted's apartment building, and never lets go, not because of fast-paced editing or shiny visuals (though the film doesn't drag and Barcelona at night is a wonder) but because of the clever dialogue. Whit Stillman makes films for people who love to read, yet they are not stilted exercises in Masterpiece Theater-style draftsmanship but laugh-out-loud exchanges of opinion between engaging people who just happen to see the world in sometimes very/ sometimes slightly different ways. It's like Friends if that cast suddenly grew brains. Give this movie five minutes, and it will suck you in like a vacuum.Ultimately, what grabs me is how the film is so chock full of life, of people who haven't got much of a clue about life winging it and hazarding the consequences. I remember those days. Ted pledges to date only plain or even homely women because he thinks beauty obscures the true essence of love. Fred tells people his cousin is into the Marquis de Sade and leather underwear because he thinks it makes Ted more interesting to the ladies than the Bible-reading goody-goody Ted really is.Actually, Fred may be on to something. It seems to help Ted in meeting his dream woman Montserrat. Ted and Montserrat are an odd couple. He wrestles earnestly with his religion and believes in salesmanship as a means of understanding life, while she is a free-living, free-loving Spaniard who thinks leaving her native land for America will condemn her future children to a life of hamburger-eating zombiedom.I was in Barcelona in 1981 myself and saw first-hand how beautiful and magical the place truly is. I also saw the anti-Americanism and anti-OTANism prevalent there. Stillman isn't overselling the negative attitudes many in Spain and throughout Europe had of the United States during those critical days of the Cold War. It's a good thing they got that out of their system, huh? The movie could have been heavy-handed in this way, but never allows itself to be, not with all those funny ant analogies. Ramon, the left-wing writer who fingers Fred for being a member of the CIA (or the AFL-CIA, as Ramon is convinced the labor union and the intelligence agency are somehow connected), is not stupid or mean, but just like Ted and Fred, a little too caught up in his own ideas of how things are, or as Ted puts it in a moment of truth at the hospital, another person given to filtering reality through his own colossal egotism.Whit Stillman seems to be averaging two films a decade now, and it's a shame. He and Chris Eigeman need to make more movies together. I never get tired of Eigeman's snarky charm, or Stillman's ability to create films equally rich in one-liners and in context. Barcelona was the finest of Stillman's three efforts, with the best story and backdrop, but the earlier Metropolitan was not far behind. Last Days of Disco, the most recent Stillman film, wasn't as good as the first two, but is engaging and absorbing enough on its own terms. If you haven't seen any of them, start with this one.The DVD contains several interesting deleted scenes and an alternative ending which might have made the film a bit darker but wouldn't have disrupted anything essential. Still, it's hard to argue with an ending that has Montserrat bite into an authentic American hamburger and pronounce it incredible. At least unless you're a vegetarian, in which case Fred would probably say that's your problem. "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated film","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Barecelona is a vastly underrated movie that achieved little success outside of art-house theatres on its release. This is a shame because the movie is both intelligent, funny and has broad appeal.It concerns the adventures of two Americans who find themselves in Barcelona in the early Eighties at the height of the cold war. Ted is an uptight and repressed businessman while Fred is his airforce cousin who's a great deal more relaxed. The film starts with Fred forcing himself on his reluctant cousin's hospitality having just arrived in Barcelona.Yet this isn't a buddy movie. In fact, it's very hard to classify and is by no means typical of an American movie. It's far more European in style.The movie is about clashes of cultures and it's here that the humour is generated. Fred and Ted's differing attitudes and intelligence levels rub up against each other, and the old debate about the differences between male and female outlooks get a look in too. But the largest culture clash is that of urban left-wing Northern Spain versus the naturally conservative and bullish Americanism. This sounds heavy and intellectual but it isn't - the film makes fun of the American culture of living according self-help guides, for example, but also makes fun of a Spanish journalist-cum-philosopher who turns out to be equally shallow.The strongest elements of the movie are the script, which is as tight as any top-notch sitcom, and also the cast. There are some excellent performances all around from some very strong actors. Fans or Mira Sorvino won't get to see a great deal of her, however, as she has a relatively minor supporting role.The film is effectively a celebration of Barcelona and also of the situations that arise when different cultures meet. This might make it hard for some Americans to warm to but, ironically, that merely underlines the movie's main theme - that the world is bigger than the American continent and infinitely wider in its cultural scope. "},{"Title":"Charming","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"26 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This very unusual movie exudes such charm and creates a great well of sympathy for its anxious and innocent central characters.They find themselves throughout in worlds they find alien - a world of puerile anti-Americanism, of foreign women, and either commercial sales or the Navy (well, you were ROTC, weren't you? said disparagingly to a former bond trader now Navy officer).The movie is very funny, the main American characters very likeable, naive, impressionable and voluble, the Spanish male character and several of the Spanish female characters, enjoyably detestable in every way.There were two things I particularly enjoyed. First, every American who has lived in Europe for any period of time will find the movie rings all kinds of bells of memory - the woeful ignorance but insufferable patronizing tone of Europeans discoursing on American history and politics (e.g., the whole discourse on the terrible union AFL-CIA that subverted democratic movements in Europe is a hoot). Many young Europeans have exhibited since the War such an astonishing combination of ignorance, facile categorization and jealousy toward American life, history and policy that the American finds himself suddenly overwhelmed by both uninformed European prejudice and an astonishing unwillingness to be educated about a country that Americans obviously know far better than the lecturers. This movie is almost a tribute to that suffering.Second, this movie is a nice antidote to the usual pedestal-placing of women, particularly foreign women, as the pawns of men. In this, the women are FAR more predatory and exhibit a deceit that is commonplace in most movies about male wolfishness. It's nice to see the tables turned.The movie is also quite good on the relationship between two young Chicago men - and the way in which their lives as children affect their continuing view of each other - and how that changes.The movie is off-beat, and has a peculiar pace. Do pay attention because there are about 5 female characters who are easy to confuse. Do see it- you'll enjoy it. (Oh, and in contradiction to the reviewer below, I think it quite normal, though funny, for a man to happen to speak - even though still in bed - to a girlfriend about his worry that he may be shaving the wrong way). "},{"Title":"Americans in Love in Spain","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Barcelona is a conversational movie, driven by witty, inventive dialogue. The two main protagonists are cousins; white collar, American, male twenty-somethings. One is the Barcelona sales representative of an American company, the other a recently arrived Naval attaché. Set in the early 1980s, together they navigate the Spanish singles scene while trying to excel in their chosen professions. This doesn't sound like much, but it's really a hoot. The movie's core is the pair's verbal jousting, both with one another, and with the Spanish women they try to woo. It has a couple of sub-plots to keep things interesting, and just bubbles along. I recommend this highly, especially as a movie to see with a date.  "},{"Title":"The Bible Dancer and the  American Deer","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of those movies that get better with age. I first saw it ten years ago, when Mira Sorvino was an unknown actress, and I was surprised to learn later that she wasn't really Spanish. (I lived in Spain for five years, so I'm not easily fooled.) If you've been to Barcelona, you'll like the glowing glimpses of the city, sun-drenched during the day, lit by neon and fireworks at night. There is much charming, often subtle, humor in the film. Who could resist Taylor Nichols dancing alone in his dining room while reading the Bible? Or Chris Eigeman using a felt tip pen to change anti-American graffiti from American pigs to American deer? Sure, the film is talky, but it doesn't take itself too too seriously. "},{"Title":"A life-affirming diversion for thinkers","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have not looked at this movie in over a year, yet it is still so fond to my recollection...that I have to stop here and share my thoughts.First, this is a genuinely warm film and some of the sunniness of the setting, I think, permeates the mood it creates and the feeling that is left with the viewer. And this is despite the sterility of Ted Boynton's work and the comparable hollowness of his sales ethos. I know what people say about Whit Stillman's films (ie. that they are peopled with talking heads and not much feeling is generated)....but this is absolutely NOT the case with BARCELONA. In spite of Ted Boynton's pragmatic and brainy approach to life, he is still shown the value of love and life...and learns some of the humility he has been so sorely lacking. It has to do, also, with his consciousness of being a foreigner he has lowered his expectations to the point where the slightest display of kindness (by Montserrat and her friends) is a revelation to him. I think anyone wanting to work abroad should see this film first!There is much to admire in here the crispness of Stillman's dialogue, the excellent performance by Taylor Nichols and his comic, verbally-sparring, exchanges with Chris Eigeman. It teaches us to never lose our wonder and become complacent when becoming established in a foreign country. It offers a lesson to intellectuals and would-be intellectuals everywhere that there is still plenty to be learned where the human heart is concerned. I liked this movie a lot and rate it as Stillman's clearest and most entertaining work to date. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Back when I wasn't really into buying films on video, I bought this one. The humor is subtle, understated, ironic, and tremendously well-written. It is just ending as I write this. Every time I see it I notice a few more things that make me laugh. None of it is the shocking, laugh-out-loud style of humor, but there are several intellectual chuckles.For some people, it will seem too intellectual and therefore it will strike them as pretentious. That is not a criticism at all, only a warning. I don't find it pretentious at all.The best part is the interesting characters. They are written as complete, well-developed people who have wildly different outlooks on Spain-U.S. relations. While Whit Stillman does a great job of analyzing these relations, the central focus of the movie is how these characters relate to each other in the arena of these larger ethnic relations.I firmly believe that anyone who enjoys dialogue-driven, non-action-oriented films will love this one. I gave it a 10. "},{"Title":"a wonderful movie","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is hilarious. I have seen it at least a dozen times and I still crack up repeatedly. Stillman managed to give a glimpse of his genius in Metropolitan, and he failed badly in the subsequent Last Days of Disco (that was a lazy effort with a few hilarious joking references to the two previous movies, but it's a huge disappointment), but this time he hits the right tone. The story is about two cousins in Barcelona one summer, and the text of the movie is entertaining enough, but what is wonderful is the way he steps back and shows the absurdity of these characters while still allowing you to have some affection for them. The final scene in the movie where the two cousins and a friend stare out over the lake in fatuous contentment is sheer perfection. "},{"Title":"Talk to Him","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A great joy in a life with film is to discover a film that is competent and coherent, that exists cinematic ally but which on reflection has dynamics worth rejecting. After all, you build your life not so much on absorption but on paring. A great sorrow in film is to encounter a film that isn't quite competent and therefore doesn't project a coherent world. This is the latter.Its mildly interesting in that we can see the writer's sketchbook he started with three pairs men and women; two differing and sometimes competing cultures and two odd couple cousins. Each of these pairs has some inner dynamics now triangulate among them all and shake out a story.Spanish passion, falling in love with a dancing woman, a death, another in a coma who recovers. Sounds a lot like Talk to Her, and in fact you might even find this film interesting if you see it together with Almodovar's gem. But otherwise, all you'll see is a writer's exercise gone awry. There's even a paucity of jokes only the one about the AFL-CIA.I viewed this only because of the promise of the setting in Barcelona. Like the three dualities of the story, the city is bicameral. It is half African and half European; nominally Spanish, it has its own culture and language half French half Spanish. But its architecture is the thing. There are some Gaudi masterpieces which have influenced a unique approach which is half socialist architecture (yes, there is such a thing) and half wan decorative attempts at Gaudi's space jazz. This all adds to create a special ambiance; one is rarely happy about leaving Barcelona, and I hoped to get some of that environmental joy here.Nope. This could as easily been set in some dreary place like Madrid.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Fine, unusual comedy","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" During the 1980s, at the height of the Cold War, two American cousins and childhood friends, who are now a businessman and a naval officer (played by Taylor Nichols and Chris Eigeman) get to live some time in Barcelona, where they face (but finally overcome) the political distrust of many Spaniards. Director Whit Stillman lived some time in Spain and he surely based part of the movie on his own experiences. The movie is fine skewing the unthinking Antiamericanism of Europe's intellectual class (though Stillman is too much of a gentleman to be too biting in his criticism). Sometimes the dialogue is foolish when it tries to be witty (as when the Americans try to explain to some Spaniards the greatness of Hamburgers) but mostly the screenplay is quite fine. Stillman is an interesting filmmaker if only because his preppy conservative point of view is not often showed on movies. Mira Sorvino plays one of the Spanish girls in one of her earlier roles. "}{"Title":"Not Whit Stillman's best","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whit Stillman is in solid territory when making movies about upper middle class and wealthy American WASPs.  But I think he does an injustice in this movie to Barcelona, one of the most wonderful cities in the world.  Naming the movie Barcelona is almost like it's the definitive movie on Barcelona. But the movie is about two bozos from the US who come to Barcelona and find much of it alien and hostile.  This would be fine from their subjective standpoint, as it might seem that way for fish out of water, but the movie makes it seem as if people in Barcelona are objectively the way they're portrayed, which is quite silly.  The Spanish people in the movie aren't even Spanish, the blonde girl is English, and Mira Sorvino is American of Italian descent.If you want to see a Whit Stillman movie that's better, and where he's on more familiar territory, I suggest you see something like The Last Days of Disco. "},{"Title":"Kind of like watching grass grow.","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Save pure voyeurism, it's difficult to see the entertainment value in a film which simply portrays the pedestrian, sublunary vicissitudes of ordinary people who are probably less interesting than ourselves. Barcelona, a journeyman light comedy/drama indie,  features postcard shots of the title city, a bevy of babes, and two pretty ordinary guys who just banter incessantly about the most uninteresting stuff. Flawed and with plotholes aplenty, Barcelona is a film in need of a story and fails to distinguish itself in any significant way. Passable, forgettable stuff though the auteur may be a work in progress with potential. "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly bad excuse for a comedy? romance? movie?","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, the good stuff first. 1) Pretty location, although we don't get to see very much of it. In an early scene, the two characters (the rest are just extras) go on a car tour of Barcelona, but except for the first stop, all we ever get to see is their blank faces inside the car. Talk is cheap; film is expensive.2) Beautiful young women, several of them, but they are never given any significant dialogue, nor are they actually called upon to act. They walk on. They walk off. Occasionally one or another of them hops into the sack with one or the other cousin, pretty much interchangeably, and with no discernible passion or emotion. Not their fault, of course. It's the director, stupid, who evidently thinks of women the same way as did a lascivious architect I worked for in the 1960s -- as part of the decor.And that was the good stuff. This piece of work would have failed as the pilot for a sitcom. The whole thing is a running bicker between two snappish, immature, American preppie cousins. To borrow a line from Dorothy Parker, their performances ran the whole gamut of emotions from A to B. I knew (and loathed) guys like this in college, full of their vanity, their boarding school repartee, their shallow ignorance of the world, and their cool disdain for the  people -- especially the women -- who tried to care about them. I suppose one should not blame the actors, since presumably they were delivering the performances the director asked for, while said director clearly was not busy offering guidance to any of the other performers. Yes, sadly, these two characters are somewhat realistic, but puerile poseurs are no fun to watch, either on or off the screen. 4/10  "},{"Title":"Indie Film Typical of the 1990s","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ted, a stuffy white guy from Illinois working in sales for the Barcelona office of a US corporation, is paid an unexpected visit by his somewhat less stuffy cousin Fred, who is an officer in the US Navy. Over the next few months, both their lives are irrevocably altered by the events which follow Fred's arrival, events which are the trivial stuff of a comedy of manners at first but which gradually grow increasingly dramatic.I am not familiar with films directed by Whit Stillman, but going through my list of things to see, I am sure he will pop up a bit. Barcelona, his first studio-financed film, was inspired by his own experiences in Spain during the early 1980s. Stillman has described the film as An Officer and a Gentleman, but with the title referring to two men rather than one. The men, Ted and Fred, experience the awkwardness of being in love in a foreign country culturally and politically opposed to their own.Studio-financed or not, this has the feel of a 1990s indie film. Very much in the vein of Richard Linklater and early Kevin Smith. He seems to have come up at about that same time when overly-talky scripts were the rage, sort of taking the Jim Jarmusch backbone and fleshing it out with witty dialogue. I mean this as a compliment, because I really enjoy this sort of film, but they also seem to blend together... maybe after I see a few more, I will recognize what makes a Stillman film. "},{"Title":"A great film that I have remembered for 20 years","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" People either like or hate this film, it seems.I was intrigued. Here you have 2 cousins encountering each other ... and some beautiful Spanish girls ... in beautiful Red Barcelona. Ted seems to need a rationale for everything including love and sex, although he is assured by cousin and girls that love isn't necessarily necessary.Fred is a spontaneous young U.S. Navy officer mis-missioned to prepare a Barcelona port call for the 6th Fleet, while resident leftists in Barcelona are ready and eager to take offense at anything he says which they can.There is tension between them over something Ted still accuses Fred of doing I forget what, but it's a lifelong grudge - when they were kids.The very political Barcelona situation and crisis revolves around an ant analogy that has to be seen and heard to be fully appreciated.Meanwhile, the camera periodically cuts away to a U.S. Navy aircraft carrier out in the Mediterranean, patrolling to ensure Middle Sea stability and peace.Eventually, the hottest girl turns out to be unfaithful, a thief and possible a drug addict, while a hitherto unnoticed girl throws herself at the foot of Fred's hospital bed, desperately attempting to pray him back from death - a very overlooked and significant scene.The outcome is as droll as the rest of the film and leaves you with a good, uplifted feeling about and hope for life and being an American.It is a film you will think about for years ... if you like to think. "},{"Title":"A film by intelligent adults for intelligent adults","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" IMDb's intro to this movie starts Ted, a stuffy white guy from Illinois working in sales, and there, right away, we have the problem. If you're an arrested child, who thinks that the idea of working in sales equals death, and that considering the consequences of your actions equals stuffy, then I expect you will hate this film. But for the rest of us, it's a breath of fresh air. Other people have said what's appealing about it --- the unexpected zigs and zags of the story, the amusing (though not laugh-out-loud funny) dialog, the portrayal of a dynamic between two guys that's touching without ever being cloying. But for me what I enjoyed was the (depressingly rare) chance to see people acting as adults. It is nice to see someone who takes their job seriously and tries hard to do well at it, rather than concentrating all his energy on goofing off and avoiding the boss. (This goes for both Fred and Ted.) It's nice to see people thinking seriously about what is and is not working in their romantic lives and how to fix it. It's nice to see people not relying on ridiculous clichés about fate and destiny as the solutions to all their problems. Meanwhile, on the other side, it's nice to see all this seriousness but in a movie populated by basically decent people, people you don't hate, in a movie that isn't ramming some sort of absurdly non-subtle message down your throat ala most indie cinema. I'm pretty impatient with movies. I'd say 70% of the movies I watch, after 10 minutes I switch it off because the movie has in no way captured my interest. I haven't laughed, I haven't been surprised, all I've seen is the same old **** I've seen a million times before. Maybe it's the husband and wife fighting with each other. Maybe it's the those were the days kids playing. Maybe it's the nerdish guy being belittled by other people at work. You know what I mean --- five minutes into the movie and you know the stereotypes every character fits, and exactly how it will all play out. What so appealed to me about this movie is how (without twists or gimmicks) it doesn't follow that path. The primary characters kept growing and revealing new aspects to their characters throughout the movie in a way that's all too rare. Give it a chance! "},{"Title":"Whit Stillman's masterpiece?","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whit Stillman's masterpiece? It's hard to say, not because of any doubts about this film but because Stillman only makes great films. The dialogue is never wilfully obscure and is never provocative for its own sake, but sparkles with intelligence, wit and alternatives. Barcelona gains a whole extra dimension (and several new elements within that) by being in and, in part, about another culture. There is even suspense, which is usually an empty ingredient in movies leaving us with nothing when it has culminated, but here happens in a wonderfully natural way. The film is wonderfully engaging and can be approached from many directions for appreciation sociologically, politically, culturally, intellectually, sexually while still being buddy-buddy and for laughs. Certainly one of the greatest films of the '90s and one of the greats of the last 25 years. "},{"Title":"One of the most boring and tedious films I've ever watched.","Date":"24 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I noticed this movie has quite a lot of reviews here, some really positive, some really negative. Unfortunately, I'm siding with the negatives on this one.It took me quite the effort to be patient and watch this movie all the (boring and tedious) way to the end, only to feel it ended up being a waste of time. I'm usually fond of drama movies and TV shows, but this one just seemed shallow and uninteresting. I couldn't get myself to give a sh!t about any of the characters or their stories, as there was nothing for me to relate to. I kept getting annoyed at the behavior of the two main characters, not being able to really figure them out. Some of the positive reviews I read here reminded me of the story of the Emperor's New Clothes, feeling that if it wasn't for the variety of individual tastes, I'd be one of the kids who would shout that the emperor was naked. But then again, can't argue with taste, so I can only express my own opinion here, which may or may not be similar to what anyone else is thinking.My bottom line here, is that after reading some of the reviews and watching the movie myself, it's obviously not for everyone. Personally I hated it, but that might be just me. ) "},{"Title":"Bella Barcelona!","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one quirky account of a beautiful city and it's love-hate relationship with the USA. I first met a man from Barcelona in a taxi ride to the airport and he immediately started to kiss me and tell me how much he wanted me to come with him. My first thought what is up with Spain??? This is the first film that has ever attempted to explain. I found the tour of the city incredibly stunning, what a tribute to a relatively unknown gem of Europe. Given the Director's personal experience there, I assume this is his homage. Very confusing introspection of sexual mores, education, worldly knowledge, nightlife and general ennui.Ted and Fred seem overly contrived characters and the dialogue is rather pedestrian and stilted for such a backdrop. However, I was fascinated with the ability of this film to pull me into another world like few others. Look at the interiors of the apartments, their color schemes, art, tiles, and exotic architecture. This city is teeming with life, adventure, mystery and so unlike the mundane existence most experience here in the US. What are we missing??? I wanted to know more but was interrupted by shallow characters save the reluctant few who came to Fred's bed for a mercy reading program.My anti-American experience throughout Europe was underlined and had never felt like a third world citizen in my life. Very humbling experience, but how could such a universal judgement create an elevated society? I do not think being a worldly snob enables one to a better life. Does anyone recall Guernica?? They are correct about the USA in many ways but we are still a profoundly formative country whose expansion created many gaps in capturing more cultured avenues. Hence, I protest!Are these young people that promiscuous, late, irreverent and ignorant as portrayed? I am jaded enough living in LA, so was surprised to see a complete one-up-manship here. I enjoyed the concept of an Officer and a kinda sorta Gentleman that were separate characters.The ending was definitely anti-climatic at the Lake, in so much contrast to the vibrant capture of Barcelona. I wanted more, perhaps a good thing vs predictable dialogue.Recommend for visceral beauty of Barcelona, Mira Sorvino fans, Europe vs USA views, flash Flamenco and obsequious Marquis de Sade references. "},{"Title":"same talkative young people","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's the last decade of the cold war and Barcelona has a lot of anti-Americanism. Ted Boynton (Taylor Nichols) is a stiff sales rep from Illinois working for an American company. His intrusive cousin US Navy officer Fred Boynton (Chris Eigeman) unexpectedly visit. They have a history of not getting along and different opinions. Ted insists on dating plain girls. Local friend Marta Ferrer (Mira Sorvino) brings them to a costume party and ends up sleeping with Fred. Fred makes up a story that Ted is a follower of Marquis de Sade. Ted eventually meets pretty trade show girl Montserrat Raventos (Tushka Bergen).It's Whit Stillman's second movie and is not as compelling as his debut. The cousins are basically the kids from Metropolitan after a few years. They're smart, cosmopolitan, talkative and self-obsessed. The return of Nichols and Eigeman only helps in that sense of familiarity. The problem is that the first movie has the danger and excitement of an unknown future. This one just stumbles from one day to the next. There is nothing to truly drive the movie. The anti-Americanism theme seems to be more like background music that plays throughout the movie. It's an early Mira Sorvino film and she does fairly simple acting with a fake accent. There are some sly funny comedy in a meandering unengaging story. "}{"Title":"Barcelona","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" While Metropolitan gets a lot of the love, I just prefer Barcelona, if just because I far enjoy the two characters in the latter while the former has a group of city socialites (U.H.P.s; or, if you prefer, preppies) so caught in themselves, I care little about spending time with them or listening to them. A salesman in Barcelona agrees to let his Navy fleet cousin stay with him, and the two of them must learn to get along, all the while managing relationships with local beauties in the city. In Barcelona, the presence of anti-American sentiment causes Fred (Chris Eigeman) to openly vocalize his dislike for how the locals treat him, particularly a womanizing journalist named Ramone (Pep Munné). While Ted (Taylor Nichols) feels as if his company is turning the screws and planning to fire him for his supposed downturn in sales, he becomes enchanted by one of Ramone's many flames, Montserrat (Tushka Bergen). Meanwhile Fred himself becomes involved with a stunning beauty named Marta (Mira Sorvino, quite eyepopping), but she turns out to be a wedge between the cousins when she steals pesos while in Ted's apartment. If you are familiar with Whit Stillman, then you can recognize that his work is quite dialogue-based with long conversation set pieces as actors comment on or voice opinions and thoughts on whatever subjects are important to their characters during the films. Barcelona is similar to Metropolitan in that the characters are concerned about their status in life (where they are and where they will be headed), such as career and romance. Ted deals with a girlfriend still stuck on Ramone (who actually encouraged her to see other men!) and a job (and supposed bullying supervisor that turns out to be anyone but) that demands a lot but could ultimately leave him behind. It gets so bad for Fred--all the negative American propaganda and prejudice encouraged by Ramone's paper and rhetoric--that he eventually is shot by a motorcyclist in a taxi cab. The shooting puts the relationship of the cousins into perspective. With the city of Barcelona as quite an alluring backdrop and characters who are a bit more sympathetic (or to me anyway) than Metropolitan (the wealthy class' romantic entanglements did little to interest me, I must be honest), I really remained compelled during this Stillman film. I quite liked Ted, actually, and seen that he was sincere in his desire to have a meaningful relationship with Montserrat, and truthfully Fred, despite his dependence on his cousin's charity, isn't all that bad of a guy. I think you can clearly see that despite their opposing animosity due to a number of personality differences ultimately would never interfere with their love for one another. The hospital sequence, where Ted never gives up hope for Fred's improvement, recognizes that family is significant even if cousins get on each other's nerves from time to time. The romantic interludes and ups and downs provide plenty of exchanges (melancholy, retrospective, expressive, heated, and curious) in long dialogue sessions that might test the patience on some viewers interested in a forward-moving story. If you know of the French dramas that can be long-winded, and like them, then I think Stillman is your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Our Lady of Perpetual Astonishment","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whit Stillman's Barcelona watches as two American cousins journey to Barcelona. One's Ted, a sales executive for a Chicago based multinational, the other's Fred, who works for the US military.A comedy of manners, Barcelona's first half watches as Ted embraces the optimistic self-help models of Ben Franklin and Dale Carnegie (The classic literature of self-improvement really is improving!). Fred, meanwhile, clashes with a Spanish populace which detests US militarism. Both characters are cheerleaders of corporate life, particularly Ted, who spews corporate maxims and displays a religious zeal for the culture of sales. If the film's first half ridicules American arrogance and bluster, the film's second half does the opposite. Stereotypes of American religiosity become something softer and more sympathetic, and the film's Spanish characters, who throughout the film disparage our duo, learn to realise that their own hate has far reaching effects. Other scenes exist to complicate stereotypes, like one in which Ted reads the Bible whilst dancing suggestively and another in which Fred plays to European faux sophistication by inventing outlandish stories about the Marquis de Sade. These oppositional forces &#x96; puritanism and pop, sophistication and vulgarity &#x96; become emblematic of American and European cultures that are equally contradictory.For most of its running time, Barcelona portrays Fred as a monomaniacal patriot who is obsessed with fighting for freedom, defending democracy and who is woefully ignorant of American history. Anti-Americanism has its roots in sexual impotence, he says proudly, insulting every local who criticises his ethos. Earlier he is accosted by a group who call him fascist, a term which Fred appropriates and flips around. I comb my hair and wear a coat and tie and I'm a fascist? he says sarcastically. Then surely fascism must be something good!Later, due to an article published by a left-wing journalist, Fred is attacked and almost killed (the journalist asserts that Fred works for the CIA and was sent to Europe to crush progressive unionism). Fred's earlier arrogance isn't forgiven, but Stillman nevertheless condemns the reflexive anti-Americanism which spurred the attack. Elsewhere Fred's girlfriend Marta, a Spanish woman who routinely insults Americans (What would it be like to live in America, with all its crime, consumerism and vulgarity?), is taken down a peg. Stillman portrays her as a fool (she thinks US uniforms are party costumes), a hypocrite (hates Americans but dates one), a thief (she borrows money from Americans) and then shows her being unfaithful. When you lived in Rhode Island to study English, Fred then asks her, was the crime and vulgarity really so bad? She shuts up, her anti-Americanism exposed as but a fashionable attitude. Later Stillman portrays Marta as a drug addict with a severe case of entitlement (I need that money, it's mine!). In other words, like a stereotypical conservative's stereotypical view of a stereotypical liberal.Stillman was brought up in a radically left-wing family. Some critics read his films as reactions against his upbringing, whilst others read his films as reactionary apologias for a certain type of conservatism. Because Stillman's tone is ironic, dry and his scripts happy to insult everyone, clear-cut readings of his films are almost impossible. We see this with the various anti-American characters in Barcelona. Their irresponsibility is condemned, but does this mean that Stillman is endorsing his two expats? More likely, Stillman is interested in showing how what we perceive to be warped politics and sexual behaviour stem from a form of moral relativism. For Stillman, judgement might itself be a vice.7/10 &#x96; Too readily lets Fred and Ted off the hook. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Whit Stillman is profound","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Stillman should make more films definitely. This was a profound film that showed the remarkable decorum that Americans had to face in Barcelona in the mid-80's. Phenomenal acting by Chris and Taylor. I was also blown away by Mira Sorvino's performance - never guessed that she was an American the first time I saw this film. She's that good.Terrific locale - how can anything beat Barcelona? This is a film, like Metropolitan, that you watch over and over and never get tired of it.30 minutes goes by, an hour, and you're still never bored. You wish the film would go on and on.It's a really shame that talented directors like Stillman can't make movies while the most unbelievably shallow filmmakers continue to bring society down another notch. "},{"Title":"These WASP's just talk to much","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit that this is a smart film geared to and about a demographic that studio executives can't even comprehend and that's young men in their late twenties and early thirties that are intelligent and working hard at their jobs. Story of course takes place in Barcelona, Spain in the early 1980's when the demise of the cold war left many confused about the state of things. Ted Boynton (Taylor Nichols) is a representative from a company in Chicago that builds electric engines and one day his cousin Fred (Chris Eigeman) comes to stay with him. Fred is a Lieutenant in the Navy and frequently he is called a fascist by people who walk by him. Ted falls in love with Montserrat (Tushka Bergen) but he has to deal with the fact that she has a boyfriend.*****SPOILER ALERT*****Fred hooks up with a girl named Marta (Mira Sorvino) and all of them talk (And talk!) about relationships with their partners and with each other and they also discuss their role as Americans in Barcelona. One day Fred is shot by a left wing extremist and put into a coma and while he is lying in a hospital Ted stays at his bedside where he rethinks about what is really important in life.This film is written and directed by Whit Stillman who shows a fondness for his characters and his script does a good job of making each of them bright and literate so that there is no phoniness connected with any of them. But the main problem I have with this film is that it spends it's entire length and duration conversing about everything. The whole film seems like one long conversation and I do understand that this is what it wants to do but there is more talk going on in this film than My Dinner With Andre. After a while the sense of pretentiousness and tedium become all to evident which is a shame because the intelligence and sincerity of the characters could have made this one of the more thought provoking films.    "},{"Title":"Too annoying to sit through.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whit Stillman has a knack for making really annoying and pointless movies about people who have no souls.  I have never walked out of a movie theater during a movie, except for Barcelona.A few years later, some friends of mine invited me to see Last Days of Disco.  After two excruciating hours we walked out and it was only then that I saw the movie poster and realized it was a Whit Stillman film.  I was instantly filled with regret that I had sat through this stultifying film, when I should have checked who the director was first, thereby avoiding the loss of those irretrievable hours.  Stillman's talky, meandering films make you want to open up a vein.  Boooring! "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I currently live and work in Barcelona and thought this would be a really interesting movie. Boy, was I wrong! Terrible acting, poor plot, and long. Fortunately, someone gave me the DVD to watch so I did not spend any money! I am appalled that Mira Sorvino would do this movie, but I guess it was before she hit big time. Hey, in case people do not know--Catalan is spoken in Barcelona more than Spanish (or English). You'd never know it from the movie--everyone speaks English! I am going to watch Gaudi Day next, another movie set in Barcelona. Till then, I am going to pass this one out to my friends who are into the Marquis De Sade! "},{"Title":"A shallow and pretentious movie","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is shallow because we never really get to know any of the characters very well. Out of the blue, they say whatever dumb thing is on their mind and we are supposed to think it is so clever. The dialogue is very preppy, not real speech that normal human beings engage in. A man does not discuss his shaving habits with the girl he has just had sex with. Toward the end of the film, we are supposed to think it is so clever that we can enjoy the shaving joke again because an American government official comments on it.As for the women in the film, we really get no insight at all. They are just tools for these shallow nerdy men to bounce off of. For men so fascinated by women, you would think that there would be more depth in the relationships that we are watching. This is not to be. What is so fascinating about these shallow men that would attract all these women?There is no real interaction with the American characters and the fabulous city they are in. They might as well be meeting in Siberia rather than Spain. All through this film, one never gets the feeling that I care about these people. In fact, I was delighted when the so-called anti-American shoots the one guy. At least, there was a little drama at last.Do yourself a favor and avoid this film at all cost. "},{"Title":"No METROPOLITAN, but still worthwhile","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whit Stillman on a bigger budget is still smart, funny, and engaging.  Two Americans cousins combat love and prejudice in late-Cold War Barcelona. METROPOLITAN's two best players (Nichols and Eigeman) return for the leading roles.  Not for all tastes, as some will find the film talky, rambling, or perhaps better read than heard. "},{"Title":"the least of Stillman's yuppie trilogy","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Do not get me wrong, I enjoyed Barcelona very much.  For me, being in the Navy, it was a special pleasure to see a Naval officer get in so many predicaments (and seeing an undesignated Seaman mouthing Stillman dialogue (He liked to sing those old Johnny Cash tunes.)  Mr. Stillman is one of my favorite writers, even if I have to go back and listen to some of his sentences and paragraphs once or twice.  His characters talk mostly in complete sentences, which is a nice break from the usual--most hacks these days don't know how to write ANYTHING.Barcelona, however, is not as good as his first film, the revolutionary Metropolitan, or 1998's The Last Days of Disco.  Nothing wrong with that--I eagerly await his next feature.  We should see it, given his present rate of output, in the year 2002. "},{"Title":"Do they have ants in Barcelona?","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Barcelona is a bizarre film that captures your attention through the fast-paced repertoire, but looses you through unfocused political jargon that doesn't seem important, but is obviously an instrumental part of the film. This is where the struggle occurs for this film. It is an internal struggle because of the popularity of Metropolitan you want to enjoy this film, feel that brush of fresh air, and laugh at what others would consider intelligent banter, but even with the subtle humor between Eigeman and Nichols there is something missing that connects the crucial plot elements together. Stillman has created another valuable film, but it feels more like he was trying to reproduce the excitement of Metropolitan than create a new voice.One cannot argue that Wit Stillman's style of film-making is still seen throughout modern cinema culture. While watching Barcelona, there was this eerie feeling of watching The Darjeeling Limited again. Stillman's voice can be found in nearly all Wes Anderson films, the witty conversation, the intellectual characters, and the thin layer of plot are Stillman's characteristics seen today. Take Margo at the Wedding, Baumback uses Stillman with honor and respect, and can even been better seen in Baumback's early Kicking and Screaming. The key difference between these modern directors and Stillman's Barcelona is that they develop both plot and characters. Stillman's visual technique, his ability to capture the sense of normality, and control of the language is powerful in this film, but an apathetic feel for Ted and Fred, coupled with a lack of focus &#150; pushed Barcelona from challenging second film to average sophomoric effort. From a sales perspective, Ted and Fred couldn't persuade me to do anything, much less follow them around. Their jovial voice and constant bickering would amuse at first, but like the film became annoying near the end. From a character standpoint, Ted (Taylor Nichols) was enjoyable to watch. He felt like the stuck-in-sales type of guy that others could relate to. Aside from the religious dance scene (continuing with the unfocused plot idea), he was the quintessential hero of this film. Fred (Christopher Eigeman) covers the other end of the spectrum entirely. There was no belief that he was a Navy officer, his constant lying and possible theft (again &#150; that kayaking scene that lead ultimately nowhere) just created an annoying character that tried to be funny, but never was. There was this sense that Eigeman didn't understand he and Nichols' character relationship. One needs to ask, was Nichols' stutter part of the character, or just Stillman's lack of editing? Finally, what was Mira Sorvino doing here? Her accent was thicker than pea soup, yet as unbelievable as pea soup finding its way into a Whit Stillman film.The obscurity of the actors leading us through this political comedy/drama, was a tough nail to bite, but the tougher one was the overall plot of this film. Stillman's goal was to make humor out of an odd anti-American culture in Spain. His actors, as mentioned, tried to bring the humor, but it was up to Stillman to bring us the connectors and overall themes of Barcelona. It is this area that I felt Stillman was at his weakest. While the actors were not quite the caliber of Stillman's original effort, they at least made me chuckle and think of Wes Anderson's films, but I felt forced and confused by where Stillman was headed with the camera. The bomb at the beginning seemed passé, the anti-Americanism comments seemed less real &#150; Stillman never quite secured the feel of realism with this film. Our two characters walk down the street, talk-back to those who oppose them, and show less emotion when the dramatic ending takes place &#150; there just wasn't that sense of fear. This felt insulting. Stillman's eye in this film felt bored, stale, and unenergetic. This needs to be a stand alone film for Stillman, but I found myself comparing it to Metropolitan constantly. This film was missing that freshness, or that sense of excitement, and that desire to see the unknown. The relationships were bland, the characters were humorous &#150; but un-follow-able, and the story itself felt forced. This wasn't Stillman's greatest outing. He made some choices that didn't translate well onto the bigger screen. The colors even tired my eyes &#150; it just wasn't the film I expected, or wanted, from Stillman.Overall, Barcelona was a second outing for Whit Stillman, but it wasn't the caliber of Metropolitan. This film felt old, used, and un-welcomed in Stillman's repertoire of characters and language. There was plenty of potential, but it went unused with people like Mira Sorvino attempting to capture the essence of a Spanish woman. Again, I want to state that this film had some very funny moments that were as dry as any martini one could hope for. It had my laughing, but it wasn't enough. I wanted a detailed story, I wanted some of the issues about being a salesman come out clearer, and I wanted that random scene of religion and dancing to carry more gumption. Barcelona felt as if Stillman would start ideas, but never quite complete them. This film reminded me of Kevin Smith's early work. Using the same actors, Smith would attempt to recreate the same characters in different environments with mixed results. The power and honesty of Smith's Clerks could never be recreated and thus the doomed Clerks II will never reach cult status. That analogy could be used for Stillman's Barcelona. He tried, but there is a reason this film wasn't nominated for the best screenplay category &#150; it just felt elusive and incomplete.Grade *** (hesitantly) out of ***** "}{"Title":"Talk, talk","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Barcelona, director Whit Stillman's second of three similarly themed feature films, gets a middle-of-the-heap grade from me for being an interesting and surprising idea not entirely well carried out.Landing somewhere between drama and comedy, Barcelona is about two American cousins in Barcelona, Spain. Ted is an apparently successful and very keen salesman with an American corporation. Fred, although he is a navy officer, also refers to himself as white-collar; he is something of an office soldier. They both tender relationships with Spanish women, Ted on a short-lived theory of staying clear of beautiful women in favour of plain ones; he goes so far as to tell one of them so.The film is packed with dialogue and, apart from the various situations meant to spark additional chatter, offers only little action-driven plot. Even a dramatic shooting late in the film seems mostly to act as the driving force of dialogue, and of the monologue of the narrator, Ted. Through the dialogue a number of interesting themes are touched upon. Relationships, beauty, sexual revolutions. Politics, prejudice, being an American in a world which is larger than just America. White-collar corporate life, complete with handbooks in economic thinking and salesmanship. The trouble is, these issues are only touched upon and not explored to a degree that seems satisfactory. Too much of the talk, perhaps in an ambition for the film to be funnier than it really is, turns out strange and pointless. Worse, the acting is flawed. Both leads seem strangely uncharismatic to me, unable to make the dialogue come alive at key points, unable to make the attempts at comedy work more than at a few places. The setting of Barcelona helped convince me to watch the film, but while it does have nice pictures here and there, it does not deliver a convincing ambiance of the city or its people. The score is noticeable in the film, but because it is reminiscent of well-known classical works it comes just short of the originality that might have made it great. "},{"Title":"This film has not aged well at all.","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this in the theatre when it came out and found it mildly amusing. But watching it at home recently was a dreary bore. To make matters worse, our political climate has rendered it completely obsolete. Much of the dialogue revolves around anti-American sentiment, which has only risen since the film's release. The Spaniards who seemed so harshly critical a decade ago seem to have had their stereotypes about the U.S. government validated.The two main characters who are supposed to be defending the U.S.'s reputation once seemed somewhat witty, now they come across as whiny, self-absorbed fools. Ted launches into a monologue in defense of hamburgers--of all things--as if they were what America was all about. Burgers even make an appearance later in the film, reminding us as viewers how superficial these people are.A couple of plot changes propelled the film into an unbelievable direction, and by the time the story wrapped up I had more than had my fill of these characters.The only thing that was of marginal interest was Mira Sorvino before her Oscar win made her well-known. She actually does come across as Spanish. Her character's not very likable either, but at least she's portrayed well. The script is really what's at fault, and having not liked The Last Days of Disco, I am beginning to wonder if maybe it's not a bad thing writer/director Whit Stillman stopped making films after the 'nineties ended. "},{"Title":"gets better every time i see it...","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i actually got the video of barcelona a while back -- even before i had visited the city personally and fell in love with it and the country. now, every time i watch it at home, i keep wishing i were on the iberian peninsula, parked at the foot of the colom overlooking port vell and the mediterranean.i think that barcelona is perhaps one of maybe two or three talking movies i really have enjoyed (the other one being bernt capra's 1990 midwalk).  with mindwalk, that makes you think about life and its intricacies vis-a-vis the natural world.  in barcelona, you think about life, being an american, and others' generalized perceptions of yourself as an american.  all done with great humor, by the by.  (yes, i read a comment earlier that said it was funny...if you get it.)  and you definitely have to sit through the movie at least twice to get at least the subtle nuances that stillman was trying to get across as regards his social perception, his own political views, and his personal values, i would hazard to guess.it also doesn't hurt that the first-billed cast members are beautiful, particularly chris eigeman, thomas gibson, and taylor nichols.  for all the social commentary stillman was trying to convey (through ted - the ever-practical good boy) -- that perhaps beauty should be secondary to heart and personality -- is actually diametrically opposed to the reality in the film.  (ironic, yes, i acknowledge that.)  and this is where the humor of the movie lies -- it's all in the subtext (he even says it through fred - the pretty but dumb one - when he asks his cousin ted what lies above subtext - the text) and this makes the movie talky as well as thinky.perhaps i'm just biased (since i am completely enamored of barcelona and of spain), but for those who've not seen this movie, it's completely worth it -- particularly after one had gorged one's self with the air-head stuff that's playing out there.  =) "},{"Title":"A story about providence","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie has grown steadily in my esteem since the first time I saw it ten years ago, while living in a foreign country for an extended period. It's one of those that I can count on to always lift my spirits.Director Witt Stillman is like Jane Austen, albeit working with film and writing more about young men. You can see that he is genuinely fond of his characters, though he is not afraid to mine their youthful naiveté and earnest seriousness for laughs. They trip, make huge mistakes in trying to find love, and yet, providentially, find happiness. The dialogue, like that of Metropolitan, his first film, is absolutely hilarious. I can't recommend this movie too highly, for the kind of person who likes gentle comedy of the Jane Austen variety. "},{"Title":"Spanish Jumping Beans.","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" An American sales representative in Spain (Taylor Nichols) gets a visit from his wacky cousin (U.S. Navy officer Chris Eigeman) and the unlikely duo falls in love with a pair of anti-American Spaniards (Tushka Bergen and the highly erotic Mira Sorvino). Woody Allen-styled script is hilarious with sharp and tight dialog, but the uneven tone starts to wear thin during the film's final act when the production takes a dementedly dramatic turn. None of the performers are really that great (Sorvino is an exception of course), but the screenplay is so smart (most of the time) that you cannot see any other performers in the key roles. Unique film that is worth a look. Not for all audiences, but still a slight success with me. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"witty and intelligent","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All I have to say is- this is definitely one of my favorite movies. I happen to be big fan of Whit Stillman, and this is probably his best movie. The only thing to mention would be that particularly leftist  individuals may find the movie offensive.  "},{"Title":"If you got the chance, watch it","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films where you find lots of things that are common to everybody's life. I'm not saying everyone in the world has or has had some time abroad, but it's common to be in somewhere that is not your own town and live some dramas and adventures in there. Part is your own fault, but part is due to the differences you have. That's what Barcelona is about. If you got the chance, watch it.My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Fast and Funny","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  See it for two reasons 1) The incredible Barcelona setting 2) The dialog. There aren't many movies around that throw it at you from all angles. Brilliantly written, fast, funny, insiteful, clever, droll, perceptive and odd lines come at you faster then AVE to Sevilla. "},{"Title":"Excellent, humorous take on the 20th Century WASP experience","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Whit Stillman's best, let's hope he makes more like these that balance the humor, pathos and absurdity of striving to live up to a prior generation's upper middle class ideals, while nevertheless having to experience their decline and fall.  Beautiful actresses to boot.  Where's the DVD? "},{"Title":"the entire film provided me two opportunities to laugh, that was all","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike Metropolitan, I found moments of charm in this Whit Stilman film. I believe that I actually laughed twice.  However, that was all I got from this film.  I would have laughed much more if I had just talked with my friends (who probably will never let me pick the movie again), but I couldn't to that because the movie put every single one of them to sleep. This movie suffered from the same problem as Metropolitan.  The characters were boring, self-absorbed, and souless.  I didn't care what happened to them because they didn't care what happened to themselves.  These characters were the moral and entertainment equivalent of Camus's stranger, except they never did anything to demonstrate some form of choice.It was better than Metropolitan, but that leaves a long way to go.  Only because of my intense patience and focus was I able to find the two points that elicited my laughter.  I'm so glad to have read that Whit isn't making another film like this after The Last Days of Disco.  I hope to all that's good and pure that it's true.I feel that this film and Metropolitan are so bad and about such boring, unnecessary people, that I think it would actually be a bad first impression to meet someone that liked them.  Everyone deserves an opportunity to explain themselves, but they had better have something extraordinary to say to convince me that I would want to know them if they enjoyed either Metropolitan or this piece of pretentious, self-absorbed drivel.  I suppose that's Whit's point about people such as this in making films such as this, but I still don't find it interesting to see on the screen and would rather read a cheap, succinct one liner about what's wrong with people like this so that my time isn't wasted.  Something likeI see no point in people who see no point in anything.I'm sure something like this was said by someone famous and I found it more profound and humorous than either of Whit Stillman's first two films.  It gave me more in 3 seconds that Whit Stillman could in four hours.  Maybe Whit needs to work on developing more Wit and less Still.  It's cheap I know, but it really is all written right in his name.  And still needn't be physical motion just in case that might be what someone would think that is what I meant. "}{"Title":"Not good","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The casting director for this movie should never be allowed to work again. Sadly, the acting in this movie was so pedestrian that it was hard to even care about whatever story there was. Couldn't they find any better actors than this crew? It think they didn't try very hard.Mira Sorvino, probably the only name familiar to most folks, is absolutely awful in this movie. The rest of the not-household names range from barely okay to embarrassing.Really people, if somebody gives you a chunk of money to make a film you care passionately about, hire some good actors. There are plenty of them around, including lots of amazing talents who will work for minimum. "},{"Title":"Clever and witty","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is charming and witty and creates some interesting Cold Warmetaphors balanced against the bumbling efforts of a couple of young American  men trying to learn about themselves and women. it's an interesting film, not exactly a great one, but Stillman offers an entertaining  premise and crafty execution. But what prompted me to write about it was thedimwitted review by nbottyour web site chose to post. What was obvious by his  review was that he simply didn't get it. The film sailed miles over his head and  then he compounded it by sharing his ignorance. Fine. But why do you chose to  post that review. It offers nothing about the film and simply advertises this  person's ignorance.  "},{"Title":"No enlightenment for the American abroad","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's the early 1980s and Ted, (Taylor Nichols) the twenty-something sales representative in Barcelona of the Chicago-based Very General Electric Co, has an unexpected and not very welcome house guest, his egregious cousin Fred, Lt. (j/g) U. S Navy (Chris Eigeman). Ostensibly, Fred has been sent to check out bars in advance of a fleet visit, but it's more likely he has been sent to Barcelona by some senior officer desperate to get rid of him.Ted and Fred meet up with a group of attractive girls working at the Trade Centre and do some heavy-duty bar-crawling. Ted is recovering from a broken relationship and he soon becomes enamoured with the gorgeous Montserrat, one of the Trade Centre girls. This is despite his policy of not falling in love with good-looking women, because looks, he says, are a barrier to deep and meaningful relationships. She, however, is also involved with Ramon (Pep Munne), a local anti-American academic turned journalist. Ted, once inspired by Arthur Miller's great play, is no longer sure about his vocation as a salesman and is convinced he is going to be fired. Fred never lets the truth get in the way of a good story and tells the girls various preposterous things about Ted, including that he is a keen sado-masochist. This surprisingly arouses their interest, but Ted insists he is only going to bed with the woman he wants to marry, and that woman is Montse. But she seems to have taken up with Ramon again.Things take a more serious turn when Fred, dressed in uniform, having previously been exposed in the local press by Ramon as a AFL-CIA agent, is shot while riding in a taxi by a man on a motor-scooter and lapses into a coma. Ted becomes quite obsessive and stays by Fred's hospital bedside around the clock talking and reading to him. The girls come too, reading such bed-time stories as War and Peace. An emissary from Chicago arrives to talk about Ted's professional future and Fred fears the worst. But this is a comedy, not a drama, and things are resolved not too unpleasantly, with more than a touch of irony.Critics have described this as a cerebral movie, and there is a lot of talk, but a lot of it can be described as only semi-intelligent. One feels sorry for Ted, stuck with such a selfish silly ass as Fred, his only cousin, but it's hard to extend the sympathy to Ted's overly serious attitude towards life in general. Here is a man who reads his bible (King James version) while jiving to the sound of Glen Miller. He needs to learn a little from the Spanish, one feels. Americans abroad, bearers of the dominant commercial culture, are, it seems slow to learn the value of other cultures.  One would think that with a beautiful, educated and intelligent teacher such as Montse (played by an Australian, Tushka Bergen), Ted would catch on quick, but alas he is a slow pupil and does not change enough in time.As a movie reflecting its location, this is a very fine effort indeed. Barcelona, as your correspondent can attest, is a truly gorgeous city and the bustle of the Ramblas  - the bar and cafe life- is evident. Director Stillman passes on the Gaudi architecture, but we see lots of other fine buildings and vistas. It isn't a travel film, but it won't deter people from visiting Barcelona, especially the Trade Centre.Part of a trio of off-beat talkfests - the others are Metropolitan (1990) and The Last Days of Disco (1998)  - this one stands on its own as a wry comedy of manners. Why can't Americans understand why others are anti- American? Well you see it's because Americans are ants and can't see themselves as others do. The villains are those like Mario who report on the anthill to the rest of the world, for they are anti-American. At least that's one explanation offered in the film. Me, I think Americans, or at least privileged ones,  are just plain spoilt - they've turned self-absorption into their way of life. But, as Stillman shows, they can provide amusement for the rest of us.  "},{"Title":"A nerve-wracking picture about being American","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Two nervous young American cousins stationed in Barcelona adapt to a world in which the privilege of being American offers little peace of mind, and where a dearth of evidence, sympathy and understanding prevents any moral or cultural justification of their own way of life.The young men (one based on Stillman himself), find themselves living the lives of grown men -- doing the work of men, traveling, attracting and bedding grown, worldly women, but they are far from understanding the responsibility of mind and heart that goes along with it. Whit Stillman again chooses bland, thin young actors, MODELS on which to hang this movie, as though it were an expensive gown-- the same could be said of THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO, and METROPOLITAN, his first film.Keeping the camera always at a moderate, comfortable distance from the cast, he effectively prohibits the viewer from making any real connection with the characters -- leading many to write his movies off as shallow.  This technique robs the movie of some important emotion, but Stillman seems more interested in teaching than entertaining.  He has another, alternate, and very possibly superior definition of meat in storytelling.  Stillman resists the use of a bevy of seduction tools like over-editing, music, and romance -- a decision that leads, in the end, to a seductive style similar Italo Calvino's brash artlessness in storytelling.Though the movie is full of thoughts, the characters nevertheless find themselves REACTING their way, thoughtlessly, toward adulthood. It's torturous to watch these characters grope, solipsize and mis-calculate, but (we must decide eventually), one does not have to enjoy a film in order that it be excellent and instructive -- BARCELONA is.Watching the film, one feels the frustration of everyone involved, from the writer/director to the key grip -- to me, commiserating with this immense, well-worded frustration/triumph seems a valuable way to spend 104 minutes, counting previews.  "},{"Title":"An underrated gem.","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Whit Stillman makes motion pictures like no one else. His vision is unique and incomparable. Barcelona is Stillman at his most brilliant, insightful, and uproarious. But, by uproarious, I should caution do not expect belly laughs, but subtle winks to a knowing audience. And, further, not snobby, intellectual in-jokes, either. His humour is very much on the surface -- unless, of course he is talking about subtext! -- but not ham-fisted, vulgar, easy jokes either. He speaks through Eigman and Nichols as both his protagonists, antagonists and his chorus.I cannot recommend this movie highly enough; but, it is not for everyone, either. If you find yourself only able to laugh at the blunderbuss humour of Judd Apatow (as movie maker, not television writer, in which he is much more subtle), then avoid Stillman, and all of the Barcelona Trilogy -- which consists of Metropolitan, Barcelona and Last Days of Disco -- as you will be sorely disappointed.Stillman takes his viewers on an emotional roller-coaster ride, in which you veer from wry comedy into surprisingly compelling and touch drama. It is a thing of masterfully crafted beauty. Stillman gives us the politics of US/NATO intrigue in Spain, the quirky philosophy of sales and love, and a deeply human drama of family and beliefs.It is one of only a dozen or so movie that I have given 10 stars, and it deserves every single one. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Hilarious if you get it","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This certainly seems to be one of those movies that some people just don't get.  It's a dialogue based movie, you won't see much happening as far as plot.But the dialogue is among the funniest I've ever seen, albeit subtle. There are loads of classic lines.But outside of the dialog there is virtually nothing else going on.  If the humor is not up your alley it's going to be excruciating.But for me, one of the top five movies of the nineties. "},{"Title":"Wit and Charm","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Another classic from the musings of Whit Stillman, Barcelona delivers thought-provoking messages and insights through dialogue without being downright preachy (Kevin Smith) or whiny (Woody Allen). Though I do not have anything against the latter two, I prefer the tone that Mr. Stillman sets in his films. His characters share their observations in a casual, laid-back way, the way something might be said in real life. Stillman's approach in his films is generally that of lightweight comedy with somewhat serious undertones. Because of his well-planned method in delivery, Barcelona is one of the better talkative Nineties movies. Highly recommended for its very witty yet realistic dialogue and great characters, not to mention the lovable actors.  "},{"Title":"A very intelligent comedrama","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is perhaps one of the most cerebral American movies I have seen in years. Stillman is definitely developing a reputation for this type of thing - intelligent, insightful look at the American psyche through witty dialogue-driven, intensely personal snaps of interesting people in interesting places that they don't quite fit into. The writing is very clever, the humour is wry, gentle, but ever-present, and the plot engaging. The cast also rather interesting with only one recognisable 'star'. Many will find this film too slow or lacking in action, but the subtleties are striking. In all, a must see if you can be patient and enjoy the witty writing and clever story. Unfortunately that would rule out most of the movie-going public. My vote 8/10 and well deserved. "},{"Title":"Excellent, perceptive.","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is probably the best of Stillman's to date. It has a tongue-in-cheek humour rarely seen in mainstream films and despite being a comedy does at least examine the serious issue of American perceptions in foreign countries. Stillman presents all side of the issue fairly and although, heavily fictionalised, the audience is still left to decide for themselves about the perceived American arrogance in Spain. I recognise that Stillman often comes across as being too-clever, and this alienates some viewers but their is a definite mind-set there and one well worth getting into. Stillman seems to use a complex system of irony  and self-reflexive humour to get his point across and I personally would consider him to be amongst the greatest of cinema auteurs. "}]