[{"Title":"Not given enough credit","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"47 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This is a great movie that simply doesn't get alot of credit. An amatuer band known as the Lone Rangers (Fraser, Buscemi, Sandler) sneak into a recording studio to have their demo tape played on the air.  When refused, things get out of hand and they hold the place hostage.This movie has an original plot line with good humour and good acting. Keep in mind that this movie comes very early on in the careers of all three title characters.  Personally I find the calibre of acting that Fraser and Sandler have in this movie better than some that came afterwards.When you start watching this movie, you'll want to finish it.  Perfect example, my room mate who came in the room looking for something ended up staying for the whole movie.Give this baby a chance.  If you don't like it, you've lost the price of a rental. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Let's face it, if you go into a movie called Airheads expecting an intellegent, well-written, highbrow piece of cinematic art, then you deserve exactly what you get, so to everyone out there who gets off on trashing this movie, go rent O Brother Where Art Thou? and stop bit#$ng.Now, if you want a good mindless way to blow a Friday evening, then look no further.  You've come to the right place.  Yeah, this movie is stupid beyond belief.  It's also friggin' hilarious.  Any movie that has Steve Buscemi as a long-haired, foul-mouthed bass player, and Ernie Hudson in general, I'm going to love.  For me, Buscemi was the highlight and I loved everyone of his pseudo tough-guy lines like Hey pal, you wanna try gettin' physical with me?-Hilarious.  Speaking of Buscemi, this one has a GREAT cast with Brenden Fraser as the leading man (Chaz), Adam Sandler as the pool cleaning drummer (Pip) and also features Joe Mantgena, Michael McKean, Chris Farley, David Arquette, and a whole slew of others, even Michael Richards. The soundtrack rocks and the laughs come so often (very dumb laughs) that it's impossible to keep count.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Never gets old","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" This is one of the great ones, you know? Every single thing is great about this movie. The actors are great, the costumes are great, the sets are believable, the plot owns, the script has a nice flow. This goes great with Empire Records. I liked that, and I love this. Brendon Fraser is the ultra-mega-hot lead guitarist/singer of this awesome band, the Lone Rangers. He has a crappy apartment, I don't think he has a job, and his girlfriend is mad at him for trying to make his band work instead of growing up. She iss a Heather Locklear-style 90s bitch, and so works so well as that. The jokes keep going thru-out, and are actually funny, even after repeated viewings. I love the fake plastic water pisols ak47s filled with hot sauce. That was great! I highly recommend this movie is you want to watch a good movie, not something you will have to work up to sitting thru. "},{"Title":"A good cast and some great funny moments","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" The music made them do it.Chazz(Brendan Fraser), Rex (Steve Buscemi), and Pip (Adam Sandler) are a band known as The Lone Rangers, and all they're looking for is some attention. But when they take over a radio station with fake guns in order to get their song played over the airwaves, they get a little more than they bargained for.A great cast and some really funny moments make this a nice way to spend 90 some odd minutes. Chris Farley and David Arquette also star in this. It was released the same year as Dumb and Dumber and has some very similar comedy. Overall this is allot different though. There is a little bit of violence but nothing too bad. There is also a few good Die Hard spoofs. "},{"Title":"Incredibly witty rock-oriented laugh riot","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Is this the funniest movie of the decade? I guess not but I think it has certainly deserved its obvious place in the top ten. I remember what kind of a crazy experience Airheads was when I watched it for the first time and didn't know what to expect. I almost died of hysterical laughter. This movie is so over-filled with terrific, absurd and both idiotic as well as surprisingly clever rock n' roll -oriented humor it's hard to believe anyone could watch it without constantly bursting into laughter. Brendan Fraser and Steve Buscemi are both extravagantly funny and even though I've never really cared for Adam Sandler even he is great in this. Airheads is a perfect comedy for every hard rock freak across the planet. Nice touch by the way nobody couldn't have possibly think of a more suitable song for the end credits than the superb Ramones classic We want the airwaves. Little warning If you haven't seen this laugh riot yet do yourself a favor and don't watch the trailer in advance. Personally I feel that it alone gives away too much hilarious punch lines and jokes. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"This Movie Rocks!!!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  I have seen this many times and never grow tired of watching it. It seems the more I watch it, the funnier it gets. It is freaking hilarious!I especially think that Steve Buscemi and Brendan Fraser are the funniest in this flick. I love the girl that played Chazz's girlfriend as well, the way she would beat the crap out of Chazz was too much!I don't think that anybody that ever was in a Rock-Roll band could watch this movie without cracking up. I guess maybe you had to be there?If you haven't seen this film I recommend that you rent it, or better yet buy a copy to add to your collection. This is a classic Rock-n-Roll comedy that you must see. "},{"Title":"It's just a good movie.","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" I'd like to start off by saying that most people who submit comments or reviews should not take this movie so seriously. It's not Schindler's List or Chicago. I'm pretty sure when the film makers made this they wasn't trying to win an Oscar or anything. They was just trying to make a funny movie and they succeeded. This is a hilarious movie. It's one of those movies that if I'm flipping though the channels and I catch this on, I have to watch it. I heard when it came out that it bombed. I don't see how (What do critics know?). If you're one of those people who take their comedies too seriously, go read Dickens. But if you want to see a funny movie, rent this. Everyone in this is good. The plot is good. The acting is good. It's just a good movie. "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This film is one of the funniest ever.  Adam Sandler, Brendan Fraser and Steve Buscemi are three incredibly dense would-be rock stars who break into a radio station with a water pistol to get their tape played and try to obtain a record deal.  the stunt causes a lot of media attention, and cheering crowds gather outside the station.  This is not an intellectual film, but it is very funny with all three of the main cast playing very different characters.  Brendan Fraser is honourable, Adam Sandler is so dumb he attracts women who feel a bit sorry for him and Steve Buscemi is his older brother who brandishes the gun.  If you want an hour and a half of pure light entertainment, watch this! "},{"Title":"Airheads is an hilarious movie.","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Adam Sandler, Brendon Frazer and Steve Buscemi star in this hilarious comedy that proves that movies that take risks pay off. The film is about 3 not so smart striving rock stars who after they get blown off on a radio show with an obnoxious boss and stuck up radio leader. Well from then they end up holding up the place and there leads to an hilarious movie. This movie is a very funny one Adam Sandler did very well in not to say the other 2 main character did not as even the cameos and co stars did a good job in this film. Overall the movie is extremely funny and I think is the funniest Adam Sandler movie that he does not star outrightly in. I rate this movie a fair 73% for keeping me laughing the whole way "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" The Lone Rangers, an unsigned, self-proclaimed power slop band, consisting of guitarist Chazz Darby (Fraser), bassist Rex (Buscemi) and drummer Pip (Sandler), takes over a radio station so they can get their demo played on the air, and hopefully get a record contract. The whole thing goes spiraling downhill when their demo is destroyed, and while trying to escape, the boys come to realize that the radio station has become surrounded by the police. The Lone Rangers take the radio station and it's staff hostage with water guns that look like Uzis (filled with hot sauce) and with all their might try to get their demo to get some airplay as a crowd of soon-to-be fans gathers at the station to follow the mayhem.Now, the only reason I wanted to watch 'Airheads' in the first place was because I saw on the TV section of the newspapers that the wonderful Steve Buscemi would be starring in it. I was certainly not expecting it to be as funny as it turned out to be. I've never been a huge fan of Brendan Fraser and I still have a strong dislike for Adam Sandler, but this trio came together in 'Airheads' and created something so funny I laugh out loud whenever I think about some if it's moments, which does earn me the occasional glance in a public bus. Being a big fan of heavy metal myself, I was happily surprised to see White Zombie AND Lemmy himself in cameos, and the movie delivered some hilarious and original dialogue.As with every movie, it does have it's flaws; some of the jokes just don't deliver, and the character of the man hiding in the air ducts was, in my opinion, a bit too dramatic and silly. The big finale on the rooftop of the KPPX building was also a bit too weird for my taste.If you're looking for a simple and funny movie to rock your world, 'Airheads' is the one to go for! "}{"Title":"FUNNY MOVIE","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  It has some great comedy, The plot is a little out in the sky sometimes but they did a great job on the comedy side of the movie, the soundtrack for the movie was cool even at the beginning of the movie with the song Born To Raise Hell by Motorhead. I rate this movie 9 out 10  "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" I just got this movie and I really like this film. I was not expecting this to be much, but as usual, I am wrong. This film is about three guys who are in a band and nobody listens to their music. They decide to break in a radio station and take over the place and people as hostages. The acting is excellent and the chemistry is great. Sandler and Buscemi are hilarious. They are the best part of the film. The script and the basic plot line worked well together. I liked the music for the film. I am not a big fan of this kind of music, but somehow Sandler and the gang just made the music work. I recommend this movie for everybody. I rate this film a 9/10. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks and they have brilliant casts in this movie","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" I saw that movie and it was Hilarius. Brendan Fraser as Chester 'Chazz' Darvey is Hilarius and his scared when they try to run out of here. Steve Buscemi as Rex is funny. Adam Sandler as Pip is hysterical. Chris Farley as Officer Wilson was perfect. Michael McKean as Milo Jackson is brilliant. Amy Locane as Kayla is not very that nice to Chazz in Airheads. Nina Siemaszko as Suzzi is cute. The music is excellent and when The Lone Rangers play tonight outside. This story is when Chazz to breaks in the Radio Station and then never has Kayla any more because Chazz musics are worthless. This movie is Hilarius you will like the cast and also the movie except some nonsense. "},{"Title":"The Music! All About The Music!!!","Date":"3 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Airheads (1994)Review Airheads is a good movie. This is a comedy but the movie's strength is through the music and knowledge of the music as well.The casting is fine. Brendan Fraser is pretty good as Chazz. Steve Buscemi is awesome as Rex. Adam Sandler on the other hand felt awkward here. While Fraser and Buscemi seemed to enjoy there roles, Sandler felt off key. He was not bad, just unbalanced if you will. However the plot is fine. Three frustrated musicians hold a radio station hostage to finally play their demo. The demo gets fried and all hell breaks loose. Their is some nice humor here and some fine acting. We get other nice appearances by Mike McKean and Judd Nelson as well.What works is the gathering of all the metal-heads outside the station in unified glory to the freedom of true radio. Run by people like them. I also liked the band stickers inside the band's van. All sorts of true underground metal bands to be noticed on the wall of that van! The knowledge of metal is well put. I LOVED it when Chazz insulted the Seattle grunge scene! (As he called it, Seattle bull s**t) Wonderful. This movie knows that all rock music is not the same thing!The movie is filled with great music and some nice comedy to boot. An appearance by White Zombie was also excellent too. Be sure to check out a cameo by none other than Lemmy! If you are metal, you know who i'm talking about!The Last Word Killer music! All metal-heads unite! This is the movie that takes metal more seriously. Fun times. Airheads rocks! "},{"Title":"The day the metal died","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  A hilarious tale about three bumbling guys desperately trying to get their demo tape heard so that they can be rocketed into rock stardom. So it comes down to it, that they can hold Rebel radio hostage and take it over just to have their tape played. One thing after the next happens to prevent them from obtaining their goals. Whether having Michael Richards assault them with a gun, making ridiculous requests like nude photos of Bea Arthur or finding out that Rebel Radio is going to be a easy listening station in a matter of days.The film is chock full of laughter and cameos, and I think on a sensual side (on myself being a metal head) this film showcases where many hard rock/heavy metal radio stations were biting the dust to make way for other music. This film hits close to home, has a kick ass soundtrack (with the Lone Rangers themselves) and has many SNL members to make the film really enjoyable, a comedy classic of the 90's.Worthless trivia This is one of the film films that you can find two of the original Ghostbusters together, as Harold (Egon) Ramis plays a phony as record exec, and Ernie (Winston) Hudson plays a cop that has to deal with the metal heads insane requests and Chris Farley being a fool.  "},{"Title":"I usually hate stupid comedies, but for some reason this is hilarious.","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was hilarious.  I generally hate Adam Sandler type comedies, but I thought Airheads was truly funny.  There was some dumb humor (a lot actually), but also some very clever lines that are true to reality. The cracks it takes at the record industry are well deserved.  I know everybody deep down has wanted to do something as stupid as they do in the movie.  If you like Rock n Roll and don't like what it's become then this movie has your message.  Also, the cast is star studded, and filled with cameos.  Despite the crazy storyline, the acting is actually very good. Not the movie to watch when you want to think deeply, but if you're in a silly mood, this is it. "},{"Title":"An all-time great!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  When I first saw this movie back in 1995 it was the first time I'd ever seen Adam Sandler. I'd seen Brendan Fraser before in CALIFORNIA MAN and Steve Buscemi was of course already established. It was the night before a big job interview and this movie made me forget all my worries.The cast gels from the very start. Brendan Fraser and Adam Sandler are particularly believable as greasy, heavy metal layabouts who want to make it to the big time. Also making near cameo appearances are the late Chris Farley as an overweight probationary cop, the excellent Michael McKean as the geeky, back-stabbing radio station boss and Joe Mantegna as the sympathetic but easily infuriated DJ.Don't let the title and the nature of this movie put you off. It's exceptionally well scripted and acted with the kind of attention-to-detail only usually seen in bigger-budget movies. Sure the cliches are all there and some of the movie is predictable but there's more than enough original, cutting-edge comedy to satisfy the most discerning comedy fan.Hire it, borrow it, buy it but whatever you do, SEE IT. You'd be an Airhead not to! "},{"Title":"One of the funniest music movies ever made","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Story of three aspiring metalheads holding up a radio station with water pistols starts slowly, with Chazz (Brendan Fraser), infiltrating a record studio. After that, it takes off, picking up speed as the three guys take over a rock station to play their tape. Plenty of humor and one-liners, mostly from Rex (Steve Buscemi) and Ian (Joe Mantegna). Non-metal fans would probably not understand the references to Vince Neil (Motley Crue) and Ozzy Osbourne, though those references mean very little to the movie. Cameo appearance by White Zombie is good, the telephone appearance of Beavis and Butthead is hilarious! Unfortunately, the romance subplot largely fails, though the part where Chris Farley has to find Chazz's girlfriend is good. Some mushy-type scenes that really do not belong in the movie bog the script down in places, but for the most part it is riotously funny.Rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"A movie filled with great comedy and a brilliant cast.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Airheads is a hilarious comedy movie, with a fantastic cast, including the brilliant Adam Sandler, Brendan Fraser, David Arquette, Steve Buscemi and Chris Farley who are all really great here. If you like comedy movies or if just a fan of the lead actors here, than Airheads is the movie for you. I give Airheads a 10/10. "},{"Title":"I ain't farting on no snare drum.","Date":"8 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" For years everyone told me Brendan Fraser movies were bad and this movie proves they all lied.Weirdly,people always say Adam Sandler movies are always great yet this is the only one that really is,and Sandler has a tiny part.This movie is just awesome.It's funny and has a great story with lots of cameos,Lemmy,Kramer,Stuttering John,Chris Farley and tons more.The one thing that doesn't really make sense is that it's a decade late and no one ever noticed.They are a very 1984 band in a 1994 movie.Hair metal was long dead by 1994,MTV was playing Rancid,not Winger.If you're into those terrible Sandler movies where he crams in all his friends and nothing funny ever happens,you might not like this movie but you will see why he keeps making work for Steve Buscemi.This is one of the best movies ever. "}{"Title":"One of the Great 1990s Comedies","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Three band members hoping for a big break head to a radio station to play their demo tape and wind up holding everyone hostage with plastic guns when the head DJ is unable to play them.To say this film is a good one from a critical standpoint is a lie, as it is pretty bad in a multitude of ways. But as far as 1990s comedies go, or films connected to Saturday Night Live (this one very loosely), this ranks up there in entertainment value.If nothing else, the cast sells this -- David Arquette and Michael Richards before their prime. Adam Sandler at his peak. Brendan Fraser in a transition from Pauly Shore to real films... and Steve Buscemi? This is just loaded with talent.The music will not appeal to everyone. Even as a fan of metal, I have to say a lot of the music is not as top-notch as it probably should be. "},{"Title":"I'm On A Band Kick...","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" I saw this flick in the theaters way back (1994). I'm a band guy, not professionally, but it eats up a lot of my time as a hobby and every so often I like to revisit some movies having to do with music. On a positive note, I still love the music and the amount of rocker cameos and a huge cast of Oh HEY...isn't that...? to be found in Airheads. But on a second viewing via Netflix, the negatives kind of balance out the positives and I give this movie a solid 5. The story left me frustrated and the comedy was eh. This movie could have been so much more. It could have been a classic, instead...it's kinda embarrassing. Stick to swinging in the trees Brendon. "},{"Title":"hilarious film","Date":"5 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" When i first saw this on Movieplex one Sunday morning, i couldn't turn away from the TV. it was nonstop hilarious. i think this is Brenden Faser's best film. i loved this movie because it stars three comedic guys and its in the 90s and i love 90s movies. after watching this film, it made me wanna go out and start a band. every time i see Steve Buechemi, he is funny but in this movie, he really stands out. i love this movie so much that i'm gonna watch it again! i just cannot express how funny this movie is so you'll have to check it out for yourself. i am so glad that i found this movie because if i didn't, i'd really be missing out on a classic 1994 film. "},{"Title":"There's three of you.....","Date":"19 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Heavy metal trio The Lone Rangers haven't had much luck getting their songs heard.During their last desperate trip to a radio station they bring along some genuine looking water pistols and spontaneously pull them out when they're turned down again.One of the workers at the station escapes being taken hostage and calls the police, and a long standoff ensues until the Rangers can play their tape, which the lead singer gave to his now ex-girlfriend...Airheads is one of those films you either love or hate. When this movie first came out, I thought it was great and very funny. Nearly twenty years later, it's still funny, but for different reasons.Mantegna is the best thing in this movie, followed by Buscemi. Fraser is Fraser, and you can tell Sandler is just in waiting, and his star deservedly shone two years later. But the thing that makes this film work isn't the situation, nor the three leads, it's the randomness of it all.One minute, Egon and Winson from ghostbusters are there, next we see Lemmy! totally ridiculous, but it works, just. "},{"Title":"10 years too late","Date":"23 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" By 1994 the hair metal passing itself off as REAL metal had been killed off and fortunately so. This movie makes metal musicians from this era look like attention desperate idiots which is the furthest thing from the truth but, the band depicted was a bottle of hairspray and matching leather jeans away from being hair metal which was the corporate pop takeover and destruction of true metal.The movie is funny in that it makes this generation of corporate brainwashed idiots look exactly like what they are but, the underlying sentiment that this is a real band of real musicians with original talent is what spoils it for me. I've seen the movie a dozen times or more thanks to HBO and about half my youth spent in front of the TV.I suppose I'm kind of missing the point because the movie is intended to make this generation look stupid but they did it too late and tried to sell the 90's image with an 80's band. It would be nice if a mainstream movie that truly represents the musicians that are talented, are educated and are reliable trade professionals would come out.So far we have this, crap with Marky Mark (are you f'ing kidding me!?) and a few others all of which make us look like ignorant deadbeats. Thrash metal, biker metal, death metal etc. is the REAL metal culture. Not this crap from the 80's like Def Leopard, Motley Crue and *insert corporate spoiled brat name here* who were no different than your Debbie Gibsons and Madonnas.I feel like I'm watching the comedic take on the E! True Hollywood Story of Skid Row. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not that funny","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Airheads entertainingly tells an amiable story which captures the attention and interest throughout its running time. Wholly improbable, this doesn't matter - one enjoys the company of most of the characters, and one is (as intended) annoyed by the duplicitous station manager and the idiotic gung-go SWAT chief.It isn't actually that funny, mind you, but it's still entertaining.And it's notable for early appearances by a fair number of people in the early stages of their careers before they became major successes. Each of them plays somewhat contrary to the types they have subsequently become known for, and each shows signs of the stars they are to become. Steve Buscemi must get the nod for favourite performance, though. "},{"Title":"a fairly descent movie","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" this is an exceptionally funny movie, it has great characters in it like Brendon Frasier, Chris Farley, R.i.P., and Adam Sander its just a funny movie. i like the fact that nobody could figure out the the guns the three guys had fake guns. you might think after a while one of the guys might be able to touch the gun and figure out that it isn't a real gun. and another point i would like to make, i cant really picture Bredon Frasier, Adam Sandler, and Steve Buscheme as rock stars. i also cant picture Chris Farley as a cop. he is a great actor and great comedian, but he might be just a little to big for the cop suit he is put in for the movie. "},{"Title":"merely a correction of Amazon's review","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Hi IMDb, The amazon guy said Pip was the bass player, that is Adam Sandler's character and Steve Buscemi, Rex, was the drummer. It is of course the other way around. It pays to stay awake during the movie. Okay, I liked this movie and had it been R rated maybe we would have seen Suzzi's (Nina Siemaszko) ta-tas, that would have been shweet! Amy Locane is too skinny. Also, I will watch anything with Steve Buscemi in it. Nice to see Harold Ramis pop up there also. I am 53 but I like the music. The DVD has two videos from the movie, Motorhead and White Zombie. The featurette is idiotic and a waste of time. Lots of up and comers in here and of course the late, great Chris Farley. Thanks IMDb and keep up the good work. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the funniest movie ever","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" OK, I'm a rock 'n' roller so maybe thats why I love it. But even non rockers can like this movie. Its filled to the brim with heart and it still has brain. That is one of the thing that many movies don't have. Either its too much heart, or too much brain. Anyway, let me tell you why you laugh and laugh and laugh while you see this movie.The story of a band on demo level who wants a contract with a record company may not be the most original story ever, but the director sure take deep care of the story, and puts his soul and mind into it, which makes it more and more enjoyable. The thing with a hostage situation is a funny thing to. That may be the only thing that is quite original in this movie. A mix between two unoriginal stories which together makes a great film. And they sure don't take it easy with the jokes. Just after you caught your breath after having laughed your lungs out, you start over again with laughing. Which makes it the perfect Friday entertainment with your pals. The playing time is only 'bout an hour and a half, but the filmmakers make a use of that in a near perfect way. Pretty sure that they could have made it last for two hours, and without seeming too long. The direction, production and script are just great! Its just too bad that this movie haven't got enough credits to establish itself as a famous movie, cause there are many comedy makers who would have a lot to learn. It's not ridiculous or silly or awkward or childish or anything. Yet, the jokes may not the most intelligent jokes ever, but the characters ain't that either...The characters, yes. The three main characters are played by Brendan Fraser, Adam Sandler and Steve Buscemi. Brendan Fraser as Chazz, the real wannabe, who really go trying to get a record contract and the main person in the band. Adam Sandler as Pip, the stupid and benevolent drummer who seems to have an IQ which to be compared with a pencil or a refrigerator or something. Steve Buscemi (one of my personal favorites) as Rex, the bass player who is something of a comic sidekick and who most of all wants to be famous and popular, mostly for the chicks. The perfect actors for the hilarious main characters. They makes great jobs with the acting, and non of the (few) bad parts can be blamed on them. A great comeback in the rock 'n' roll movie genre is Michael McKean. He had one of the main roles in the classic, trend-setting and hilarious rock 'n' roll film 'This is Spinal Tap' and here, ten years later, he return in the second of head-bangers favorite movies. But his characters in those two movies are a little different from each other. In 'This is Spinal Tap', he is rock 'n' roll, the guitar playing singer. Here, he is some kind of a boss or manager or something of a radio station who don't actually don't like rock or metal music. A little difference, right? We also have Joe Mantegna as the radio DJ, Nina Siemaszko as a typical (?) blonde chick, Ernie Hudson as a police officer and Amy Locane as Chazz's girlfriend who is tired of having him trying to get a record contract instead of making money by working. Great actors in a great movie! Oh, by the way, lets not forget Lemmy, main man in legendary rock band Motörhead (who happens to be my personal favorites) who actually has one line in this movie. Since he is my hero, I have to mention him.What can I complain about then? Well... not really anything. Maybe a few trifles, but nothing big and nothing I can think about right now. Should be seen by anyone who likes to laugh. Underrated.If Lemmy and God had a fight, who would win? Lemmy. Wrong! Tricky question, Lemmy IS god! (Favorite line) "},{"Title":"Great Movie with comic elements that many should love","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" This is one of the more entertaining movies in my collection. The story centers around a struggling band that decides to take the law into their own hands and force a radio station to play their music. Of course seeing as all three band members are complete idiots. They interact well as a cast and Adam Sandler is really good in this role. Though by no means do I find this movie to be amungst the best of films it is extremely fun to watch and can be watched on most occasions and be enjoyable which is a quality that is good for any collection. If one likes a good rock and roll message in their film along with some low intellect oriented comedy then this is good for you. "}{"Title":"Are you in a band?","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" I think this film, to an outsider, is probably total pants. The storyline is pretty solid, but they leap straight into holding the station hostage. I think this is like Spinal Tap, in that you really have to have been in a band to think it's good Before you leap down my throat, I did not just say that all people who have been in bands will think it's good, nor did I say there will be no people who haven't been in a band who will like it. But for comedy to work, you have to relate to the characters on some level, look at the comedy greats, only fools and horses, you empathise with his agonising position.Few people, and not even myself really, will be in a position to understand these characters. Which explains its poor rating. "},{"Title":"just simple fun!","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Airheads. Some of the actors in this movie have not had the opportunity to glory in good movies(Brendan Fraser, Chris Farley), yet in this movie it all comes together. A simple story about 3 metalheads who finally want some recognition for their music, by holding up a popular music radio station. Offcource everything goes to hell, and the police will take notice of this. It's not the story what's nice about this movie, it's the way the characters are played by the actors. You've got an Adam Sandler on the loos as a dumbass drummer, Steve Buscemi as psychopathic metal dude, but especially Brendan Fraser as lunatic metal freak steals the show. The passion the character has for the music, the fun and glare Brendan Fraser has to play it. And let's not forget Joe Mantegna, as charismatic radiohost gone wild. One downfall to this movie though, is Chris Farley. He's not fun, in my eyes he's never been fun, yet he can be overlooked. All in all this movie will never go in the books as a classic, but it's definitely worth the 2 hours you spend watching it. And look for Lemmy ;)  "},{"Title":"What did you expect?","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This is a movie with Brendan Frasier, Steve Buscemi, and Adam Sandler playing three heavy metal guys.  I would elaborate, but I think I just summed up the whole thing right there.  It is by no means a bad movie; just dorky (kind of like me).  Trust me, you'll get exactly what you expect. Take that any way you like. "},{"Title":"A definite watch","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  While not perfect this movie is definitely worth a watch (or two - I've seen it several times ). The cast chosen is excellent in their respective roles.Brendan Fraser as Chazz 'Chester' Darvey is very good.Steve Buscemi as Rex is brilliant (Steve Buscemi as -anything- is brilliant! ).Adam Sandler as Pip is ok, but I think it's because his part had no funny lines. His part is as the doufus of the group.Chris Farley as Officer Wilson is hilarious.Michael McKean as Milo is a w**ker-cum-laude.Judd Nelson as Jimmie Wing is over-cast for this movie. He is weak in this part.Ernie Hudson as Sergeant O'Malley is very authoritative - very convincing.Marshall Bell as Carl Mace is perfect as a psychopathic LAPD swat team leader.Reg E. Cathey as Marcus is very funny even though he has a small part.David Arquette as Carter fits right in.Michael Richards as Doug Beech is brilliant. His physical acting is really set to play in this movie - and he's definitely up to the task.This is a guy movie - no chicks allowed! hahaha - just kidding. but my guess is that only guys will like this - it's like the three stooges ...who ROCK! 8/10it's a guy thing baby..... 8- Zafoid "},{"Title":"The ultimate rebel movie","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  I just watched this movie once today, and it's already one of my favorites. The cast is a who's who of comedians, including Adam Sandler, Steve Buscemi, Brendan Fraser, Joe Pantoliano (Fat Tony from Simpsons), Chris Farley and Michael Richards. The plot is basically about a band who hijacks a radio station, but it is more about the fight against The Man. Anyone who remembers either the 80s or their rebellious teenage years will love it. Of course, there is the gratuitous sex scene a la Wayne's World, the massively violent scene where a room is sprayed with bullets, and some pretty cool stuff with the band. Although the 'roll' may be gone, 'rock' lives on. Very, very cool movie. Highly recommended for fans of modern rock. "},{"Title":"A good chuckle","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Well, it's no Airplane! but it does the trick for a late night laugh craving. I don't know if this movie was at all trying to make fun of Dog Day Afternoon, but the two movies seemed really similar. Anyway, Michael Richards, as always, did a stupendous comic job as the clueless exec, or something like that. I really didn't know what he was. Brendan Fraser played a good dumb headbanger. I think in all of his movies he ends up playing some stupid guy who doesn't belong in the scene. Those were the two most noticeable performances, but Steve Buscemi is not to be overlooked either. Oh well, just watch it. Either you'll love it or you'll hate it.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  I have mixed thoughts on this film. It has laughs here and there, but for the main part it's kind of dumb. I am a loyal Adam Sandler fan, who does a decent job, as does Brendan Fraser and Chris Farley, but the rest of the cast just didn't seem to try that hard. Even Steve Buscemi who I like didn't do a very good performance. It's an average film, that does keep your attention and is worth watching once. If you like heavy metal music definitely watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Funny and enjoyable","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This is a movie that's especially worth seeing when there's nothing to do. It's funny and a rare occasion to see Adam Sandler on screen without wanting to hit him(I am referring to The Water Boy). The casting was good and Fraser, Sandler and Buscemi make a good trio, although I thought that Buscemi looked too old for the other two. There are some memorable scenes, my favorite being when Sandler walks out of the building and there's a cop waiting for him. Hilarious.   A Wayne's World kind of movie, but not as good though. Still... a strong 6/10. "},{"Title":"A Modern Comedy Classic","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  although grunge is long and gone, one can look back at this movie and still love it. Almost ten years old and it still cracks me up. Now with the fact that all the main characters are stars (including the blonde-haired David Arquette) it would be impossible to get them all to star in it today. God bless the pairing of Steve Buscemi and Adam Sandler. "},{"Title":"dumb Dog Day Afternoonish comedy that has it's moments","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Airheads sucks but it is tolerable. Three dumb metalheads hijack a radio station in order to get airplay and almost hilarity ensues. Sandler is funny but alot of the gags so unlaughed at. Many small roles by famous faces are involved but there's no real payoff. */12 "}{"Title":"Slightly above-average.","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  I rented Airheads because it was the only Adam Sandler movie I had never seen. It turned out to be an okay comedy.Three lame-brained rock musicians, Chaz (Brendan Fraser), Rex (Steve Buscemi) and Pip (Adam Sandler) would do anything to get their demo tape on the radio. Chaz tries to sneak into Palatine Records and gets promptly booted. He goes home and gets dumped by his girlfriend on the pretext he's a lazy-ass that won't get a job. He goes to Rex,who works in a toy store and tells him the news. Rex has a brilliant idea. They are going to sneak into RPPX (or soemthing like that) Rebel Radio and get their DJ (Joe Mantegna) to play their demo. When they get there, they use Pip's credit card to try and sneak in,but the card gets swallowed. Soon enough, a girl opens a door right into Pip's face and they get in. The DJ doesn't want them in,so Rex pulls his toy water gun (which looks realistic) on them,and soon takes the whole radio station hostage.The film is helped by a good comedic cast. Okay, I take it that it's not the BEST,but it could have been worse,Chris Farley could've been in it. Oh,wait,he is. Farley is one of the supporting characters,as a doofus policeman. There's also Deputy Dewey David Arquette as a gay surfer and Judd Nelson as a record exec. The script is well paced and the acting,although very limited,works as what it's supposed to be. Also,the film isn't very long so the movie stays well paced. Still, pretty good if you don't expect too much.  6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Rock and roll!!!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This is one awesome movie. As a huge fan of rock music and teen comedies, this is a gem for me.A small time band called the Lone Rangers(how can you pluralize the Lone Ranger?) has taken a radio station hostage in order to get their demo tape played on the air.Adam Sandler and Chris Farley were my favorite characters in this movie. I can't believe these two didn't get more credit for this movie. It's all about Tommy Boy and Happy Gilmore but nobody mentions Airheads when it comes to these two.The only reason this movie didn't get a 10 on my list is because I disagreed with the Van Halen joke. I think Sammy Hagar is better than David Lee Roth.So I give this movie 9/10. (P.S Check out the soundtrack. IT ROCKS!)  "},{"Title":"Good cast, good movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Most of the landmarks of 90s comedy can be seen somewhere in this little movie, from Michael Richards to Chris Farley to Beavis and Butthead. If you haven't picked this one up yet, you should, it's a funny little gem and I remember enjoying it immensely. "},{"Title":"lemmy is god","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  the jokes aren't not that funny, the movie's kinda dumb, but it's worth checking out just for lemmy's cameo. i used to be editor of the school paper!trick question, lemmy IS god. "},{"Title":"FUNNY","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie it was hilarious. Rent this flick 2-nite for a funny film. And don't forget to look for Stuttering John Menendez from Howard Stern as the masturbating rocker. And an awesome performance by White Zombie "},{"Title":"How can you pluralise the lone ranger Dude?","Date":"15 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This film made me wanna join a rock band, the problem is I can't play or sing, but I would do anything to be as cool as these guys, I mean, their album could be Pip farting on a snare drum for all I care, and they would still be the coolest guys alive.Who else would even contemplate holding up a radio station with water pistols, especially when your leaders name is Chester? huh no-one, because The Lone Rangers rule. "},{"Title":"about 3 guys who want to play their demo tape so they hold a radio station hostage to get it played with waterguns","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  man this movie wuz tha bomb! i don't kare wut other ppl think who say it's lame and got nothin to it and poor acting but i juss thought this movie wuz tha best! adam sandler played a cool role different from the other ones he played in. the guy from george of the jungle was in it too and he wuz rad in it. tha other guy i got no idea who he wuz but he wuz still cool in it! i wuz crackin up tha whole movie!!! so i suggest everyone one likes heavy metal or somethin close it and want a good laff or is a fan of adam sandler and tha other dudes in it, i suggest u see it.  "},{"Title":"Awesome Headbangers Delight!","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Got to Love it! This move is a really great blast from the past for all head bangers young or old alike. The cast is a wonderful lineup of a lot of todays favorite stars (Brendan Fraser, Steve Buscemi, Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, Micheal McKean, Judd Nelson and more! ) during their early career years. With a cast lineup like this it hast to be good. Tons of side stitching laughs. Great for anyone who's been in a band or has had friends in a band. A tribute to the struggling artist plight of making it in the industry. A true classic memento to cherish from the good old big hair (80's) metal days. Great addition to any metal era collection. "},{"Title":"Dude, this movie reeks!!!","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Airheads is an insult to rock and heavy metal fans everywhere.  The performances are terrible, and the band that Sandler, Fraser and Buscemi portray in the movie sucks when they play a live concert at the climax. Fraser can barely sing!Other talented actors in the movie are wasted, including Joe Mantegna (as a DJ) and Michael Richards (as a sleazy record company exec).The whole movie just seems to be 2 hours of everyone punching and swearing at each other, and this is a comedy?Throw this one in the mosh pit! "},{"Title":"Spinal Tap it's not.","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  **Warning! Mild Spoilers Ahead!!**The premise of Airheads is decent.  A not-so-bright metal band takes a radio station hostage in order to get their music aired.  But unlike the classic This is Spinal Tap, this movie swings and misses where Spinal Tap hit home runs.  The problem, quite simply, is that Airheads is not funny.  Just about every joke is completely predictable, and countless opportunities that beg for jokes are ignored.  This is especially disappointing considering the cast, which includes Adam Sandler, Brendan Fraser, Steve Buscemi, and Joe Mantegna.  Sandler does display the potential that he parlayed into big money shortly thereafter, but the rest of the crew consistently display a lack of quality comic timing.  Other cast members such as Michael Richards and Chris Farley are completely wasted in roles that could have been filled by much lesser talent.  Bottom Line An appropriately titled movie.  3 of 10. "}{"Title":"ahahahahahahahahaha!!!!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  this movie is great! i nearly forgot how funny brendan fraser is. i actually watched it last night for the second time in, let's say, 6 years? and that six years i spent hoping to see it again. 10/10 HILARIOUS!!!!!! you have got to see this film! don't listen to the people who say it sux cause it doesn't! "},{"Title":"Super","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Awesome soundtrack, and one of the best anti-establishment movies of the 90's.   An intersecting fact I noticed too,  the plaza that the Radio station is located in is the same plaza in Die Hard... Nakatomi Plaza.  "},{"Title":"Losers' Dreams","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" It is not a favorite movie or something .. I just enjoyed it a little bit and decided to continue watching for Steve Buscemi's sake.I'm not big heavy-metal rock fan .. but I know someone is .. and the movie is kinda reminds me of my heavy-metal rock friend whose character is close to Steve Buscemi character in many ways.The movie started OK .. but ended very terribly, I think.However, it is a little fun to watch some losers' dream .. like if they think they will rock the whole world when their song is been heard by some fans or critics.It is just a little movie .. which will do you no harm to watch it .. maybe it is a waste of time, is it? .. I don't know. "},{"Title":"Worthy to Musicians Only!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" This to me is a film that only a musician would deem worthy. A band that will stoop to holding a radio station hostage in order to get their demo played is something only a musician would understand. This is basically a film about the strive to musical fandom. And the film does make a wonderful point in the end; that such a stunt would only propel a band into gaining notoriety from fans. There's a terrific line from Brendan Fraser in which he tells the radio station owner about what it's like to play to a crowd which only consists of the headlining band and their girlfriends. He ends this with the classic line Don't talk to me about rock 'n roll! I AM ROCK 'N ROLL!. Wonderful. I can relate to this in every way.Of course, the films' biggest flaw is having Adam Sandler in it, once again playing the idiot which he seems to play quite well. Too well, if you ask me. Other than that, this is a fun film. It seems childish to ridicule this film because it's harmless in every way. A wonderful soundtrack accompanies this film, by the way. "},{"Title":"Familiar faces","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This movie wasn't something I set out to see, I just happened on it accidentally while channel surfing when I saw a whole bunch of familiar faces in strange outfits.  Just for the eclectic cast, this movie was worth some of my time.  Practically every face was familiar; these people also did movies that I'd seen before.  It's not exactly a old classic, but it was moderately funny and had a lot of good actors who weren't exactly at their best, but who made the movie much more enjoyable.  So for a funny, very light-hearted movie, with a lot of actors who will ring a bell, watch Airheads. "},{"Title":"so funny!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  You have to see this movie, no matter who you are.  It is really good with al ot of famous people Brendan Fraser, Steve Buscemi, Adam Sandler, Judd Nelson, Michael McKean, Ernie Hudson, and Chris Farley. Watch it, no, i mean it.  I am serious.  don't shake your head, just do it. I'm telling you, you don't know what you're missing! "},{"Title":"Best fun when Airheads are silly","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Chazz Darvey (Brendan Fraser) is desperate to get his band heard by the record companies. His angry violent girlfriend Kayla (Amy Locane) has enough and throws him out. He moves in with The Lone Rangers bandmates Rex (Steve Buscemi) and Pip (Adam Sandler). The three idiots try to get their music played by the DJ (Joe Mantegna). Station manager Milo (Michael McKean) try to kick them out and the boys pull out their fake guns. Things spiral out of control.This movie is an OK little comedy. It's funniest when the guys turn stupid. Adam Sandler is a fun idiot. He is hilarious. Chris Farley steals a few scenes. There is also Michael Richards crawling around. This works best when people are acting completely stupid which happens quite a few times. "},{"Title":"Not too bad, but nothing great either","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" The Lone Rangers (all 3 of them) are hard up to get a record deal, they try everything. After the lead singer/guitarist gets kicked out of his girlfriends apt. he knows he must make it happen. The three of them burst into a radio station begging for their demo to be played. When their demands aren't met they hold the station up with fake guns and go on air and get all the rockers in the city involved. The band learns many lessons, the DJ learns of how dirty his boss is, and the cops learn they have their work cut out for them on this wild rock and roll hostage comedy.This movie came out in 94 when things like Waynes World was still in everyones mind. Rock and Roll was still breathing and hair metal had all but died, but MTV was still playing videos and keeping it popular enough for this movie to work.I have seen this a few times and it never did much for me, it has some okay music including Motorhead and White Zombie, but it also has a lot of crappy music that is now very dated. It isn't very funny, but it's worth a watch.Brendon Frasure did okay in his early movies and I can say that here too. Steve Buscemi is always great, but he seemed much more vibrant and youthful here, which was a different side of him as he usually plays a boring serious sarcastic character. Adam Sandler was at the height of his SNL stardom and he is a horrible actor, always has been. Other great performances can be seen by people like Ernie Hudson as a cop, Harold Ramis, Ernies Ghostbuster partner can be seen here in a small role, Chris Farley playing the silly fat guy as he done so well, Michael McKean as a yuppie radio station owner, Joe Mantegna as a long haired DJ, David Arquette also as a crazy surfer dude working at the station and Michael Richards playing a crazy employee of the station who spends the entire movie hiding in the air ducts. Judd Nelson plays an uptight record studio president, the same company name used in Waynes World. Lemmy from Motorhead has a cameo here and white zombie play live in a bar, even MTV'S dinosaur VJ Kurt Loder makes a cameo.My problem with it was that it just wasn't rock and roll enough for me. Why does the fender on Brendans motorcycle say fag? Also I hated that Beavis and Butthead called in at the radio station, that was stupid...4/10 stars, worth a watch, but nothing great...not a true rock and roll movie. "},{"Title":"AWESOME!","Date":"28 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This movie is great and quite simply it is worth its weight just for the line about Van Halen!  I laughed so hard I almost wet my pants!  "},{"Title":"The Beavis and Butthead version of Dog Day Afternoon, but still with some terrific laughs!","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Honestly, at first, I wasn't expecting too much, I mean a movie called Airheads first off and Adam Sandler, Brendan Fraser, and Steve Bushemi, interesting choices. But this was just a great plot with some good laughs. Basically Brendan and his band just want a radio station to play their demo, so they can be noticed and get a record deal. When all else just fails, they stick up the radio station with some phony water guns, they do look real though, and will not leave until they get their demo played.With a terrific supporting cast and some fun moments that can get anyone cheering for the band, I think anyone can have fun and enjoy this brainless comedy. You'll have to trust me on this one, it sounds like a dumb movie, but it's all in good times. I'd highly recommend this one! 7/10 "}{"Title":"AIRHEADS *1/2 of ****","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" I am a huge Steve Buscemi fan. I am a huge Adam Sandler protestor. Therefore, my bias towards liking or disliking their movies is ruled out by their talents of persuading my descision. Airheads is about a desperate rock group(Buscemi, Sandler and Brendan Fraser) who hold a radio station hostage in order for their demo to be played. This movie has one big laugh involving Sandler moving toward a van and a cop mocking him. Besides that, their list of demands is in many ways disgusting, and so is the screenplay in entirety.VERDICT *1/2 of **** Not Recommended "},{"Title":"Probably Sandlers Best role ever!!!","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Ive always been a big fan of Adam Sandlers movies, but Airheads is one of my favourite movies of his even though he's not the character of the movie.My personal Rating for Airheads is 9/10ill rate some of my other fav sandler moviesPunch Drunk Love 10/10  (very unique & funny movie) best sandler movie. The Wedding Singer 9/10  ( very funny & good music) Bulletproof 10/10 ( this is a very funny movie ) The waterboy 7.5/10 ( funny ) Anger Management 8.5/10 ( probably his best movie for the last 4 years) "},{"Title":"Fun to watch, nothing great though.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  I wouldn't dare say that this film is hilarious or superb, but it does have a lot of good things going for it.  The cast is surprisingly good for such a low-key film, the story is fun and amusing, the comedy is quite funny at times, and there are some attractive women in the film (Amy Locane and Nina Siemaszko).Like I said, the cast is surprisingly good.  Brendan Fraser does a pretty good job, but he's had better gig's.  Steve Buscemi is very good as always (I don't know why, but I really like Steve's acting).  Adam Sandler is great and ropes in a lot of laughs.  Chris Farley does a great job!  Other notable cast members are Michael Richards, Michael McKean, Judd Nelson, Ernie Hudson, Joe Mantegna, David Arquette, Harold Ramis, and the band members of White Zombie.  I'm a huge fan of White Zombie/Rob Zombie and it was pretty cool to see them in the film.All in all, the film is good, but not excellent.  I think it's funny, but I can see why other people wouldn't like the film too much.  If you are a fan of Brendan Fraser, Steve Buscemi, Adam Sandler or White Zombie, then I'd recommend seeing the film, otherwise you may want to spend your money elsewhere.  If you do see it, I hope you enjoy it, thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"not great but good","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  3 losers finally decide to break into a radio station and take it hostage after they hear the station isn't going to play metal music anymore. When the police show up and ask what they want they decide they want to have music equipment outside for all the metal fans outside to hear. This movie has a lot of stars in it and it's pretty funny, Steve Buscemi, Chris Farley, Brenden Fraser, Adam Sandler and others, this isn't any of their best movies but it's a pretty good one and pretty fun check it out!  "},{"Title":"Funny stuff!","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Airheads was bombed by many people before. My one question is WHY? This movie is hillarious! Brendan Fraser is Chester (Chazz), the leader of a rock group called The Lone Rangers. Steve Bescemi ( For those who saw Resevoir Dogs, I want to say he isin't as violent or potty mouthed!) is Rex, a guitarist for the band and Adam Sandler is Pip, the drummer. The plot is that these three hold up a radio station (with very realistic looking water guns!) and demand that their demo tape be played live, in order to get a record deal. I know that the plot is kind of basic but it isn't. there's lots of other things going on in the film too. Chris Farley is a cop, by the way. Over all I say that this movie was well done. 8\ 10 "},{"Title":"Some people go to great lengths to become famous","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" All I can say is that a movie which stars Brendon Fraser, Steve Buschemi, and Adam Sandler must be good. Actually, when I first saw this movie, I did not know who any of the above were, I just thought that the adds in the cinema looked cool, hired the video, loved it, and finally ended up buying it. Last night when we watched it, we discussed about what memorable nineties comedies were. We concluded that Empire Records, Airheads, and Clueless would leave something very memorable. As for British Comedies, Lock, Stock, and Two Smoking Barrels. I need not say any more. Anyway, Airheads is about three guys who have written what they considered to be a really cool song, but none of the record companies want to hear it. So they try to get it played on the air after breaking into the radio station KBBL Rebel Radio. After an initial refusal, out come some very real looking water pistols. This movie, though seeming very shallow, is actually quite deep. The major theme in this movie is that music is not what we like, but what the record companies want to sell. This is clearly seen when they are in a nightclub watching a band called the Son's of Thunder, whom lost to their band, the Lone Rangers, at a battle of the bands, yet the Son's of Thunder received the contract. Just because music is good does not mean that the record companies are going to sell it. This movie is in fact very scathing of the record industry, and the entertainment industry in particular. They do not want to know this band until they hold up the radio station and gain so much publicity that they can see a lot of money. As such they snatch up the band in an instant, and try to get a contract signed before anybody else does. They are not interested in the song, they simply want the money that their publicity will bring. Chez is completely the opposite. He wants to do it for the music, and the lifestyle. Even though he wants the money, it is the music that's important, and what is more important is that they show their fans that they can play this music and it is not some lame act buy people that are loved playing a song that an unknown wrote. This is seen when Chez uses the contract as toilet paper after learning that it was written up without hearing the song. The other interesting part of this show is the scene where Chez's past is revealed. The SWAT officer tries to turn his popularity against him by revealing that he was a school nerd who played dungeons and dragons. The great thing about this scene is that after mulling over it for a bit, others began to own up to these secret desires, showing that it is not a thing that nerds simply do, and if you have done the things then who really cares anyway. What these guys want is somebody who is real, not some plastered statue created by the record companies to simply sell records. I love this movie. The humor is witty, but it goes beyond simple comedy to really bring out what the essence of music is. Music is what you enjoy, not something to make money. There are so many instances in this movie where this is brought out. Another scene is where Chez is going through the CDs and realises that most of them are not played because the radio station does not want to play them. In this movie we see the struggle between doing something for money and doing something for the love of it. Chez does this because he loves it while the station manager wants the money. If the owners tell him to change, he isn't going to argue because he wants the money and does not care about the music. We see that doing something simply for love in the ends wins people over, because not only do a whole heap of people rock up at the radio station to cheer them on, but people in the radio station take their side as well. "},{"Title":"the air up there","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Airheads is one of those movies that is only targeted at teenage boys. Portraying a band taking a radio station hostage, it's just a series of silly scenes. Although Adam Sandler doesn't get top billing, he was the only cast member whom I recognized when I first saw the movie (I've since learned the names of several other cast members). I'm not sure which scene was my favorite, although the scene of the middle fingers on TV were a hoot, as were the parts with the guy walking through the ducts, and the scenes of the demo tape.The whole cast whom I recognized consists of Brendan Fraser, Steve Buscemi, Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, Michael McKean, Judd Nelson, Ernie Hudson, Amy Locane, David Arquette, Michael Richards and Joe Mantegna. To paraphrase that the man battling the mummy, America's indie flick star, Billy Madison, Matt Foley, the LaVerne and Shirley co-star, the Breakfast Club hoodlum, Winston Zeddemore from Ghostbusters, the Cry-Baby girlfriend, Deputy Dewey from the Scream trilogy, Kramer from Seinfeld, and Fat Tony from The Simpsons. A hilarious movie.So is Lone Rangers grammatically incorrect? "},{"Title":"This movie changed my life","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  If you havent seen Airheads then you dont know what a real cinematic classic is.  Airheads changed my life in a way where no other movie could describe. The movie had great dialogue, excellent cinematography, great characters, and an excellent film score.  I'd say that you could compare this movie to great films such as Orson Welle's Citizen Kane or Francis Ford Coppola's classic The Godfather.  This movie will go down with the great movies that changed our lives for he better. "},{"Title":"IF YOU LIKE THE HEAVY MUSIC THEN THIS IS THE MOVIE FOR YOU","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  the film is about a rock band who are trying to make the big time. they resort to holding everyone in a   radio station hostage so as they can get they`re demo played on the air because they have had no luck in getting a record contract.they think that if they get it played on the air there will be offer`s  thrown at them from all direction`s.this is when the fun really start`s four goon`s holding a radio          station hostage ( with toy gun`s that look real ). the movie is full of wisecrack`s which bring`s a smile to your face because the are placed in the movie at the right moment`s. (rating for movie 9/10)   ( rating for soundtrack 8/10).  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Cheesy without that cult flick zip","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" I'm not a whiny film school critic, so I didn't need Airheads to contain a lot of cinematography and excellent costuming. And I do like cult films, by which I mean when bad becomes good.In this case, bad is just bad though. There's a little humor spread throughout, but the acting is horrid (I just don't get Brendan Fraser, maybe it's a teenage girl thing?), and the plot sort of dumb and same-old.That would be OK if it had some of the zip of, for example, Buckaroo Banzai or the original Austin Powers. But it doesn't.Who should see this film-- nobodyI'll give Airheads a 3 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Idiotic and harmless.","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  AIRHEADS does have a good cast. The theme and silliness of the feature completes the idiocy that supports the movie rather than ruining it. AIRHEADS is completely idiotic, stupid and is garbage. The one line movie is harmless though. It is easy on the eyes to watch but do not expect anything special.Three musicians by the name of The Lone Rangers hold a radio station hostage in the hopes that their song gets finally played on the air.Very typical stuff in AIRHEADS huge groups gather from nowhere, the cops are bumbling idiots and, since the world is supposedly all grey, the felony that the musicians pull end up being perceived as good. Seeing Buscemi, Fraser and Sandler in a movie at the same time is worth the price of a rental though. AIRHEADS does not hold much on its own without them. "},{"Title":"needs more oxygen","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Sandler, Fraser and Buscemi star as rockers who take a radio station hostage in order to have their demo played and of course they get tons of publicity by their act of desperation. Has a lot of talented people in it with Sandler and Fraser and some good cameos especially those in the heavey metal field including an appearance from Lemmy himself..but its not nearly enough to save this comedy from its basic problems.. no script and no laughsOn a scale of one to ten..3 "},{"Title":"Lighten up, it's not that bad.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"      I actually thought AIRHEADS was pretty funny. It has it's moments. Sure, it's like those SNL movies gone bad, but it's not as bad as some (Remember 'IT's PAT The movie?)   The acting was okay. Steve Buscemi once again delivers a great performance, though definitely not his best performance or film, Brendan Fraser is pretty funny, and Adam Sandler is..well...Adam Sandler.  The jokes are sometimes pretty lame and just not funny, buit a lot of times it's the opposite. Despite being a big flop at the Box-Office and no critical acclaim, who cares. You can't always agree with others. Just watch it once, even if you don't agree with me. It's pretty funny. 3/5 stars.JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Funny farce","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Airheads brings to the screen some funny stuff mixed into good old hard a** rock and roll.  Nothing better, unless the acting is bad, and here, it isn't too distasteful.  Brendan Fraser, Adam Sandler and Steve Buscemi play a band called The Lone Rangers (but wait, how can you pluralize the lone ranger?) who want to get they're song on the airwaves (radio) no matter what.  Even if it brings out Michael McKean, David Arquette, Michael Richards, Chris Farley, Ernie Hudson, Mike Judge, Judd Nelson, Harold Ramis and Joe Montegna (just to name a few).  Great fun, with many funny moments thanks to countless references (and appearences) to and by rockers.  My favorite- Lemmy as a rocker saying I was the editor of the school magazine and Stuttering John saying I used to masturbate, consantly.  A- "},{"Title":"Entertaining comedy.","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" When a rookie punk rock group ( Adam Sandler, Brendon Fraser and Steve Buscemi) are in need of a career as they take over a radio station with fake guns in demand to have their song on the air, unfortunately the police are outside armed but the group are taking the people inside hostage so they can get their demands especially their record career.Entertaining and quite funny satire has some good laughs and co-stars Ernie Hudson, Chris Farely, Joe Mantegna, and Michel Richards. The Soundtrack is good with songs by Motorhead, White Zombie, Primus, Anthrax and The Ramones, the movie is a cross between Die Hard and This is Spinal Tap, Sandler and the rest have good performances here in this movie.Recommended if you want a good natured and funny comedy satire! "},{"Title":"A Mixed bag if there ever was one. I didn't really care for it","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" Three wannabe rock and roll stars who call themselves the Lone Rangers head down to the KPPX radio station to play their demo tape. It becomes too much of a hassle, and they wind up holding the station hostage with fake guns that are filled with hot sauce. This has a terrific cast that produces mediocre results. It's not their fault in all honesty, they just have nothing to work with. The idea is fairly original and definitely somewhat brazen. They just aren't able to take a cool concept and turn it into a good movie. It never truly bored me. I just felt it should have been a hell of a lot better than it was. I wouldn't call this a direct spoof of Die Hard, though it does seem to be influenced by it heavily. KPPX is near the Fox Plaza, which incidentally is the Nakatomi Plaza in Die Hard. Even Kramer himself, Michael Richards attempts to portray the hero with his bumbling ways. It's Michael Richards, so anything he does is amusing. I'll also give it credit for explaining how obsolete rock and roll was becoming at this juncture. It was slowly but surely being taken over by pop and stuff. The performances are just fine, though it's pretty hard to empathize with any of these guys. They are obnoxious jerks. Brendan Fraser does well as the leader of the group. His on and off relationship with Amy Locane (Kayla) did become a tad redundant after a while. Steve Buscemi steals every scene he's in with his fun performance. Adam Sandler is funny at certain points, annoying in others with his dimwitted shtick. Michael McKean is great in his smug role as Milo. Judd Nelson is hilarious. The finale was so-so with me. I liked that they threw out the idea that if you are persistent enough, you can achieve your dream, but they also inadvertently gave people the wrong idea as well. Final Thoughts It's thoroughly watchable, I just didn't care for it. There were far too many misses for my liking. Despite a great cast, I'd have to give this one a thumbs down for the most part. It's worth a watch, I just felt it should have been better5.3/10 "},{"Title":"Pure, derrivate, bullsh*t.  A mockery of a film.","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Although it contains hilarious performances from Steve Buscemi, Adam Sandler, Michael Richards and Michael McKean, AIRHEADS is a failure as a film.  Loosely based on DOG DAY AFTERNOON (in the sense that the entire hostage situation story is adapted from that film) the movie fails to capture the raw emotion and desperation of Sidney Lument's masterpiece, which is an understatement because it is a juvenile slapstick comedy.  The opening sequences depict a day in the life of a fledgling musician (in the opening scenes Brendan Fraser's character is tossed out of a record company's offices and booted out by his girlfriend while maintain the musician's lifestyle at all times, despite not having anything to show for it.)  Then out of nowhere the trio finds themselves in a hostage situation, holding up a radio station with plastic water pistols.  Instead of wanting a sex-change operation like Sonny wanted in DOG DAY AFTERNOON, the band wants their demo played on the air.  The only difference is they get their wish and the films ends with a live Lone Rangers (their oxymoron moniker) concert from prison, where Steve Buscemi is oggled by sexually confused prison inmates as he thrusts his bass (another nod to DOG DAY, but in poor taste.) While the film attempts to mock Lument's film, it ends up praising it, and mocking rock music.  Even the soundtrack is full of bad songs from washed up 70s metal and punk bands (as there seems to be no distinction among the two in this film,) and the rockers are portrayed as idiots.  From the sheep like crowds which form outside the station to the idiotic SONS OF THUNDER act who seem to be the Lone Rangers' role models and inspirations for their hostage-taking.  It mocks itself through its failed efforts to mock others. "},{"Title":"Dumb, Unfunny Movie","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":" One small spoiler ahead.Y'all may remember this as a Comedy Central staple. They showed this flick, along with Mannequinn on the Move, Gallagher specials, and Kids in the Hall reruns on infinite rotation during the week back in the late '90s/ early '00s (I watch WAY TOO MUCH TV!). It, like most of the programming on Comedy Central before the advent of South Park, stunk like unwashed gym socks! It is a lame attempt to parody the grunge music scene and the so-called MTV Generation. Very few of the situations work in this pathetic excuse for a comedy. The acting is okay, but the characters are patently disagreeable. The saddest thing of all to watch is how low Michael McKean had fallen since he played the classic character from Spinal Tap. He's a fairly decent comedian, but he reeks as the villain in this movie. Brendan Fraser also reeks. Adam Sandler REALLY reeks! Steve Buscemi is okay, but he's no Olivier. The only funny scene is when Chris Farley rips the nipple ring off of a club-goer, causing him to reel back in agony. That alone is comedy gold, but nothing more in this film is funny. Don't even rent this movie. It stinks just that badly! "},{"Title":"The Opposite of Funny","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This might be one of the worst movies ever made. How do you amass such an assortment of talent and then turn out such a boring and lame film. Adam Sandler, wasted! Steve Buscemi, wasted! Michael Richards, wasted! And so on and so on. Perhaps the biggest problem with the film is in its casting of Branden Fraser as the lead of a death metal band. He just does not sell it at all. Joe Mantegna is beyond irritating, when I think, he was supposed to be the hero here. The music is poor and the story inane. This was just a really bad film. Which is sad, because the story and cast had potential. Hmmm, I need ten lines do I? Hard to find stuff worthy of talking about, when it comes to this film. Let me enter this again. "},{"Title":"lives up to its title","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  Airheads is right up there with Detroit Rock City as one of those movies that's so unfunny it's painful to watch.  There's something seriously wrong with the youth of today if they look to this for their inspiration.  And what is Steve Buscemi doing in it? "}{"Title":"My God...","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Music","Review":"  This is quite possibly the worst film I have ever seen.  The jokes are absolutely pathetic, the plot is predictable and the acting, well what the hell?  All the players in this movie have gone on to better things (thank God), but this film must be an unsightly smudge on their resume.The only reason I would recommend you see this film would be for when someone asks you what's the worst movie you've ever seen.  It is incredibly awful. "}]