[{"Title":"Brilliant dark character study","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"56 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When it comes to dark and morbid thrillers, there's no one around that can handle them like Roman Polanski does. It is with that in mind, therefore, that I say Polanski is the best man for the job of adapting Ariel Dorfman's stage play; 'Death and the Maiden'. He proves this with the resulting movie, which is a thrill ride, combined with a character study all wrapped up in a layer of morbidity; needless to say, the film really hits home. Polanski handles this story, and his actors with the utmost precision and I have no qualms with labelling this movie as one of the man's masterpieces. I have no idea quite why it hasn't been better received, as although it's not up there with the likes of Knife in the Water, Chinatown and Rosemary's Baby; this is Polanski doing what Polanski does best, and when he's at his best; the man is brilliant. The story follows a chance encounter between a political lawyer and his neighbour, whom the man's wife is certain, is the same man who brutally beat and raped her while blindfolded under the reign of a fascist regime. What follows is a three-way character study between the victim, the man she thinks is her oppressor, and her husband; who is caught in the middle.The themes of truth and justice are rampant in this tale and as we watch to see if the villain of the piece really is the man who oversaw torture in the oppression, we are always reminded of the idea of the difference between a right and just punishment, and otherwise. As this is based on a stage play, it is the actors that are very much the star of the show. The three-pronged cast makes for a great ensemble, and every single one of them impresses. Sigourney Weaver gives determination and anger to her victim, and it is easy to believe that this woman really was tortured and beaten. Stuart Wilson is great also as the man caught in the middle of a horrible situation, but it is Ben Kingsley that provides the real standout performance. He manages to skilfully tread a line between an evil madman and a pathetic innocent victim brilliantly, and he ensures that at all times we are asking the question did he?. Polanski's direction is superb, and the thing that most impressed me is the way that he firmly positions the tale in the middle of nowhere. This ensures no distraction, and makes sure that we are put firmly within our character's plight.On the whole, this is one of the best films that Polanski ever made. Considering his prowess as a filmmaker; that is really saying something and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this film to anyone who enjoys movies. "},{"Title":"Unbreathable","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"58 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Three characters, one suffocating place. The bizarre world of Roman Polanski transported to a true, painful and little known historical context. The film is an X ray into secret, open wounds. We're never sure what happens in Sigourney's mind, but we're aware that her pain and her anger are real. We are unable to take sides, we're too afraid. We want for the ordeal to end and yet, we're glued to the discomfort and uncertainty. Recommended for masochists and film lovers. "},{"Title":"Unbearable situation","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Rarely does a film with only three actors create such unbearable tension and cover political aspects too. Also, the film has great actors Ben Kingsley gives the impression that he himself didn't know whether his character was guilty or not; Stuart Wilson is a typical confused lawyer-husband; and Sigourney Weaver probably gives her best performance &#150; of course, she's got a good role.I enjoy stories, where people get in situations so terrible and unnatural that they are unable to see their extent. They cannot think clearly and so their thinking structure changes and they begin to take completely absurd things into consideration. Every person reacts a little differently to the situation. I love this, and that's why I give this movie the best rating. I couldn't find any flaws in the movie, actually.  "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, psychological thriller","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"39 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In this movie, Sigourney Weaver is thoroughly believable with her trademark edge, rarely seen in other women actors. The doctor, although obviously with selfish motives, kept me guessing until the end as to whether he was guilty of the crimes of torture she claimed he committed against her, having not seen the face of, but only having heard the voice of the man she remembered. You don't know the truth until the end. It is very riveting. Her relationship with her husband is very realistic, as well, and very revealing about both of their characters. All three roles were depicted as intensely real. I enjoyed this thriller from the moment it began to the very end. You are immediately engaged in her reality, rather than experiencing a slow build up seen with most movies. Very satisfying because no character was one-sided, but they were multi-dimensional, with each having a unique history. Bravo! "},{"Title":"an absorbing, relentless psychothriller","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Death and the Maiden begins in a purposely disorienting way--a woman walks around her secluded, South American villa, preparing dinner, when the power suddenly goes out. Her husband is returned home by a stranger after his car gets a flat; later, after assuaging his wife's spastic bouts of unexplained paranoia, the stranger returns with the husband's spare tire. The husband, wanting to reward the man's generosity, invites him in for a drink. The wife, who is extremely on edge, escapes the house undetected and steals the stranger's car, pushing it off a cliff and into the ocean below. After this, the film settles down into a three-character psychodrama of the highest order.Roman Polanski, a director who can mine tension with a bare minimum of means, uses deliberate lighting, specific camera angles, and a well-paced narrative to create a film where the suspense is endlessly being ratcheted up a notch, often in ways that are quite surprising. The wife, Paulina (Sigourney Weaver), suspects the stranger (Ben Kingsley) of raping and torturing her years ago; her husband, Gerardo (Stuart Wilson), is a lawyer who is enlisted to get the man's confession. The game of psychological cat-and-mouse that ensues is absorbing.Both Kingsley and Wilson fare well in their roles, but it is Weaver who energizes the film. Her performance is absolutely (this deserves all caps) RUTHLESS, filled with moments of raging violence, icy detachment, and degradation (emphasized in graphic recollections of torture); if you thought Ellen Ripley was fearless in the face of the Queen Alien, Death and the Maiden shows an altogether different kind of tough exterior for the actress. In a way, I was reminded of the graphic revenge that took place in the infamous rape drama I Spit on Your Grave; while Death and the Maiden is superior, it is just as similarly driven (though the rape and torture is left to our imaginations), and its psychological edge, matched with top-drawer performances, moves it further from a 'filmed play' and into more visceral terrain. And, as he's so good at doing, Polanski keeps us guessing till the very end.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"3 characters, 1 location - and the suspense never ends!!!","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"25 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Roman Polanski has proven himself as one of the leading directors for quite some time - but nobody seems to take any notice! (yes I know people try to forget him becouse of the 'incident'...)The same applies for Sigourney Weaver. I've gon mad when a certain guy said how it's funny that Sigourney Weaver actually made other movies except Alien(s) - but nobody saw them! I showered him with titles such as 'The Ice Storm', 'Gorillas in the Mist', 'Working Girl', ...... and finally 'Death and the Maiden'. Off course - he saw none of them! It's sad how (in my humble oppinion) the best actress we currently have is so underrated. But hey - tell me who else got a leading actress Oscar nomination for a sequel of a Sci-Fi movie...??? She also was nominated for both leading and supporting actress in the same year (Gorillas & W. Girl) and strangely lost both!!! The Academy kept ignoring her Oscar worthy performances in 'The Ice Storm', 'Map of the World' and one of the best female performances of the decade 'Death and the Maiden'. She is unbelievable in this movie - the woman we saw as the World's heroine is so fragile and shaken in this movie that it is astonishing. She plays a sexualy molested (in the worst possible way) woman with all of her phobias and stirred feelings to the perfection - withought crossing the fine line to overacting. The scenes where she tortures Ben Kingsley are just amazing - as is the whole movie.It takes strong actors and a brilliant director to make a movie which virtually takes place in one house - and has only three characters; and yet it never loses the suspense even for a minute.This is a masterpiece, and one of rare movie that can be watched both by art-movie philes and the 'regular'-movie fans. This is Roman Polanski at his best since 'Chinatown' and Sigourney at her best ever! "},{"Title":"A superb THRILLER","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie, Death and the Maiden, is a remarkable production given that it is a stage drama put on film. There is virtually only one set. The actors are incredible. You never lose the essence of the Director, Roman Polanski. Your interest never wanes in this thriller. Sigourney Weaver is outstanding. She is shattered by her initial confrontation with her torturer, Ben Kingsley. And then her recalling of the atrocities at his hands gives her tremendous strength, the strength of a tiger. The climax is unsettling but proves the virtue of forgiveness and acceptance even with extreme misgivings. This is a movie that stays in your memory. Kudos to all concerned.  "},{"Title":"man is kidnapped and tortured by paranoid woman","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"29 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A woman who was tortured by a fascist regime never got over the fear it instilled in her. Years later she thinks she recognizes her chief interrogator as he visits her home. She ties him up and begins a psychological interrogation, trying to get him to admit his guilt. Her husband waffles back and forth between believing the man is guilty and then wondering if he is innocent. The viewer is left wondering about the man's guilt or innocence until almost the last frame. Intensely dramatic, I was unable to take my eyes off the screen. 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Best work of Polanski after Chinatown and Tess","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It is easy to heap praises on a film based on a good play--the subject overwhelms you. It is however not so easy to probe what is attractive in a good film beyond the two obvious elements--the subject and the acting.I confess that I have loved Polanski's The Ninth Gate for the teaming of Polanski and Wojciech Kilar. This is the second film where the duo weaves magic with great music--beyond the Schubert piece around which the film revolves. The two gentlemen from Poland are truly gifted.There is another person I admire and that is Rafael Yglesias. When he works on a screenplay, he makes the original look very different. He did that with Hugo's Les Miserables and got brickbats from purists. With Ariel Dorfman's literary work, the liberties are not so striking.The cinematography of Tonino Delli Colli, Polanski's collaborator in Bitter Moon is again riveting cloudy exteriors; stark interiors. The close-ups and long shots of Weaver are those of a lawyer, making the viewer a party to the court case in progressFinally, this is Sigourney Weaver's finest film and can at best be only compared to her performances in Gorillas in the Mist and Year of Living Dangerously. Polanski is a director who has made good and indifferent films. I congratulate him on putting together his team of actors, cameramen, musicians and others to make this one. Only Chinatown and Tess were more enjoyable than this work of Polanski (including his early cinema). "},{"Title":"Innocence Abroad","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Criminals are punished morally by their conscience and legally by the state. What about state-sanctioned crimes? Not only may the victim no longer have much faith in the state to essentially police itself but also the state-sponsored perpetrator may feel morally innocent. The unforgettable stories of outrageous evil in Polanski's Chinatown and Rosemary's Baby were arguably overshadowed by the incomparable acting and direction. Here the presentation, although good, is more conventional, so the plot takes center stage, with the focus, as I saw it, on retribution and psychological guilt/innocence. Does the ending depict justice? It seems unrealistic, but maybe was intended to highlight some of the limitations of a justice system for addressing the fundamental causes and effects of violence. "}{"Title":"A great combination of suspense, psychology and politics.","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Death and the Maiden is a thriller. A woman who had been tortured in a repressive government meets a man who has been her torturer, or has he? It is also a psychological film. A married couple deals with uncovering the whole truth about their past.And it is political. Although it is supposed to be a fictional story, it has more than a strong resemblance with the brutal tortures during Pinochet's dictatorship in Chile. It is not filmed in that country, but they use Chilean money, they eat Chilean bread and they mention Tavelli, a popular café in Santiago. Beautiful music. Schubert's Death and the Maiden, is played throughout the movie.A great film to view with people who enjoy having discussions after.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Incredible Ending- SPOILER ALERT!!","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  !!SPOILER ALERT!! !!SPOILER ALERT!!I was glued to the screen for the whole movie, and I'm happy that the ending gave a worthy payoff. Paulina is by far the strongest person in that house. Even though Gerardo loves her, he also envies and resents her, because she is so much stronger than he is. He tells Dr Miranda how she saved his life by not giving up Gerardo's name, even under torture, and Gerardo knew he would have confessed everything right away. Paulina thinks he gave up too much in order to get appointed to the investigating committee- he agreed to only look at cases where people died, which to her was a betrayal of all the torture survivors.Gerardo vacillates weakly through the whole movie. He typifies all people who cannot bring themselves to take unpleasant, decisive action against other people, so he's always pinned on the very uncomfortable horns of his own dilemmas. He cannot accept the necessity of killing Dr Miranda to save himself and Paulina, even though Dr Miranda himself recognized the necessity- if he's innocent, they've committed a serious crime against him. If he's guilty, he deserves death, and by kidnapping him they've compromised any potential legal case against him. Either way, they must kill him to save themselves. But Gerardo does not have the strength to face this. Paulina is matter-of-fact- we have to kill him. Gerardo's character suggests why evil people always seem to succeed- they have no such restraints, and the law fails victims of crimes.At the end, when Dr Miranda finally confesses, Paulina sees that he too is a victim. A morally weak man who got sucked into becoming a torturer, and who discovered he liked it. Paulina is the only pure character in the movie; her clarity of moral vision remains steadfast. And, she kept her word- she said she would let him go if he confessed. When she got a genuine confession, when he admitted what he had done, and vindicated everything Paulina said, that was her liberation. No more excuses from the likes of Gerardo- he could no longer deny her experiences and judgement. She no longer has to protect him by not telling him everything.Gerardo, in his own way, is as weak as Dr Miranda. He would rather disbelieve Paulina than believe Dr Miranda is her torturer, because believing Paulina means he has to do something about it. His weak blathering about the law and process is priceless. Edmund Burke had people like Gerardo in mind when he said “All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing.”The final scene sums up everything, without a single word of dialog. All three are attending a live performance of Death and the Maiden. Paulina looks up and makes eye contact with Dr Miranda, who is sitting in the balcony with his family. She's not happy to see him, but she has found a measure of peace. Gerardo sees him, and suddenly he looks like he's sitting on spikes. Ben Kingsley is such a wonderful actor- the look he gives Paulina is a combination of we have a special bond from our shared experiences, and the type of gratitude that a torture victim displays to a captor who shows him any kindness.Great movie, great performances. "},{"Title":"Open room mystery","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Considering that there were very few characters in the movie, it was a great effort on the part of all involved. Sigourney Weaver had me convinced that Ben Kingsley was her man.On the other hand, Ben had me convinced that he was not. I thoroughly enjoyed the swinging of belief from one person to another. These are the best type of movies. They always keep you guessing. The best thing was that it mostly took place in that one room. Yum yum, from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Bound, Bindings","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Films like this generally are problematic. They are written as plays and kept as plays when carried over, so the filmmaker is limited to a preset notion of the space.Rope was taken as a challenge in this regard, with a master visionary exploiting the confinement. It was, in effect, a learning experience for him without much reward for us, beyond what the play itself carried. Here in this film, we have something similar I believe. Polanski is a rare talent, a filmmaker that understands confinement &#x97; indeed his whole life is defined by the concept. He was approached to direct-for-hire and took the job, I believe, because he wanted a similar learning experience.So what we have here is a screenplay that was frozen before the man started his film and which he has taken unaltered. Someone else selected the actors, making what I think were bad choices. On this, Polanski designed the eye, making what I see as a whole different movie on top of the play.The play is about a woman who had been victimized by state torture. She believes she has encountered her torturer; the film is about the encounter and the extent to which you can trust her narrative or the accused. Her husband presides; he is literally a lawyer selected by the new president to sort out just these sorts of conflicting truths. The question is will the accused confess? Well he does before the film is over, but was his confession true? Neither one of these two gives us much reason to trust them as characters. They both are liars. What Polanski does is subtly more the stance of the camera so that we alternate between who is the narrator so far as the lines compared to who is the aligned watcher and whose narrative space is tentatively trusted. It is a remarkable exercise, of just the kind that he would devour.I believe he used these skills in a similar weave of untrusted narrative in his next film, Gate, which I think is an unappreciated masterpiece. But unless you happen to be tuned into this movie on a movie, this narrative about narrative, you will find this a pretty tame encounter.Unless you happen to live in a country that sponsors torture.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements. "},{"Title":"Polanski's cinema of pain","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The most remarkable thing about Death and the Maiden is the house in which director Roman Polanski's story takes place. Perched on a cliff and overlooking a perpetually stormy ocean, it's the kind of dank, dark and vulnerable home that typifies Polanski's cinema.Polanski has a way of creating images that seem to already reside in your subconscious. Steeped in a sort of Slavic/European mode of storytelling, he taps into a seemingly primal data bank of images. Think the Nosferatu like Fagin in Oliver Twist, or the hooked nosed Jewish caricatures in Vampire Killers, or the moustached Spanish twins in 9th Gate.Death and the Maiden is a simple tale in which a husband and wife (Sigourney Weaver) are disturbed one night when an odd man (played by Ben Kingsley) turns up on their doorstep.Sigourney immediately recognises the man as the deranged professor who repeatedly raped her many years ago. In a fit of anger she knocks this monster unconscious, ties him to a chair and proceeds to abuse and torture him. She will release him, she says, if he confesses to her abuse. At the end of the film he confesses, and she upholds her bargain and sets him free.Polanski's film predates torture films such as Saw, Hard Candy and Captivity by almost a full decade. But unlike its pornographic imitators, it also manages to raise several timely questions.Until the final act, and even then, we never know whether Signorney is crazy or correct in her assessment of the Ben Kingsley character. Is Kingsley a rapist or is he a simple old man? When he confesses to the rape, is he doing so because he is guilty or because he wants to be freed? The film's point is essentially something that the US military has not yet learnt. Torture doesn't work. It merely starts a cycle of animosity, the victim forced to confess to acts he did not do. He's damned if he tells the truth and damned if he lies. He tells you the truth and you punish him until he lies. He tells you the lie, and is punished for doing so. Of course that's if you have the wrong person. But the film's point is that you never know exactly who you have. Otherewise, there's no need for torture.The film is also, once again, Polanski wrestling with personal demons. In 1968, Polanski's wife Sharon Tate was tortured and murdered by cult members. Years later, Polanski himself was accused of sexually abusing Samantha Geimer, a 13 year old girl. Both events have directly influenced, or at least coloured, the director's subsequent output.Think Tess, in which an adult man abuses his power over a juvenile girl, Ghost, in which a man hides from international justice, Macbeth, in which Polanski's vents blood and tragedy on screen, Frantic, in which a man loses his wife (here Polanski stages himself as victim, whilst damning those who condemn him), Bitter Moon, in which a man and girl oscillate between dominance and submission, and Death and the Maiden, in which a molested woman (who becomes both Tate and Geimer) confronts and forgives her abuserFilms like Oliver Twist, The Pianist, and to a lesser extent Ghost Writer, seem to be based on a different kind of pain. A different kind of artistic exorcism. In a sense, these films are all about the scars of the Holocaust, and the horrors witnessed by a young boy who came of age in war torn Europe. Here, young Oliver becomes a lost and wandering Polanski, while Dickens' London becomes the Nazi infested streets of Poland.But there is a far darker thread running throughout Polanski's filmography. That of the victim (Polanski) internalizing both hate and his forced submissiveness (suffered at the hands of the Nazis, of his audience, of the American Legal system etc) and redirecting them against his own victims (Samantha Geimer, his heroines, the US etc). Polanski forever casts himself as both victim and abuser, his filmography nothing less than a vicious cycle of abuse.7.9/10 - A minor work, at times powerful.Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"A midnight knock at the door&#133;Death and the Maiden","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski has always appeared to me as director who utilizes large casts and set pieces. Not quite a crafter of epics, but big pictures nonetheless. Sure his first film, Knife in the Water, was on a small scale, it was his debut. I was thinking more of The Ninth Gate, The Pianist, and Oliver Twist. Interestingly, right before that trio of large productions, he brought us Death and the Maiden, an Ariel Dorfman play using only three characters to tell its story of revenge, deceit, and acceptance. While on the surface it feels very staged and theatrical, the film delivers some powerhouse performances from its leads that keep the suspense high and allow the viewer to really invest in the numerous monologues for their importance to the story and not for their long-winded staginess.The story revolves around a couple played by Sigourney Weaver and Stuart Wilson. They appear to have been at one time political activists against their government. Due to this, Weaver's character had been kidnapped and tortured in order to spill the names of her co-conspirators. She never gave in and eventually was released to go back home to her husband. Wilson, a lawyer, has more recently been named to a committee to bring to justice those who had a hand in those atrocities, but with a decree of amnesty in effect, only the ones who are dead. While he sees this as a step in the right direction, Weaver sees it as worthless because she is not dead and wants the men responsible for her torture punished.We enter the film in the middle of their argument after a kind gentleman on the road drove Wilson back to his house through the rain due to a flat tire on his part. This kind stranger, played by Ben Kingsley, arrives later that night to drop off the spare tire he forgot was in his car. With his wife and children out of town, he decided to bring it back late rather than the next day, because he would just be lonely at home. It is this visit which brings memories of her torture back to Weaver as she believes the voice she hears is the man that raped her&#151;a doctor sent in to make sure the interrogators didn't kill her, but who eventually gets egged on to join in on the abuse. Hatching an elaborate plan to get him to confess his sins and then kill him, making it look like an accident, is set into motion. Wilson is caught between his new friend's kindness and his wife's strong feelings that this is the man.Polanski is definitely a pro at giving his audience suspense. Having only a single location to film in and just three actors, he uses long takes, close-ups of his leads as they deliver speeches, and gets some emotional performances out of them. Weaver is very good. I never saw her as much of an actress, besides the whole tough chick persona she gave with the Alien series, but she proves she has the chops here. Always on the edge of hysteria, one can't know if what she is saying is due to dementia and paranoia or if it truly is her memory uncovering an evil man's secret. Wilson is great as well, trying to comfort his wife and her captor to appease her rage and help him to lie that the accusations are true in order to expedite his escape. His facial reactions are key to the story because there are some parallels to the man he knows and her story that match-up a bit too conveniently. He is allowed the chance to take the gun and turn it on both characters at separate occasions before the film is over, yet his confusion only lets him stand there motionless; he doesn't know who to believe.It is Kingsley, however, that delivers a performance full of nuance. His affable nature gets the audience to never consider that he could be the rapist he is accused of being. We are slowly given the conception that he is an innocent man caught in the crazed delusions of Weaver's character. In this regard, we are the Wilson role, trapped in the middle hoping she doesn't do anything rash. Also, when the facts start to be revealed, the parallels become too much to not start to doubt Kingsley's innocence. His duress is real, though, and his fear genuine. The movie's third act is brought out in three layers, all separated by his fear, eventually malice, and final dejection. In the end, he is the one caught in an emotional tug-of-war and he does it all to perfection, culminating in a finish that suits the story, opening the eyes of all three people to the past and how they will live in the future to come.Polanski has taken this play and created a filmed performance of it. Closely resembling David Mamet's adaptation of his own work Oleanna, Death and the Maiden is a tightly woven tale that absorbs the audience in and slowly pulls back the layers of lies to eventually uncover the truth lying underneath it all. His use of the Schubert orchestrations is brilliant and a marker for Weaver's descent into her psyche and repressed memories. To bookmark the film with a concert of the music is a nice addition as the story at hand begun and ended with that string quartet. From it being the sound she heard during her capture to a cassette version being found in Kingsley car, the entire story hinges on its inclusion. "},{"Title":"a tasty psychological thriller","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An incredibly powerful and stylish psychological thriller. Just a treat to see the talents of Polanski, Weaver, Kingsley, and the little known Wilson all on display in this complex and suspenseful story. Great to see the time and effort taken by Polanski to create such rich character development. Can't think of many movies (Sex, Lies and Videotape also comes to mind) that takes such a wonderfully unforced and unhurried pace to bring the characters to life with all their complex layers.The interaction between Weaver and Kingsley is just mesmerizing. Then again, would you expect anything less from these two consummate pros? Actually, I've always been a fan of Weaver, but no doubt in my mind this is her most powerful, but unfortunately most overlooked performance of her career. One achingly emotional and gripping scene by Weaver of a confessional nature at the crux of this movie goes on unedited seemingly for minutes. It's one of the most moving moments of movie making I've ever had the pleasure of witnessing.Kingsley is also at his best here. He's just one of those actors who could read a phone book and I'd sit and watch! An incredible piece of acting which asks a great deal of the viewer - to continuously doubt and question his character's TRUE identity - and pull it off believably.Well, sorry to be so vague when it comes to plot points, but I wouldn't dare spoil this fine unknown gem for those willing to take a chance on a movie for the not-so-faint of heart. The themes are extremely adult here, but for those who appreciate a drama you can sink your teeth into that isn't afraid of some powerful realism, this is a no-brainer! "},{"Title":"You'll never be able to listen to the title song again without wincing","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's an interesting characteristic of great thrillers like this that the songs they feature will stick in our minds. Who among us can hear the song Stuck in the Middle With You without remembering the Reservoir Dogs torture scene, or who can hear Singing in the Rain without recalling A Clockwork Orange?  Likewise, anyone who sees this tense, supurb thriller will not be able to hear Schubert's song of the title without recalling what happens to these three characters during the course of the evening during which this film is set. I won't dare reveal the plot, but I will say that this is a brilliant, powerful thriller that you will not soon forget.  "},{"Title":"Polanski's Death and the Maiden is effective film despite stage origins","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski's Death and the Maiden reveals its stage origins with the way everything seems to take place mostly in one room and the constant talking with some action in places. Still, what dialogue coming from the likes of Sigourney Weaver, Stuart Wilson, and Ben Kingsley! Weaver is very convincing as a woman who seems crazy for the most part but reveals through her speeches just how sure she is that Kingsley was the one who constantly raped and tortured her despite being blindfolded the whole time. Kingsley keeps us on edge likewise with the way he changes attitudes especially near the end depending on the way he's being treated in order to ensure his survival. Wilson is torn between defending his wife and making sure Kingsley gets a fair trial since he's a lawyer who's accepted a new position with an investigating committee that takes torture cases of dead victims which alienates his spouse Weaver, a survivor. Nice use of the title theme by Shubert to illustrate just how music can be effective in triggering memories both bad and good. Like I said, not too much action but what little there were made for some tension-filled moments. Kudos to director Roman Polanski for another exploration in confronting fear and all its consequences. "},{"Title":"Justice for Maiden","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One of the most outstanding elements about Roman Polanski's films is the tension in atmosphere and between the characters. The director has consistently succeeded in drawing the viewer by creating tension. Moreover, his use of dark themes and the lesser known add further appeal. After all, who isn't curious about the dark? Polanski also makes full use of what he's got, starting from the cast to the most basic of props. 95% of 'Death and the Maiden' was shot consecutively (in accordance with the script) which couldn't have been an easy thing to do if time and money are constraints. The film only has three actors and each one performs superbly. Ben Kingsley's disturbing and chilling portrayal of a sleazy sadistic doctor lingers in mind. Stuart Wilson is brilliant as the ambivalent lawyer torn between his beliefs. This is also a pleasant turn from the villainous characters he's more famous for. Sigourney Weaver is spellbinding as the former prisoner who finally gets the opportunity to seek her own justice. Polanski tactfully brings forth political and psychological issues without preaching to the audience.some minor flawed issues were the lighting. I felt it was too strong in places (where the only source of light was candles). It looks like there was some poor green screen filtering in a few of the outdoor scenes even though I don't think a green screen was used. However, these faults are too minor when viewing the film as a whole.'Death and the Maiden'is a simple but engaging and haunting story told through the perspective of three complex characters. It's one of Polanski's finest. "}{"Title":"Death Became Her","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" (Though this doesn't contain all surprises or, ah hem, spoilers, it does borderline it. #1 just watch the movie &#x96; it is a near-masterpiece, a near perfect suspense thriller/mystery everyone (of age) should see. #2 then read my review. It's very hard to write about it without giving away too much.)It was more of a crime that Weaver was neither nominated nor won the Oscar for Best Actress in 1994 than the crimes committed against her in the movie, Death and the Maiden.Okay, that's taking it a bit far; what happened to her character was unmistakably HORRIBLE, but she still should've won something for her fantastic post-victim performance.And it was a further crime hardly anyone saw this near-masterpiece of a small/indie film that screams stage play. In fact, when I first saw this many years ago, aside from being immediately enthralled in the story and acting of Weaver, my first reaction was this was meant for the stage &#x96; and this was before I did find out, in fact, it was previously a theatre production.What we have here, in one of my all-time favorite movies, is paranoid Paulina (Weaver) living in isolation with her lawyer-husband, Gerardo (Wilson) in a South American now-supposedly free country. Gerardo had a flat, was late for dinner and Paulina's p|ssed..but it's not clear up front on why.Slowly, but absolutely surely&#x85;the pieces fall into place, ever so deliberately on why she's both paranoid and p|ssed. But as bad of a life she makes you believe she has&#x85;the past is about to make things a little worst.Gerardo had a Good Samaritan for his flat tire in the form of Dr. Miranda (Kingsley) and upon the doctor's admiration for the lawyer who's about to work for the President on anti-torture criminals &#x96; and a few drinks &#x96; Paulina's senses go into overdrive. She is absolutely sure the voice and even smell from the other room where she's pretending to be sleeping that the good ole doc was her captive from awhile back.I really don't want to give too much away, but suffice to say, she was kidnapped prior to the movie started and Pauline believes this stranger was (one of) her torturer(s). Eventually, she's going to make him prove he did it, or his innocence. One way or another.Literally, I am going to stop here. I've given away only 5% of the movie, and I feel that's too much.This movie, with literally only three actors, plays out in deep mystery and suspense and you will feel every bit of the pain Weaver wants you to. She is an astonishing actress and proves it here. You would need to be in a 3-person movie.The other two, Kingsley and Wilson, were also good, but this is Weaver's show. Her and her character's redemption or potential healing.It won't take too much of your time &#x96; it's relatively short, but it will be worth seeing this wonderful movie and you will see past Ripley (Alien). (Actually, a little too much, at times. Boy, Weaver wanted to get naked for this movie&#x85;) "},{"Title":"You want some meat? I have a long sausage.","Date":"22 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski's film is raw and exciting as you are literally on the edge of you seat wondering just what is going to happen next.It is based upon a play, so there are only three characters, but that is all it needs.Sigourney Weaver is a torture survivor from a Latin-American country. Pick one, we have been complicit in torture in many of them. She is married to Stuart Wilson, who has just been picked to head up a new commission to bring torturers to justice, but only those who have killed. There will be nothing for survivors like Weaver.Enter the great Ben Kingsley, who just happens to pick up her husband after a flat tire. She recognizes the voice - or she says she does. The rest of the story is how she is convinced he is her torturer and captures him to force a confession.This is where it gets raw and powerful as she recounts what was done to her while trying to get a confession. Her husband is caught in that trap where you support your wife, but you don't quite believe her to be right.It was compelling, and all three actors made it a film that should have gotten wider recognition. "},{"Title":"a probing mind-game played out on shattering tones, with more than a touch Polanski","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Roman Polanski was the correct person to direct this film, based on (and looking very much like it was) a three-character play set in a confined house, because he understands how to make his mark with notice but care with the camera, and for skill at holding firm on the guessing games without interference. He has here a strong script already, but little touches seem to still be his handiwork all the same; the opening itself leaves a lot of room for interpretation as to what this film will be as it's just classical musicians playing Schubert. Then little movements of the camera, the glances and timing, it's all appearing as if it's Polanski updated for the 90s with a slightly wound edge of political subversion on the edges. But, again, it's more for his style and choice of actors that makes this such a qualified success as such a talky psychological thriller. Talky, by the way, as just a euphemism for it being very complex in what has to be monologues, grandstanding, over-long deception, the moments of someone trying to weasel out or get out of something that needs to be shown in this case. It's clever work of dramatic maneuvering of siding on one or the other on not just a moral issue, but on the very idea of it being extremely, crushingly human.As said, the actors are a huge factor to Death and the Maiden working as well as it does with characters that teeter on madness, truth, and the power of revenge. All actors are in top form, really, as Weaver has that ultra very tough self that one's seen in many action/science fiction movies, and at the same time taps into sadness, irony, and cold moments of anger that goes past the usual model in a contemporary play. She's out for vengeance against a man she finds is somehow connected to her lawyer husband, that she was raped by this man while trapped and tortured for days randomly. Kingsley plays the accused, who spends a lot of the movie tied to a chair pleading with innocence in an everyman quality that is ultimately a deception unto itself; he's so proficient at playing good people that it's usually hard to see him as more crooked underneath than he is, and the little moments, however slight, that give him away. Stuart Wilson also has his sparks of interest as the doubting and most reason-minded of the three, and keeps it bound to being so logical that he keeps balance but is also a possible tipping scale, a feat that Wilson rises up to as also a sympathetic actor.Occasionally the script gets weighed with tiny fragments that aren't totally necessary (the revelation of Gerardo's infidelity at a point in the story that already has enough emotional baggage riding on should have been tossed aside by the usually economically minded storyteller Polanski). But they're not many, and overall the sensibility in Death and the Maiden is a combination of actor ferocity and a wise use of events and attitude leaning towards multiple levels of interpretation, with slices of Polanski's sick sense of humor thrown in (eg the sudden burst of heavy metal music as the electricity comes back on and the 'kidnapee' tries to escape). The end itself is entirely plausible simply because of Kingsley being so easy (however not easy outside of the surface appearance) in playing the reversal, and the final decision that brings rhyme to reason. It is, in essence, appropriate. "},{"Title":"Very Intense Film!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this movie a couple weeks ago. I liked it, but I also thought it was extremely intense. The film is very well made though acting, costumes, production, photography, directing, plot, script, etc.This dark intense thriller takes off when Paulina Escobar (Sigourney Weaver), and her husband Gerardo (Stuart Wilson), are awakened in the middle of the night by a knock at the door. It is the man who stopped to help Gerardo earlier. Him and the man, Dr. Roberto Miranda (Ben Kingsley), have drinks together.This is when Paulina, starts to get really freaked out because she is certain this is the doctor who raped 15 years ago. She ties him up like she was tied up and demands that he confess. Eventually, he owns up to his wrong doings and confesses. "},{"Title":"The Cinema of Roman Polanski Death and the Maiden.","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Death and the Maiden (1994) was a tense and atmospheric film based upon a play that Roman Polanski has adapted for the big screen. For the most part it's a three person play. The main actors were Ben Kingsley and Sigorney Weaver. Ms. Weaver stars as a woman who was a political activist during her years when she was a student. A conservative military administration was formed and took control of her country. The new government banned all political opposition. They tortured and imprisoned those who didn't tote the party line. She was spied on by the government and imprisoned. During her captivity she spent days at a time gagged and blindfolded. But one thing caused her to never forget her traumatic experience in prison. The voice and scent of her captor and tormentor. One night by chance, after a night at a concert featuring a string quartet play music from Schubert, her senses pick up on something from her past. A middle aged gentleman who has a guilty composure (Ben Kingsley) Could it be....?A great film from Roman Polasnki. He knows how to motivate his actors. The direction was keen and everything clicked just fine. One of Polanski's most underrated works. Filmed in Southern France.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film was great. It had a wonderful air of claustrophobia about it that, in lesser hands than Polanski's, would have contributed to a static feeling, as opposed to the incredibly tense feeling acheived by Polanski. Having not seen the play myself, I had no expectations about what would happen. I thought Sigourney Weaver delivered her absolute best performance in years, if not her acting career, (arguably she was nearly as good in 'Aliens.') She also managed to shed the baggage associated with Ellen Ripley to give a performance which, I think, is not too dissimilar to the above mentioned.In talking so much about Weaver's performance, it's easy to dismiss Ben Kingsley, who always gives a superb performance so it's hard to really compare. I wish both of these had won awards for their performances, but considering 'Pulp Fiction' was released in the same year, I can't agree they deserved Oscars more than Travolta, Thurman etc.In the end, 'Death And The Maiden' is one of the best of its kind for many years now, taking a situation which could be presented as clear-cut and making us, the viewers, unsure of the truth until the final scene. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Amazing","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the few films I can honestly say I love.  Sigourney Weaver's acting simply blows the viewer away.  You honestly can feel her pain as she relives her torture at the hands of Kingsley's character.  And Ben Kingsley delivers one of his most powerful performances ever onscreen.  Normally, he plays these quiet characters.  But in this film, he's a talkative, uppity, deceiving and sure of himself.  And Stuart Wilson nails his characterization of Escobar.  His blundering and confused state throughout is perfectly portrayed.The sense of claustrophobia lingers with you from the very first scene of the film.  Even in the auditorium, the fact that the camera focuses on only the three main characters gives you that feeling of being closed in with them.  And then the set, which is basically just the Escobar home, only enhances the feeling.Roman Polanski created one of his best pieces of work with this film. Absolutely amazing. "},{"Title":"please read","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Oh my dear sweet lord. The people who have rated/commented on this film, that have called it boring? Or better yet, have had the density to remark on the fact that Weaver and hubby had English accents when they were suppose to be South American? OK children Listen close. The Weaver role was a woman whose father only was South Am. Her hubby was American.......working for the embassy. Was anyone even paying attention? Kingsley part was English, due to the fact that he was hiding his past from the law. I'm sorry but duh. Did you peeps even WATCH this film, or did u just watch the beginning and get bored? Please don't be mislead by people who are too shallow to get past their accent meters. Which, by the way, in this case they are just plain wrong. "},{"Title":"A terrific 3 character film-****Stars","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" **** There is a wise saying for beginning filmmakers; Make a low budget, one location film with few actors. Roman Polanski may not be a beginner but he obviously saw art in this terrific vengeance story. 3 actors fill a bungalow with a mystery; Is the middle of the night visitor( Kingsley) a former torturer or is he an innocent victim. Is Sigourney Weaver mad with her accusation? Her husband, the mediator. The question that arises; What does she want from her captive? To admit that he was the torturer? It will not justify her past torture but she, like most people who have been hurt, want those who caused the pain to confess their actions and explain them as in most relationships. The actors have a good time and express the mystery well. The viewer is thrown into suspense very cleverly with the madness of Weaver's character. Does she enjoy the torture of revenge? Is the enjoyment the same as her torturer's fond perversions. When do we become civilized verses primitive? When are we humans and not objects? See this extraordinary film! And students of film who wish to win that finals project, study it. Victor NunnallyBFA Dramatic History and Theory AFA-Performing Experience "},{"Title":"Brilliant, disturbing, compelling...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film had me glued to my seat. The extreme and disturbing ordeals the characters have gone through in the past and are going through now are so compelling, that the fact that the entire film takes place in one location in one night serves to intensify the plot and situation even more. Like Panic Room, Death and the Maiden knows how to keep the one situation/one night plot moving and moving fast and thrilling. When you have compelling characters, compelling storylines, and compelling dialogue, the film doesn't need anything else. All of that is the best thematic material. I didn't crave an explosion or a car chase. None of those would have been appropriate. This film is a dialogue-driven one that couldn't have been any other way. Another equally but differently riveting film based on a play is The House of Yes, and like Maiden knew it had to rely on nothing except the already existing strengths of its characters, situation and dialogue. Both House and Maiden are brilliant films. Maiden has to be one of the most disturbing films I've ever seen, not for what it shows, but for what it implies and calls up from memories. It is an absolute and abhorrent SIN that Sigourney Weaver was not noticed for this role. Same goes for Roman Polanski and screenwriter Rafael Yglesias (he wrote From Hell - another great one to check out.) Death and the Maiden is simply great filmmaking. "}{"Title":"Isolation, tension and great acting","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  	WARNING SPOILERS!First let me preface this by saying that Sigourney Weaver is my favorite actress.  She brings such an intelligence and intensity to her craft that she is hard not to admire.  Not to mention that I find her sexy as hell!	That said I cannot sing the praises of this movie high enough.  What a smart script.  What a fantastic job of direction.  And what an outstanding display of acting by all three thespians; culminating in the confession of Ben Kingsley's character that is sublime.  That folks is acting.	Bottom line in a drama such as this the audience has to remain unsure of the truth (did he do it or is she mistaken?) until the end.  That goal is achieved admirably.  "},{"Title":"Must-See","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is, in my estimation, a must-see movie.  Kingsley and Weaver do stellar performances.  Polansky at his best.  What more can I say?  This, in time, will go down as one of the finest films ever made.  If you've not seen it, be prepared for anything.  I would not suggest popcorn.  Here's a way or ways to prepare to see it  Just before seeing the movie, re-play in your mind any one of these  the time that you, personally, were raped; you came home and found a burglar had been there and set fire to your underwear; your car was broken into while you were shopping and there was still this scent of another person inside your car and you shivered; your loved pet was killed by a thief or nasty neighbor and you were outraged and truly ready to kill.  This is the sort of feeling inside Weaver as her character.  See the movie. "},{"Title":"How much can you forgive?","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I went into this movie, not knowing anything it. And I'm glad I didn't, as curiosity had me right from the beginning. This is one of those claustrophobic thrillers set on an idyllic, isolated beach side location, miles from any town whatever. It's the perfect setting for this searing Q an A type thriller where our victim (Weaver) who was kept as a war prisoner by torturer, Doctor Meecher (a wonderful Ben Kingsley, as expected) turns the tables on her oppressor. As never seeing this guy, she only remembers him by voice, so it only bears that reliance, where if she's wrong she's in deep s..t. Her husband, an activist for the cause, who was driven home by this guy, on the account of a flat, is forced to go along with her in this hostage scenario. This is a tight thriller, because it's tight, and has a really real situation, where you totally understands the character's actions and wants. This movie never, ever, loses it's punch, and is just riveting viewing. The end and start have the same scene of our mains, observing a concert, where I guess all is forgiven, where it's really hard to forgive in this scenario, where Kingsley finally spills his guts, in the climactic finale, where finally the truth is told. Some things can't be forgiven and you gotta praise Kingsley's character for coming forward. Stuart Wilson, who we don't hear of nowadays, was an actor who gained my interest, where he vanished pretty quickly after this, doing the fizzer, Exit To Eden, prefore, was so good here too. A very strong performance. I really him in this. He's an American version of British actor, Bryan Marshall. This is a faultless and tightly constructed thriller and does warrant your viewing, if you want to stay in one night, and watch something really involving, and that DATM is. "},{"Title":"Breathtaking","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Story Emotionally disturbed wife of a human rights activist and minister of justice to be wakes up in night and hears her husband speaking to an unknown man. In his voice she recognizes a doctor who tortured and raped during the reign of military junta. She attacks him in night, ties him up and under a gunpoint she decides to proceed with a trial. Her husband must reluctantly go what she wants. And so trial which will affect all three protagonists for ever begins.Acting Breathtaking, acting in this film is incredibly intense. All three actors are great and are believable in their roles.Direction and camera Again as with acting the films is very intense in the feeling, it is slow but creepy and keeps viewer in doubts right to the end.Music There is not much music in this film, I remember only the Death and the maiden which is of course beautiful. Conclusion Great film with great acting and atmosphere. "},{"Title":"a Smart Script","Date":"26 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie script of Death and the Maiden is originated from a screenplay with the same name by Ariel Dorfman from Chile. This script has a great structure. The wife is listening to the radio while cooking the dinner. The news on the radio tells about foundation of a committee for investigation about tortures and crimes of the previous dictatorship naming someone as the head of this committee. The unusual attention of the wife leads the movie viewers to suppose a relation between the wife and those phenomena. The electricity went off. The fear of the wife might be because of hearing the thunderstorm or remembering past horrors. The wife ran quickly to a battery radio to continue listening to the news. Here, the viewer became sure about the importance of the news. The nervous attitude of the wife, going under the rain, smoking a cigarette and taking a gun by seeing a coming vehicle, either show this. Then, something else happens. The husband introduces himself to the vehicle driver - the doctor- and the viewers figure out that he is the head of the committee. This causes the viewers to forget their previous conclusions and think that the main reason of the wife's reactions is hearing her husband's name. While thinking about this, the dialogs between the couple return the viewers back to the first conclusion. The movie keeps the viewers in a reciprocating situation, which continues along the story. The husband thinks he knows everything about his wife's prison but figures out it was not. The wife gains new information about a sexual relation between his husband and another girl during her prison time and the viewers us not sure about the guilt of the doctor. This uncertainty is smartly placed in the script. In the other side, the battery radio used to show the importance of the news in the beginning of the film, was utilized again in the middle to prove the crime of the doctor without any encounter to went off electricity and plays the Death and the Maiden piece to show the title of the film. "},{"Title":"Tense Chamber Drama","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A woman seeks revenge from a man she recognizes as a government official who tortured and raped her years ago for her political views. Based on a play, the setting could have been post-WWII Germany with a Jewish woman going against her Nazi persecutor. However, it is set in an unnamed South American country. There are only three characters and most of the action takes place on a single set, but Polanski manages to sustain the tension throughout. Weaver is convincing as the vengeful woman. Wilson and Kingsley are fine as her husband and the man she accuses of war crimes, respectively. The title comes from Schubert's 14th string quartet, which was played every time Weaver was raped. "},{"Title":"surrounding an idea","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is one of the cinematic homes for this filmmaker. He swims comfortably in these waters. Polanski requires very little elements to induce great tension in any film. That's why he has looked for scripts like this, often in his career.This is a great thing, the ability to take very few scenery elements, in this case a single very small house, and the surrounding landscape, and build the narrative over that. Because that's what we have. The story is simple enough to produce no distractions, and the landscape is wide and desert enough to do the same. What we have is a whole set up that surrounds an idea of uncertain truth, provisional reality (to our eyes). That's why we never stop wondering whether Weaver is right or wrong, whether Kingsley is a rapist or a victim. So does Stuart Wilson, who goes through the same range of doubt as we, spectators, go, and that makes him our surrogate in the film. We are judges to our own sentence. All the cruelty of an invented regime of a supposed south American country is the mere formalization of the credibility of the world. It is not about denouncing crimes nor about discussing politics, as it has been said. Also, much has been said about how much the final monologue reveals the truth, i say it keeps all the possibilities opened, though it suggests sincerity.As an idea, this is as simple as it gets, and as every simple idea, it's so hard to achieve, keeping it simple. That's where things get interesting, when you check the cinematic devices that surround and collaborate with the simplicity of a simple doubt that this theatrical script suggests.First we have the core of the story framed, at beginning and end, by the core music, a quartet which names the film, and gives consistency to the drama of Sigourney's character.We have the handling of the wide open landscape, with its lighthouse. The sense of green isolation, the poetics of the location, which growths on us, as it is given in small bits, until becoming the final stage to the real drama.The house. This part matters, as this a film by a director who really knows how to handle space and include it in the drama. This is worth for a hotel room, a boat, or a small house. This is what he has been making throughout his life, in knife in the water, his apartment trilogy, bitter moon and this one. It is something i admire, the ability to include the space that surrounds the characters into their dramas and discussions. That's one way, one of deepest ways to include (architectural) space in the fields of cinema. Orson Welles, Hitchcock (sometimes), Polanski... they all trust on their own camera.We have the acting at the center of the success of this film. Everyone of the 3 actors involved play at their top here, each one knows where he stands, and interprets perfectly what is required of him to make things flow. Ambiguity, to Ben Kinsgley, Messed up mind to Sigourney Weaver, Reactiveness and indecision to Stuart Wilson.This is less achieved than other efforts, but Roman never ceases to deliver his special gaze, and that's always worth seeing.My opinion 4/5http//www.7eyes.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"Powerful story, terrific acting","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this twice and the impact was no less the second time. It's a story about power, the abuse of it, the search for justice and relationships. I'm in awe of Weaver's acting ability. Yes, it's a great role but she makes it that. She is a queen in my opinion; she mesmerizes. And the interplay between the three actors is such that even though there are moments when it is difficult to continue watching, you cannot look away.This film shows some very real glimpses into the worst of our human nature and the deepest part of who we are in our quest for peace and resolution. "},{"Title":"Three things have kept me from viewing this in the past","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hovering between giving this 9 or 10 out of ten, I quickly decided on the latter. If it's a perfect film, then a perfect score is surely appropriate. Three things have kept me from viewing this in the past, despite a great regard for the director's work going back forty years. One was the subject matter and the prospect of watching or listen tell of harrowing torture scenes. But the other two are the two leads. For some reason I have never taken to the work of Sigourney Weaver, I think maybe she appeared over rated for her role in Alien and never quite settled into much else. Ben Kingsley, I have felt also had a slightly over inflated view of himself and always had some problem with accents. Anyway, putty my pettiness behind me I watched a nail biting, thoroughly engrossing and exciting and thoughtful film. Beautifully paced and wonderfully performed by all concerned (except maybe for Kingsley's accent!) this is a must see piece of cinema. Not a wasted frame and just the right mix of action and dialogue allows the latter to shine as it deserves. "},{"Title":"This Minor String Quartet-Based Masterpiece of Claustrophobia Is All As Regards Acting.","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Death and the Maiden is one of those darkly comfortable films where the opening moments are so intriguing and spot-on perfect that almost any continuation would be a disappointment. But, alas, movies have to be about something, and so slowly the purity of the situation settles as carefully as it can into the decisively paced story.Sigourney Weaver plays an intuitive and imperious specimen, a troubled housewife, playing her as a woman performing rather than personifying her traditionally feminine position. She is married to a renowned lawyer in an unclarified South American country. One night, a storm forces her husband, played by Stuart Wilson, to ride home with a kind stranger, played by Ben Kingsley. That is the exposition for this absorbing film, directed by Roman Polanski, a natural player in the realm of this story, based on a play by Chilean exile Ariel Dorfman, and clearly so. In the movie's lingering dark of the heart, Kingsley, crudely tied to a chair, will claim his innocence. Weaver will taunt him and interrogate him. And Wilson, her husband, will shudder first in one direction and then in the other, because this doctor is a pleasant and harmlessly polite man and a very intelligent one, and if there is a way for him to talk his way to freedom, he will realize it.This atmospheric drama is, somewhat, on the subject of real shame Is this the man who raped and tortured her? To some extent, it concerns the character of guilt and its function in one's identity If this is the same guy, maybe he has changed. Was he a product of the times or a victim of them? If he is guilty, does he atone? Is his crime forgivable to the human standard? Is the woman's husband somehow hindered by a male bonding with this man allegedly hostile to women? All of these reservations lie in wait provocatively beneath the brooding facade of this masterpiece, enriching and intensifying its insatiably vindictive story, which oddly enough is not so much about whether or not this is the man who tortured her, but about the unpredictability of Weaver's behavior, if she really knows what she's doing, if she has an idea of what she will do if she is right and he is in fact her scarring tormentor.The whole story leads up to a moving, unforgettable three-minute monologue by the doctor, giftedly delivered by Kingsley, so that we have to resolve not only the issue of his guilt or innocence in this makeshift trial, but the issue of its value. It is at this stirring climax that one can truly say that this minor string quartet-based masterpiece of claustrophobia is all as regards acting. Kingsley here can compare to the best of the rest of his work with his shrewd performance He makes his character so smart that whether he's guilty or not, we have a definite appreciation for his struggle, and thus he not only fleshes out the character in Dorfman's drama but also heightens the drama without compromising anything about the script. Another actor, even one just as gifted, may easily have lacked the creative initiative to compel the character as such, a pivotal one at the core of the story.Moreover, without the Sigourney Weaver performance, the film could easily have been a lot less impactful. There must have been the pull to emphasize the years-pent rage of her character, but she not only brings so many other colors to this apparent maven, but understands that in a character who is seeking revenge, less is more, because less can be a whole lot more fulfilling in its jeering and mischief. Characterization is a side-effect that emanates from action and dialogue, and there are times, during the dialogue, when the film certainly clues us into its stage origins, when we feel we have almost been carried back to the tangible events she recalls. And Polanski uses the camera in these time-transcendent moments as a spectator, standing facing her and listening, just as one may want to even when seeing this performed on stage.The conflicted lawyer is credibly by Wilson as a man who would sincerely love to discern the truth, he is a deputy for the audience, the character whose feelings we share when he listens to Weaver's horror stories through Polanski's camera's eyes. But she and Kingsley both know that no jury can satisfy, or grasp, the personality of the circumstances. No more than the torturer and the tortured have shared that information, and perhaps only by changing places can they understand it, and that is what justifies her actions to anyone in the audience, even those who starkly oppose the concept of revenge. "}{"Title":"Polanski the inventor of the kamerasutra?","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I just checked Polanski bio i noticed that he never won an Oscar for best director?,he was first nominated for Knife in the waterin 1965 next was for Chinatown and Tess.When i saw Death and the maiden i thought this film is one of his best;Ben Kingsley is just brilliant,he's not playingGandhi here,just look at his face and eyes when he confessed,this is one of the greatest performance a ever seem and it was totally ignored by the oscar!,Kingsley once said that he find more interesting as an actor when he has to play  the dark side of human nature he proved in Death and the Maiden his skills in portraying an ambiguous man with hidden intentions(the revealing is just impressive) and Roman Polanski i can't say enough of this man he maybe inventedthe Kamasutra of camera positions,just look at the (camera)angles in this film(that give you the feeling of different points of view) I just can't believe that movie data voters only give DATM 6/10? I Totally recommend this movie ,rent it! buy it!dont waste you time reading this.   9/10 "},{"Title":"DEW","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I think the title says it for the most part. Though I believe with all sincerity! That Sigourney Weaver is what sells the movie. Being a very original film. For having a very wet, and intriguing atmosphere full of suspense, and thriller. "},{"Title":"superb!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I found this to be so fearfully dramatic, I had my jaw on the ground the whole time. I agree on the wincing when you hear the title of the song. I think it's well put together. You hear the song at the beginning and you wonder what Sigourney's worried about. Then when you finish the movie, you know what's going on.My family simply didn't get the real gut acting in it and thought it was gross. Yeah, I agree the script would be hard to both say and listen to but when you've seen good and bad movies, this art house film is simply wonderful. I do wonder why the hollywood kings and queens didn't give Sigourney and Ben as well as the movie itself an oscar or emmy! *Gee, could it be because they don't like Sigourney.....* "},{"Title":"A taut, tense and unsettling thriller.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Roman Polanski, director of Frantic, returns with a cast of three in this remake of a popular stage play. The action heats up when Helen, a prisoner during the reign of the dictatorship in South America, hears a familiar voice. It's the voice of her torturer. The man who raped her and bashed her repeatedly during her captivity. She intends to get her revenge.The action is sparse, yet the film keeps up a good pace. It leads to a somewhat unsettling yet unsatisfactory conclusion. Seven out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Great character movie.","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really like character movies. Movies like; 12 Angry Men, Glengarry Glen Ross and the more recent Dutch movie Cloaca. Death and the Maiden also is such a character movie from master director Roman Polanski.One thing really surprised me about this movie. In a movie with Sigourney Weaver and Ben Kingsley you expect that those two will completely steal the show, however for me Stuart Wilson gave away the best acting performance of the movie.A movie with 3 such actors is of course a very strong movie, with both great performance's and dialogs in a realistic story.However with a story like this movie has you would expect more tense and maybe claustrophobic moments. The movie at time fails to and has some missed opportunities. So in a way you can call this movie a successful character movie but a flawed thriller. But of course if you like strong character movies this is a absolute must see, with an ending that doesn't disappoint. The story still offers some powerful moments and twists.An absolute must see for the character movie lovers among us.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The truth is out there","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I revisited this film after having heard a commentator on the aftermath of the Iraq conflict calling for South African style 'Truth and Reconciliation' hearing the idea is to heal the divisions caused in a climate of paranoia and fear by hearing how people have acted and why, rather than to attempt justice where right and wrong are often the same thing.Polanski's film is a brilliant transposition of Ariel Dorfman's play (it remains a 'filmed play' but only by virtue of its character-centric approach and economy). He provides a super framework for the excellent trio of actors to strut their stuff. Sigourney Weaver is the vengeful victim of the former regime lurching wildly between wanting her pound of flesh and the fear fuelling her aggression. Stuart Wilson is exceptional as her husband, perpetually playing catch-up to the moral steeplechase of the action. Ben Kingsley explores too many character twists to go into, in keeping with paranoia basis of the subject matter - his cornered animal aggression is more convincing here than in his mockney enforcer in Sexy Beast, although you'd not want to come across either on a dark night.Actors and director come together in a beautiful ending on the 'edge of the world' where the truth is the only place to go. The coda reprises the opening sequence in an uncomfortable but realistic conclusion to the issues the film has raised which seeing it alone can explain. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Intense, disturbing, depressing","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" (Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon.)I would not recommend this for most people. It is painful to watch and artificial, very stagy (not surprising since it was adapted from a stage play written by Ariel Dorfman), and ultimately not redemptive (as the video jacket claims), but perverse and depressing.Sigourney Weaver gives a raw-edged performance almost entirely in one key. She plays a woman (Pauline Escobar) who was raped and tortured by a Nazi-like doctor named Roberto Miranda played by Ben Kingsley in some unidentified South American country. Since Dorfman is from Argentina, we'll assume it's Argentina. Certainly this sort of thing happened there during the time of the Disappeared. The other member of the three-person cast is her husband (Gerardo Escobar) played by Stuart Wilson. Roman Polanski directed.The title comes from Franz Schubert's string quartet of the same name which was played by the doctor as he tortured Pauline.This is a polarizing film. Women who have ever suffered anything at the hands of men will identify with Weaver's character and may find the film brilliant. Most men will not even be able to watch it.There is some ambiguity in the ending, as to whether Roberto really was guilty as charged. My opinion is that he was without doubt. The final scene (which I can't describe since it would give away too much) is really a statement about the nature of horror and how it can live on amidst the most familiar settings, a man patting his son on the head, some people attending a concert.I thought Wilson gave the most balanced performance. He had the most difficult role since it required subtlety and that he walk a fine line between accepting something monstrous in his presence or disbelieving his wife. He also had to be a weak sister, as it were, to the dominating presence of Sigourney Weaver who played most of the film with a gun in her hand. Yet he had to provide the strength of character and to symbolize the sense of justice. Kingsley looked very much the part of a sneaky little sickie, and his usual caged intensity was much in evidence.Bottom line any film that exposes the atrocities committed by the right wing dictatorships that dominated South and Central American during the Cold War is on the side of the angels; however most viewers I think will find this too intense and disturbing. Beware of some crude sexuality. "},{"Title":"Is Torture a Sin?","Date":"11 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Considering that this is a play and rather looks like one, it's pretty good. Well, it's good anyway.A lawyer, Gerardo (Stuart Wilson) and his wife Paulina (Sigourney Weaver) have just retired in their comfortable, isolated house next to a cliff overhanging the sea. The location is somewhere in South America, in a country that has just emerged from despotism and become a democracy. A car has trouble on the road in front of their house. Dr. Miranda (Ben Kingsley) rouses them and asks for help, but an electrical storm has knocked out both the power and the phone.Gerardo and Dr. Miranda are chatting in the living room while Paulina is still in bed. Hearing Miranda's voice, she sits up in alarm, sneaks outside, burns off in Miranda's car and pushes it over a cliff.That, I guess, is the end of Act I. Most of the time we spend with Gerardo and Miranda in the living room. The two men are at loose ends and drink themselves into a cheerfully befuddled state. I can't remember many drunk scenes better than this one. Kingsley, in particular, is given marvelous lines and delivers them as if they were gifts to the audience -- cynical, ironic, high brow, amiable. I would like to quote Nietzsche in a situation like this, says Kingsley. At least I think it was Nietzsche. Maybe it was Freud. Gerardo, If you can remember a quotation, it's usually Freud. The dialog is delicious and matter of fact. The two men are sitting on the porch steps, still thinking Paulina is asleep, musing about where a thief might have driven Miranda's car, and why. I'm an idiot, says Kingsley. I'm running down the road yelling 'That's my car!' Of course the thief knows that. That's the whole POINT. Later, when they find out that Paulina has stolen the car, I mean, what is this -- a regular thing or what? How long do you think we might have to wait? A day or two? A month? Then the humor dwindles to a palpitating point and vanishes, and the movie becomes echt-serious. Paulina claims that Miranda worked as an interrogator for the now-deposed dictatorship and that he beat, tortured, and raped the women who were his prisoners -- Paulina included. (She's explicit about the techniques.) Gerardo thinks she's crazy. Miranda is astonished and scared to death.Paulina has Miranda tied up and puts him on trial, appointing Gerardo his defense counsel. Some trial! If Miranda confesses and shows genuine contrition she'll let him go, otherwise she'll shoot him through the head. Miranda, sensibly, is perfectly willing to confess and get out of this mad house but, since he claims to have had nothing to do with the previous regime, he doesn't know what to confess to. Paulina wants details -- what was she tied up with, ropes or wires? -- that Miranda says he is unable to provide.It's a harrowing movie, with occasional arcs of electricity jumping through it. I'm not certain the ending is played exactly as it would be in real life, but it hardly matters because the acting on the part of all three principals is unimpeachable.I don't want to give away the climax but I'll sum up my impression by saying that it's quite possible to be guilty OR innocent, while still being mad.See it if you can. It's a hard film to forget. "},{"Title":"Jolting film does not delve too deep","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Polanski surprises again with this thriller concerning one woman's attempt to exorcise the demons of her past by brutalising a man she holds responsible for the torture she endured almost twenty years earlier. The screenplay from Rafael Yglesias and Ariel Dorfman (based upon Dorfman's play) manages to keep us guessing as to each player's next move, and as to the truth about Roberto (Kingsley).Sigourney Weaver is electric as Paulina, the woman seemingly driven to madness when confronted with this horrific ghost from her past. Her performance is at times truly terrifying. Ben Kingsley's turn as the questionable Roberto leaves no doubt as to his versatile acting talents, as he portrays with ease probable innocence, possible guilt and desperation all at once. Stuart Wilson is the unfortunate third party, and never has enough to do as the husband caught in the middle of this frightening situation. Editing from Herve de Luze is taught and cinematography from Tonino delli Colli is suitably confined.Polanski effortlessly keeps us on the edge of our seats as he at once jolts and surprises us throughout his pic. Yet in going for all out entertainment in his beloved Hitchcockian fashion, he has avoided the many contentious issues that this film raises. Gender domination, sexual assault, justice, revenge and even forgiveness are all skimmed over as Polanski charges through the subtleties of the narrative in favour of the thrill. Hey, who's complaining?Monday, June 16, 1997 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"Rumours, leaks","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When Ariel Dorfman's play Death and the Maiden, about a victim of rape and torture in a post-fascist regime coming face-to-face with one of her tormentors, was adapted for the screen, it is perhaps no surprise that the project was snapped up by director Roman Polanski. This is story which is both startlingly sensitive and understanding towards victims of rape, and yet one which also reserves a crumb of sympathy for the perpetrator. Two decades after his own conviction for sex crimes, Polanski's decision to make this movie poses the question. Is this the director's apology, or his attempt at self-absolution?Death and the Maiden is, in the first place, a powerful and thoughtful work, on the one hand an exploration of the nature of justice, of justice that satisfies the law and justice that satisfies the individual. And on the other, it is a look at the differences between male and female approaches to love, sex and control. It is in this latter it is at its boldest and most eloquent, even if it does equivocate. There are numerous points in the dialogue which are deeply poignant simply due to the aching truth of them. The power Dorfman's words are carried through to the screen intact.This is in no small part thanks to a flawless cast. Sigourney Weaver gives an understated yet resonant performance that gives every impression that she has really lived what her character has gone through. In her flashes of anger she brings a touch of masculinity to the part, and there is perhaps something of her trying to take on the doctor's identity in the role. Ben Kingsley is of that new breed of chameleonic actors who are able to transform themselves completely for a range of roles. Here he presents numerous facets of his character &#x96; friendliness, erudition, vulnerability, spite, and an eventual coldness, all with realistic fluidity. Stuart Wilson gives a worthy if rather bland performance, which is exactly what's needed, as being the least important of the cast he must not overshadow the other two.While Polanski's own offences should not be considered lightly, I have always tried to judge his work (which I often enjoy) separately to his deeds. He does a fair job here, using some intense long takes for key scenes, and creating various different spaces to help us forget how limited the setting is. The pacing is marvellous, and despite being a talky stage adaptation the movie simply races along. And yet, in the context of Polanski's involvement, its final scenes have a slightly sickening, almost pathetic edge.Finally however, my interpretation of the ending is not that Paulina chose to forgive the doctor, but that what she needed for closure was to hear his explanation. "}{"Title":"Underrated...","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ..And I wonder why... Its real sad that this one doesn't even have a 8.0 rating!Wonderful thriller..with a terrific setting... in one rainy night. Just three characters...Fantastic performance by Ben Kingsley...he is marvellous! Hats off!Being a big fan of Alien (1979) I expected Sigourney Weaver to do better than this...Her performance sometimes goes over the top...but she is still great in most of the parts. Stuart Wilson is very convincing as her husband who is torn between two sides.All in all, a very taut thriller, brilliantly directed by Roman Polanski. Go for it and spread the word. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The film by Polanski is an intense chamber play with three caught in a claustrophobic game of revenge, guilt and innocence.Paulina, raped and tortured under the old regime, recognises in her guest the man responsible for her agony. She ties him up, and tries to force a confession out of him. However, Dr Miranda insists on his innocence, it's all a mix-up. As the husband wrestles with the question of who is right, so does the audience.The result is a dramatic film carried by marvelous performances of the actors, and one that is highly recommended.*spoiler* The final, with Dr Miranda's confession is a big let-down. I wish Polanski had had the courage to leave the ending open. To leave the audience, as well as Paulina and her husband, wondering whether Kingsley's character was really innocent or not. It would have been a better, if less accepted, end. "},{"Title":"Could have been so much more...","Date":"23 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" We hear about it all the time; people have been harmed in the most unspeakable ways, causing pain that most of us cannot begin to even imagine. If this happened to you, what would you do if the person who hurt you walked into your house? This kind of moral quagmire has been approached before in films. Many times, in fact. The torture angle is new though. Unfortunately, that's all that's new about this story.But this is the situation that one woman, Paulina Escobar (Sigourney Weaver), an ex-activist who was horrifically tortured in order to give up the name of a fellow activist (who later became her husband), finds herself in, when a man (Ben Kingsley) is invited into their home after helping her husband (Stuart Wilson). She is convinced that this man, Dr. Miranda, is the one who brutalized her. He denies it, of course. And her husband, now a high-powered lawyer, is caught in the middle.This film could have gone in two opposite directions a high-powered, claustrophobic thriller or a leadened message movie. Fortunately, it's not the latter (no one is going to mistake this movie for a UNICEF infomercial), but sadly, it's not the former either. It's somewhere in the middle. There are moments of where it works, but overall it's pretty boring.Part of the reason is that the most important part is miscast. Sigourney Weaver is a good actress, but she's not right for this role. She has moments of effectiveness (Weaver is good at being vulnerable), but when she tries to act menacing, she's awful. Ben Kingsley is terrific, though, as the may-or-may not be torturer. He keeps us on our toes, and we never know whether or not he's innocent. Noted character actor Stuart Wilson is actually able to keep up with the Oscar-winner and Oscar-nominee.The problem isn't necessarily with Roman Polanski's approach. Death and the Maiden is heavy on the atmosphere, although it could have used some more claustrophobia to increase the tension. The problem is that the script, based on the play, is rather bland. There's nothing that really draws us into the story, and it doesn't take any risks. Thus what could have been a powerful and provocative drama or thriller (take your pick) becomes inert.It's not a total waste; the film effectively keeps us guessing who's telling the truth. But the suspense isn't there, even though it has plenty of opportunity to build. However, the ending of the film is horrible. What happens not only doesn't make sense, it's actually more than slightly reprehensible.This isn't a bad film, just a wasted opportunity. "},{"Title":"Excellent piece, could have been more specific.","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An incredible ratcheting-up of drama from beginning to end. Kingsley, as usual, gives a stunningly nuanced performance, and steals the screen when he speaks. His speeches are absolutely riveting. Excellent performances as well from Sigourney Weaver and Stuart Wilson, who round out the ensemble. Wilson is a vastly under-appreciated actor who does a phenomenal job portraying a very complex set of conflicts. Good choice by Polanski. Needless to say, the real star of the film is the screenplay. It's a shame that the film wasn't made more specific in terms of which country it dealt with. Although set in countryside intended to look distinctly Chilean, the dates it deals with more closely match those of the Argentine dictatorship. The film appears to have been designed this way in order to intimate to American audiences that it could have taken place in either country, and indeed it could have; maybe the aim was to help viewers focus on the universality of the emotions and trials involved, rather than involving them with the historical specifics of one particular dictatorship. The net effect, however, is unfortunate, in that it deprives the audience of a chance to actually learn something about a hideous part of world history in which the United States was overtly complicit. By mythologizing the territory, Polanski makes it easier for the audience to walk away feeling a sense of pity and mild remorse while remaining comfortably ignorant of historical realities the details of which they may simply not care to confront. In other words, the temporal and geographic displacement of the plot makes it easy to conclude that these sorts of things happen to those people over there, but could never happen here. (How interesting it would be to remake this film now, in America, with a Guantanamo or Abu Ghraib detainee, her husband, and an DOD agent!) The movie also skirts the spurious so-called theory of two demons, that is, the fascista excuse that leftist guerrillas were equally guilty of crimes as the military. However, in so doing, it is actually simply being as apolitical as possible, and so can't really be applauded for that -- better had it addressed the issue directly when it had the chance. For a better understanding of the sociopolitical issues Death and the Maiden is really commenting on, it's well worth seeing La Historia Oficial (Argentina  1985), Imagining Argentina, (2003) and Oliver Stone's Salvador (1986), to get an idea of American involvement in the atrocities that took place in Latin America from the 1950s onward. Many books have also been written on the subject, including Fear in Chile Lives Under Pinochet (Politzer) and Pinochet's Chile An Eyewitness Report 1980/81 (Macleod. Out of print.) "},{"Title":"A great story","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The whole notion of this actually happening is somewhat far fetched, but is very interesting.  Ben Kingsley gives one of the best performances I have seen.  The performances are limited, but they have to be because of the isolated setting.  Sigourney Weaver does a good job as the still victimized woman.  Stuart Wilson as the her husband is not all that believable.  He just keeps whining and is in denial about everything that has happened.I love how Kingsley can go from being charming and sweet tempered, to cursing and angry the next.  It was a real insight to this character as a man hiding himself.  The ending of the film was nauseating, not in a bad way.  Roman Polanski is one of my favorite directors, because he has made a lot of good films.  7/10  Good to Very Good "},{"Title":"a play on film","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about this one.  It is well done and not overacted. It is a good movie.  Basically only three people, one scene --- it is really a play on film.  The storyline is somewhat predictable, but not contrived. Yet I feel that if this is all there is to the movie, I would have much preferred to see this on stage; I think it would have been terrific.  I don't regret seeing it, though.  I gave it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"over 3000 died under torture but no criminals???","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The title refers to Scubert's masterpiece. The heroine, a torture victim, remembers that it was being played while she was being raped and tortured ,which makes her hate Schubert, music, herself and the modern society's claim to civilization and Justice.In the post-Pinochet Democracy you can investigate those crimes against humanity, report them with charts, statistics, etc.,but you can not name the perpetrators, nor can anybody be tried or questioned because of them, and that is what drives our heroine mad, and makes her act irrationally.I think Polanki's version is o.k, but the original Steppenwolf theatre presentation was much more compelling. "},{"Title":"Interesting, yet unconvincing.","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Death and the Maiden claims to be a thriller, but fails to provide the classic surprise ending which is the trademark of almost every great suspense movie ever made.It features two names forever etched into movie history; Ben Kingsley and Roman Polanski.The pace is slow almost stagnant, and the characters are just unable to convince me that this is a way one would be likely to act if one should somehow find oneself in similar positions. The setting in some South American republic taking it's first steps towards democracy is made unrealistic by the fact that the language is English and neither Mr. nor Mrs. Escobar look all that South American.Having said all this, it's not a bad movie. You do get a very uncomfortable feeling of what it might be like to be captured and robbed of your constitutional rights. I think Sigourney Waever does an excellent job. The scene, were she tells her husband what happened to her, is the best one in the movie.In conclusion I'd say that this movie is more of an education than it is entertainment, but it's worth watching despite the obvious errors. "},{"Title":"free at the end...","Date":"2 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" i must say, i'd rather watch these types of movies then a blockbuster any day. the whole movie had three actors in it and not a minute was boring. this movie was fictional but truth be told stuff a lot worse than that happened down in certain countries in south America.sir Ben Kingsley...what a universal treasure the man is and ms. sigourney weaver who i rate as one of the best actresses of any generation. OK, a little bit about the movie, at the start of the movie when she opens the door and goes out into the heavy downpour it enlightened her and at the end the waves set her free and shes finally able to let go. this movie would definitely be shown in film school and should be a requisite. an all time classic in my opinion...and by the way Stuart Wilson did a fine job also as the husband...i mean it's a wonder he didn't just disappear into the background because of the two super strong leads, so complements to him. "},{"Title":"A stage play screened, nevertheless talentfully","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen Death and the Maiden on stage before seeing the filmed version. After that, I can say without doubt that the power of The Death is in Dorfman's play/script, which stages such a tensed drama, it will take really lousy cast and director to ruin it. Polansky made no real changes from the stage version and this film is so static it could be as well a screened stage play. Nevertheless, Polansky and the cast are'nt lousy - they are very good and they do the stage-play talentfully. Another pro for this movie - the issue of human rights abuses could get to a much wider audience that way. Think of Kiss of the Spiderwoman and the awareness of human rights abuses. After all, lots of people wont go to see Death... in the theatre.  "}{"Title":"An intense psychological drama, unmotivated direction","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Roman Polanski is no stranger to the slow and methodical leading of an audience into an ever deepening psychological world.  Chinatown may be the quintessence of this, and even in something like the Pianist we can see his carefully timed shots and camera movements taking the audience step by step through the film.  In Death and the Maiden, adapted from the stage play, we at times can see the Polanski that we all know and love, but through most of the film we are led drudgingly along with long, Tarkovski-esque camera pans and slow one shots.  The acting work, however, generally makes up for any lack of cinematic intrigue, and Weaver offers one of her most interesting roles to date.  Ben Kingsley, as a do-gooder turned into political prisoner, works his magic superbly as we wonder whether he is innocent or not.  The script is well adapted to film, but for most people I think the film will drag with too many long monologues much better suited for stage than for screen. "},{"Title":"if Faye Dunaway could play Paulina....","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this movie will be more than merely an good movie. It will achieve the elusive greatness....But of course, she was too old for that then. Another actress I can think of is Sissy Spacek. Anyway, many will play this role more convincingly than Sigourney Weaver. Sigourney Weaver just doesn't have the hysterical disposition of the character. No one can buy that she can be mad. She is just too determined, tough, calculating, all the time. When Paulina was re-accounting her nightmarish memory, that is when the soul was most tormented and desperate, Sigourney Weavers' lack of fragility is also most undermining. This film could have been an classic. This miscast ruined it. "},{"Title":"A return to form .","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Polanski's career ran into difficulties after Chinatown.He made another great movie le locataire,easily his most underrated one,then he completely lost his identity.The highly praised Tess was a faceless work,although its cinematography was breath-taking.Then the slump beganpirates was his nadir,a movie that should never have been released,and frantic verged on commercial stuff,abetted by expressionless Harrison Ford.Bitter moon ,itself undistinguished,paved a reliable way for the next movie,this one.Bitter moon was by no means a tremendous work,but it took up ambiguity again,which was Polanski's forte.His best works can be summed by this wordambiguity;Rosemary's baby le locataire repulsion cul de sac knife in the water...Death and the maiden is by far Polanski's best since le locataire.Ben Kingsley's character is one of the most frightening of the Polanski canon.We will never know who he is,a monster or an innocenthe's a distant relative of the Castevets in Rosemary's,of the tenants in le locataire or John Huston's character in Chinatown. Sigourney Weaver's over the top but impressive performance seems at first acquaintance an anomaly in Polanski's world.We're far from frail Mia Farrow's Rosemary,Faye Dunaway's fausse femme fatale or neurotic Catherine Deneuve in repulsion.But we will discover in the end she's as weak as the three heroines I mention.The claustrophobia runs rampant in the Pole's works.All his great works of the sixties and seventies (except Chinatown) take place in a closed-in space,a flat (Rosemary,repulsion,le locataire),a boat (knife in the water).But the connection is glaring between Death and the maiden and cul de sac(check the title);the latter takes us to an island ,the former on a house on a cliff,far from the world.Sometimes it seems that Polanski places his characters as pawnssome shots show them diagonally.Polanski avoids the main pitfallthe flashbacks.A minor director would have treated  the audience to a meal of bloody tortures and nudity. Polanski does not show anything.All that we know,we learn it through Weaver's mouth.Sometimes words speak louder than pictures.This situation( torturer/victim who meet again),we 'd already seen it in Liliana's Cavani's portiere di notte,1973,and the flashbacks weakened the relationship Dirk Bogarde /Charlotte Rampling.Moreover,Cavani's movie was unbearable,even obnoxious in several respects,which is not the case here,despite the ending.After all,Kingsley's performance is so disturbing that we don't have any absolute certainty.Polanski's return was short-lived.The ninth gate looked like a caricature of former glories.Let's hope le pianiste which triumphed in the festival de Cannes last month,will rekindle the flame. "},{"Title":"A chilling film","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"   This is a feminist flick, extremely well done.  Forty-five year old Sigourney Weaver (sporting a wonderful facelift)puts on a brilliant show, portraying an abused political prisoner who suddenly finds herself in the company of her primary torturer and lusting for revenge.  The three-person cast (this was originally a play) puts on a riveting and memorable performance.  Along the way, there is the obligatory topless scene, lots of references to rape and torture, violence, and much lewd language. But that's to be expected in a Polansky film.  Above all, three cheers for Weaver.  How could this splendid actress fail at least to be nominated for an Academy Award? "},{"Title":"over 3000 died under torture but no criminals???","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The title refers to Schubert's masterpiece. The heroine, a torture victim, remembers that it was being played while she was being raped and tortured ,which makes her hate Schubert, music, herself and the modern society's claim to civilization and Justice.In the post-Pinochet Democracy you can investigate those crimes against humanity, report them with charts, statistics, etc.,but you can not name the perpetrators, nor can anybody be tried or questioned because of them, and that is what drives our heroine mad, and makes her act irrationally.I think Polanski's version is o.k, but the original Steppenwolf theater's presentation was much more convincing. "},{"Title":"To Be Endured, Not Enjoyed","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Death and the Maiden tells a harrowing story, one that's not meant to be pleasant. But even so, there is a difference between telling an unpleasant story and creating an unpleasant experience, and unfortunately, director Roman Polanski doesn't maintain that distinction with this film.He's proved that he knows how in other films, like Rosemary's Baby and Repulsion, neither of which dwell on pleasant themes but both of which are exhilaratingly entertaining. Death and the Maiden is an oppressive slog, a film that must be endured rather than enjoyed. Sigourney Weaver and Ben Kingsley give top-notch performances, but the whole thing is too one note and aggressively depressing to be very good.Grade C "},{"Title":"All Good Besides Sigourney Weaver","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A political activist (Sigourney Weaver) is convinced that her guest (Ben Kingsley) is a man who once tortured her for the government.Sigourney Weaver topless, not something I ever needed to see. She plays a nut case and I hate her even more than usual in this film. The worst torture I can imagine is having Weaver's used panties stuffed in my mouth. Also, her acting is really, really, really bad. Her casting took this film from a potential success to a steaming pile of horse apples.This was directed by Roman Polanski, whose experience with the Holocaust makes the topic of human rights a personal matter.In the background is a human rights commission to examine torture and murder between 1975-1980 with Weaver's husband as the head and her as a skeptic, thinking the whole thing is a whitewash. She works, inadvertently, to sabotage it.You can never entirely possess the female soul. This quote appears, attributed to Nietzsche. What is its significance? "},{"Title":"I don't care what kinds of games you play in this f**kin nut-house! I just what out!","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Mind bending political as well as psychological thriller involving a former woman freedom fighter Paulina Lorca, Sigourney Weaver,who was brutally tortured and raped by her secret police captors. This all happened back in the spring of 1977 in the secret police trying to get Paulina to reveal the whereabouts and identity of her lover and later husband Gereldo Escobar, Stuart Wilson, who was one of the top leaders of the freedom fighting movement in the country.It's now 17 years later-1994-and with a new democratically elected government in charge Geraldo has been picked by the country's new president to head the newly formed Commission. The Commission has the power in both arresting and prosecuting those who were responsible for the torture and murder of thousands of citizens, like Paulina, whom the previous Fascist Dictatorship felt was a threat to it!As things turn out Gerlado's car gets stuck in the mud on his way home, after being but in charge of The Commission, where he's then helped by good Samaritan neighbor the kindly Dr. Roberto Miranda, Ben Kingsley, by giving him a ride to his sea-front house. It's when Pauline, who's hiding in the bedroom, who for some reason thinks she's still on the lamb, from the former governments secret police, hears Roberto talk she flips out feeling that he's the person who brutally tortured and raped her some 17 years ago!It's then the the movie, like Paulina, starts to zig-zag merrily along in a number of really off-the-wall sequences. Roberto soon becomes a captive who, like what Paulina accused him of doing to her, ends up being tortured and humiliated by Pauline in order to get a confession out of him! The forced confession, with Paulina holding a gun to his head, has to do in Roberto's involvement with the previous Fascist Government in his supervising the torture of dozens of political prisoners. The government put Paulin's husband Geraldo in charge, by being the head of The Commission, to see to it that those involve in the torture and murder of thousands of enemes of the state are brought before the bar of justice and made to pay for their crimes against the people!Paulina is sure that Roberto is the man who brutally abused her back in 1977 and tries to get him to confess, on video tape, his crimes. Even though when she was supposedly tortured and raped by him Paulina never once saw Roberto's face but only heard his voice and smelled his very bad, due to his heavy consumption of garlic, breath that was far worse then any of the torture he inflicted on her. Gerlado, in him being a lawyer, feels that the evidence Paulina has on Roberto isn't enough for an indictment much less a conviction!The films goes on and on with the poor Roberto being beaten and humiliated by Paulina with her passive husband Geraldo, when he later becomes convinced that Roberto is in fact the Man, later joining in on the torture sessions. It's when Roberto breaks free and tries to make a run for it that, what seems like, the truth finally comes out! That's only after Roberto is again captured by Paulina & Geraldo and finally, without that much persuasion by the two, seems to come clean with his past!***SPOILER ALERT***The movie ends like it began with Paulina and Geraldo at the theater attending a performance of Schubert's  Death of a Maiden. What we didn't see at first we see later on, when the movie is almost over, in that not only Pauline and Geraldo are in the audience but Roberto, who was supposed to have killed himself by jumping off a cliff, was there as well! "},{"Title":"Unrealistic ending to a riveting play","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Polanski's Death and the Maiden is a riveting play with 3 powerful, if somewhat overcooked at times, performances by wonderful actors with proved credentials. The actors fulfill their characterizations very well for most of the story, despite having distinctly American accents in a supposedly South American country. But, this is not a plot summary. SPOILER This comment deals with the undrealistic denouement of the movie...when the 3 main characters must face the truth at land's end...ALL act out of character entirely. What was intense becomes limp. I was disappointed with such a weak development. With what I know to that poiint, would I have acted as any of them did? No. And, the concert ending was preposterous. "},{"Title":"The Future","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" We see the rule of morale relativism being bolstered in the early 90s in this morbid and horrible production. The evil doctor never learned to relate with women, and so, when he got the chance, he exacted his sordid revenge on helpless captives. And he was forgiven for these atrocities because, as he said, I loved them. The other man in the story, the wimpy husband, exemplifies metro man, a lawyer of course, and has his own crippling problems trying to impose reason and law on matters of relationship, and so he cannot or will not defend his wife. And she, apparently, believes these two creeps have justification for their woman-hating motivations, and chooses to suffer the consequences in silence. Where were the feminists hiding when this rag came out or did I miss their reviews back then? "}{"Title":"A little bit too much,Polanski can do much better","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As I am a fan of Polanski's work I really wanted to see this film.But it was a little bit of a let down.Despite the acting capabilities of Sigourney Weaver and Ben Kingsley it just doesn't work very well. The most important point is the slow pace of the movie and the rather empty story.The script could have been much better worked out and it's a shame that this didn't happen.Polanski has given us the chills with acclaimed thrillers like Frantic,Rosemary's Baby and especially Repulsion which is his best movie together with The Pianist.The tension,intensity and simplicity of Repulsion is never present in Death and the Maiden.A major critic point is the fact that all so called South Americans all talk English and,even worse,they look English.This takes away the realistic view something that also bothered me with The Pianist. The acting is fine though,especially Ben Kingsley comes up with a very powerful and convincing role. The music is repetitive as it is meant toDeath and the Maiden is a piece by Schubert.Still,Roman Polanski can do much better than this as he showed with Repulsion.   6/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A woman tortured and raped for her resistance during the dictatorship, finds her torturer and raper, just when the dictatorship has fallen, and cleaning of the country from the fascists is about to begin. Instead of killing him directly, she talks and talks and talks and talks and talks with him for a film's last, in order for him to confess his crimes... If you have a slight political thinking you will find it just uninteresting, if you are more concerned about politics you will find it totally unacceptable and outrageous. People who fight dictatorships have no idealistic bourgeois sensitivities, as this film is proposing... "},{"Title":"Terrible bore","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I was shocked by this film. If not for the final opera scene, where there were hundreds of opera spectators, the whole film had only 3 actors!!!!! And the whole story line is that the woman is adamant about her belief. There was almost no story, but a collection of struggle scenes. A bit like 'Home Alone', but lacking the charm and humour. It was such a terrible bore. I wonder why the film was funded in the first place. There is nothing in the film that would captivate the viewers. And it costs millions to make?? In a film that has only basically one filming location and 3 actors? Where did the money go?Avoid this film!!  "}]