[{"Title":"A Weaving Pearce Stamp For Collectors","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"94 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" What unlikely trio to fall in love with, just as unlikely as the landscape. When a movie fits so well without a tag that links it to anything else in its historic film context, it can only be described as a happy accident. Premeditated for sure, but accident nonetheless. Terence Stamp, is an actor with a spectacular career. Varied and surprising. It defies description, but let me try. Peter Ustinov's Billy Budd William Wyler's The Collector Federico Fellini's Spirit of the Dead John Schlesinger's Far From The Madding Crowd Pier Paolo Pasolini's Teorema Joseph Losey's Modesty Blaise Oliver Stone's Wall Street Stephen Frear's The Hit Richard Donner's Superman Steven Sodebergh's The Limey Am I making my point? He is an actor for all seasons, beautiful beyond belief to boot. In The Adventures of Pricilla Queen of The Desert he unveils another unexpected side to his considerable talents. A Woman. And what a woman, a Meryl Streep with a past and, thanks to director Stephan Elliot, with a future. Dressed by geniuses. More human than ever. He is flanked by two spectacular Aussies. Hugo Weaving (The Matrix) giving a performance of such tenderness that even my brother in law, a homophobic macho man of the first order,loved him. And Guy Pearce (L A Confidential) He is such a beautiful,sexy, funny girl that made me long for a her/he all to myself. Some other monstrously cloned movies were rushed into production trying to capitalize on the success of Pricilla. They all failed miserably and rightly so. Frank Capra, accepting his AFI Lifetime Achievement Award sent a profound and heartfelt advise to young filmmakers. Don't follow trends, start new ones Well done Mr Elliot. Well done. "},{"Title":"A bitchy, gaudy, outrageous, kitsch comedy classic (8/10)","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"75 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  1994 proved to be rather a good year for Australian movies, with both this and MURIEL'S WEDDING delighting international audiences with their cheeky over-the-top humour, panache, pathos, winning performances, and fun soundtracks.  Both, of course, heavily featured the music of ABBA (Australia has long had a particular love-affair with the Scandinavian quartet - it was probably no coincidence that it was decided to shoot the group's own feature, ABBA THE MOVIE, during the Australian leg of their 1977 world concert tour).  In MURIEL'S WEDDING the band's music is perhaps treated with more reverence and respect - Muriel Heslop is, after all, a huge fan, and the film itself is of a far more serious, distinctly black nature. PRISCILLA, on the other hand, constantly revels in its own bitchiness and catty humour, and has countless memorable, and in many cases unprintable, lines of dialogue, including stabs at the supergroup - I've said it once and I'll say it again - no more f***ing ABBA; What are you telling me - this is an ABBA turd?  Of course ABBA is merely one of MANY verbal targets for the film's three main protagonists, but far from this alienating us from any of them, we cannot help but be swept along by the sheer garish joy of the entire venture.The basic plot focuses on recently bereaved transsexual Bernadette (a magnificent, hardly recognizable Terence Stamp), who teams up with two younger drag artistes, sensitive Tick/Mitzi (Hugo Weaving) and screaming queen Adam/Felicia (Guy Pearce), so that they can travel half-way across Australia on board an all but dilapidated bus named Priscilla, in order to perform a cabaret act at a remote casino run by an ex-partner of Tick's, soon revealed to be, horror of horrors, a WOMAN!  Along the way they encounter all sorts of absurd situations and individuals almost as strange and unconventional as they themselves are, whilst Bernadette, against her better judgement, falls for gruff mechanic Bob (Bill Hunter, who also features in MURIEL'S WEDDING) that they pick up en route, and in so doing he loses his mail-order bride Cynthia (Julia Cortez), who in one especially memorable scene does things with ping-pong balls you just don't want to imagine!The performances are really the thing here - Terence Stamp (who won numerous accolades for his cast-against-type labours) is amazing and totally credible as the quietly dignified transsexual, and it is hard to believe that Weaving and (especially) Pearce have not worked as flamboyant, lip-synching drag queens all their professional lives!  The gaudy, outrageous costumes won a well-deserved Oscar, and the photography of the barren, surreal landscape is also masterful, as is Stephan Elliott's creative direction and hilarious, ultimately poignant script.  The soundtrack may not be to everyone's taste, but it has enough camp classics to satisfy anyone yearning to relive the tacky heyday of the '70s - including ABBA's Mamma Mia, the Village People's Go West, and Gloria Gaynor's superb I Will Survive, given a gloriously inventive rendition to a bunch of appreciative aboriginals, with one of their number joining in most enthusiastically.A true kitsch classic, then - well worth re-visiting, again and again ... and again. "},{"Title":"A Movie You Can Watch Over and Over","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"60 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a great movie!  Not only are the actors wonderful but the dialogue keeps you watching the movie over and over again because you missed a great line the last time!  The musical numbers are worth watching alone, but combined with the story and all the sub-plots and the funniest lines I have heard in a long time (The ABBA turd convo cracks me up every time), this is a movie to buy and watch over and over when you need to be entertained as well as dazzled!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"I'll never look at those three guys the same way again...","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"53 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" ...and that's a GOOD thing. Basically, before I truly became aware of Priscilla, I had only thought of its three central actors as just regular, boring guys who were fine enough at acting, but really weren't anything special. Wrong. I had heard about this mysterious movie once or twice, but had no idea who was in it, nor what it was about (beyond the rather vague concept of drag queens/transvestites), and when I decided to read more about it, and find out who was in the cast - SURPRISE! Guy Pearce (of whom I had had a bad first impression when I discovered him in that travesty The Time Machine), Hugo Weaving (Agent Smith himself!!!), and Terence Stamp (whom I don't think I ever saw in any films, but whom I still knew a fair bit about)! How genius is that? I had to see this to believe it, and when I did, I was not let down! Beautiful scenes, costumes, dialogue and music made this probably one of the most interesting and memorable movie experiences of my life! I wasn't the least bit uptight about it (as some people were turned off by the flamboyant behaviour and distasteful jokes, which I found refreshingly great!), and delighted in the campy antics of this fantastic trio! It's a beautiful, feel-good comedy that I recommend to anyone with a catty sense of humour (and a VERY open mind). "},{"Title":"Toward the Acceptance of Diversity","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"43 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a film that every straight person should see. The screenwriter created three drags queens from the cloth of everyday life &#151; an older person (who happens to be transgendered), an average guy next door and a pretty muscle boy. You can say that this film is about the great reach of little lives (a comment originally applied by Donald Spoto to Tennesee Williams' The Glass Menagerie.) We also see, in Anthony Bellerose's story, that sexuality is not a cut-and-dried affair. Underneath it all, we see that these people aren't much different from those we meet ion our daily lives. A screening of Priscilla would do more good than a hundred lectures to high school kids on the acceptance of diversity. "},{"Title":"This is comedy","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"35 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie made laugh and does so every time I see it again. Perhaps it won't go down in history as a timeless classic is does deserve it so much. The original premise is a weird one, about transsexuals traveling through the desert of Australia. The sense of humor is very wicked and thank God for small favors not restrained to Hollywood standards. And I've never watched a game of table tennis without a smallish grin on my face which has little to do with the game in it self. The actors are great an absolute anti choice in the matters of typecasting . The scenery of the movie is great, the bus in the desert are two extra players that give this movie an extra beaut. The extra castmembers are great and unforgettable. Ever since when I watch an episode of Flying Doctors or things in his sort I wonder about the nutty folks out there. the costumes are great and gobsmacking, they perform very well in the musical numbers.I showed this to my mum, after the initial shock she was very amused and agreed with me that it was a very funny movie.I will watch this movie a lot in the future, why?? It keeps me laughing every time. "},{"Title":"finally ...","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Two drag queens (Guy Pearce as bitchy Felicia, and Hugo Weaving as Mitzi) and a transsexual (Terence Stamp, marvellous as the widowed Bernadette) make a trip to Alice Springs in a pink bus called Priscilla. Cue a soundtrack of mostly Abba songs (plus an off-the-cuff 'I Will Survive', and C E Peniston's 'Finally' - a great set-piece) and three towering performances.  From the initial hilarious premise we follow the trio through the Australian desert and meet the various inhabitants of places they pass through.  It remains fast-paced and touching within the comedy.  Wonderful.  "},{"Title":"i got racoon eyes watching it !!!!!","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" i absolutely love this film, its one of my faves ever!!! i saw a small clip of it and it made me laugh so i bought the film and every time i watch it i sit there singing along to it and laughing so much that tears fall down my face.its hilarious the things that happen in it are great. the costumes are amazing and the acting is great they really did a good job. i swear that if you hear the opening song that you will sing it sometime without knowing it. I'm so glad i bought it if I'm bored or feeling down or sick them i watch this film and it cheers me up and i cant stop laughing; its that good. one of my faves in the film is with the 4th member? "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC MOVIE","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"25 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film goes down in my books as one of the best. The emotion involved with everything that happens is just heartwrenching. One moment i was laughing the next in tears. I would reccomend this film to anyone who wants a realistic look at gay life in the 80's. It's amazing how narrow minded people can be, but these people show us the true meaning of life, love, fatherhood, and most of all friendship and loyalty. Using humor and good natured prodding of controversial issues, the filmmaker is able to break through the barrier of bias, and get to the core of these three magnificent people. Fantastic Job!Chris Rogers  "},{"Title":"My road trip adventures in a bus never matched this amazing tour.","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" A relatively low budget Australian film about drag queens took the world by storm, almost caused a riot at the Cannes film festival and drove a million young queens to the dressing up box in the hunt for sequins, sparkles and pink flip-flops! The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of The Desert gave us such classic lines as, Just what this country needs, another cock in a frock on a rock! and Listen here you mullet, why don't you just light your tampon and blow your box apart, it's the only bang you're ever going to get, sweetheartIt is without exception the best and arguably the most successful drag queen movie of all time, breaking box office records and capturing the top of the charts in numerous countries around the world. It was an Academy award winning extravaganza of glitter, glam and lip-syncing with the most outrageously camp costumes the world had seen outside Madame JoJo's or Funny Girls! Uproariously funny and yet deeply affecting it proved to be way more than just a camp outing of tried and tested queer humour. The late eighties was a bit of a coming of age time for Australia's gay population, especially Sydney, it really came alive and blossomed into one of the bigger gay populations in the world. Australia has a reputation for all the big butch manly men, which considering how the modern nation of Australia started, would seem pretty accurate, only it's not, it's completely different, ever so much more vibrant and colourful. It is that vibrancy, that colour and that hopefulness that is so perfectly depicted in Priscilla.Stephen Elliott, the director and writer, who incidentally has a small cameo in the movie as a cute door boy in Alice, says he saw drag shows in other places, like the US and England, which were essentially men in dresses lip-syncing to other peoples songs. In Australia they did the same, but took it in a completely new direction, it became a completely new strange variety of theatre, so much so that he even used to go to drag queen jelly wrestling, pushing the envelope to the maximum. It was this experience along with watching a drunken drag queen at the Sydney gay Mardi Gras, which gave birth to the movie idea, which took hardly any time at all to write. From the very opening you know this film has deep rooted soul, first shots of Hugo as Mitzi mouthing the words to the poignant Charlene song, 'I've been to paradise, but I've never been to me' give the impression of an emotively sad song, yet this is so rapidly defused by the appearance of a lethargic priest and Felicia nursing a baby rubber chicken. You have left in no doubt after that that is no ordinary Australian movie and the jokes and gags just tumble on from there in rapid succession. However it's not all giggles, there are some key moments of high emotion - seeing the graffiti sprayed on the side of the bus in pink paint the morning after shocks the trio along with the audience and strikes a chord with those of old enough to have lived through a time of such prejudice and discrimination and how true those word seem when they ring in our ears, that no matter how tough we think we are, such things still hurt.There are deeply moving scenes, such as the gay bashing of Felicia and the confrontation between Mitzi and his son in Alice, which really seem seep through the comedy to dance in your heart and make you fall in love with the film. ￼ One of the key aspects of the movie is the superb casting; Terrence Stamp previously typecast as your typical British villain, took a risk on the role of Bernadette and knocked it out of the water in a downbeat, down trodden put upon yet completely resilient way. Hugo Weaving is the less visually striking member of the trio and the central character of Mitzi, who really is the lynch pin between the two worlds. The role of Felecia is taken by the simply stunning Guy Pearce who had literally just left long running soap Neighbours, in which he played goodie two shoes Mike and was an inspired choice and oh so pretty. Guy's superb performance takes the movie to new heights and is so good that the he has had trouble-convincing people he is actually straight in real life, even to this day. Bill Hunter a massive Australian character actor shines outstandingly as the gruff and butch Bob, the mechanic and unlikely love interest for one of the three. Priscilla is a beautiful magical combination of humour, catty bitchiness, kitsch costumes, stunning disco soundtrack and subtle sentiment with provocative thoughtful scenes and a delicate brush of honesty. Some jokes are obvious so too is the stereotypical veneer of the characters upon first glance, yet look a little deep as the film rolls on, you see more and more layers being unpeeled and exposed in a gently moving and comical way. It is one of the most enjoyable gay movies of all time; each subsequent viewing cements that sentiment further into fact. Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "}{"Title":"A fabulous & colourful romp that inspires my neverending gayness.","Date":"1 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Oh how I adore this film ! I found it to be enchanting & inspiring. This film is sooo special to me, I took my boyfriend Jun to see it & I must say that we hardly kissed at all as this wonderful piece of cinema was far too absorbing to take your eyes off the screen, not even for one of Juns sexy smooches.The costumes were the highlight, I was in awe of their delicious boldness & I continue, even to this day, to be inspired by this movies wardrobe ( or should I say 'closet' - tee hee ).On the man candy side, I couldn't get enough of Guy Pearce & his cheeky pout - what a saucy monkey. The other actors were equally good, but they lacked the hot cheekbones & bulging muscles of the gifted Guy Pearce.I would recommend this film to any man, gay or otherwise, as it is truly remarkable. Though, like me, you would probably better relate to the subject matter if you were a proud & fierce cross dressing queen. "},{"Title":"..a tragi-comedy not to be missed..","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" As EVERY comment has pointed-out, Priscilla is about two drag-queens and a trans-gendered performer who get on the bus in Sidney and take a perilous journey through the outback of Australia to do a gig at Alice Springs. I won't comment on too much of the plot, because that's the secret of this most entertaining movie. I am DELIGHTED there were so few negative reviews. I am NOT surprised that those who loved it, truly did - they were almost all female or gay, but also a couple of heterosexual males....plus some married folk who certainly have open minds and/or know some dragons.....maybe some plain-ole gays.I particularly loved the innocent-but-wise attitude of Mitzi's (Hugo Weaving) son.....I think there are a lot more little guys like him, but mom and dad just don't know about it. Mom (June Marie Bennett ?) certainly was a wild-but-clever enough woman to educate him about his dad - why wouldn't he like him? Alice Springs looked a lot like Las Vegas - I think it had some off-color business going-on there; I'm sure you noticed one of the parking-attendants screamed here are the drag-queens without batting an eyelash, and the audience wasn't all that excited about the show. The situation between dad and son was one of the tragi-comedies which didn't materialize -one of the heart-warming sub-plot of this beautifully-told screamer. Bob (Paul Hunter) played his role with ultimate skill; that does happen, as Brokeback Mountain proclaims. Female-impersonators have stage-door Johnnies you wouldn't believe.......This is dangerous territory for me to write about some of you will know from my other reviews that I am a retired drag-queen-female-impersonator......I could write volumes. However, some other users have poignantly written about the hidden tragedies in Priscilla; I hope others have read those reviews and understood the message. I just want to make a couple of factual remarks.These performers were outrageous drag-queens, NOT female-impersonators. The latter entertainers attempt to look and be as feminine as possible, in every detail - taking themselves dead-seriously. They see drag-queens as campy freaks - they seldom want to be associated with them, in comparison. In professional revues, however, it's the freaks who usually are most popular, if they get their stuff together. Bernie (Terrance Stamp), Mitzi (Hugo Weaving) and Felicia (Guy Pearce) gave fantastic performances, and would reign supreme in many American clubs, because it was apparent they did-but-didn't take themselves seriously.......in performing. Lizzy Gardner provided costumes ANY drag-queen would give their eye-teeth for (and maybe another vital part of their body) . BRAVA, Liz ! How do I know? I performed for decades as an attractive female-impersonator with gorgeous wigs and costumes - and talent - but, discovered how wonderful it was to be a drag-queen for the last part of my career (I really don't take that term seriously.) I called myself a drag-queen, because I had the pleasure of working with many and admired them greatly.To Michael-3B, LesGirls was a fabulously successful nightclub in Sidney that featured female-impersonators AND drag-queens. It toured all over the Asian-Pacific. There are several more clubs in a certain area of Sidney where drag is featured and many gay people congregate. Bernie portrays one of the original performers, who actually did become trans-gendered - she visited a club I worked in in Los Angeles. She did a guest-performance.....a lovely person. That such an outrageous film would ever be filmed in Australia is astounding. Not too many years ago, ANY gay person could not get into that country, as could not Blacks nor Orientals. Homophobia was the country's second name. It wasn't until the AIDS-epidemic did it become acceptable for gays to even be recognized, but it took a lot of screaming and kicking. NOW-A-DAYS, Australia - especially Sidney - is full of drag'........a second club was opened in Kowloon (China), to which I was going from Hawai'i. Sissy ME in China ? Not on your life.Americans cannot get it straight about men who dress as women; they are all lumped into the term transvestites. SURPRISE; transvestites are straight men who like to dress-up in women's clothing, and would not dare to leave home in that attire until recent years. SURPRISE NUMBER TWO; their wives couldn't care less, and usually accompany their husbands when they go out into public, especially to gay bars. So, all you macho numbers, we've been onto you for a very long time.I agree that Terrance Stamp played his role with vivid feeling. There are so many people like that character, but we want to think of them as being eternally, ecstatically beautiful. T'ain't so - the most successful trangendered-sex-changes are the ones you don't know about.The cinematography of Australia was breath-taking - there was plenty of room for those miles of flying fabric on Priscilla. I can attest every drag-show in THIS country tried to imitate it. Stephen Elliott certainly brought-out the very best in the entire cast; unlike some users, I didn't find one weak scene in the entire movie; I DID in that American Thank You, Julie Newmar thing. The songs by Abba were so appropriate - who dares to think they're dated? The last song on MY VHS is one sung by Whitney Houston (I think), and is so appropriate. I worked with a performer who sang it live, just as well. So touching....I shall inform you I have a critic of my reviews, whose opinion of this one should be scalding. Priscilla is delicious, may it live forever - yes, it did deserve an Oscar. I also suggest that those folk who didn't enjoy it should watch it several times again, to truly understand the sub-plots - and see Guy Pearce's fine buns.........you know I give it a 20..... "},{"Title":"Here is to all free-spirited and open-minded people!","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" While I wasn't crazy about the movie, I could still really appreciate it for everything it did- and the way it handled its themes.Seems that it are mostly the persons who can't handle the movie its themes are the ones who don't like this movie. A movie about cross-dressing homosexuals just clearly isn't everybody's cup of tea. But the homosexual aspects of the movie really wasn't to me what the movie was all about really. I saw it more as an ode to all of the free-spirited and open-minded people of this world. People who are simply doing their thing because they like it and feel comfortable that way, no matter what everybody else says or thinks about it and those who respect people for being 'different' and not living by the normal rules and standards. It's all what makes our world even more divers and also more of a joy to live on.And that's really the foremost thing I got out of this movie. The story itself seems to be secondary, since it's a quite simple one and can be seen as a typical road trip movie, in which the main characters come across all kinds of persons, get into trouble, while traveling through Australia. And as far as road trip movies go; this isn't the best example of it that I have ever seen. You feel that with some better writing the movie could had been a bit more fun and clever and witty to watch.One thing I also wasn't too fond about was its pacing. It's often going way to fast, which causes some things to not develop- or make an impact properly enough. You could perhaps 'blame' it on the fact that this is of course different from a normal Hollywood movie, since it's of course an Australian production, that uses a completely different approach and way of storytelling. I often have similar sort of problems with other Australian movies, so perhaps it's fair to say that I'm just not the biggest fan of Australian cinema.But still another thing that I can highly respect and appreciate this movie for is its acting, or rather said the courage and professionalism that the actor's show in this movie. The three main leads, who are all in drag throughout basically the entire movie, are being played by Hugo Weaving, Guy Pearce and Terence Stamp. All three very manly and tough looking men in real life, who also have families of their own and clearly aren't homosexual. Yet they have absolutely no problem with it to show themselves from a more vulnerable side and also aren't afraid to walk, talk and act like as if they are actual females. I really respect it when an actor does this and plays a character that is totally the opposite of who he or she is. You could of course question it though if Guy Pearce and Hugo Weaving would had still agreed on their roles if they had been the well known and much acclaimed actors that they are today. Not that they now would complain about this movie though, since it was the one that put them in the international spotlights and they have appeared in many big Hollywood projects ever since. The haven't forgot about their home country though, since every now and then they still appear in an Australian production. It was also refreshing by the way to hear them speak in their natural accents but it's arguably still Terence Stamp who steals the show, as the elder, once very successful drag queen, with still the very deep and distinctive Terence Stamp voice.So ultimately not a perfect movie, that I could still really enjoy and appreciate for the way it was handling and celebrating its themes.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Improbably great","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" ...and I don't say great lightly. This isn't merely some tired road comedy in drag, it's a fun, at times surprisingly moving story.Part of my immense surprise comes because I'd never really understood the appeal of drag shows. While I'm not sure I'm any bigger a fan, I definitely found myself drawn into the little universe created here.The central characters are real people who manage to play to stereotypes without succumbing to them. I was frankly amazed by Terence Stamp, an actor who has made a career playing dangerous, macho types, and made a surprisingly compelling and believable ageing transsexual. The novelty quickly wore off; it was one of those rare performances that was just totally without affect. Honestly, one of the best performances I've ever seen.Fun, as I expected, but there's a genuine affection and depth here. A very pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"My take on Priscillianism","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Exemplify a wacky dress without being tacky, and beyond, could be the film's tag. Whether you wear it on a frock or naked, should be aimed at people who say the film is OK, nicely done and frothy and all, but without much to it. Wrong. Wrong viewers they are that downplay the film's witty heart.I do not think there has ever been a film that delivers its ethos in the tag-line a cock in a frock on a rock - that's what our country hardly needed. The smashing alliteration outwits the scenario-in-a-capsule phrase of this more kind-than-kin road movie. It must have to do with something else. Queering the deadpan or deadpanning the queer? I am not sure I can fathom Terence Stamp's take on delivering what he says.All three actors bless the idea of casting and based on their choice there should be a new kind of lifetime achievement award, bestowed by the Vatican, for the film should be included in all discussions of trinitarian discourse Bernadette as a very dignified Holy Spirit or as trans-gendered Godhead, Adam as a reckless Holy Spirit or Son in drug-fueled high heels, Tick as Father, for sure. It should - the least - provoke a wave for re-evaluating the doctrines of Priscillian, the early Church heretic, or martyr depending on your appreciation of controversial matters, who was the first person in the history of Christianity to be executed for heresy he mostly lived in the desert like Adam, Bernadette and Tick, but being a strict ascetic, had failed to watch the film and be converted.It is a sly achievement to which one gives up and surrenders intelligently, when you realize that the film is a tender plea for man's precarious status, his always tenderness-seeking or wildly avoiding identity the women in the film range from the bully in the bar to the inane, almost extra-terrestrially squeaking runner, to the unintelligible vagina performer, and when in the and at last we encounter a human being, Tick's wife, the rich ambiguities are neither explained nor skimmed we now understand that these women with their full range of caricature and sexual being, are there to put into relief the three characters' embattled manhood (Tick trying to sell the odious face-creams totally drunk in that bar, by his drawl rightfully pronounces the product woe-man) Bernadette still clutches to some core of enjoyment in what concerns her pre-operation self, as her rage whenever Adam calls her by her earlier name (and this somehow counter-contrasts, to call the effect by that name, with Adam's counter-molestation flash-back), Ralph, erupts, Tick has an amazingly human face charting all delicate and anxious hesitations concerning what is to be a father, drawing a line to procreation, and this, in turn, has an uncanny resonance to and with the fact that Adam seems peculiarly parentless. Perhaps it is this difficult to grasp effect that from the three performances the one that stayed with me was Pearce's with all its reckless abandon.Terence Stamp has not demonstrated that he is from another solar system that well even in Pasolini's Theoreme - it is surely a system of stellar poise and dignity, and we rarely see that around here; and how difficult it is to have Hugo Weaving's strong, unmissable face playing a humane character without something leaking into false notes. The story is perfect in being a pilgrim's progress and its queering of it Stephan Elliott touched genius with this film, and so did the leads, and so do we. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Best Aussie movie","Date":"18 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is my favourite Aussie movie of all times - a classic hilarious comedy in Australian tradition.There are 3 aspects of the movie which make it such an outstanding entertainer.Firstly, it's the brilliant screenplay by writer-director Stephan Elliott about 3 drag queens - a gay, a bisexual and a trans-sexual - from Sydney going on a bus to Alice Springs, a distance of over 2000 Kms to the centre of Australia, for a public performance. It's a road movie unlike any I have seen before, outrageously funny in one moment and poignant and touching the next.Second, the performances by the 3 lead actors are outstanding. It's hard to pick one which has outshone the others. My personal favourite, like a lot of others, is Terence Stamp as the trans-sexual.Third, the stunning costumes are worth watching just for themselves. Some of the scenes in the movie where we see the characters in their wildly colourful costumes against the background of an outlandish landscape are breathtakingly beautiful and memorable.It's a movie one can see many times, and enjoy it every time. "},{"Title":"Amazing!!","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This happens to be one of my all time favorite movies.  It is truly amazing. Pricilla is witty, and all together the greatest comedy ever.  I am in total awe of it, I know almost every line by heart and have watched it countless times.  I recommend it to anyone with a sense of humor! "},{"Title":"It's weird, but in a funny way","Date":"2 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Although this movie got a lot of good criticism when it was first released, I never watched it until now. I always thought that this wasn't a movie for me. I'm a straight guy and I was convinced that I didn't want to see weird men dressing up in women's clothes, play-backing seventies hits from ABBA or other groups. That's why I never rented it, but when it was shown on television, I decided to give it a try anyway. I could always switch it off if it was too terrible. But I didn't, I kept watching it until the end.The story that is told in The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert brings us to two drag-queens and a transsexual who will go to a resort in Alice Springs, a town in the middle of the Australian desert, to perform a drag show. As they travel from Sydney to Alice Springs, they encounter all kinds of people, but are almost always the subject of misunderstanding and hate, because the locals don't always understand or like the way these three men act. When the engine of Priscilla, that's how they called their bus, breaks down in the middle of the desert, they paint it lavender, waiting for help to come. Then they meet Bob who takes them for what they are and who fixes the problem with their bus. He travels on with them, protecting them for more problems...If you are looking for a not so average comedy, then you definitely should give this movie a try. A road movie about two drag queens and a transvestite isn't exactly something that you'll find every day, let alone a good one. And I admit that I started feeling completely different about this movie once I was seeing it. OK, it may not always be perfect and sometimes it is completely over-the-top, but it also offers some excellent laughs. And seeing Guy Pearce, Hugo Weaving and Terence Stamp in this kind of roles is already great fun on itself. Normally you wouldn't expect them in such a role, but they did a very fine job.All in all I guess you have to be incredibly homophobic to hate this movie. I'm not saying that it's my favorite comedy of all times, but the story, the acting, the humor,... made it all worth watching. I give this movie a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Well Hugo Weaving wasn't first in drag in Cloud Atlas","Date":"29 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This first of all is a really fun movie it's not great but close to it, it won the Oscar for costume design in 94 but that shows how well this film is put together. Since it follows three drag queen performers who perform songs like Shake Your grove Thing,Finally,I Will Survive by three terrific actors Stamp, Weaving and Pierce and that's the main reason why the film is so good since they all work great together and all but the movie dealt with LGBT rights and a a lot of films did not handle them at the time.This movie was bold and came from it was a Broadway show and a lot of cult success well deserved cause of it. Check it out but it's not for everyone because it's mainly over the top but that's why we all like Priscilla. "},{"Title":"The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" In an updated version of the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die this was one of the new additions, I was definitely looking forward to seeing if it was a good one. Basically drag performer Anthony 'Tick' Belrose (The Lord of the Rings Trilogy's Hugo Weaving) with the stage name Mitzi Del Bra and transsexual Bernadette (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Terence Stamp) are friends, and after the death of a friend they are joined by another drag queen Adam Whitely (Guy Pearce) with the stage name Felicia Jollygoodfellow. The three friends get a job performing a drag show at a resort in Alice Springs outside the Australian desert, so they get themselves a van that they christen and name Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, and start a road trip from Sydney to their destination. On their journey through the Simpson Desert, Tick, Adam and Bernardette encounter numerous characters who they ask for help, have some fun with, get into some trouble with, and of course perform for in their over the top costumes miming popular most gay anthems. There is a point when the van is vandalised by abusive homo-phobics writing AIDS f***ers go home, so the vehicle is painted lavender, i.e. pink, and they carry on, to be joined by middle-aged mechanic Bob (Bill Hunter) when it breaks down. The trio and their new friend eventually arrive in Alice Springs, and Tick is shocked to see that the one who has hired them is his wife Marion (Sarah Chadwick), they were never divorced and have an eight year old son, Benjamin (Mark Holmes). The four weeks of performing pass, and it is time to go home, but Bernadette decides to stay behind with Bob to work and get closer, while Tick and Adam return home with supportive Benjamin. Also starring Julia Cortez as Cynthia and Ken Radley as Frank. Weaving, Stamp and Pearce each give brilliantly camp, sarcastic, bitchy and over the top performances, Weaving being versatile, Stamp being the hard-drinking moody one, and Pearce being overly camp. The costume designs definitely deserved the accolades they got, they provide most of the vibrant colour, as do the locations, the road movie concept is great fun, and the gay anthem songs (whether mimed to or not) such as Village People's Go West, Gloria Gaynor's I Will Survive, ABBA's Mamma Mia, ABBA's Fernando, Ce Ce Peniston's Finally and Vanessa Williams' Save The Best For Last are great listening, all in all, a must see enjoyably camp comedy drama. It won the Oscar for Best Costume Design, it won the BAFTAs for Best Costume Design and Best Make Up/Hair, and it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music for Guy Gross, Best Cinematography, Best Production Design and Best Original Screenplay, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Comedy/Musical. Very good! "}{"Title":"Contains more tonic than Gordons!","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Gay or straight, male or female, any viewer who loves bright, breezy, poignant, very funny, tragic, colourful, bitchy and uplifting films will have seen this one. Several times. Add three 'queens', left to their own calamitous devices, out in the wilderness of the Aussie outback, off to drag (hmm) their way across some of the most testosterone-fuelled outback communities in existence and you get an idea. Add genuine heartbreak, longing for what-could-have-beens and the best bitchy put-down I've ever heard. That it's from Terrence Stamp in a frock, blinking soggy mascara is one I'll always remember fondly.Cross The Wizard of Oz with Thelma and Louise and you're vaguely there. "},{"Title":"A campy side-splitting good time.","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie was a scream. Hugo Weaving was great, though it was a little disconcerting to see the same guy who played the Elf lord in LOTR, and Agent Smith in the Matrix playing a rather scary looking cross-dressing stage performer. I must say, though, that he cuts a lovely figure in a dress.Terence Stamp was grand as Bernadette, but Guy Pearce was darling. I've seen several of his films, and though I think he's a good actor, the only other one I like is L.A. Confidential (which is one of my favorites in general). Seeing that, then seeing Pearce in this, was probably the best way to go. Had I seen this first, I don't think I could have believed him playing a strait-laced detective. But he was grand, and he makes a gorgeous woman. He also lip-syncs really well. The scenes of him sitting in a giant shoe on top of the bus singing opera were great. How striking to see the long bolts of material streaming along behind the bus.The bus itself - the title character - was a great prop around which the film was crafted. It was pink, temperamental, and instrumental in introducing Bernadette to Bob, played with understated class by Bill Hunter. His flaky wife was nuts, and luckily not in the movie for long, but her character was hilarious.This film won a richly deserved Oscar for costume design. The cinematography was wonderful, the script beyond reproach, and full of little vignettes about life as a drag queen, and the unfair treatment that results when people see boys wearing girls' clothes. That was another reason I liked Bob...he didn't bat an eyelash, helped his friends without reservation (except for one momentary pause that showed he's just as human as the rest of us), and he and Bernadette got along like a house on fire.I'll repeat that Terence Stamp was wonderful, and Guy Pearce was wonderful plus 10. I loved this movie. A unique, wild, campy ride, and I recommend it whole-heartedly. 8/10. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A special view at the theme.","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is such a authentic movie! And that means that you don't see the hole movie the transvestites abscond from there plaguers. You don't must be scared that every moment someone comes up and kill ore hit one of the main characters, like in Before Night Falss. You could be concentrate on their life's and feelings. Not to show the typical daily discrimination or volition to describe the reasons to become a transsexual, that makes this movie exciting. Cause the film show scenes from their childhood, but this flashbacks playing exactly with that stereotypes of describing transsexuality or homosexuality (if you have a look at the scene with the (father?) of Felicia Jollygoodfellow). The gathering with the aborigines is such a great symbol! Two cultures who are so foreign from the western civilization come together, accept each other and have fun together. Awesome! Tick's child at least show the way everybody should deal with transsexuality or homosexuality in his heart-warming appreciative kiddy impartiality. Treat it as something natural. At least it's so great to see Weaving and Pearce in this parts and the soundtrack is also super. "},{"Title":"Priscella of the desert","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" no one has mentioned the Abba poop! Geez that was so funny-this film is on my top ten of all time...every actor was fabulous...the clothes were wonderful....the story was fantastic and it left me with such a happy feeling...I wanted to yell at my friends who were TERRIFIED to come out-to DO it!Terrence stamp made me cry....and later on in the film I wanted to cry with happiness....you have to love the kid near the end of the film...and of course the Mom-who reminded me of mine before my Ma was lost into the depths of Alzheimers....she encouraged me to be what I am...not what society said I should be....if anyone wants to come out for their kids and are not sure how to----take a break....sit down and watch this film with them.It is fabulous....a fun,kind,sweet movie.Buy it! "},{"Title":"A f a n t a s t i c movie","Date":"26 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film was so amazing i would be surprised if i have watched it any less than 15 times! The actors were so great - they were so brave to take on such a different role and their performances were so amazing - i have to pinch myself from time to time. 'Being a man one day and a woman the next is not an easy thing to do.' The constant out there jokes (cue Abba turd) get me every time - so do the scenes between Mitzi and Benj - and Bernadette and Bob. I think it's amazing that a movie with such a different storyline and odd jokes could have a soft, sweet side.I recently went to see 'Pricilla Queen of the Desert - The Musical' and i was absolutely blown away - the costumes and the music were so great - i which i could see it again - but the movie was just a bit better, in my opinion - and thats only because the actors in the movie seemed so real - and had real feelings and emotions.The choice of music was great - and kept the lively vibe from the movie going to the very last 'Mamma Mia' scene. The songs are constantly in my head!! The scene after the credits about the kite was very funny and kept me laughing even when the movie was finished.The director, Stephen Elliot, was fantastic. Not only did he write an amazing, open-minded, out there script - but he managed to deliver an even better movie. Nobody acknowledged that the drag scene existed in Australia - and lots of the Aussie population thought that these men were wacky and were making absolute fools of themselves. Stephen Elliot showed the drag queens, transsexuals and gay population in all their glory - kudos.All in all - this is my favourite movie and a classic film and has changed the way that people think forever. "},{"Title":"smashing","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I cannot understand how someone who sees this film cannot be taken by how wonderful it is. True, it is not deep, it is not groundbreaking, and the plot is not the strongest asset. But the acting is wonderful, the characters are believable, and there are subtleties that cannot be noticed watching it the first time. I have seen this movie maybe twenty times, and every time, I see something new, something funny.Guy Pearce of L.A. Confidential makes an astounding change of pace as a very effeminate drag queen, and So does Hugo Weaving from his straight role in Proof. I cannot even look at Terence Stamp anymore without admiring how he could morph so gracefully into a woman.Overall, I sing praises for this movie. It truly deserves the full 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"That's just what this country needs","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is the absolute best film ever made about drag queens. It follows the life of three Austrailian beauties as they make their way across the outback in their lavender bus (Priscilla). It is a superb film, not only because of the fact that it shows a world that many have never seen, but also because all the stars are actually straight, which is unbelievable. Sure, it sugar coats the life of lay girls but the film is so glamorous and fun that you forget that it's not  real. "},{"Title":"The true meaning of camp.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is camp to the core, from the wonderful performances of convincing actors to catchy tunes and fantastic outfits! Since I first watched this film, I cannot resist slipping on a pair of platform shoes and belting out Abba lyrics into a hairdryer.You must see this film, or you'll never know what Guy Pearce looks like in drag!!!!  "},{"Title":"A great I laugh- I cry movie!","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This a very good movie, entertaining, not necessarily what you would expect from a drag queen movie because of the sensitive description of the characters and the interesting Australian landscape. Flamboyant and touching! "},{"Title":"Three drag queens trek across Australia in a bus they name Priscilla.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I adore this film; it is one of my favorites. The ambience, the music, the characters, and definitely the accents drew me in. not to mention the fact that Guy Pearce (Felicia) is gorgeous. In his own way I think Hugo Weaving (mitzi) is also very attractive. the characters are certainly the best part of the film though. They are all so fun and quirky. I highly recommend this film to anyone.    "}{"Title":"Not a drag at all","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  From the outset, the detailed account of how a man died of a head wound after being overcome from peroxide fumes, you know that this is going to be good.  The acting is fab, the cutting remarks are hilarious and the rendition of Gloria Gaynors I will survive around the campfire is just one of the camp treats in a fantastically funny and brilliantly produced movie. Watch it, it's well worth it! "},{"Title":"This one's a real riot!!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I really enjoyed this gem of a movie. It's so breezy and free. The subject matter has been dealt with very simply -- no philosophizing, no apologies, no going into traumatic childhood kind of thing (although there was a scene where there was a flashback of Adam and his stepfather in the bathroom -- but that was more hilarious than traumatic).I loved the costumes, the treatment of the Wo-Man makeup products and got a real kick watching Hugo Weaving throwing handbags as an improvised game. The most memorable scene was the one where a real Asian girl go-go dancer and unhappy wife of a mechanic took the stage in her zebra print lingerie outfit complete with hat and white hosiery plus ping-pong balls. She did this amazing trick with the ping-pong balls that left our three drag queens shocked beyond words.Truly amazing!!  "},{"Title":"You'll laugh so hard till you drop","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" When we talk about Hugo Weaving, we always talk about his famous roles like Agent Smith, V or Elrond. This is Hugo Weaving before he was Smith and he is playing as a drag queen. No kidding, he's playing a drag queen! Not only you get to see Hugo Weaving as a drag queen but also Guy Pearce and Terence Stamp. They're all playing drag queen. Now how often do we see Hollywood actors playing as a drag queen? Mitzi (Weaving), Felicia (Pearce) and Bernadette (Stamp) decides to go for a performance in a Hotel. They travel on bus across the desert and it breakdown in the middle of nowhere. They discovered that the owner for the hotel they are performing for is owned by Mitzi's wife. They soon meets Bob who help them fix the bus. They bring him along on their journey to fix the bus. Soon they made it to the hotel and Mitzi finds out that he has a son and he doesn't want his son to know what he is working as.This is a wonderful sing-a-long movie with lots of laugh out loud jokes. I watched this movie once and I've already end up singing along with the movie. The soundtrack of the movie is great. Lots of famous songs like 'Mamamia' or 'I Will Survive'. This is a soundtrack worth buying. The characters are well crafted and the acting is brilliant. It is so good and so believable they deserve a best actor award.The camera works are simple but great. It matches well for the film. The editing is great for some of the scenes like the performances scenes. The art direction for this film is excellent. The costume for the performance scenes are well done. The script is well written with lots of jokes that can make you laugh till you drop. You will not get bored of the jokes.I hardly watch movies about drag queen and I'm not really a fan of it but after watching this movie, I like it even if it is not my cup of tea. Fans of Hugo Weaving, Guy Pearce and Terence Stamp must watch this film to believe it. If you are looking for some good laugh this is strongly recommend. Drag queens have never look this good. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie is a must see for anyone who loves rollicking good time. The crazy adventures of two drag queens and a transsexual as the traverse Australia in a converted bus is hilarious. The music is nearly all ABBA and the costumes are simply over the top and deserving of the Oscar that they won - and who remembers the costume designer in her American Express Gold Card dress? This is a touching movie about self acceptance and true love despite all the odds. And all three of the main characters are straight but completely believable as gay men. The scene that contains the ping pong balls is, alone, worth the price of a rental but the film in its entirety is a fun-filled road show with a new twist. "},{"Title":"Camp classic","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Three drag queens take a road trip from Sydney to mid-Australia to perform on stage. Also, one of them has a secret that's revealed at the end. Nothing new plot-wise, but it has a fantastic soundtrack (Gloria Gaynor, the Village People, Charlene, etc.), unbelievable costumes (a deserved Academy-Award winner) and three great performances. Hugo Weaving is good, Terence Stamp is excellent as a transsexual--this couldn't have been an easy role, but he pulls it off. Guy Pearce is absolutely gorgeous as the youngest of the bunch. Also, there are more than a few scenes of him shirtless or parading around in his little Calvin Kleins--definitely worth seeing (I know he's straight, but I can dream can't I?). Also the bitchy banter is funny (if occasionally too caustic) and they don't ignore homophobia and, at the end, present a little boy who is totally comfortable with his dad being a drag queen and his mother bisexual (it's suggested). Also, back in 1994 this helped me get over a very painful breakup. If you're gay, you've got to see it. One of the best gay films of all time. "},{"Title":"Impeccable acting one of the best films I've ever seen","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Priscilla is truly a masterpiece. Technically speaking, the cast and the acting is superb. Looking at the artistic performance one would never believe that Guy Pearce is not a real life fag or that Terrence Stamp is not a real life woman. It is just unbelievable how good the acting is. Script is very alive and witty, though not quite for the faint of the heart. Plot is not that sophisticated, but we're not watching agent 007 series, are we?Elliott actually uses metaphors and allegories to convey ideas, so I guess that's why Priscilla goes over some people's heads. Same kind of people would usually call Tarkovski's films boring, lacking sense and artistic value, but again, for those souls there are gems like Titanic or Rocky series.However, to give opponents a credit I should admit that Priscilla does require basic familiarity with contemporary social problems, culture of various layers of the society and so on. Not to mention the ability for the empathy, which most of people in the ...uh... Happy Nation lack.For the sake of the example I would list three scenes from this film that would not make sense for most of the peopleScene 1 Bernadette, a transsexual woman played by Terrence Stamp ventures into the desert to look for help after three main characters get stuck in the middle of the nowhere. Adam/Felicia, a gay male character player by Guy Pearce passes a derogatory remark to the Bernadette's back. After that we see close up of a lizard crawling in the dune's sands. Question why? what meaning is conveyed through this scene?Scene 2 Our heroes throw a drag performance in some pub in a little rural town. The crowd is unimpressed if not disgusted. However, people start applauding to a thai girl who walks in and starts throwing ping-pong balls with her vagina. Question who's being weird here? Our queer performers of normal folks at the pub?Scene 3 While bus is running in the middle of desert, Adam/Felicia sings arias from Verdi's La Traviata on the top of the bus' roof. Question what does it mean?Newbies to cinema wouldn't catch such details (and consequently, wouldn't enjoy the film much). Though viewed by many as a comedy, Priscilla is actually a tragicomedy, blending elements of both genre. It tells us about three people, a gay man, a bisexual male and a transsexual on a trip to the middle of nowhere, a place to where people like them would never go or happen to be.For those who didn't know, the main three characters represent completely different strata of the society. As gay, bisexual and transsexual community are highly segregated. Even more, however it's strange, they don't quite like each other in the same way as mainstream folks don't like all of them. Adam is constantly poking Tick and Bernadette, Bernadette in turn hates Adam's flamboyance. Only danger and hardship of the trip unite them albeit temporarily.In the end we discover that Adam fulfills his strange dream he was talking about in the beginning. Tick literally finds his son. And Bernadette finds someone with whom she will probably spend the sunset of her life. There are a lot of subtleties in this film which a novice won't spot. Watching several times would help. This film, as good wine, gets better with time. Just remember, it's not about ABBA or drag or whatever, it's about life quest for three different people. In desert they find what they didn't find in the comfort of Sidney. Does it tell you something? -) "},{"Title":"Not as good as it ought to be","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Priscilla, Queen of the Desert is always being trotted out as a masterpiece of Australian cinema. I found it quite disappointing. The lead actors are great - Terence Stamp is aging beautifully, Guy Pearce should do more comedy instead of the dour roles he chooses and I've been a fan of Hugo Weaving since I saw him play Oberon eons ago. The cinematography is great, but if you've ever been to the Australian outback, you'd know that the air is so clear and the light so brilliant that they could have shot it on the movie equivalent of a Box Brownie and it still would have looked spectacular.So what's my problem? Well, three things. First, there is not a sympathetic female character in the whole film. A woman who has to earn her living shooting ping pong balls out of her privates in a roadside pub deserves our sympathy. Tick's wife doesn't get much better treatment.Second, the scene when they sing I Will Survive to a group of Aboriginals is offensive. To try to draw any sort of parallel between the struggles of drag queens and trannies and the almost total destruction of Aboriginal culture, which is what I assume the scene is supposed to do, shows a level of historical understanding worthy of Paris Hilton.Last of all, and the greatest defect of the film is that it just isn't funny enough. Did Stephan Elliott actually talk to any drag queens when writing the film? Anyone who knows a drag queen (or three or four) knows that most of them have rapier-like wits and they're not afraid to use them. Now, I can understand that a lot of drag queen banter probably would have got the film refused classification but Elliott should have been able to gather enough fit for the kiddies material to complete his film.So, all in all, a waste of a good idea and a great cast. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, hilarious, campy fun","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Wonderful, hilarious, campy fun.Two drag queens, Felicia (played by Guy Pearce) and Mitzi (Hugo Weaving), and a transsexual, Bernadette (Terrence Stamp), leave Sydney for Alice Springs in order to play a series of shows. Their mode of transport - a bus, Priscilla. Their appearance in rural towns gets mixed reactions...Very funny movie. Dialogue is razor-sharp and wittily clever. The characters themselves provide much of the entertainment, especially the over-the-topness of Felicia.Some interesting themes too, especially of tolerance and intolerance, and not prejudging people. Much of our characters' help and support comes from unexpected sources...Great work by the three leads. Guy Pearce is great as the larger- than-life, bitchy Felicia. Terrence Stamp provides the gravitas as Bernadette. Mitzi is the most complex character and Hugo Weaving does a great job in the role.Good support from Bill Hunter as Bob. "},{"Title":"Sparkling cuvée, attempting to imitate champagne","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" many superlatives have been thrown at this film, many sycophantic accolades. In my opinion, it is an attempt to cut through, a bold, and even adventurous exercise in film story telling. the sad reality is that it is a failure in honest theatrical terms.Like a sparkling cuvée, it is imbued with effervescent enthusiasm, but its pedigree lacks the finesse of the champagne it attempts to imitate, and, not surprisingly, it conveys very little taste.The direction is stilted and obvious, even clunky at times; the acting, with one, and occasionally two notable exceptions, rates from bold to over the top, and the dialogue suffers from poor scripting and unrefined delivery. Like many (alas too many) Australian films, it is a work based upon a script devoid of a good story, which is competently shot (although in this case containing some technical errors of judgement) but rather over enthusiastically played out. PQD is like the outpourings of an amateur theatre troupe, hell bent upon having fun, strutting their individual stuff, and playing for laughs. "},{"Title":"great characters","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Ralph Waite aka Bernadette Bassenger (Terence Stamp) suffered a friend's death and agrees to go with Tick Belrose aka Mitzi Del Bra (Hugo Weaving) to perform in Alice Springs, a desert resort town in the middle of Australia. Adam Whitely aka Felicia Jollygoodfellow (Guy Pearce) is eager to join and buys a touring bus christening her Priscilla, Queen of the Desert.This has some fun comedic touches. However the trick of this movie is that the guys don't play it too broadly. Stamp and Weaving are actually playing it reserved. They are more wore-down middle age men than flamboyant gays. Guy Pearce is the only one playing it somewhat broadly. The costumes are great ridiculousness. The movie is full of big laughs and also a touching character study. "}{"Title":"Like a drag show, this film has an unnerving amount of confidence","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Few films tackle the gay/lesbian genre with such flamboyant and outrageous tendencies, but The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert manages to be one of the genre's rarities. It's an uncommonly free-spirited film, bound by nothing and restrained by no one, with a writer/director who clearly understands and empathizes with the subculture and a cast committed to giving it the respect and the zany fun it deserves.We focus on Anthony Belrose (Hugo Weaving), who uses the drag pseudonym Mitzi Del Bra and works in Sydney as a performer for Lasseter's Hotel Casino Resort in the remote town of Alice Springs. Anthony, despite success at Lasseter's, hungers for something more out of his life and his performances; he's sick of being belittled to get naked or show skin when he's pouring his heart out on stage before the microphone. As a result, he rounds up his colleagues Bernadette Bassinger (Terrence Stamp), a transsexual performer and Adam Whitely (Guy Pearce), a younger, more obnoxious soul who goes under the stage name Felicia Jollygoodfellow to embark on a four-week tour through the Australian Outback in their large RV named Priscilla. Classic road trip tropes ensue the second this eclectic trio embark on their journey. The three find a group of Aborigines, whom have never seen the art of drag performance, along with a group of rednecks that nearly have them lynched for intruding on their territory. Along the way, the gang gets equal parts feisty and sentimental with one another, getting on each others nerves at times and finding solace in one another for at least empathizing with their desire to be understood and respected for what they do.The Adventures of Priscilla, in order to really succeed as a film, needed to occasionally capture human emotions through a tender, sentimental lens and Elliot perfectly delivers it without the violins and the overblown emotional manipulation. He gives us a lot of time to spend confined with this trio on Priscilla before the emotions take over. He starts off lighter, peppering the film with bouts of wittiness (when the three harmonize the drinks they want in tune of Twelve Days of Christmas) and light-hearted fun.The first leg of their trip about the goofy, somewhat hostile conversations they can have with one another. The second leg of the film is when most of the antics kick in and we see the trio's interactions with other minority subcultures, who choose to respond to the three in whatever way their own culture has perceived them (either openly or narrowly). Finally, the final leg of the film takes the aforementioned introspective look into these characters as human beings, with their own sense of idealism for themselves and the people around them. This is when The Adventures of Priscilla becomes a bit sadder, but never forgoes the element of good-natured, consistent fun.Aside from the conversational banter being a real hoot, Tim Chappel and Lizzy Gardiner's Oscar winning costume design is almost a character in itself. Chappel and Gardiner bathe the film in an exciting, eye-popping array of flamboyant color schemes and loud tones and hues that make for a visually delicious experience. Brian J. Breheny's cinematography also lends a hand to making the Australian Outback a lively character, accentuating every detail of the land in a way that makes the excursion that much more enjoyable. All the background devices in the film are precise, which makes The Adventures of Priscilla not only an interesting character study but a royal feast for the eyes.The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert also features some of the most compelling and uproariously funny work from Pearce, Stamp, and Weaving, three veteran character actors who continue to expand their horizons with the variety of roles they take. With all of this, there is a general showstopping quality to the film that stems from all its aesthetic attributes and central performances. Like a drag show, the film steps out with a bold, unflinching amount of confidence and persists to exploit every ounce of entertainment and humane element that it can handle and, in turn, delivers terrific entertainment for most of its runtime.Starring Terrence Stamp, Hugo Weaving, Guy Pearce, and Bill Hunter. Directed by Stephan Elliot. "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I am still smiling ... This is a light, fun film. A comedy, I guess with elements of a musical - though I remember only three or four songs Finally by CeCe Peniston, I will survive by Gloria Gaynor and Save the best for last by Vanessa Williams. PENISton and GAYNor must have been chosen on purpose.Guy Pierce is really great. I saw him last in the movie Momento ...and here, he is so believable! You can not believe this guy is really straight.I actually expected a film with Patrick Swaysie and Wesley Snipes, but it must be some other film about drag queens... Anyway, a really fun and relaxing film. Eight from me. "},{"Title":"An Incredible Austrlian Cult Film","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Two drag queens (Guy Pearce and Hugo Weaving) and a transsexual (Terence Stamp) travel across the desert to perform their unique style of cabaret.Guy Pearce is pretty amazing here. Although not gay, he plays the stereotypical gay guy to a T. He takes what we saw from Robin Williams in The Bird Cage and improves upon it, making it all his own. This is more believable than what Williams did.Terence Stamp is also incredible, playing a total bad-donkey. He is apparently supposed to be transgender, but looks like an old man in a wig. That actually makes him all the more interesting, because it bends the genders in a fun and entertaining way a man transitioning to a woman, while still maintaining a tough, rough, and pugilistic exterior. Excellent. "},{"Title":"A Drag Queen's Delight!","Date":"4 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (1994) Dir Stephan Elliott / Cast Hugo Weaving, Guy Pearce, Terence Stamp, Bill Hunter, Sarah Chadwick Comedy that highlights the exposure of alternative lifestyles in our culture. It regards three drag queens trekking across the Australian outback to a performance gig. They are met with scorn by those oppose to the lifestyle while others embrace their humorous actions. Terence Stamp stands out as Bernadette, an aged veteran drag queen looking to leave the public gigs behind. Hugo Weaving plays Mitzi whom we learn has a wife and son. In fact, it is his wife's casino that homes their latest gig. Mitzi left that life for his current and ponders how his son will react to his lifestyle. Guy Pearce plays the flamboyant Felicia who encounters the brutality of opposition when his antics fall on negativity. Bill Hunter plays a mechanic who befriends the trio and grows close to Bernadette all the while his Asian wife frustrates him with a performance that involves golf balls. This antic is a horrible distraction that fails to mesh with any other humour presented here. Sarah Chadwick plays Mitzi's wife who seems to accept her husband's lot in life. Directed by Stephan Elliott with a detailed screenplay that only derails in the third act when it seems to drag on. Highlighted with colourful costumes that elevate the personalities parading across the desert in a pink bus. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"Budget Barbie Camper!","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The Adventures of Priscilla Queen Of The Desert is a fun and entertaining film about three drag queens who get together for a show in the Australian outback. One of them suffers a loss in her life and as a result gets together with her friends to perform one last tour as a way of getting away from her tragedy. They buy a busted old school bus, fix it up and hit the road together. As they travel across the country they sing, dance, play dress up and in the process bond closer together as friends. It's a wonderful and heartwarming film to watch if you're a fan of dresses, makeup, girl power and Abba! I recommend this film to anyone who's a fan of musical comedy. "},{"Title":"Slightly Overlong... but Great!","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I first saw Priscilla Queen of the Desert at a friend's house with nothing much else to watch. Whislt I'd heard very little of the film before, I'd obviously heard of the stage show and was aware of the film's content. Priscilla is a great film, because it doesn't only provide its audience with the campy jokes and snappy one-liners that are accustomed with films such as this, it also has a lot of heart. I adore films that express brave choices in casting, as Priscilla does just this with Terrence Stamp playing a transsexual and the whole thing works so well. Its academy award for best costume design is extremely well-deserved and I also enjoyed some of the almost surrealist touches to the film. At some points the unfolding of events on screen resembles a Salvador Dali painting for example the scene in which one of the 'Queens' rides atop their bus in a large shoe, painting the desert with pink dust. I couldn't help but feel however that the film was a tad overlong. A lot of the content felt slightly drawn out, but its still definitely worth a watch. A few glasses of wine on a Friday night is perfect for Priscilla. "},{"Title":"Mamma Mia  A good gay proud film","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The first thing that i saw of The adventures of Priscilla, queen of the desert was the great I will survive scene. The adventures of Priscilla, queen of the desert is an incredible composition of different topics like gay proud, homophobia, ABBA music, and the being like you think.Although the plot doesn't express excellence, the movie has a rich expression. And that thing causes us happiness and sometimes sadness.Besides that i said previously, the movie also presents a topic that it doesn't intervene to homosexual or transsexual people. The election of roads, the election of life, the election of believe in yourself or believe in other people that not even knows you. Believe in the people you love.The adventures of Priscilla, queen of the desert is a comedy of music, dance, and pride.*Apologize for orthographic errors ... if there any "},{"Title":"See this film, you won't regret it.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is fun and more than a bit campy, yes.  However, underlying this is such a wonderful message of acceptance and love.  You will not regret seeing this movie!Besides, you get to see agent Smith (a.k.a. Elrond) in drag!  What else can you ask for? "},{"Title":"You Will Never Dress The Same Again","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The movie was full of distinct and classic adventures, which I had a rather fabulous time speculating. All of the others whom were trash talking and writing bad reviews for the movie should definitley watch it again. It deserves another chance; even for those with an unbearably cold heart. It was a fantastic movie, which was based on three drag queens who just want to find a place in the world. The message is not clearly stated, but it is factual. The definition of Drag Queen in Australia was truly different after this movie. It shows what a prejudice these women have in public places and private spaces even. But all in all, the costumes were wonderful, the songs were extraordinary, and the makeup was elegant. Go see this if you already haven't. It really is a once in a life extravaganza.  "},{"Title":"It's a lot of fun","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Professional female impersonators, Tick Belrose (Hugo Weaving), Bernadette (Terence Stamp) and Felicia (Guy Pierce) are booked to play at a new resort in the Outback of Australia, to which they travel in a pink bus christened Pricilla, Queen of the DesertThis is a new twist on the well worn buddy movie genre.  The actors do a great job and the story well paced.  While it does have it's dramtic moments Priscilla is basically a fun film which touches on the topics of tolerance and self expression without being preachy. "}{"Title":"Stereotypes that make you laugh...","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It is true that this movie is filled with stereotypes but probably that is what makes it so funny. I laughed outloud so many times while watching this movie. The stereotypes make it so outlandish that I can't really see it offending it anyone because it is not even close to the way people are. Also although it makes a point about tolerence it doesn't go into the old moral of  insert minority group here are people too. It's a great movie so see it! "},{"Title":"Delightful film for tolerant viewers","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I really like the tone and feel of this film.  It's a gentle tale of some very different men making their way across Australia, each struggling with their own problems yet still having time to help each other.  Not all folks will appreciate it, but if tolerance is in your blood, you'll like it. My wife and I especially enjoyed Terence Stamp's performance. I think it was a particularly difficult role to play convincingly, but he carried it off magnificently. I highly recommend this picture. "},{"Title":"Inspired by Les Girls?","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Although Priscilla... undoubtedly stands alone as a brilliant film, I have to say I'm surprised that no one has made the connection with Les Girls, a 1957 George Cukor (who was gay) film about three showgirls in a traveling performance called Les Girls. It was a musical comedy starring Gene Kelly, Mitzi Gaynor and others. Some of the musical numbers and costumes most definitely inspired scenes in Priscilla... (the costumes especially) and even some of the plot points are familiar. On top of that, the Priscilla storyline references Les Girls directly, when it is explained how Terrence Stamp's character had appeared in the stage version of Les Girls for many years during his youthful prime. "},{"Title":"Fabulous","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Yes, it is filled with stereotypes. Yes, that should be a bad thing. But it isn't. Priscilla has been a favorite of mine for so long. It is charming, funny, and a great movie to sing along to. Yes, the characters are stereotypical. But I personally know people who are JUST LIKE each of the characters. And the jokes, the one liners, are laugh out loud funny, even after 3 or 4 or 50 times. The makeup is spectacular, the costuming is incredible. The shots of the Australian outback are magnificent. And underneath it all there is a vivacious, bubbly innocence that creeps under your skin and makes you feel good.  "},{"Title":"Ingenious","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Stephan Elliot has quite possibly written one of the best films of all time. Hugo Weaving, Guy Pearce, and Terence Stamp combine to form one of the best comedy trios I myself have ever seen. Not only are the parts convincing and hilarious, but I will never again listen to the song I Will Survive in the same light again... "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This one is the one to see for funny. So much better than the American Too Wong Foo (which felt false corny and was a complete turn off). I LOVE this film. I cannot count how many times I have seen it, but it evidently is not enough because I am still going back for more. The main players could not have been exchanged for anyone else, I think, for they work so well together. Don't miss this one, it's a keeper! "},{"Title":"Nice night for it.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I have seen this movie maybe 20 times and never get sick of it. I laugh just as much now as I did when I first saw it at the cinema in 94. It was the first gay themed movie I'd seen and because it was so popular to the mainstream I could see it and quote it for months (years) afterwards that no-one cared. Sure these characters are steriotypes of gay men, but we have the Sum Of Us to counter act that. You're just ment to watch it and p**s your self laughing. Not every gay film has to be real or serious, sometimes we just have to laugh!ps. I went to Broken Hill, and that pub with the pianted walls is even more tack-a-ramma in the flesh!  "},{"Title":"Like the coolest movie!!!!","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  OMG, this movie is sooo cool!   I just watched and fell in love with it! Everyone in this movie is so great!  Guy Pearce is so well...  annoying yet funny!  He is awesome in this, totally different from the Time Machine and Memento.  And, Hugo Weaving is very good.  Some what scary in the costumes, though.  Another totally different roll for him then in The Matrix and Lord of the Rings.  And, also Terrance Stamp!  He is so good as the women of the bunch!  Very good performance by him, I liked him much better in this then in Superman 2.  Costumes are awesome too, actually they won the Academy Award for them.  On a note for parents...  This movie does use the F-word a few too many times, and there are many sexual references (which is kinda a duh because they are drag queens and transvestites).  But over all it's a pretty fun film. Oh and for the Guy Pearce fans (like me)...  Just be prepared for a fun ride, with a interesting drag queen...  hehe For the grade for this movie I give it a 9/10...  Which is an A in my book ^_^  "},{"Title":"The best film ever made","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I saw Priscilla when it first came out, and, seeing as I'm only 17 now, I wasn't that old then. Thing is, despite my short stature and inability to be able to understand half the jokes (I'm sure!) I was mesmerised, and have never looked back. From the first time I saw it, Priscilla has been my favourite film of all time. I bought it on video as soon as it came out, and have seen it around 200 times (I'm not kidding or exaggerating) yet still I love it more than ever.I love its mixture of camp humour and serious messages about the morals and mixed messages in our society. I love Bob. He rules! If only other men cared so little about anything but who you are on the inside.I also love Adam, and the story about uncle Barry in the bath! hehehe. And I love the way he gets at Bernadette by calling her Ralph. The only thing I can say which annoys me in this film is the appauling acting by Mitsy's wife and son, who seem to think they are the new family in 'Neighbours' and the wife in particular opens her mouth so wide every time she speaks, I think she's going to eat me! But other than that, which is such a small proportion of the film, and does not distract in any way from its simple camp charm, this is an absolutely AMAZING film! I will continue watching it til the day I die! Peace out. Laura-Leigh (Smileypies)  "},{"Title":"Budget Barbie Camper","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  There aren't a lot of movies that are more fun than this one, and the astonishing thing is that it's (loosely, to be sure) fact-based. No doubt it's destined to become a midnight movie in the not-too-distant future.Yes, it is far superior to To Wong Foo..., but keep in mind that Priscilla wasn't made for American tastes (well, not the tastes of most Americans).Don't Bob and Bernadette make a nice, older couple? BTW, the woman wasn't just Tick's partner (you make it sound like a business arrangement)--they was hitched.  "}{"Title":"laughs","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I've seen this movie a few times and it was very funny! Hugo weaving was great as Anthony 'Tick' Belrose and Mitzi Del Bra. If you really want a laugh and see some wacky stuff watch this one. I would watch it if it was on TV for sure.80%  "},{"Title":"Guy Pearce in a dress!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was brilliant! I watched it twice in 24 hours because I found it very funny. Before I saw it I was a bit wary of a film about 2 drag queens and a transsexual but then I discovered Guy Pearce. Priscilla is terrific! "},{"Title":"OMG!!!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I loved this movie. The second I heard Guy Pearce and Hugo Weaving were in it, I was just like, I have got to see this movie. And, oh, was it worth it. I didn't stop laughing! This is the funniest I have ever seen Guy Pearce! He was unbelievable! The whole cast was dynamite! And the music! How classic was that? I loved this flick and recommend it to everyone I see. "},{"Title":"Fabulous fun!","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie was so entertaining. It was full of great lines, and the actors were superb! Terrence Stamp was terrific as a transexual who was recovering from the loss of her lover. How he was able to keep a straight face through Guy Pearce's antics is beyond me! If you liked Memento, you really should check out Guy Pearce in this very different movie. He was completely over the top and fabulous as an flamboyant drag queen! Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"If you've never been to you, Priscilla just might get you there.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Sure, the costumes are great, the scenery is gorgeous (why didn't Thelma and Louise think of wearing fancier outfits in front of all that nice American landscape?) and the dialog's funny, but all you really need to know about this movie is that it features the hit song I've Never Been to Me in the soundtrack.  If that don't scare you away, nothing will, and you just might leave humming I've Never Been to Me.  Such is the power of Priscilla--get on the bus, you'll be glad you did!    "},{"Title":"Some of the Best One-liners in Film!","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Some of the best one-liners in a film... Difficult to quote only one or two here.. Terence Stamp is brilliant! Guy Pearce's superb performance is one of the many that will follow from this remarkable actor. I have seen this film many times and always catch something new & laugh out loud funny that I had not noticed before... The costumes are beyond extraordinary - a well deserved Oscar!  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie cracked me up the first time I saw it. The second time it was just as funny as the first! It's a real feel good movie where everything turns out good in the end. I saw this movie for the first time on the fourth of July when I happened to be in a horrible mood. 10 minutes into the movie my bad mood was replace with a good one.The Scene with the ping pong balls in one of the funniest things I've seen in a long time. The whole movie is Great and the cast is wonderful. Hugo Weaving, Tarence Stamp, and Guy Pearce are all funnier then heck.When I saw Guy Pearce in Ravenous I said to myself Wow, He's hot! When I saw him in this I just thought he was extremely funny. I know this isn't supposed to be a review about Guy Pearce but every time I see him in a movie I am just amazed. Blown away. He is one of those rare actors where when he's on screen your eyes stay glued to him, try as you might to tear them away. He's definitely a scene stealer. It drives me crazy  that I can't find half of the movies he's been in at the video store I go to.Anyway If you haven't seen this movie see it if you have seen it go out and watch it again. I plan to.  "},{"Title":"Colorful and fabulous","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is highly recommended. It is a visual treat, the screen is full of garish colors and scenery of Australia's central region. The soundtrack is just amazing, they pull out songs I had not heard in years and I am a big fan of 1970s pop music. The movie stayed away from To Wong Foo's message of See, drag queens are people too and just let these people live their fabulous lives and we can choose to come along for the ride or not. I also didn't get a sense, as in La Cage Aux Folle, of the gay lifestyle being put up as a laughingstock. The characters were allowed to be well rounded people, with families and concerns in life beside costumes and acting fabulous. See this movie. It would make an excellent double feature with a documentary called Wigstock The Movie to show actualy female impersonators at home and on stage. I was pleasantly amused by reviewers who heartily recommend the movie but feel compelled to add But I'm straight. "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny!!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is definitely one of the funniest movies I have ever seen! Aside from Monty Python and the Holy Grail and Spaceballs, this is THE funniest! Guy Pearce and Terence Stamp (is that his name? I'm not completely sure..) are hilarious... Before I saw this movie, I admit I was kind of... well, very afraid of drag queens. P But this changed my opinion quite a bit! Unless you are a homophobic, I definitely suggest this movie!!! Go see it NOW!! "},{"Title":"Gorgeous, gregarious eyecandy-- mixed with heartwarming hilarity!","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  By far one of the most visually exciting movies I have ever seen; 'Priscilla' is open, comfortable, and puts true meaning to FAAAABULOUS!!! Although you have to think fast to keep up with the clever Aussie dialogue, zingy one-liners made by Terence Stamp (Ralph/Bernadette)will summon the giggles for hours afterword! Keep an ear out for a great soundtrack that will make you want to run out and buy the record (I did); but nothing tops the amazing creations of the makeup and costume artists. This is THE movie for anyone who loves all things theatrical, fun, and grooving to their own funky beat. Shake your groove thing! "}{"Title":"a must-be-seen for all gay icons lovers'","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The plot isn't so exciting, but the actors are really 3 stars! Surrounded by a beautiful soundtrack, wonderful dresses and a lot of typical trans humor, the movie has to be seen and to be experienced as a greatest hits for all the gay icons, from Abba to Village People... I saw it in Italian and in English, but I must say that the translated version doesn't differ much in quality from the original one. The jokes are as much as amusing and the voices of the characters are really suitable!  "},{"Title":"Laughing at our own miseries, the ultimate gift.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Once again, Australian movie makers reach the top. Following the tradition of Muriel's Wedding, we can make fun of our own miseries as human beings. Three gaymen meeting the wilderness of the Australian desert and its people, finding themselves as humans. Three different backgrounds, having to cope with their idiosyncrasies, to survive. Having to cope with an homophobic society, and yet finding love and understanding within it. It's the triumph of laughter over bitterness. With every possible reason to be bitter, they choose to laugh and conquer the hearts and minds of both the spectator and the desert people. You can go from laughter to tears, and in both cases you'll enjoy every moment. Add to a great plot, an astonishing cast, and a must have sound track. That's Priscilla! "},{"Title":"The Best Australian Drag Queen Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I rented this out of curiosity Three actors I knew for tough guy roles (Agent Smith from The Matrix, Ed Exley from L.A. Confidential, and General Zod from Superman II) gallivanting around in drag. The film did not disappoint.I did find parts of the movie lacking There is very little conflict in the overall plot, and of the three main characters, only Terrance Stamp has any kind of dimension (more time should have been spent with Mitzie, by default the movie's main character). Also, I find fault with the scene where a certain part of a guy's anatomy is stuck in a bathtub's drain- although humorous, I doubt the mechanics of the whole thing (Trust me, I went through a series of scientific experiments at home to prove this).But over all, I really enjoyed it. The acting is grand, the soundtrack is superb (and I, for one, like ABBA) and the dialog is fantastic. The insults come fast and are all crackling with wit. So I do recommend this movie. But come on- there's no way those things would find their way down the drain!  "},{"Title":"Drag queens bopping their way through the Australian Outback","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  For my buck, Priscilla Queen of the Desert was just going to be another gay movie.  There was a real trend in the mid nineties with films like The Birdcage, Too Wong Foo, Its my Party, and Love! Valor! Compassion! exploding onto the screen as America began to feel more at ease with its gay brothers and sisters.  And as we watched these movies, a whole `Gay Comic Genre' was really born.  Also we can't forget about the popularity of gay stand up at that same time.Priscilla did indeed avail itself of this trend, and every gay humor trick in the book.  It also managed to slip us some really amazing visual, comic and compassionate moments.  The relationship between Mitzi and his son is both intimidating and soulful.  As a gay man and a cross dressing performer, he was very unsure as to the receptivity of his son and really what sort of dad he could be.  Mitzi (Hugo Weaving) and his two buddies (Guy Pearce and Terence Stamp) head for the deep outback to perform at a holiday spa doing their drag routines.  They buy a bus for the trip (from three Swedes named Lars, Lars and Lars), and they christen it `Priscilla Queen of the Desert'. The trip to the outback is fraught with delays, mean hearted blokes, and desert creatures (not to mention some very musical Aborigine).  They shtick their way to the club, dancing to Abba, and dressing divinely all at the same time.  This is a very funny movie and you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Top Staying Power","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" When 'Priscilla' first came out, my husband and I thought it had Oscar written all over it!! Well, it won for costume design ...This movie, actors, and message have stayed with me and that makes it a 10+. I've seen it 4 or 5 times.We enjoyed the relationships between the friends ... and hope that in the near-future movies such as Priscilla, Flawless, and Brokeback can capture the coveted Oscar. That's when Peace can begin to reign across the globe.The scenery, the humor, the music, the costumes, and, last but not least, the story are all worth revisiting The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert over and over, making it a Classic for all times. "},{"Title":"best film ever","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" i think that this has got to be one of the best films that i have seen, it may not have had the highest budget or the best sfx but it makes up for it in storyline,acting and comedy.guy Pearce, Hugo weaving and Terrence stamp are at their best in this film playing some of the best characters ever created. Pearce's character Adam (felicia) is hysterical. however what makes this film even better is the mixture of comedy and serious issues that give the film real purpose. the sound track for this film is absolutely fabulous and the costumes are brilliant. this film is a must see, i wont believe that it is possible to not like this film on some level, its different but contains all the ingredients that make a good film, u have to watch this film!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"whats not to love...","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I ordered this movie soon after seeing it on TV and how glad I am I did so. I did not make the connection with 'superman', 'matrix' or even 'the time machine', being the actors other movies they have been in, but knowing so makes this even more special knowing how well they gave of themselves to make this believable. You can really feel yourself there going through their experiences. It's more than just a movie of two dragqueens and a transsexual, as it conveys 'three lives' intertwined through comedy, raw life and just pure love and respect for one another. The acting, plot,costumes, score and overall charm of this movie can't be overstated, and I just want to say for the record Thanks to the entire cast for brightening my world.I went into the movie feeling myself just part of another day. Three friends take 'who' they really are on the road for the world to see and enjoy, and become better for the sharing. I came out of the movie somewhat sad because of the good memories it stirred up of days in the bars with people I knew then, but also with a renewed zest, reminding me that part of who I am is still here and doesn't want to be forgotten.In the end we are to take from this movie the age old philosophy of be yourself and be happy, amongst good friends and good times.I wholeheartedly accept and so should you ;-) "},{"Title":"Best film i ever saw!","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Priscilla is the best movie i have ever seen. I thought every bit of it was funny. I thought that the actors picked to play the 3 main parts were awesome. Hugo, Terence and Guy were brilliant throughout the movie. I also thought it was pretty silly and kind of a desperate attempt of eye candy using Guy Pearce. Even though he is awesome looking and all, in nearly every seen have his bum was hanging out of his pants. I think they over did it a bit with that one. Also when they do the performance in Alice Springs they're dressed up as animals, not women. I think that that was a bad choice of costumes. Even though they were excellent the didn't fit into the drag queen concept. But over all i thought it was fabulous! "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" A lot of excellent psychology here, and a lot of excellent acting. Stamp had a handful, to play a transsexual without limp wrists, without--on the whole--stereotypes. Transsexuals tell me that--just as in this film--they've known since they were children that there was a mismatch between body and brain. It's in the story; it's in the character--right where it should be. I found the film tender, sweet, real, hard-edged, tough. The ending is full of surprises--not just one but several, all sprung on the viewer within a short space of time, almost like an Agatha Christie novel, but with even more of the I should have known factor. I recommend it--but it's not for homophobics, those who cannot cry, or those who are sure that homosexuality is not a hormonal accident but a sin. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie and couldn't do anything but laugh! I thought that it was SO FUNNY! I must admit, Adam was also a major attraction if u get me.... Wow, what a body..Well enough of that! LOL I thought that this movie has been one of the better things that i've seen come out of Australia in a while, i liked muriels wedding but to be honest, i didn't really identifie with a fat girl and a love of  Abba ( Sad, but true. But Priscilla on the other hand... Now that was something that made me laugh! I'm not a drag queen but it was something that i would watch and do nothing but giggle at. The characters were well written and there are some true scenes in it, e.g. the queer bashing ( I just wish all queers could stand up for themselves as well as Ralph did! I thought however, that there was some bits where i was like Oh, My GOD!!!! This movie is outrageous and fun, it makes me laugh and i heard the Bisto song at the end. (if your from England you should know what i'm talking about, and if not SORRY!) But this movie was funny, outrageous and something that made me laugh, now if only i could watch it sober.... LOL! "}{"Title":"On target all the way","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Irreverant look at three female impersonators who travel across the Australian outback learning to deal not only with outside world, but also themselves, and each other. Insightfully examines the complexities of the 'alternative' lifestyle in a sharp,witty, fast paced style. The three leads play their parts quite well.  This is so superior to it's americanized version (TOO WONG FU THANKS FOR EVERYTHING JULIE NEWMAR) that it is not even necessary to describe.  Worth a look just to see the incrediable academy award winning costumes.  Features a unforgettable scene involving ping pong balls.  Also don't forget the scene that comes AFTER the final credits. "},{"Title":"Not your basic drag film","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I never bothered to rent this film, because I've seen enough La Cage Aux Folles wannabes to last a lifetime.  But when it turned up on cable and everythign else got rejected, I tried it, and I was pleasantly surprised. This film IS a delight, in some intangible ways that transcend the standard drag-queen fare.  If you're a cantankerous old straight guy (like me), try Priscilla---I think you might like it. "},{"Title":"An Adventure in the Cycles of Life","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Beyond the campiness of the ABBA tunes, the outrageous costumes, and the superficial drag queen/transsexual jokes is the story of three different stages of life as we encounter them.We meet Tick/Mitzi, Adam/Felicia, and Bernadette (don't call her Ralph) heading out to the Outback in Australia for a gig.  Our heroines have their run of the mill adventures on their trip but what elevates this film is the exploration of the needs of each of them.Felicia is in his mid 20s and all he wants to do is have fun and danger. He doesnt have a problem in the world and he doesnt care to have them.  His youth is not going to be wasted.Mitzi, in his mid 30s is starting to think about being a bit more responsible.  We discover that the manager at the hotel where they're due to perform is actually his ex-wife and if that weren't enough, his son is waiting for him as well.  Mitzi, like most people in their 30s with children wonders if he'll be a good father.Bernadette is in her mid 50s.  She's gone past the first two ages.  Her only concern now is someone to spend the rest of her days with.  Luckily, she finds Bob.In this subtle way, we're pulled in to identify with and feel for these people.The acting was superb.  Although Terence Stamp got most of the accolades, Hugo Weaving and Guy Pearce were brilliant as well.  Despite your opinions on ABBA, you'll probably enjoy the soundtracks as well.  Definately required viewing. "},{"Title":"Intelligent comedy","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  You can tell this movie is not made in America because it doesn't pander to the audience, is not sugar-coated, and is very funny and intelligent.  Guy Pearce is one talented guy; to do this and then L.A. Confidential in a short amount of time is some feat.  If you are offended by drag queens or think they are a lower form of human being, you'd best stay away. "},{"Title":"across the desert in drag","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" A hilarious adventure of 3 gay entertainers trekking across the desert of Austrailia, in a recycled tour bus (Priscilla). The bus, like the occupants, underwent a metamorphosis. The story revolves around Tick (one of the three main characters)and his attempt to reconnect with his estranged wife and son. Tick brings along two of his closest friends (Bernadette/Ralph and Felicia/Adam)as they journey to the center of the Northern Territory. At the beginning of the story the characters find themselves at odds. But as the story evolves the characters find themselves embracing each others differences. Each character appears to be at a crossroad in his/her life. And by the end of the movie life-changing decisions have been made. Ome of our favorite minor characters is Tick's son who exhibits amazing tolerance for the different life styles that are shown throughout the movie. Most eight-year old's (and adults) just don't think that way! The Academy Award for costuming was well-deserved. They were definitely over-the-top. The movie is well made and shows the more realistic sides of drag queens and portrays them as people instead of stereotypes. "},{"Title":"In my dreams. . .","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I am so well dressed! Of course, we can't all have an Oscar winning wardrobe. But Guy Pierce revels in his flip-flop dress and butt-less ensembles.The three leads are so fun to see before the 'big time'. And each of their performances is inspiring. I know a few drag queens and I can see pieces of their personalities and characters throughout the movie.This is a movie that wears it's heart on it's sleeve and it's sexuality on it's platform stilettos! I just love a good musical and currently they are few and far between. Priscilla fills the niche with great music, fabulous performances, and pithy heartfelt dialog in between. "},{"Title":"More than I expected","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by Priscilla, Queen of the Desert when I watched it for the first time yesterday. Having expected something very light and almost fluffy, I liked the fact that there was a little more depth to it than that. The beginning of the film suggests the humour that comes later in the film, but it doesn't stop the first five minutes or so from having quite a sad and solemn feel. What I particularly like about this film are the fantastically well-crafted lines - they can be intentionally very funny, but at the same time there are just as many funny lines that aren't specifically meant to constitute punchlines - they're just there and they're funny. An aspect of the film that I especially liked was the use of colour. As an art student, I have always found that colour appeals to me and I love the visual impact that the colours - the pinks, the lilacs, the jades, even the zebra prints - make on the screen, perhaps more so than the fabrics the costumes were made from. Who said over-the-top automatically equalled tasteless? These costumes are over-the-top, but the film is all the better for it. Little details within films also appeal to me - the blink-and-you'll-miss-it Barbie doll mobile hanging up in the tour bus, for instance, or the reactions of the local people they walk past in the streets - as much as the larger details. I think the landscape shots are brilliant, and the scene where the three find themselves lost and stranded in the middle of nowhere and the camera pans out to demonstrate this is just fantastic. "},{"Title":"Hey Lady..","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Rented this the other day, and I am STILL amazed at how this good of a movie this is. 11 years ago (was it really that long ago? My, how time flies), I caught a sneak preview of this film with like 200 other gay men (the screening was put on by a gay newspaper) and we were all STUNNED at the originality on display here. Watching it again in 2005, it still holds up extremely well. Queens will be queens I suppose. This was all done of course when Hugo Weaving and Guy Pearce were relative unknowns, and no one could give a whoop what Terrance Stamp was doing. Upon the initial viewing, I had no doubt that the two lead queens were gay. No doubt. None. Of course, what's so amazing about it NOW is that of course they're NOT. I think I was annoyed about this fact when I found out, but now, it's just so amazing how everyone, especially Hugo Weaving, just GOT it dead on on their portrayals. I haven't even talked about the story, which I'll let you discover for yourself. But the script is wonderfully bitchy, acerbic and downright hilarious. Not too sure why this didn't get nominated for a screenplay award at the Academies when Lizzy Gardiner won her well deserved award for the costuming in the film. All in all, a real treat that doesn't suffer from repeated (and believe me, the tape I saw this on was very worn out) viewings. "},{"Title":"A terrific movie that didn't get it's due","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie is such an underrated classic. It's initial release was overshadowed by TO Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar, because most of the general public couldn't wait to run out and see Swayze, Snipes and Leguizamo in a dress. But the real warmth comes from this little Australian Film. I worked in the Drag Queen Industry (although not as a drag queen - I was the genetic female cocktail waitress) and the general consensus was that this was a much more accurate portrayal of the life of a Drag Queen. Humorous beyond measure, yet poignant enough to give a glimpse into some of the problems and obstacles (Bernadette and Tick's conversation at dinner, Felicia's drugged out beating, the bus) facing alternative lifestyles. All in all it was a very good movie, portrayed by three very good actors. "},{"Title":"Dressing Well Is The Best Revenge","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a visually interesting and attractively well-designed movie. The clothes in particular are really inventive and fun and the Australian desert makes for some intriguing and disparate vistas and backgrounds, particularly for the dance routine at the Aborigine camp. Some of the set pieces, however, cannot be considered realistic and it is clear that they are merely moving the plot progress or creating a situation in order to provide an excuse for plot development. It should have been more organic and natural.Finally, I gave it an above average review because the performances were so strong; it was totally believable that Guy Pierce and Hugo Weaving were both not only gay men and serious drag queens, but talented drag queens at that, no easy task indeed. "}{"Title":"Marvellous!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is one of the most wonderful films ever made.  Never mind the gaudy, unselfconsciousness or flamboyance.  Its ultimately a film about acceptance, extremely positive, and almost everybody I know who has seen it loved it.My personal favourite moment is when Tick is playing the butch man for the benefit of his son, and realises not only that his son knows that he is a gay man and a drag performer, but that he totally accepts this as normal. Its a hugely poigniant moment.  Its probably hard to understand if you've never had something about yourself that could be tough for others to accept. The transgendered person.  The widow.  The gay man trying to solicialise with thugs in a tough town.  The gay father.  That gay man whose been married with children.  All of the characters are looking for acceptance and the reassurance for each of them is reassuring to the audience, and it speaks in particular to gay and t/g audiences.I thought this film had a lot in common with the more bittersweet Torch Song Trilogy, but with a more positive ending.  Firstein's early film ends on an ambiguous note, almost back where he started, with the unpredictable bisexual boyfriend and uncertain future.The whole mail-order bride thread was utterly hilarious, her desperation for attention and hyperactivity a real hoot.Also the soundtrack - very camp, slightly retero.  Funny thing about this film is how it hasn't really dated. "},{"Title":"To Wong Foo MOVE OVER!!!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A combination of heels, tiara, sequins and 'bitch' makes for a timeless movie that reaches deep down into your morals and says, 'HELLO!!!'.I have the DVD, and trust me... I'm working on being one of the first people on the planet to prove that it is possible to wear DVDs out. I have lost count on how many times I have watched Priscilla. I love it, a lot, all the time. I live my life by the teachings of this great movie.'Don't let them get to you, let them make you stronger'... How true is this!?!? Especially in Scotland, one of the most homophobic countries in the world.If you haven't seen Priscilla, rent it, borrow it... save yourself money in the meantime and just go out and buy it! You won't regret it... I promise.PS I WILL SURVIVE!!!8.5 flaps out of 10 "},{"Title":"Funny, Bizarre and Disturbing all at Once","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This was a film that I had seen once before several years ago. It was riotously funny and heartwarming to watch at times. The film's over the top characters and acting made for campy entertainment.However, there are so many stereotypes here that I think it takes from the pro-LGBT message. The anatomically female characters are so horribly depicted that it made for some painful watching. That is with the exception of Marion (Sarah Chadwick), Tick/Mitzi's wife, who is lesbian or bisexual herself. Mitzi (Hugo Weaving), Bernadette (Terrence Stamp) and Felicia (Guy Pierce) have casino gig in Alice Springs, about 1800 miles from Sydney. Felicia purchased a hooptie bus that acted as a makeshift tour vehicle and christened it Priscilla. From then on, the film documents the adventures and travails of the trio until they arrive in the Northern Territory.Their first misadventure occurs when they go shopping and drinking at the Palace Hotel. The place was anything but a Palace. They encounter Shirley (June Marie Bennett), a scruffy looking woman who informs the trio that they are not welcome because of their appearance associated with their orientation. Bernadette in turn responds with some nastiness of her own and calls Shirley a mullet and tells her that the only satisfaction that she'll ever get is when she lights her lady bits on fire. Later on, Bernice and Shirl go toe to toe in a drinking contest, where she loses to Bernadette. The message here is haters never win and a transgendered woman's as strong as any biological female. However, females have a lower tolerance for alcohol than males.There are other snags along the way such as the malfunctioning bus, which serves as a metaphor for the little engine that can. The girls suffer anti-gay bigotry where Felicia is almost mobbed by a group of angry macho men. It is around this time when Bob (Bill Hunter) and Bernadette fall in love after courtship.I can see the moments where the film chastises people who do not allow others who are different to live and be themselves. These characters are so exaggerated, even for drag queen standards. This bold face type portrayal underscores the point that gays are often targeted for expressing themselves. The film shows how dull and unsophisticated conservatively minded people are.The only people who express empathy are the Aboriginals, whose names we never find out. In the film they're just desert dwellers who play along with the queens. The trio appear uncomfortable (especially Tick/Mitzi) being with the indigenous people. The reasons for this apparent discomfort are unknown, but there's the underlying message that native peoples are not seen in civilization. These people behaved with more humanity than the other townspeople that they encounter until Alice Springs.Cynthia (Julia Cortez) was the stereotypical Asian mail-order bride depicted as a vulgar lunatic whose purpose in the film was like that of a minstrel character who has one special trick shoot golf balls from her vagina. Bob justifies treating his wife roughly because she's always making a fool of herself. In addition to this, Cynthia's a lousy cook. She can't do anything right, except for that one thing. Her presence in the film acts as a contrast to Ralph/Bernadette by sending the message that heterosexual relationships are a joke. Bernadette is portrayed like a better lady than Cynthia and eventually snags her husband, Bob. He also treats Bernadette much, much better than Cynthia. Bob's very fascinated to be dating a former Les Girl (showgirl). There are several instances where the film and characters negatively depict the female anatomy and personhood, yet these men have earned their living impersonating women and lip synching to songs sung by women. The male characters live unhappily because they appropriate and disfigure the same thing that they aspire to be womanhood.The end scenes with Benjamin (Mark Holmes), Marion and Tick's son, as as heartbreaking as they are troubling. Benj is a loving and understanding boy, yet he knows too much about his parent's intimate affairs for a child his age. He knows of his parents lovers and has a blase attitude about the situation with Mommy and Daddy. The scene with Benj sitting on top of a man's shoulders while watching Daddy Mitzi and Felicia's drag show was disconcerting. Children are not supposed to be in bars and casinos where adults drink, smoke, have sex and curse.Despite these things, I decided to rate the film 7/10 because this an honest and unsanitized look into the LGBT community. That helps me to better understand them and some of their issues. It's important to not sugarcoat things in order to make others feel better about themselves. "},{"Title":"Exuberant Road Movie.","Date":"14 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Three professional drag queens -- the curious-looking Weaving, the muscular Pearce, and the aging Stamp -- decide to leave Sidney for a gig in the town of Alice Springs in the middle of nowhere. What follows is a road trip out of The Electric Koolade Acid Test. They make no secret of their gender orientation. On their journey through the vast desert they encounter puzzlement and prejudice. Their performance in Alice Springs wins no prizes but Weaving acquires the cheerfully accepting wife and son he'd left behind, and Stamp can quit worrying about wrinkles because he's found a nice, good-natured bloke to settle down with.I'd imagine that one of the problems in making (or appreciating) a movie like this is what you do after the initial shock of seeing three guys prance around in fancy costumes wears off. Stephen Elliott, the writer/director, has generally gotten past the problem. The three guys are soon individualized. Weaver is the anxious, uncertain guy with the odd ball eyebrows. Pearce is flamboyant and chipper. Stamp is somber and worried about what will happen now that his looks have faded.But turning three fairies into persons is the easy part. The Boys In The Band did it with a snap of the fingers. The tough part is laying out a story with some substance to it. Otherwise the viewer is liable to be bored listening to the bitchy insults and improbable displays. Elliott and the cast give the story just enough juice to get us all through it happily, aided immeasurably by the incandescent magnificence of the Australian outback. You have never seen such sere and blasted vistas. Well, not since Lawrence of Arabia.What really worried me was that this effervescent flick would turn serious in the end -- sentimental and sloppy. You know -- one of the trio is beaten to death or contracts AIDS or something. It doesn't happen. I grovel in gratitude.And how do the boys handle the roles? Pretty well, as far as that goes. Their act consists of appearing on stage in kaleidoscopically gaudy outfits and make up and making believe they are singing and dancing to a recorded song. The songs aren't bad, by the way. You won't get boiler maker's gap from listening to disco or pop songs from the 40s. Stamp and his frown look completely out of place under a mop of plastic hair. His settling down was little loss to the act. Weaving doesn't look bad as a prismatically groomed young woman. And Pearce doesn't look bad at all until you get down to the muscles, which remind you that he is a more slender simulacrum of Arnold Schwarzenegger. There used to be shows like theirs at the now-defunct Finnochio's in San Francisco, a tourist spot frequented by celebrities for some thirty years. I had a chat with the actor Thomas Gomez there.It's an interesting film, never really boring, and gorgeously photographed. It's a kind of lesson in how to construct a good time out of nothing much. They have a lot of fun, and if they get punched in the face by some redneck, they cry and sulk for a while but soon get over it. "},{"Title":"Amusing, but not as good as it could be","Date":"5 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Alright. This movie is definitely interesting experience. A drama about drag queens. Now I myself have never been a fan of men's choice dressing up as women and parading around, but I am not against it. It's their choice of life. But if you have some problem with this choice of life, well then don't condemn this movie. That's YOUR problem. I suppose this film sends the same sort of message that anti-racist and pro-homosexual movies send. That there is nothing wrong with being different. I guess the fact, that this specific message is applied to the life of a drag queen, is quite original, because there are very few movies about these sort of people. But it could have been better. It seemed for me, that the idea did not reach it's full potential. I mean take the movie 'Milk'(2008) or Ang Lee's 'Brokeback Mountain' for example. They also send a same sort of message, about being different and all... And those movies just blew me away. After seeing them I was left paralyzed by their greatness for quite some time. This movie did not have that impact. But it's still nice to see it for it's good intention. And another REALLY interesting thing to watch here was Hugo Weaving, Guy Pearce and Terance Stamp in their REALLY colorful roles as drag queen's. Never in my life had I even imagined to see Hugo Weaving - Agent Smith from the 'Matrix' - one of the coolest bad ass characters ever, in the most eye blowing over-colored women's dress with HUGE feather's and make-up AND parading around ABBA's 'Mama Mia'.IT WAS HIILARIOUS!It really is an amusing movie for open and accepting people. You will not be displeased, but I do have doubts weather it will seem as one of the greatest stories ever. Go see it and have fun with it. "},{"Title":"Colourful.Creative And Stylish!","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" When I watched this film this evening, I found it so hilarious, colorful, creative and very stylish. This is a very good film which tells you how colorful and creative gay people and Drag Queens are. And, of course, their wacky senses of humor and how cool they are to hang out with and such good friends you can make out of them. And, the usual which is revealed in gay movies, that stupid HOMOPHOBIA!! But in this movie, it makes fun of it. Homophobes are so small minded and so pathetic towards these gifted people. My god, this lets off to us how homophobes should grow up and leave the gay people alone! Anyways, this is one stylish movie. It is a true work of art! "},{"Title":"This movie is tops","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I first watched this movie a few days ago and loved it so much I watched it the following night too!! The costumes are fantastic and the actors are amazing!! They would have had so much fun making this movie!!! This is now my new favourite movie and I would just like to add that this is not only because of the images of Felicia's (Guy Pearce) body...though it is mighty fine ha ha. The storyline of this movie may be unnerving for some people, but I think it really touched on some of the issues we are faced with today. I think that if more and more people watched this classic, timeless movie, it would get through to them that this attitude to people that are different is a waste of time.This movie is hilarious too!!Cheers "},{"Title":"Excellent costumes!","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film is about two drag queens and a transsexual woman's journey into the middle of nowhere in the Australian desert. They performed drag shows in the conservative areas, with predictable reaction.The script can easily be seen to be entertaining and humorous. What I find the most entertaining are the costumes. The endless parade of colourful and flamboyant costumes is dazzling and breathtaking to say the least. What amazes me the most is the scene in which a drag queen stands on top of a traveling bus, with her costume stretching tens of metres in the wind. The tail of the costume flies and waves in the wind, it is so graceful and beautiful, as if it was a demonstration of their pride to the world!I also applaud the filmmakers for making a film about this topic. It is not every day that films like these get made! "},{"Title":"Great costumes highlight  this desert road trip. (spoilers)","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" For some reason, I had the premonition that the Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert was a sort of lavish fantasy tale set in the desert. Like a drag queen version of Alice in Wonderland or something like that, and particularly it was the outrageous (but spectacular) costumes which had me thinking this, in addition to never having seen the previews. This is the story of two drag queen friends (Hugo Weaving and Guy Pierce) and their transsexual friend (Terrence Stamp) who get the idea to travel to some isolate town in Australia and perform at a hotel in a cabaret show. Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, refers to their vintage bus which takes the trio to an odd assortment of locations along the way with its irritating knack for frequently breaking down. In a way, this is a typical sort of road trip film of friends bonding over harder soul-searching moments, particularly among Bernie (Stamp) who recently lost his companion and Mitzi (Weaving) who is summoned to this little town by his wife who asks for his help with something. In a sort of way of painting the town red, the trio do tend to light up the bland and almost alien life with their outrageous costumes (and it seems that the actors change clothes in nearly every scene) and disco-days performances, awing some and angering others and it seems those who are the most understanding are those who themselves at some point have been ostracized.It is a great film that offers a lot of laugh and the sort of wit so familiar to comedies such as these. I thought it was ridiculous to place the costume designer on one of those idiotic 'Worst Dressed' lists for her credit-card dress design, considering it complimented the art direction of this film quite nicely. These were by far some of the best costumes on film. "},{"Title":"A funny movie that makes you think","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is great! It addresses the issues of homosexuality, transvestitism, and gender changes with a funny, optimistic attitude. The acting by Weaving, Stamp, and Pierce is great and humorous, and the costumes (which won a 1994 Oscar) are amazing. The movie is not limited to the happy-go-lucky side of the three companions' lives as performers, but also has its fair share of exposing the discrimination experienced by drag queens and trans genders. The soundtrack is mainly disco and dance music, so this may be irritating to those who aren't big on ABBA! However, it's priceless watching the heroes of the story parading around to dance hits while dressed up in outlandish ostrich costumes. I definitely recommend this movie; just remember to keep an open mind!  "}{"Title":"funny and sweet with sad undertones between the laughter","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As much is missing from the lives of the three principal characters as the details they reluctantly show.  All the drag queens (plus Robert, later) are hiding their pain and feelings and are making the trip through the desert a lot more difficult than it had to be.All are hiding in secrets and feelings, and I got the feeling that this film could have a had a lot more talking.  (not a usual comment for me) The juxtaposition between the harsh desert scenery and the drag queens' flambuoyant bus and manner of dress was an amazing piece of eye candy.I loved the scene where the fellows party with the Aborigine people.  Two despised castes of Australian society meet under unforeseen circumstances, and both profit buy it.  Loved the Didgery Doo being played along with the 1970's eight track Mod music - for once it really worked.A great movie, funny, but not a roll on the floor larf-festival, funny and happy in how it makes you think.  Or you could watch for the costumes, and that would be a treat as well. "},{"Title":"As Fab As Ab Fab.","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A fairytale travelogue of Australia which is not far of the mark. Funny, poignant, sad and hilarious at once.  Very well cast and directed ( no one could believe that Guy Pierce was NOT gay! ). Made on a shoestring budget but far better and more entertaining than most films costing 20 times what Priscilla did. "},{"Title":"Imagine seeing Lord Elrond In Drag!","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie was excellent! Quite a fun and well done story. Very entertaining film. It was also quite enjoyable to get a mental image of Lord Elrond from Lord of the Rings in drag. This is a must see for all Hugo fans, and anyone who is open minded to those who chose the alternate lifestyle. (I hate that phrase) "},{"Title":"simply one of the very best","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I have loved this film since I first saw it a long long time ago, there just aren't the superlatives to describe it. Judging by the VAST majority of viewers comments there are an awful lot of people agree. It has everything, soundtrack, actors, characters, scenery, plot, humour, story line, and just enough of a moral to make the point. If you haven't yet seen 'Priscilla', why not? It's wonderful. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorites","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It has been in my movie top ten since its release. I love the costumes, I love scenery, I love the acting, I love the story, I adore the quirkiness and I applaud the atypical casting of and subsequent performances by 3 of Australia's most popular leading men.  They made me believe.  It is just an all around feel-good movie that I have watched over and over. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  What a great movie. Not being a fan of British humor, I truly enjoyed this movie greatly. It was funny, witty and sometimes a bit stupid and boring. I enjoyed the costumes and the finale.....my favorite part. I would definetly see it again, as I have about 5 times. "},{"Title":"Fabulous darling!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is absolutely my favourite film.  Felicia is my favourite character. The songs are great you'll want to sing along.  It is just so very funny. I've never seen Guy Pearce look so good!  They all look fabulous and play their parts well.  A must see!!! "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Don't look for any great plot with this movie. It is just a lot of fun. The banter between the characters is hilarious. Great movie to see in a theatre with other people. Just see with a open mind and you will totally enjoy Pricilla.  "},{"Title":"Disco Dollies Shake Their Groove Thangs","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is certainly original - after all how many movieshave been made about two drag queens and a transexual travellingthrough the Australian outback to lipsync a variety of ABBAsongs and disco classics in outback towns, Aboriginal settlements and resorts.  I can't think of any myself!  Thehumour in this is pretty black, and bawdy to say the least, butI think for the most part it is hilarious and the moreoutrageous the better.   The movie is full of great lines, mostof which I would not dream of repeating.  The acting is firstclass all around, and what a surprise Guy Pearce (pre LAConfidential) turned out to be.   The costumes are brilliantworks of art and a dress worn by Hugo Weaving made entirely ofthongs has to be seen to be believed.   The theme of selfacceptance, and acceptance within a wider community are exploredwell with the heroes/heroines receiving acceptance and brutalrejection in roughly equal quantity.   There is no sugar coatingin this piece of confection - unlike To Wong Foo Thanks ForEverything- Julie Newmar  which covers similar territory withembarassing results.   Priscilla is one to watch with an openmind, a sense of humour, some high heels and your grandmother inanother room.  And everybody sing along  Mamma Mia, here I "},{"Title":"great","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The story, the music, the dresses, the acting, the setting, the country, the colours, the sharp remarks. All of that (and more) make this movie one of the best I have ever seen. If you ever get the chance to see this one, do it! "}{"Title":"Beautifully Bizarre Travelogue","Date":"29 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Three gay male performers journey from Sydney to Alice Springs in a colorful bus. I found the story to be contrived and not very interesting, though never let it be said that the three main characters lacked personality. The film's dialogue seemed flat and unimaginative.But what the film lacked in screen story, it made up for, as a travelogue. What a grand music video. The Australian outback, in its lonesome desolation, with its resident lizards and ants, was magnificent. Amplifying these images was the film's harshly haunting score. The result was a wonderful tribute to the visuals of Sergio Leone, and the music of Ennio Morricone, in their spaghetti westerns. Then, into these emotionally evocative scenes, add a transvestite walking alone to nowhere, or applying lipstick, and you have what amounts to true cinematic art. Just terrific.I also liked the images of the sleek, shiny fabric streaming back from the top of the bus as it flees across desert badlands, while Felicia sings, with gusto, some operatic aria. And then there is the image of the pink kite flying high, with ethereal music playing in the background. Given the offbeat nature of the story, somewhere, concealed in all these stark images and intense sounds, is a profound symbolism.Most of the scenes in this film are tedious and uninteresting. But those scenes that do stand out are memorable and hugely successful. I don't recall a film in which the cinematography and the music of selected scenes so overwhelmed the overall story.  ... Priscilla, Queen Of The Desert is certainly evidence that a film can, and should, be more than a mere script. "},{"Title":"Walkabout Prissy Scintillating Dragsled","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Prissy, Prison, Pristine. That's what we have here.I like the approach these filmmakers took. The story is plain stupid. No matter. The characters are the thinnest of stereotypes the flaming gay, the embarrassed bi, the genetically-determined transsexual, the exhibitionist asian, the miraculously likeable mother-earthy bisexual woman (who also provides shelter in the wilderness) and the true-hearted oaf who is sexually innocent and honestly discovers the heart(s) under the glitter. Stereotypes -- no matter. The production values are unimpressive; the acting approprates the actual manner of drag cabaret, which is to say that it is not acting at all, but prancing.No matter, because just as with the characters, the superficial appearance is just a nervous mannerism, done without thought, and the real value is elsewhere. What the real matter of this project is to build a few strong images that stick. And surprisingly a few have from Priscilla, and that says quite a bit for this viewer who seriously watches ten movies a week.It is all built around that image of a drag queen on top of a bus blasting through in the desert wild with dozens of yards of fabric billowing as a train behind and decibels of song leading. It is a matter of filling space the kite, the unexpected performances, the appropriation of aborigonals (or perhaps the other way), but most of all, the shots of this performer on the bus. It is shown twice and I have not doubt that it was both the original idea and the pitch to sponsors. Another shot, the three from behind in leggy outfit climbing the hill of their destination. It works, It sticks.You must decide whether sitting through this is worth collecting those three images. (It was for me.) For all the rest of the `I'm outrageously gay, and isn't it fun' prancing, go watch `Hedwig' instead. "},{"Title":"Am I the Only One Who Thinks Guy Pearce Makes a Hot Woman?","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The surprise indie hit about three drag queens who go on a voyage of self discovery. Hollywood liked it so much that it basically remade it as To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar, with bigger names and a sanitized plot.Marketing for Priscilla makes it seem like a gay romp (sorry, I couldn't resist), but it's not. It's actually a very serious and quite depressing film. These are not drag queens full of bravado and content to be who they are. These are men struggling with serious issues and to some extent using their female personas to hide. Yes, there are some disco numbers and lots of dazzling costumes, and yes, I Will Survive does make its appearance, but anyone coming to the movie thinking it's going to be a riot are sure to be disappointed.It boasts three great performances from Hugo Weaving, Terence Stamp and Guy Pearce, who particularly proves to the world how hot a woman he can be.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"An OK show, shows rednecks are everywhere...","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is an interesting movie, about three drag queens out on a quest to get from Sydney to Alice Springs for a gig. This movie works particularly well if you are familiar with gay personalities as they do fit the stereotype and the parts are well acted. In fact, they do a more convincing job of the drag queen persona then most modern gay comedy movies. This is not a good movie for families or homophobic straight men. Though tolerant men and women will find a lot of comedy in it. And it does take a good bite out of travel in central Australia. The three lead actors are quite famous for many other projects, and none of them are gay. Have fun figuring them out (before researching on IMDb). "},{"Title":"Fabulous!","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  'Priscilla' is a road trip movie where two drag queens and a transsexual (MTF) journey through the outback on their way to their next perfoarmance venue.'Priscilla' compares favorably to To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar. Both movies share plot elements. But where 'Wong Foo' falls flat with formulaic plot, shallow characters, and rigid acting, 'Priscilla' delivers.Bernadette (Terrance Stamp) is the eldest, and has the most character of the group (being a transsexual, having her lover die, etc.). Hunky and shallow Felicia (Guy Pearce) provides plenty of eye-candy, filling out dresses with muscle to spare. Pearce's flamboyant characterization of Felicia was on target and the level of detail is amazing to watch.Mitzi (Hugo Weaving) provides the group's direction by setting up the trip. Unfortunately, Weaving is a bit flat at times, leaving the audience to guess at some of his reactions. When Felicia jests at the possibility that Mitzi has a son, Weaving's reaction should have revealed the truth behind the remark.The plot was well developed but a bit shallow. While the characters had background stories and personalities, there was no real motivations or conflicts for the characters to grow by.I liked that 'Priscilla' didn't pull any punches. When someone asks what sort of performers they are, Felicia explains that they dress up in womens clothing and lip sync to music. A few plot points were missed on the first viewing and could have been made clearer.While obviously a budget film, the technical aspects of the film fared well. Some of the scenery was captured nicely, along with a variety of costumes. A minor point was getting over the Australian accent and lingo.I enjoyed 'Priscilla' and would watch it again. I recommend it over 'Wong Foo'. "},{"Title":"Ironically, it drags","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is one of those inoffensive and mildly entertaining little movies that strive to make you to like them more. But like so many others, it's material isn't strong enough to successfully fill a couple of hours.The pitch is promising three drag queens drive a bus through the Outback from Sydney to Alice Springs. They run into lots of trouble - with homophobic locals, with the engine, with their pasts.The real trouble is with the dialogue. The leads are fine (though Pearce's continual campness becomes tiresome), but the one-liners and epithets feel forced where they should be casually thrown away. Characters shouldn't laugh at their own gags.Writer/director Elliott also feels the need to pile on the pleasingly incongruous shots of flamboyant drag costumes against stark desert backgrounds like so much cheap make-up. For a movie about self-confidence and just being yourself, it all seems very insecure with itself. "},{"Title":"great, that's just what this country needs - a cock in a frock on a rock","Date":"4 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Anybody who knows me would know that I think Australia has only made about 3 good films in the past 20 years (I'm just sick of comedy's - plus I have almost no idea what Australian films are in Development - for good reason that I don't want to know). This happens to be one of the highest ratings of an Australian film you are likely to see from me. For English-speaking-countries film industries - I prefer Hollywood, the UK or Canada.The plot synopsis would probably be one of the strangest I have ever looked at - and if you walk in expecting a strange comedy then you have come to the right place. If 2 drag queens and a transsexual go across to the desert to mouth lyrics of pop stars seems like your sort of movie then I will hand this to you, if you want a strange comedy then I will also hand it to you.If comic timing is how you judge a performance in comedy then Guy Pearce is the best actor out of this movie. Seeing him in this before Prometheus made me see him in a very new light when playing Weyland.So if you like strange comedy films where the lead characters are 3 respected actors playing transvestites and transsexuals (they might not be THAT respected but I never thought I'd see Hugo Weaving in a dress after seeing him in The Matrix) then I will hand it to you saying expect transvestism jokes.How do I end a review for this movie off? Oh I know Bye bye Ralph. "},{"Title":"An okay film","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  You'll either love this or you'll hate it.  There isn't really much depth to it overall, but the movie does do a fairly decent job of constructing a surreal feeling.  There are definitely scenes that drag, though, and I don't know many people who'd want to sit through this twice. "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've ever seen. While looking incredibly bizarre, it somehow feels more real than any movie you could imagine - at least here, in America. The person who designed the costumes was obviously a genius, but the actors, the dialog, and the entire story are also superb. I think more imagination went into this than into the entire Hollywood catalog of films, which is probably not saying a lot, but believe me - it's very very original. Needless to say, I'm giving it a 10.    "},{"Title":"Definitely an experience...","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  You know, I have to say that I had my reservations about seeing this film. There was something about drag queens singing in the Australian Outback that seemed unappealing to me (god knows why!).  I enjoyed this film much more than I thought I would.  I watched it during my Terence Stamp film festival and he is great  as a woman.The acting is very good, not a bad plot, great costumes (although I don't think they would work on just anybody) - at times I will say that it was a little too colourfully crass for me, I guess my taste is a little more subtle, but I still enjoyed the film.  "}{"Title":"Queer Dinkum Matey","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A romp across a disbelieving outback, this outragous adventure enchants through it's downright brazeness. Comedy from the clashing confrontation of cultural assumptions - as Drama from Crisis. Perhaps a little too Queenie for some - I would love to have watched IN a cinema audience in the outback. Shockingly good "},{"Title":"One. Big. Drag.","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If the makers of this film intended to show drag queens as vain, shallow, boring, and fundamentally insecure, they did a great job. Other than that, this movie was just ONE. BIG. DRAG. Maybe the problem is that it was mislabeled as a comedy, when it should have been marketed as a horror film. Because staring at Terence Stamp's face up close was absolutely horrifying. This movie, like its plot, got lost around midway and never quite found itself. I've seen worse, but I've DEFINITELY seen better. Check out Hedwig And The Angry Inch, for example. That movie was much better, and so was the acting and the direction.(10 line minimum, eh?) Well...that's abouttwo more linesthan this movie reviewdeserves. "},{"Title":"full of sound and fury signifying nutty","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I had been told that this movie was very funny and that I should surely view it. I was skeptical, but put it on my CD player anyway. What a lot of noise and silliness! So much might be done with the subject matter--drag queens, homosexuals, transvestites trying to make their way in the world--but this film settles for a superficial view of how a minority group and society at large relate to each other. At this point I cannot tell one actor from another, but I thought the depiction of the character who is married and has a child was best. Although the trio ran into some bad situations with local people at times, on the whole they got off better than would probably have been the case if they had toured the American west a hundred years ago--or even today. On the other hand Oscar Wilde toured that region with a lily in his hand!  "},{"Title":"Amiable, but ultimately undernourished comedy-drama","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Shaggy, friendly yet frustrating film has the same old message if you want to make it in this world, being imaginative isn't enough, you have to live up to your place in society and that means living by the (heterosexual) rules that govern us. Drag queen comedy-drama from Australia is a mostly upbeat journey of three male friends traveling across the Outback in their pink bus, christened Priscilla. While not a formula film per se, there are the obligatory road movie sequences (bonding by the bonfire, facing down the rednecks, etc.). Writer-director Stephan Elliott follows every potentially mean-spirited moment with a little humor and sympathy, but there are puzzling gaps in his narrative, a dire subplot about a gay man's relationship with his ex-wife and estranged pre-teen son (both of whom are comfortable--and the child wise--with his lifestyle), and a third act with no energy whatsoever. It has some wicked transvestite humor and a fairly game cast, but a script that seems to have been watered down along the way. ** from *** "},{"Title":"D'gay, mate!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" There have been many movies about drag queens, but The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert was probably the jolliest. Terence Stamp, Hugo Weaving and Guy Pearce play three drag queens who travel across Australia in a bus on their way to a convention. They have many fun encounters on the way.I guess that the movie's point was that as long as gay men are together, and as long as people tolerate them, then everyone is perpetually happy. Some people say that To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar was a rehash of this movie; maybe so, but I liked To Wong Foo... better. Still, this one was pretty good itself.Imagine that the tough guy from various '60s movies, Agent Smith from The Matrix and Leonard from Memento as drag queens... "},{"Title":"Tack-a-rama!","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I embarked on a journey through the beautiful outback of Australia with three guys who are searching for an answer. They are three drag queens. The best in Sydney, who want to spend the next four weeks traveling to this casino to perform their performance of a life time. There is Adam Whitely, also known as Felicia Jollygoodfellow (Guy Pearce). He is the classic drag queen. Constantly looking for a good time. Very comfortable in his lifestyle, and always looking for a chance to be in the spotlight. Pearce adds most of the comedy to the trip and perhaps some of the best costumes that these ladies have to wear. There is also Anthony Tick Belrose (Hugo Weaving), also known as Mitzi Del Bra. He is the secretive drag queen. We learn that he is married, he has a child, and that he is afraid of his profession. Quite possibly the best performer in the group, he provides a sense of leadership to the group. He is the one that organized this trip, and the one who's wife works at the casino, and set up this gig for them. Finally, there is the elder of the group. The experienced drag queen, Ralph, also known as Bernadette Bassenger. He is almost like the Yoda of the group. Shouting out lessons that need to be learned, he plays the complete opposite to Pearce's character. After buying a bus it to travel through the outback, they christen it Priscilla. After a few road bumps such as stops in other locations, a Chinese ping-pong lady, a group of violent mates, and even love. As they make it to the casino, our group hits their final snag as they struggle for acceptance in an unchanged world.This was a horrible film. Not just horrible, but also confusing, plot less, motionless, and uneventful. Yes, I realize many of those words mean the same, but they all happened in this film. My first problem was that I had trouble trying to see who the stand-out character was. Normally in films, you have that one character that has more screen time, more sub-stories, more character development. While I first thought that it was going to be Weaving's character, during the bus trip through the outback, I began to question my initial guess. I feel that if we wanted to have the emotional impact at the end of the film for Weaving's reuniting with his son, then perhaps we should have spend less time with Stamp as we traveled. I felt that midway through the film, Stamp became the central character because of his love towards Bob. If this is the case, was the director trying to create the theme of acceptance towards same sex characters, or was he trying to show the theme of acceptance of who you are and not to be afraid to be proud. I felt that these themes broke down like Priscilla in the outback.Not only were the themes jumbled, but so were these characters. I realize that Stamp was nominated for some awards for this role, but I honestly felt like he, along with the rest of the cast, were just walking through some lines and blocking. During their songs, I felt that they were acting. I never once felt a connection to these characters. Colorful costumes do not make a better actor. Terence Stamp hardly smiled in what I felt was supposed to be a fun character. I need to also say this, if you are going to make a film about lip singing to songs, make sure that your actors know the lyrics. About ten times I saw them, especially Stamp, flub his lines.Finally, there was not enough development at all with Pearce's character. I felt that if anything he was just annoying. Not really contributing anything to the actual story other then the occasional joke or reference, he seemed to just float through every scene on just his physical appearance. Did he need to have his shirt off for every scene? Overall, the costumes were great...but don't make this the focus of your film. I enjoyed the beauty of the costumes in the desert...seemed to strike me as religious in some way. Dull, trite, and what seemed like bored actors brought this film directly to my DVD then right out the window. Films have moved so much further in this genre of film that I hope that we learn from its mistakes.Grade ** out of *****  "},{"Title":"A movie about dragqueens that ravel through the desert.","Date":"31 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is horrible.  The plot is senseless and is not in any way funny.  There is not any hidden humor and the characters are empty and shallow.  This movie drags on way too long and never comes to any real point.  The characters subject themselves to all the torture they receive and there is no sympathy for any of them. This movie is a waste of time and money and should be seen only by people who love looking at men in womens clothing.  This is with-out-a-doubt one of the worst movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Weird, disturbing, poor acts, great costumes.","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I like all of the main actors involved in this quite bizarre film. Terrance Stamp, Guy Pearce & Hugo Weaving have all proved themselves as some of the best & most capable actors around, but I could not get into this. I don't know if it's because I don't understand the lifestyle or what, but I could not get my head around this film. Worse than anything is that the actors made some of the ugliest drag queens I've ever seen. I think that was part of the point, I don't know. I realize that is probably an insult, but I don't know what else to call them. I must say I bought the guys as the performers (the correct term?) but the story just wasn't very good or very interesting either. I will say that I can't usually appreciate costume designers very well, although I notice them when they are wrong or out of place, but I was very much impressed with these. Very creative to say the least, just not attractive, but I don't think they're supposed to be. I don't know I am definitely not the target audience and would never go see a performance done by these kind of performers, but I wouldn't go see ballet, or opera either so I don't know. If this is your kind of film then you will probably like it, but if it's not skip it because it is...well not for most of us. I just checked it won the Oscar for costume design & I will say rightfully so. I must say Ebert didn't care much for this film either, though he liked it better than I did. "},{"Title":"pretty, but stupid and shallow","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Terence Stamp can carry off anything, but this is still a shallow one-dimensional movie.   It's nice to look at - so are the actors - and if you're into drag queens, I guess you might like it a lot, but the plot and characters are as thin as cardboard.   It's one of those politically correct movies that warps everything else in order to make a 'minority lifestyle' seem warm and cuddly.  It gets a lot of mileage out of bitchy dialogue, which is amusing in this sanitized form, I guess.   Ninety percent of the action is parading around in gaudy costumes in incongruous situations.   The dramatic content is a token appendage - they hardly try to get you to take it seriously. "},{"Title":"Overrated PC rubbish","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I saw this in the cinema during its initial release and can only ask has the world gone mad? The seemingly overwhelming positive response is mind boggling for this poorly written, embarrasingly predictable clap trap.Stephan Elliot is no genius film maker as evidenced by the consistent bombs he has produced since (check out 'Welcome to Woop Woop', 'Eye of the Beholder')I can only assume making a film dealing with the gay/transexual culture has people assuming that to dislike the film is an offense to this sector of the populace. Aren't we smarter than that? What about an interesting script and good performances? Ok so the 3 leads do alright considering what they have to work with, but this film includes the worst performance by a child actor I have ever seen, not helped by appalling dialogue and a really lame resolution that you can see a mile off.This is a disappointing film and one that doesn't deserve the overblown reputation it has garnered.  "}{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" To me, this is just an OK film. Even after buying it on DVD, I can't be bothered to watch it twice. No disrespect to the leading actors, who all did a good job, but it just isn't very deep, moving, involving or complex.Surely the only way this film is above average is as a nice feel-good film for people attracted or entertained by the lifestyles at its core. Come on, we all know a feel-good film when we see it.. I can't see any other reason anyone should give this anything more than 5 or 6 out of 10. The plot and character development are easily outdone by good TV. For me, some of the film is patronising the aborigines getting into the show smacks of right-on political correctness. I can't help but wonder would that happen in real life? This reminds me of when they had an old black guy dancing in a Rick Astley video, to show that although Rick as a thin ginger white boy from Lancashire, working for Stock Aitken and Waterman, he was in fact a real Soul singer, as demonstrated by the way this black waiter got into the music. We've all seen this device used in lots of places (including politician's ads).There are 2 other cult films like this I've bought that have also fallen far short of their reputation Easy Rider (dreadful rubbish), and Withnail and I (this last one is just about worth watching twice)I like Terence Stamp the best, a very dry performance - and the most convincing. Once again not a dreadful film, but not a classic by any stretch of the imagination "},{"Title":"A movie/musical about dragqueens singing in the desert.","Date":"7 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie was horrible with no plot or moral.  There is no basic storyline and it is a poor attempt at humor.  The actors are weak and there is no support for their roles.  This movie is boring and in no way fun.  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life.  It is absolutely horrible.  The only question left in your mind is who was worse in this film, Terence Stamp or Guy Pearce. You make the call.    "},{"Title":"Disturbing, but shallow","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Basically a road movie. The gay, transsexual, and other gender-bender themes are rather disturbing, particularly when the child is involved. You do have to hand it to the costume designers. As for the actors, the only one I was familiar with was Terence Stamp. I suppose it was a very good performance, out of his (or anyone's) normal range. The movie as a whole was shallow, just a vehicle for the clever, bitchy banter. All in all, I don' recommend this one.  "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film tries hard but fails. Perhaps to non-Australian audiences it may have appeal as a travelogue, but to the native it is merely tedious.Anyone who lives here knows Broken Hill is a rough, tough isolated mining town.  If a couple of citified fruits turn up in drag, well it's all so predictable.  Where have I come across that well-worn theme before? Oh yes -- Town Mouse and Country Mouse. Spare us.I kept hoping it would improve but after the Broken Hill scene I could see where this was heading and so turned off the TV and went to bed. "},{"Title":"Signs Of The Apocalypse - No. 1,345","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The costumes are outrageous and the Australian outback scenery is fun to view, but there is an edge to this story - a mean edge - about drag queens. I particularly noticed that in Terrence Stamp's character, Ralph Bernadette Bassenger. Perhaps that was appropriate since there is nothing good-guy- like about Ralph-Bernadette and his group of queens. Once again, we get the strong Liberal slant which says anything goes and if you're not with it - or in this case, pro-homosexual, then you are a homophobe. (Gasp!)What's really disturbing is the ending when a young boy goes off with his alternative-lifestyle father and embraces his gay lifestyle, not because it fit the story but because it fit the agenda of the people who wrote the script. Pitiful. "}]