[{"Title":"A great story despite being a lot darker than most sports biographies","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  When sportswriter Al Stump is contracted to write the autobiography of baseball player Ty Cobb, he believes he has it made.  Cobb had a reputation as a mean player who is cruel, bigoted and monstrous.  Al quickly learns that this reputation was well earned and that Cobb is all the things that he is reputed to be.  As the pair set off to Reno in a middle of a snowstorm, Cobb tells him the story of his life, although the bitter, angry mess that is Cobb tells him all he needs to know about the past.When I sat to watch this film, I was aware that it was meant to be pretty harsh in terms of how it portrayed Cobb, but I didn't realise just how little of his career this film would touch upon.  The film never shirks from showing Cobb to be the monstrous man he was claimed to be - either in his cruel career where he would sharpen his studs to hurt opponents or his personal life where he destroyed his family.  Despite this the first half (and much of the film) is a fairly lively, almost comic affair that is deceptively enjoyable to watch.  What this overall tone succeeds in doing is making the rest of the film that much more shocking and powerful as a result.  The first significant turn is where Cobb gets `laid' in Reno - a moment that turns quickly from sensitive and comic to violent and scary and then almost immediately to the tragic.This film missed out on a full cinematic release due to harsh reviews, but I really don't understand why it got them.  The only thing I can think of is that the reviewers felt this was an unfair portrayal of Cobb; I do not know anything about him, nor do I care about baseball as a sport so maybe I am being conned by this film but it is certainly a very interesting character who is looked at as part of an interesting and imaginative film.  The film doesn't look very much at Ty's career but instead focuses on the man - this is much more interesting and it is done through straightforward means as well as more imaginative touches such as the extension of the career newsreel to Ty's low points.The film really works well, but I cannot imagine it being as good were it not for the fiery performance from Jones.  I don't know how close it is to the real Cobb, but for the material he gets it just right.  He balances the character on a knife-edge to the point that nobody could really feel sorry for him but at the same time it is difficult to hate him.  Support from Wuhl is OK but not really as good - he wisely stands in the shadow of Jones. The support cast do well, with a small but important performance from Davidovich.Overall, this is much darker than I expected from a baseball film from Shelton; however it is better for it.  I cannot comment on how fair it is to the real Cobb, but regardless of this it is a really enjoyable character piece with a great central performance.  It keeps the audience by swinging wildly between the comic, the dark and the tragic, keeping us with it all the time.  It is a dark drama but still enjoyable and sadly great underrated and underseen. "},{"Title":"What a Ballplayer, comedy","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This film is one of my all time favorites.  There are some things in the film that I am less than happy about, such as the attempted rape in the hotel room in Reno.  I don't believe it actually happened.  I have read a few biographical books on Cobb and even though few people ever liked him, there were some things he would not do.  Its strange, but many people will see somebody who is detestable, in most respects, and that person is therefore guilty of anything that can be said about him.  Ty Cobb was a son of the south who never got over his father's murder, and he also never, ever, got over the Civil War. As I recall, he entered the major's in 1904 or 1905.As I said above, the movie Cobb is best viewed as a comedy; and I think it was intended to be seen as such by the film makers.  I compare it to the film, A Clockwork Orange.  In A Clockwork Orange you had a story of a guy name Alex who had things happen to him, often humorous, because of who he was.  At the end of A Clockwork Orange, in the last scene, you have to admit that you could only snicker at what was on Alex's mind listening to his beloved 9th once again, since he had now been cured. I also remember the scene in the film that you see from the Bible where Jesus is carrying the cross and is being flogged.  The camera pans back to the Roman who is doing the whipping, and it is Alex.In Cobb, the first part of the movie is one of the funniest I have ever seen; especially the ride down the hill in the snow to Reno. The film has a lot of truth in it but it actually leaves out a lot.  The Scene in which you see Cobb beating up the fan who is crippled is true. But what is not said is that the whole team put itself on the line in backing Cobb in what he did; they went on strike against Cobb's suspension.  So, Cobb was not hated quite like he was shown to be in the film, and the film did a discredit to Cobb in some areas.  Oh, by the way, that fan that was beatup in the film was Jimmy Buffet from Lost in Margaritaville music fame.  Jimmy is a good friend of Tommy Lee Jones.Actually, I rather doubt that you could make a real true film about Ty Cobb that could be saleable at the box-office.  Ty Cobb was not funny, and he had little sense of humor; he absolutely had no sense of humor about himself. He was a bigot. You did not dare make fun of him to his face. He could explode into a life threatening altercation at the drop of a hat. However, I do believe he was courteous to women for the most part, and that is another area I have problem with what is depicted in the film. Cobb was a Redneck and a great deal like many other Rednecks from the south at that time. In his time there was a great deal of KKK activity going on in the South and the rest of the country for that matter.  Cobb reflected his times, and never changed.Also, baseball was a lot different then than it is today. It was a completely different time. Baseball was the ticket for the poor and exploited to get out of the coal mines, the iron mills, or the farm fields. It was much more of a dog eat dog world than it is today. The average player today can move into some other endeavor if he didn't make it. In Cobb's time, it was back to the coal mines and an early death. To quote Ty Cobb It's no pink tea, and mollycoddler's had better stay out. Baseball was a do or die affair and there were no holds barred as long as you could get away with it.Cobb, in many ways was not that different than many, but he was the best baseball player of his time, and quite possibly the greatest that ever lived. And, he played baseball with a fury that nobody else, before or since, has played with. Unfortunately, he could not turn off that fury when he wasn't playing the game. For Ty Cobb, baseball was absolute war and he devoted himself 100-percent to playing it that way and he also devoted his mental capacities 100-percent to the study of getting the edge on his opponents. He would do or say anything to get you out of your game.  Cobb could also circle the bases faster than anyone who has ever played the game, with his spikes sharpened. He was rather big for his time and was about the same height as Babe Ruth. Couple that size with that speed and the grit in his demeanor and nobody ever enjoyed or looked forward to playing against him.  What a ballplayer. "},{"Title":"Tommy Lee Jones at his Best","Date":"5 March 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This little seen film has Tommy Lee Jones giving one of the best performances of his career.  It is a shame that the film was given only a limited release with no advertising budget.  I know of many who wanted to see this movie, but it was in and out of the theaters before they could notice.Cobb gets one of my highest recommendations.  No Jones fan can justify not seeing this movie.   "},{"Title":"The closest thing to the truth as I have seen","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" when was in a movie rental store around the age of 8 I had no idea what in the world a movie titled Cobb could possibly be about. At that time my first thought was that it was about some horror movie slasher film in a corn field due to the dark movie cover and the cold looking man on the cover. Although the cover has changed since then I was only surprised to learn that it was about a baseball player later on in my life around the age of 15. However it was about a cold looking, and not to mention cruel acting man. It was almost scary the way this man viewed life. Almost abusively portrayed through the incredible skill of Tommy Lee Jones. No one could have possibly played this role with enough conviction and energy as the man they cast. He was vigorous, violent, and energetic and in every way fit for this part. I disagree with another commentators comment that Robert Wuhl's character was dry and lacking. In that I also say that I saw much more in that character than most people give him credit for. This film carry's you from a wretched, sick old man in the boondocks to a wild, wary, warrior of life fighting and dominating every aspect of life that he cared to pursue. Tommy lee Jones did an incredible job at playing a hated, yet respected character in that stone cold role of Tyrus Raymond Cobb. I found this film most moving, and although at times I could not believe the wake left in his trail I had to tip my hat to a man who kept fighting right up to the last minute of his life. I later read the biography Cobba biography by Al Stump and reading of his wild nature in that book I knew that the role had been attacked with a savage ferocity. No matter who you are don't look at this film as something to criticize, but more as something to educate yourself on a man who never gave up, and lived his life without ever giving inch without fighting for it. He set records and he turned some heads in the process.Go into this movie with an open perspective instead of the love hate attitude that most have for films. For if a film was about you loving or hating a character or a part of a movie you might miss the whole point of the film. The point of this film clearly established that he was hated, and he owed that to no one other than himself. I was moved, wowed, amazed, and shaken by this film simply from the acting alone. it's worth watching at least once. and lastly i must say comparing this to the real story that this movie was as close to the truth of any portrayal of any life as any i have seen. ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"A good movie about a great baseball player who was a loathsome human being","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Presuming all we have heard about Ty Cobb's off-field life are true, this movie is a wonderful portrayal.Tommie Lee Jones' portrayal of Cobb is incredible. He instantly presents a well educated, highly opinionated and full-of-himself fading hero. Jones' character portrayal runs the gamut of Cobb's audacity, bigotry, bravado, charity and unabashed directness.Those of you with thin skins may balk at some of the language used, some of the rumored occurrences and for those of you for whom Ty Cobb is a hero, you may be disillusioned by some of what is portrayed. However, as I said if what we've heard about Cobb is half true, this movie doesn't seem too far off the mark.Robert Wuhl's portrayal of Al Stump (Stumpy to Cobb), is fairly well done. Wuhl often tends to seem wooden in his performances but perhaps this is an occasion where that quality suits both the character and as a foil to Jones' Cobb. The narrative that goes with the movie moves it along well, and fits well as it is the writers narrative and Wuhl plays the writer.The supporting scenes to the primary story lend life to the rumors and life outside of baseball in brilliant display. From the early scenes of a valet leaving Mr. Cobbs' service, to the later scenes of him dealing with his former contemporaries, you will be taken on a roller-coaster ride of despising Cobb and feeling genuinely sorry for him at the same time.It's a shame this movie hasn't had a better showing. If not for fans of a baseball legend, for Tommie Lee Jones' portrayal at the least. "},{"Title":"it keeps your interest,...sort of like a train wreck!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" This film is rather faithful to the book in that it shows Ty Cobb as a thorough #^*#!!(%$# whose abilities you had to admit but who was about as likable as a human being as Hitler! All of Cobb's real life awfulness is here--the extreme bigotry, his being a bully and how much all the other ball players hated his guts.The movie is based on a real incident. Decades ago, Ty Cobb hired a ghost writer to create a biography that was pure crap--showing Ty as some sort of beloved character. However, the writer double-crossed him and wrote the truth (as verified by most who knew Cobb) and Cobb sued. All this, along with the biography of Cobb, are shown in the film.While Tommy Lee Jones looks nothing like Cobb, his performance is fun to watch and I was rooting for him to hit Robert Wuhl when he was shooting at him in the movie--then at least we might have been spared the Arliss Show! Unfortunately, the problem with the film is that most people probably won't like Cobb as a person at all and so it's doubtful if the movie has much of an audience. But, if you want to find out why he was the most hated man in ball during his day, give it a shot--you probably will be transfixed by Cobb's awfulness. "},{"Title":"Baseball as a Blood Sport","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Tyrus R. Cobb, the greatest ballplayer in his or any other era just by the statistics. Though both Ricky Henderson and others have eclipsed his base stealing record and Pete Rose took down his record for lifetime base hits, Cobb still has a whole lot more still standing including that .367 lifetime batting average. He fought each and every athletic contest like Nathan Bedford Forrest going against the hated North. God help a pitcher who shaved the ball a little too inside or an infielder who dared get in his way. Did he have to be the way he was to win ballgames? I doubt that very much. A whole lot of other athletes like Walter Johnson, Christy Mathewson, George Sisler, Honus Wagner ran up some pretty impresive statistics of their own without resorting to the violence Cobb did. The number of his contemporaries who showed up for his funeral you could count on one hand.Ty Cobb was a typical product of the Populist South of the 1890s and his views on various types of people reflected all the prejudices of Georgia during that time. But he also hid a terrible family secret that no doubt twisted him beyond anything remotely humane.What's not mentioned in the film is that Ty Cobb got in on the ground floor of something called Coca Cola. The owner of the Detroit Tigers where Cobb played most of his career was one Frank Navin. Navin was a bookkeeper for the original owners of the team and he sunk his life savings into buying a controlling interest and later getting partners who would be silent and let him run things. Navin's salary battles with Cobb were annual winter sportswriter fodder. Cobb didn't make his money in baseball, but was far luckier financially than nearly all of his contemporaries.It's important to remember that this is not a biographical film. It is the story of sportswriter Al Stump's relationship with the dying Ty Cobb as Stump was busy living with him and getting inside his head to write his story. I read both Cobb's whitewashed version of an autobiography that came out just before his death in 1961 and Stump's later account.Curiously enough Babe Ruth also had Bob Considine ghost write an autobiography the way Stump did for Cobb. That book was the basis of the Bill Bendix film The Babe Ruth Story. It's as Ruth would have wished to be remembered. Other more factual accounts of the Babe have since appeared and his legend hasn't dimmed any. I suspect neither will Cobb's.Tommy Lee Jones gives a pluperfect portrayal of a Georgia redneck who happened to be the best baseball player whoever lived. Robert Wuhl is also very good as Al Stump and the months they had veer from the wildly comic to the tragic.This is not how Ty Cobb would wish to be remembered. But given his life he's lucky the film and book were so favorable. "},{"Title":"athlete-hero as sonofabitch","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  If this movie exaggerates the nastiness of Ty Cobb, his descendants could sue. Then again if the movie is accurate, his descendants clearly despise him as much as anyone else. The weirdly symbiotic relationship between Cobb and his hapless biographer Aaron Stump is engrossing to watch, but it is Tommy Lee Jones' performance that makes the movie. The performance borders on  chewing up the scenery, but it's mesmerizing.   "},{"Title":"It's been two years since I got my pecker up in the air.","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" First things first, this movie is based off of a book written by Al Stump, who is played by Robert Wuhl in the film. Al Stump in recent years has proved to be a liar and a forger so sports historians are calling into question a great deal of his supposed insight into Ty Cobb. In other words, in all likelihood Mr. Stump exaggerated or outright made up most of his allegations against Cobb to sell books. That isn't to say Ty Cobb was a prince of a human being because there's enough contemporary evidence to show that he wasn't. But some of the most vile things that have been said about him can be traced to Stump's writing. So take the things this movie has to say with a huge grain of salt. Another black mark against the film is that it has very little actual baseball in it. This movie doesn't care about Cobb the baseball giant. It only cares about Cobb the asshole. To include one side of the man without the other is a pointless exercise in self-righteousness. Why is a biography of Ty Cobb even necessary without his baseball accomplishments? Because he was a racist and a bully? There are millions of those, past and present, who aren't getting movies made about them. It just defies reason. Cobb was one of the greatest (and dirtiest) baseball players ever. Going by this movie, however, you would think he was just some crotchety old man who shared wacky adventures with a sports reporter. Tommy Lee Jones was too old to play this role, as is especially evident in the flashbacks to when Cobb was younger. He plays Cobb as a silly cantankerous cartoon of a man. Every bit as over the top as his performance of Two Face in Batman Forever. Let that sink in for a minute. Robert Wuhl plays himself as he always does. The movie is entertaining in spots. The comedic parts work better than the dramatic. I can't really recommend it because the bad outweighs the good and, personally, knowing about Stump leaves a bad taste in my mouth over the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Tommy Lee Jones and another home run, a brilliant performance in a biopic","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" I don't know how much of Cobb is fact and how much is fiction. If it is closer to fact than Ty Cobb was a complete and utter ass. A spiteful and hateful man that didn't seem to be worth writing about let alone making a film about but when you peel back the layers you discover so much more about the man and that's what this film tries to capture. The one thing it doesn't truly touch on is that Ty Cobb was about Baseball...period. I thought Cobb would actually show the baseball career of Ty Cobb and it barely shows some flashbacks of such. This film is truly about Cobb in his final days and the infamous rumors circulating the man and his wild personality as told to world famous Sport's writer Al Stump. Sports screen writer Ron Shelton creates an incredible story surrounding a sport's legend based on the real book written by the real Al Stump (who was also an adviser on the film.) Shelton actually manages to make us see the underside of Ty Cobb. Sure the man is a total lunatic, raving about his younger days and his self imposed greatness but there is a sadness lurking below him, a sarcasm to all his behavior, a desire to be loved by making himself hated.Who could play this diverse, and flexible character and make it his own. The incomparable Tommy Lee Jones, that's who. This is one of Jones' best performances and he was absolutely robbed by not getting some sort of nomination for some sort of award. He is the only actor who could create an absolute human monster and still manage to make you feel sorry for him, to make you sense his greatness and his talent. On top of that he plays the man dying in one breath and then goes back for Flashbacks and looks convincing as his younger self. He looks sickly and old and really close to death in his later scenes and he just does an incredible job of really embracing Ty Cobb. Robert Wuhl is an odd actor to take on in a lead role in this film. I say that because at the time and even now he was basically at best a supporting actor. I only remembered him in a small role in 1989's Batman. Besides that and a run with the successful TV Series Arli$$ playing a Sport's Agent (which was after Cobb) he was a no-name and a risk to put him opposite talent like Tommy Lee Jones. I think it was a risk worth taking!! Wuhl does a terrific job as Sport's writer Al Stump (Stumpy.) Their chemistry is unmistakable and both men are such flawed characters (Cobb more than Stump obviously) but they are both battling themselves in one way or another. Wuhl also narrates the story and kind of gives us an inside idea as to what is going on in his own mind as he tries to deal with this Baseball legend. Although I wouldn't describe Wuhl's performance as equal to Jones', I would say he holds his own and does a terrific job.Ron Shelton also directs the film and is certainly no stranger to sports films. After doing Bull Durham, Blue Chips and White Men Can't Jump he really put himself into Cobb. All his sports films are so much more than just about the sport. He brings out his characters and makes you feel them and really care about them and he goes all out with Cobb. You become completely entangled in these two men's lives as they travel together. The film is not about Baseball, it's not about the story, or the trip, or the legends, it's about Ty Cobb...period. Again I don't know how accurate the information is but here he is on the table no holds barred and it's brilliant. It's a biopic about a man that the world hated but no more than I think he hated himself and no more than what he created himself to be. You have to look at small details like his support of fellow team mate Mickey Cochrane, the way his eyes light up when he speaks of his children and the constant mention of his parents and his father's death. I read several reviewers that brought up the point in the narration when Al Stump says I did something Ty Cobb never did...lie. They point out that Ty Cobb lied about everything and I think that was the idea...that comment was entirely, heavily sarcastic. See the film for yourself because Baseball fans and Tommy Lee Jones fans and fans of powerful biopics will love it. For others it might move a little slowly. It's worth seeing. 8.5/10 "}{"Title":"One Brilliant Scene, the Rest Disposable","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Ty Cobb is, by far, the most interesting and belligerently insane athlete to ever live. His baseball career was unparalleled in absurd statistics, brilliant strategy, and pure unadulterated violence. Every game he played in was a spectacle in human ability and cruelty. So of course, the film about him deals with none of that, instead focusing on the writing of his biography by author Al Stump. Now this isn't such a horrible idea in theory, as Cobb himself slid even further into paranoid dementia as years progressed and the stories of his crazed outbursts even as a senior are shocking even by today's desensitized standards. But instead of focusing on these events, which I figure were simply too interesting, the film is a pseudo fictionalized road film with a clichéd plot that will cause any knowledgeable Cobb fan to cry vinegar tears. Tommy Lee Jones does quite well as a crotchety Cobb, but somehow manages to overplay his cartoon supervillainy. Most stories about Cobb are barely believable, but to make him even crazier seems both impossible and unnecessary. Robert Wuhl, portraying the writer Al Stump, is a dark vortex of non-talent. He sucks the life out of every scene, trying to make this film his own Nagasaki. There is a reason we never see him as a leading man anymore (Arli$$ does not count. It's barely a show). Even the played out, inevitable role reversal of Cobb and Stump by the end is made even worse by his pure inability to utter lines that don't sound akin to a bottom shelf book on tape narration voice. For all the awful writing and bland film-making on display, there is one sequence which stands out as so far superior to the rest of this failure that accepting it's from the same film is near impossible. A hyper stylized flashback sequence displaying Cobb's overpowering psychology and brutal athleticism while actually playing the game of baseball is pure brilliance. The camera moves in bizarre fashion and the whole event seems like a dream due to the unique playing style of the monster Cobb. Every slide, hit, and tackle are rendered even more forceful due to enhanced sound, and Tommy Lee Jones OWNS the intensity of the master player. It makes the viewer drool over the possibilities of a true biopic of Cobb in his prime with the same actor. It's worth watching the film for this incredible few minutes alone, just to see what could have been. I may be slightly unfair to this film due to my own knowledge of Ty Cobb and wanting it to be something it isn't, but to make such boring, neutered movie about this maniac is nonsensical. I'm glad Ron Shelton's career has slid ever since. "},{"Title":"a disturbing bio-pic that tries (and achieves) a visceral reaction","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Under-rated and under-seen at the time of its original release, Cobb is the kind of sports film that would be un-watchable if it weren't made with such care to the dramatic side of things. Ron Shelton, responsible for such films as Bull Durham and Play it to the Bone, takes the story of finding a story as the basis for this tale of the legend Ty Cobb. Stump (Roberto Wuhl, pre-Arliss) takes on the task of writing a biography of one of the most notorious players of baseball, and when he meets him and starts to know him, he's almost scared to death. We learn from Cobb himself (in Tommy Lee Jones' equivalent to Robert De Niro in Raging Bull) about his early years, his personal life to a degree (some of this is in detail, some of it's just in creative little snippets later on in the film), but not a whole lot about baseball. But what is known practically sums up the man- he felt a thrill in torturing the offensive team and getting jeered as he broke records (some of which may still stand today). As the story progresses, the relationship between Stump and Cobb is what becomes the focal point, and it's a tense, depressing, and oddly exciting path.The details in the story, not of the flattering sort by any measure, give the film an appeal that would've been lost if it were one of those straight-to-TV movies where you'd only get hints of the man's nature. By way of the writer getting a story, Shelton brings revelatory points that are rather interesting, of occasionally off-putting. It's hard to imagine what it would be like to ride with Cobb, but watching it this way brings on a visceral reaction, at least from me. I first saw this film when I was younger when it was first on HBO, and I saw it again recently. As a case in psychology, it's a good movie. As a portrait of disintegration it's even better. But if you're thinking of getting a news-reel portraying only his accomplishments, look elsewhere. I'm not sure if Ty Cobb was a great baseball player, but the film doesn't spare him at least some praise in that area. That Jones steals the show is no surprise either. A- "},{"Title":"Foul","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" I wonder if Al Stump (Stumpy to Cobb) realized what he was doing in telling this story, how much of himself and his own dilemma he was revealing. Frustrated because Cobb has final editorial approval of the biography in progress, Stump tells us in voice-over that he decided to do the one thing that Cobb never did -- lie. He would write one bio almost solely about baseball for Cobb to read, and another secret one, hidden away on scraps, that showed the real man and would be published after Cobb's death, which is never far away. How can Stump make the statement that Cobb never lied? He seems to lie about anything, whenever the whim moves him, including the darkest aspects of his character determinants. Exaggerration, dissembling, hiding or shading the truth, it happens all the time with Cobb. Even about baseball, which was the most important thing in his life. He's dismissive of people like Babe Ruth. When Stump forces him to say SOMEthing good about the man, Cobb allows, He could run okay -- for a fat man. It leaves us wondering just how much of the story we're watching is true and how much was limned and polished after the fact since, after all, what Joyce Carol Oates called pathographies sell much better than hagiographies. We'd rather read about a bastard than a saint. It's corrupted our scholarship, but never mind. The movie is made watchable by Jones' performance. That's about it. Lolita Davidovitch is beautiful but her part is almost unnecessary. Stumpy combines nicely a particularly kind of Jewish Angst with an equally ethnic tendency to be pushed only so far before counterattacking on his own behalf. (I don't think I minded him as much as some other commentators seem to have.)The script doesn't give poor Jones much to do except mutate into a Teppischfresser every few minutes, screaming, shouting, laughing hysterically, shooting off pistols, and in general carrying on like some animal in a zoo. He's given scenes that are simply not true to the character as otherwise written. Visiting his daughter's house in his home town, he sits in the car and watches while she looks out the window, identifies him, and draws the curtains closed. Tears trickle down his cheeks, but why? He hasn't bothered to contact her for fifteen years. A family get-together while they sit around the dinner table and trade compliments? The Cobb we see in the rest of the film wouldn't have given a damn about his daughter or anyone else except himself. But maybe it has something to do with facing mortality. If so, it's not made clear. Still, the most affecting scene is one in which Cobb begins to vomit blood and cough up lung tissue in a motel bathroom. This is how it starts, he mutters to his mirror image. This is what it looks like. He might be scared as hell but he's never sorry for anything he's done and has no capacity for self pity. Some people may find this trait -- not sparing anyone's feelings -- admirable. I don't. Social life is a tissue of lies from beginning to end, and if you don't make some minimal effort to play by this simple and somewhat silly rule of the game -- well, others are liable to treat you as if you had slid into second base wearing shoes with razor-sharp cleats. Al grows to like this old curmudgeon, but let's not forget that Cobb was Al's meal ticket. "},{"Title":"Boring bunch of crude fantasy, nothing worthwhile here","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" The movie attempts to present what sort of person baseball great Ty Cobb was, by showing the last several months of his life, focusing on his collaboration with Al Stump, to write Cobb's autobiography, starting in the summer of 1960 and running through the death of Cobb in July 1961. We get a few swirly flashback scenes of some grim moments in Cobb's life, primarily a few looks at the circumstances surrounding the shooting death of his father in 1905. The only baseball footage comes from one memory of Cobb's plus what is supposed to have been an old newsreel biography of his playing career that, for reasons unknown, focuses almost solely on scenes that supposedly took place during the 1916 season. So much of the film deals with Stump's life and activities in working with Cobb that the movie would have been more appropriately named Stump. The portrait of the elderly Cobb is not to be believed. He appears to be a drug-addicted (Painkillers) lunatic who went around with his pistol shooting into the air and at walls whenever he wanted to get someone's attention. According to this film, Cobb was a foul-mouthed man who sounded rather uneducated and a man whom all around feared for their safety. Coming from the fantasy pen of Al Stump, none of this in any way describes the real Ty Cobb, based on the evidence of all the people who did know him in his last years. In other words, anyone seeking to learn anything at all about Ty Cobb should look elsewhere.If you like biography movies because they teach you about how people lived in the old days, this is also a film to be avoided because the total footage that is shown that is supposed to take place before the last year of Cobb's life is less than five minutes. If you want to see how realistic the baseball scenes are&#x97;forget it. Not counting the newsreel you see one at bat by Cobb, a double, and two stolen bases, each ending with a kick to the crotch with the second followed by a donnybrook. This is not a film about the life of this famous ballplayer, it is a film about several months near the end of his life with almost no time devoted to telling you about all the things he did in his life.Even in that one baseball game that is depicted, we see no interaction between Cobb and his teammates&#x97;not even a view of a clubhouse. We see no manager of the Tigers&#x97;indeed, we never learn from this film that Cobb managed the Tigers for 6 years. A large part of Cobb's autobiography, the one he hired Stump to help him write, deals with Cobb's ongoing disputes with Tiger owner Frank Navin. There is no mention of Navin in this film. While Babe Ruth was mentioned, there were no scenes showing Cobb and Ruth on the baseball field, or in a hotel room, or playing golf together as they did. Perhaps they couldn't find an actor who looked anything like the Babe. Check that&#x97;after all, Tommy Lee Jones doesn't look anything like Ty Cobb and that didn't stop them.What we have is a movie with much more cursing than necessary to set the mood, and for no particular reason, there was even a quasi-sex scene that seemed designed just to convince you even more that Cobb was a nasty old man. We know his family found him hard to get along with, but throughout his life he was polite in public and obliging to autograph seekers and others who visited him, especially if they wanted to talk about baseball. This film doesn't even suggest that he was ever nice to anyone.If you have read other sources and know about the real Cobb, you know this movie is almost 100% concocted by the fantasies of Al Stump. If you knew little about this baseball great and believe anything you saw, you know less about him than you did before. Three times or more they declare that Cobb invented the style of baseball that featured aggressive base running and stealing bases and more, even though that is totally false.With the simple title of Cobb, any viewer would expect it to be about the man's whole life&#x97;or at least a large part of it, perhaps even the parts that made him famous. Another possible title that would have been more accurate is Cobb&#x97;ten months at the end of his life. As a fictional film this was a dreadfully boring show about a two-bit writer and a nasty old man who seemed like a lunatic. Full of excessive cussing and devoid of any reason to like either character, it would rate a 3 out of 10. But because it claims to portray a very real man and depicts someone far, far different from the real person, complete with a made-up memory scene of how Cobb's father died&#x97;one that Ty could not have told Stump because 1) it didn't happen that way at all, and 2) because Ty wasn't there at the time&#x97;I find this film rather offensive. So I give it the lowest score allowed here&#x97;a one. "},{"Title":"The Georgia Peach was actually NO peach.","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is a damn good biopic about baseball legend Ty Cobb. Not much baseball action, but a not-to-miss movie if you are a real baseball fan. Cobb was probably the most hated ballplayer in history; but definitely one of the best...and that for sure is debatable. This movie shows what happens when a biographer discovers that the truth is far less glamorous than the legend. Respected and well liked sportswriter Al Stump(Robert Wuhl)gets assigned and requested by the subject to write the bio of Ty Cobb(Tommy Lee Jones). Stump travels through a major winter storm to Cobb's home in Tahoe. Cobb is dying and wants his story to be told...his way. Cobb mistreats, slanders, belittles and humiliates Stump at every opportunity. Stump has to battle not only his subject by his own values as to either candy-coat his story or present an accurate picture of the disgusting, racist, drunken and bitter Cobb. Most of Cobb's story is mythical and exaggerated. Even Ty would tell you he is a 'damn liar'. He was definitely someone to reckon with on the ball field. With his spaced hand grip was one of the greatest hitters of his era. He was known for sliding into second or third with cleats raised to his opponent's knees. And sliding home would even raise his cleats crotch and stomach high. His nickname was The Georgia Peach, but he was by all means no peach. He retired in 1928 with over 90 records. In 1936, he was the very first player to be elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Cobb was so disliked by other players, only 4 showed up at his funeral in 1961. Ty Cobb was quoted When I began playing the game, baseball was about gentlemanly as a kick in the crotch. I've seen this movie several times and urge any sports fan to watch this story of a unique athlete. "},{"Title":"The Great Ty Cobb in a Great Movie","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" WOW! I am a lifelong baseball fan and was searching for baseball DVDs on-line when I came across this DVD. I noticed that Tommy Lee Jones played Cobb, so I put in an order for the DVD. I watched it the second I picked it up and what can I say? I was simply blown away. I'll warn now that I may quote some of what Cobb had to say. So if you are offended by profanities, or don't want any spoilers, please turn away now.This movie shows you that you can get more than you bargained for. When sportswriter Al Stomp gets a chance to interview Cobb for his biography, his life goes through a true whirlwind. Cobb wants him to write a fictitious story to show Cobb as a true American icon, rather than the psychotic, anti-social man that society believed him to be. This movie has that drama there that you would expect it to have, but it also has some comedy. During the middle of a snowstorm, Cobb wants to go find a woman because as he put it I haven't had my pecker up in two years. He uses absolute racist terms to describe almost any type of person and it shows a game he played (guest starring Roger Clemens), where he plays dirty, and even tells the catcher he slept with his wife the night before as he pulls out some lingerie from his pants.This is a movie any baseball fan would enjoy as it sheds light on the greatest to ever play the game in a very fast 2 hours, with incredible acting, a great story and fantastic comedy. They don't deviate from who Cobb was by any means.If you are a baseball fan who is looking to learn more about the game, and need a few good laughs, pick this movie up and own the DVD. You'll be glad you did.This story was based on the second book about Cobb that was written by Al Stomp. "},{"Title":"vastly underrated!","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  'cobb' is a very underrated baseball movie. it features a brilliant and intense performance from tommy lee jones as ty cobb and a (surprisingly) good performance by robert wuhl as the sportswriter al stump. why jones wasn't nominated for an oscar for this is beyond me. director ron shelton creates a gripping drama that you should not miss, especially if you (like me) love baseball. it's out on dvd finally! go get it! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Greatness is often misunderstood....","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  People do not realize what it takes to be the best. In order to be the best you certainly need to have athletic ability, but you also have to be born with a burning, unending passion to excel beyond all others. This can not be taught or learned. This trait has to be innate. And with such a trait some negatives also follow. I believe the movie did a remarkable job painting the picture of a man who loathed failure. In everything he did, he won. Perhaps some more liberally minded people view it as he lost in life due to his lack of friends, but in his eyes he did what he had to do. Robert Wuhl did a nice job in his role, but Tommy Lee Jones was awesome. The power and presence of Cobb the man was conveyed perfectly on screen by Jones. This movie is a must have for anyone who has an appreciation for victory. "},{"Title":"tommy lee jones hits it out of the park","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I couldn't care less if Ty Cobb was the greatest baseball player who ever lived, but Tommy Lee Jones gives one of recent movie history's greatest performances as a dying man walking the blurry line between genius and insanity. Jones delivers his dialogue with perfect pitch and makes you yearn for the days (before television) when sports players claimed the space to be the unvarnished rotters so many of them must be to let loose with the kind of killer instincts it takes to win at professional sports. Jones get almost no help at all from the supporting cast, including Robert Wuhl, cable TV's Arliss, whose rubbery face is just that rubbery. He unattractively mugs his way through the key supporting role of Cobb's befuddled but entranced biographer-for-hire, Al Stump. Ron Shelton (the director and writer) doesn't know when to leave a point alone (he keeps hitting you over the head with them like a baseball bat) and the film could have used more flashbacks of Jones playing the younger Cobb, to let Jones' face out from behind the age makeup every once in a while. But finally none of that matters because Jones takes the picture between his teeth and never lets go of it; he shows you a 100 percent human being.This is a good movie to rent if you're a woman who loves movies to watch with a man who doesn't readily share your enthusiasm. You'll both be fascinated. "},{"Title":"We shouldn't have to lie about our heroes.","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Cobb is the supposedly true account of the final days of the great ballplayer Ty Cobb as seen through the eyes of sportswriter Al Stump. Tommy Lee Jones gives an extraordinary performance as the doomed and rambunctious old man. And Robert Wuhl ends up just being along for the Ride as Stump. Though it likely plays a little hard and fast with the truth, Cobb is an engrossing film.The film is told through the perspective of Al Stump who was one of the more prominent sports writers of his day. Early in the film he finds himself summoned to an elaborate yet secluded hunting lodge in the Sierra Mountains. Here he finds the angry old delusional ball player in a state just a few paces ahead of death from various cancers, ailments, and substance abuse. Cobb always seems to be pointing a pistol at those around him and occasionally firing rounds through nearby objects. Cobb knows he's about to die, but wants the complete story of his life to be told... his way! Cobb, as played by Jones is often cartoon-ish, and likely a great exaggeration of the true man. Though he claims to want Stump to only include Cobb's introspection of the game of baseball itself, he often readily offers up lurid details of his past. But then forcefully reminds his biographer, that's not going in your book, though! It's almost as if Cobb is using Stump as a man to relate his final confessions to, knowing for sure that many of these details will some day be told about him. If not in the book they are working on at the time. Or it could be that Cobb just needs someone to pour out his soul to in his final days, and lacks friends or close family to do it with. Either way, the film paints Cobb as a monster. And he likely wasn't as bad a guy as the film paints him. But still he was no prince, that is clear from basically every account of the man's life.The film follows Cobb and Stump on several wild escapades inside casinos, seedy motels, and even the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, NY. Cobb is played as a violent, impotent, and repugnant junkie. Stump finds himself being more of a caregiver than a biographer by the film's end, and finds himself in a difficult situation. He is the only thing keeping Cobb alive, yet he cannot wait for the old man to die so he can spill all of his secrets in the book. Unfortunately, Stump ends up copping out with the manuscript, and only submitting the good things Cobb wanted the world to hear. He explanation.... he felt he needed Cobb to be a hero, and not the villain he proved to be. The film never really explains why Stump comes to this conclusion. And thus the viewer may feel a little short-changed. In the end, it looks like this film was only made for shock value is showing us what a monster Cobb was. But this makes the Stump character little more than just another audience member like us.Overall, the film is decent enough. Jones is fun to watch, and you'll never forget his performance. Even if it was probably a great exaggeration. The film looks good, and captures the older periods quite well. The script is a foul-mouthed exercise in brutal self-degradation and poor treatment of others, however. There is some brutal violence, and even a sexual assault at gunpoint. For those looking for the cleaner side of the man, a trip to Cooperstown might be a better idea. 7 of 10 stars.The Hound. "}{"Title":"I watched spellbound, with mouth agape, at the first 10 minutes of this film!","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Terrific Movie! Surely Tommy Lee Jones best ever performance.It must have taken me an hour before I was no longer shocked at the comments and actions of Jones' portrayal, of Ty Cobb's life story.Could all this stuff be true? I wouldn't know, but it sure made for a great flick! Cobb gives the word Irreverence a new meaning! Assuming his exploits were real, he was odious, yet so bizarre, disrespectful, unique, uninhibited, humorous, and talented, I couldn't help but be drawn to him. He'd be fun to go out drinking with, but I'd keep a close eye on him, and be ready vamoose at the drop of hat! Cobb is an extremely entertaining film. "},{"Title":"When it comes to sports heroes, Ty Cobb isn't one of them!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" It's nice to read about all the baseball legends of all time. Lou Gehrig's legacy was short lived due to ALS, Babe Ruth is a true legend. Everyone else is a baseball hero to someone. But when it comes to Tyrus Raymond Ty Cobb, you better be warned. His batting average is superb, his base steals are amazing, his home runs, outstanding. When it comes to his view of the world, it's nothing but contempt and resentment. Al Stump(Robert Wuhl) goes on a trip to Nevada to meet the baseball legend Cobb(Tommy Lee Jones) and from Stump's point of view, knows he sees nothing nice to think or write about the ailing legend. Isn't baseball legends, or any sports legend should get a great repertoire? Not Cobb! He's a racist, sexist, resentful, and full of contempt to races, women, and the world itself. He gives himself a bad name on the field, in an event, or anywhere he goes. His childhood was nothing special, everyone gets over a bad childhood, he didn't. I felt sorry for Al Stump, being threaten by Cobb, and forcing him to write his story about his life. At least he was brave enough to know the real Cobb while others would be gullible enough to believe the Great One himself. The other baseball legends were smart enough not to invite Cobb to the private party because of his reputation. Tommy Lee Jones did a spectacular performance on playing Cobb, and Robert Wuhl is amazing as well. I remember him playing Alexander Knox in the 1989 version of Batman. When you want to look up for a hero in sports, make sure you find someone who's not a total sorehead, like Cobb. He would have been a perfect role model in baseball, if he hadn't been such a hothead. I was informed by a Georgian that no one went to his funeral. Don't let the movie bring you down on the pastime sport, enjoy it, learn from it. Don't be like Ty! Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Intense and Enjoyable, if lacking historical accuracy","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I read about Ty Cobb in a baseball book when I was a kid, and while it was only a short bio it did manage to touch on many of the infamous incidents he was involved in along with his spectacular statistics.  So when I heard a movie was going to be made with Tommy Lee Jones in the title role, I expected the worst and hoped for the best.  The result is somewhere in the middle.  I had always wondered if Cobb ever changed much in his old age, or ever had any regret over the way he treated people in the past.  If he did, it didn't make it into this movie.  Jones' portrayal is angry, belligerent, and over the top, and comes off as a man who has done nothing but make enemies his entire life, and intends to die as he lived, because to do anything otherwise - to show even a shred of remorse, would be admitting he had been wrong.  It's something of a sensual overload to watch, is certainly not a movie to take a first date to see.  But I was captivated by the rage on the screen, and watching very carefully for any cracks to appear.  And the movie's biographer, Al Stump, is also looking to find a chink in the Cobb's armor, and Cobb knows it and exposes that fact as well.  But the telling moment comes when this symbiotic pair suddenly reverse roles. Stump has been doing his best to stick with Cobb and keep him out of trouble through most of the film to this point.  But then a process server knocks on the door of their motel with a divorce summons for Stump.  A very drunk Stump then brandishes Cobb's ever-present Luger and threatens to kill the process server... and it's Ty Cobb who plays the sane one, and calms down the situation.  It's a very telling moment in a film that otherwise fails to explain the man as the bastard, all the while depicting him with a savage intensity.  As to the accuracy... I never met Ty Cobb, and I doubt anyone reviewing this film ever did, nor did Tommy Lee Jones I'm sure.  So the real mystery of Ty Cobb died with him, as I'm sure was his intent...  was it all an act?  Or was the man truly psychotic?  That mystery is left more or less untouched by this film, which I can recommend for anyone who has ever known anger, felt it, or been subjugated to it - but if you are prone to flashbacks of Daddy Dearest, or you just aren't comfortable with harsh, angry, domineering behavior onscreen or otherwise, it's best avoided. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest performance I ever see","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I love this movie.  I have seen it about 13 times.  This is Tommy Lee Jones' best performance, just beautiful.  I can not believe that he didn't recieve an Oscar nomination for this performance.  That year Tom Hanks won the Oscar for 'Forrest Gump' That's Ok.  But check the other nominees Morgan Freeman (The shawshank ...); Paul Newman (Nobody's fool) and John Travolta (Pulp Fiction).  Are you going to tell me that these performances are better than the Jones' in Cobb?  I don't think so. Anyway, the movie is great.  You must see it.   10 of 10  "},{"Title":"A fascinating subject, poorly studied","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" The story of legendary baseballer Ty Cobb.A fascinating subject, poorly studied. The problem is lack of focus. Ty Cobb is at the same time portrayed as comical and massively bigoted, light and dark. You don't know whether to laugh with him or at him, or just be shocked. The plot itself is mostly just a cross-country caper, filled with mindless high jinks. In the end, you do get a good feel for Cobb's character and personal demons, but it takes so long to get to the point. A tighter, grittier script and direction were required.Tommy Lee Jones does what the director asked of him - played an alpha male whose antics were vastly over-the-top. Robert Wuhl is irritating as the sports writer / biographer. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, But Apparently Not A Fair Portrayal Of One Of Baseball's Best Ever","Date":"5 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" So, what do I know about Ty Cobb? Admittedly not very much. He's a baseball player of a bygone era. I've seen pictures of him, and I know that his statistics suggest that he was one of the best (if not the best) baseball players of all time. But, of course, it's hard to compare baseball players (or any athlete) of almost a hundred years ago with more recent figures. Times have changed; so has the game. I watched this to learn a little more about a legendary figure. How much I learned depends on how accurate Al Stump's biography of Cobb is. Stump wrote the biography on which this movie was based, and his honesty has been widely called into question. Here, Cobb is portrayed as a very violent man, a heavy drinker and a racist - disliked by almost everyone who knew him. That latter part at least is apparently true. From what I've read even his own teammates couldn't stand him. The rest may be exaggerated. He was certainly a driven man, treating baseball as if it were a war, willing to deliberately injure his opponents and passionate to the point of obsession with winning - which makes one part of his baseball career curious he never won a World Series, and in the three in which he played, he didn't perform well. Enigmatic, to say the least.This movie doesn't really focus on baseball. There's a little bit of game action portrayed (with Roger Clemens doing a cameo as an opposing pitcher) and some recreated newsreel footage, with Tommy Lee Jones substituting for the real Cobb, but mostly it's a portrayal of Cobb's life, and something of an exploration of what made Cobb the type of player and person he was. As a line from the movie put it, the greatest baseball player ever was also the greatest bastard. Whether that's true or not is, as I mentioned, a point of contention and depends on Stump's accuracy. It is true, as the movie points out, that his father was killed when he was a teenager, and his mother was charged with the murder and acquitted. It's also true that he spent most of his later life estranged from his children. That's always very sad.Jones was excellent in his portrayal of Cobb, and Robert Wuhl handled the part of Stump quite well. The movie is sometimes funny (such as the wild car ride down the mountains), sometimes disturbing (such as Cobb's assault on Ramona, played by Lolita Davidovitch) and sometimes even sad (as, near the end, when Cobb starts spitting up blood and is obviously frightened, knowing that the end is near.) It's accuracy may be questionable, but it's an enjoyable enough film. I did expect, as I suggested earlier, a little more of a portrayal through flashbacks of Cobb's's baseball career, but Stump's take on the man's life is entertaining enough, even if it is exaggerated and paints Cobb in a more negative light than he deserves. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Strong Performances Rise Above Distasteful Subject Matter","Date":"26 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Watching Cobb is anything but an enjoyable experience, and yet I am glad to have seen it - - once. The title role is handled with great power by Tommy Lee Jones, who seems to have inhabited the fierce persona of Tyrus Raymond Cobb without becoming a caricature of that legendary sports figure. Yes, the acting is perhaps a bit over the top at times, but somehow those excesses fit well into the overarching story. Cobb was, after all, larger than life, even in his later years. The film is quite faithful to Al Stump's biography (Cobb), even to the point of Stump's appearance throughout the production as a character who receives at least as much screen time as Cobb himself. Few biographies, to my knowledge, place the author in such close proximity to the subject. Baseball action is nicely portrayed, mixing old footage with black-and-white recreations and often (Zelig- or Gump-like) placing Tommy Lee Jones among actual ballplayers and managers of the past. Watch for Roger Clemens as an opposing pitcher. It should be said that both the movie and the book concentrate much more heavily on the present day than Cobb's career with the Detroit Tigers. Indeed, maybe they should have been called Cobb's Last Days, so lopsided are the narratives. Worth seeing, but rather unpleasant. "},{"Title":"The last days of a bitter old man who had once been a great baseball player","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" I don't know that I understand the point of a movie like this.Ty Cobb played professional baseball from 1905-1928, during which time he was, by anyone's reckoning, one of the all-time greats, accomplishing things no one had done before, and few since. He lived another 33 years after retiring, during which he did nothing that millions of other men his age haven't done. He died at the age of 74, evidently a bitter and lonely old man.I confess that I don't see the point of making a movie about the last, bitter years of such a bitter old man when they hold nothing of exceptional interest. Yes, Tommy Lee Jones does a fine job of playing a bitter old man, but frankly, why should I care? This movie won't teach you much about Ty Cobb, or baseball. It will show you yet another bitter old man, but it won't make you empathize with him. Do you really want to sit through 2 hours of that? "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Ty Cobb is in the top five of the greatest players in Baseball history. In fact, he was the first man elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame, but there has never been a film about his life. While Cobb was a great baseball player and one the toughest men to ever live, he was also an outspoken racist, who was quick to fight anyone, including his wife and kids. In 1960, a dying Cobb contacted sportswriter, Al Stump to ask him to tell his story. That is what I thought this critically acclaimed film would be, but it wasn't. While the title is Cobb, the film is really about Al Stump and what it was like to spend time with the great Ty Cobb, after he'd completely lost his faculties. While it wasn't the film I'd hoped it would be, Tommy Lee Jones gave the performance of a lifetime. What can you say about Jones that hasn't already been said? He is the best actor in Hollywood and can play absolutely anyone. Jones was very convincing, showing Cobb as a deeply troubled man who covered his shame with outrageous behavior. In recent years, since the passing of Al Stump, many people who knew Cobb have come out saying the book and film were overly exaggerated, but even so, the facts about Cobb are well documented. Cobb is not the film most people expected it to be and it ranks among the biggest flops in box office history. The story however is one you haven't heard before and is performed admirably by an all-star cast. This is not your typical baseball movie, but rather a moving look at a man who was destine to either be a legend or an inmate. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"18 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Cobb You would think that in a sport where teams carry around baseball bats that its players wouldn't so blatantly insult each other.However, the outfielder in this biography ran his mouth as much as his feet.Hiring famed sportswriter Al Stump (Robert Wuhl), the cantankerous Ty Cobb (Tommy Lee Jones) hopes to whitewash his blemished baseball reputation with a glowing autobiography.While staying with the 72-year-old alcoholic at his home in Lake Tahoe, Stump, himself, experiences the legendary irritability of the Hall of Famer.Over the many months and miles he spends with Cobb, Stump must decide if he's going to pen a sanitized memoir or his own tell all.Based on Stump's book, Tommy Lee Jones' performance is certainly a homerun, however, the story revels too much in Cobb's senility and deep-seated racism.Furthermore, portraying baseball players as racists is insulting to those players who are just degenerate gamblers.Yellow Light vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"Mr. Cobb","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Just from a purely baseball side of things, this movie was a joy to watch,, all of the historical footage from the early days, makes me wish I could have seen the great Ty Cobb actually play. then you get into his personal life,, and everything wasn't actually roses,, he had a very seedy side to him,, heavy drinker, womanizer, lot's of stuff that today's heroes really aren't made of. but if you take the whole movie and wrap it up into one , I think that the viewer will be mesmerized from start to finish,, I know that I was. i'm a big Tommy Lee Jones fan and I hit he definitely hit a four bagger with his performance. even if you're not a baseball fan this movie is well worth watching , and if you are a baseball fan , then this is truly the movie for you to watch. "},{"Title":"Cobb great ballplayer, not a great guy","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Ty Cobb is considered by most to be the best baseball player of all time or at least in the discussion for that honor. With holding almost all of the hitting records prior to Pete Rose.But as great of a player as he was he was a mean spirited, wife beater and racist by the account of a lot of times and spending any extended time with him was considered impossible.We see Cobb in this movie at the end of his life alongside Al Stump a famous sportswriter in the process of writing his autobiography with occasional flashbacks to Cobb's playing career. The movie is directed by Ron Shelton who's most known for making Bull Durham. "},{"Title":"The humanization of the inhuman","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Tommy Lee Jones may not look much like the infamous ballplayer Ty Cobb, but he sure does embody his spirit, hatred, and consistent belligerence wonderfully. To play a person of his magnitude certainly requires ambition and drive but also talent and diversity. Jones tackles the player with the hatred and evilness that many archived articles and reports have claimed he proudly wore with piercing accuracy.Today, in 2012, baseball players are often viewed as heroes, role models, and sometimes even people who provide us with more motivation and passion than those we know in real life. Players like Starlin Castro, Alfonso Soriano, and Jim Thome have etched themselves into the hearts of many. Cobb would've etched himself in the dark side of someone's heart. He was a racist, sexist, selfish, mean-spirited, cocky, gun-toting ignoramus who hated everyone except himself. He thought of himself as the sport of baseball, completely shunning teamwork and thoroughly enjoyed being hated by literally everyone in the audience. He thought the fact that they showed up to the stadium to throw food and garbage on him was the highest compliment someone could pay.The film centers around not his baseball career, but how a famed sportswriter had the questionably fortunate opportunity to dig into Cobb as a real person in 1959. That man was Al Stump (Robert Wuhl), who was hired to act as a ghostwriter for Cobb's autobiography. Initially, Stump is incredibly honored and thrilled to be given such a job, being able to spend days and nights with the best baseball player of all time. But when Stump arrives, he is immediately greeted with loud rants from a writer who walks on him and we eventually see Cobb, as he lies in bed, frail and uninspired, verbally assaulting the poor man as he tries to simply reason with him and remain civil.Cobb suggests that him and Stump drive down to Reno to have sex with random women - an act he hopes to accomplish before he dies. He insists on driving recklessly through a terrible blizzard and, as he slips and slides down the road, Cobb briefly illustrates his baseball history for Al.You'd believe the film was told entirely in flashback, but the flashback ceases only after a few minutes and we are back in the present with Al and Cobb, and that's where we remain for the remainder of the picture. It is widely known that Stump published a book shortly after spending days on end with Cobb, but that was the fabricated version he was conned into writing for the man, which the film heavily explores. Al secretly kept a real recollection of his treatment and relationship with the man, but resorted to scribbling notes on cocktail napkins, small pieces of paper, etc. He then released a book detailing the true accounts of the man years after his death - accounts that are depicted in this film.Ron Shelton's Cobb is far from a perfect biopic. It's a little choppy, somewhat dry in sequences, and may run twenty minutes too long, but the fact that it humanizes an unbelievably despicable character, is written with little tongue in cheek innuendos, and the fact that it showcases many honorable performances makes it one that proves its existence nicely.Starring Tommy Lee Jones, Robert Wuhl, and Lolita Davidovich. Directed by Ron Shelton. "},{"Title":"Interesting but needed more baseball.","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" I watched this movie on New Year's Eve while I was having a movie marathon to help me stay awake till midnight. I found the movie to be interesting but I felt it could have used more baseball scenes. I understand it was about him telling his story to Al Stump but I was expecting more baseball flashbacks. Tommy Lee Jones is really good in this movie and Robert Wuhl really stands out as well. It was neat to find out where Cobb was from and to see scenes where he was in Cooperstown for a ceremony. This movie did get me interested in checking out more info on Ty Cobb and of course checking out Al Stump's book plus others I may find. If your a baseball fan or Tommy Lee Jones fan this is worth checking out but Cobb's mean attitude does grow old after a while. "},{"Title":"cobbled out in various ways","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" I had never heard of Ty Cobb before watching this movie, so it's hard to say how shocking the movie was for me (I could have known about him as a baseball player but not known how he was as a person, which would have shocked me royally). Cobb is sort of unpleasant to watch, but a good look at an important part of baseball history. Telling how writer Al Stump (Robert Wuhl) traveled around the country with the title character (Tommy Lee Jones), we see who he really was.A previous reviewer said that a problem with this movie is that it plays off of our obsession with seeing what bastards famous people were. Maybe so, but would we rather have his entire life whitewashed? It seems like Ty Cobb never did anything that wasn't violent. A product of his upbringing? Well, the guy was clearly a racist, and there was that incident with his mother (which he admitted turned him into a real prick).So, given what you think of Ty Cobb, you'll probably love or hate this movie. Don't expect anything nice. Also starring Lolita Davidovitch. "},{"Title":"An Elegant film that shows the dark side of The First man Inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Ron Shelton's Cobb is a magnificant film that gives insight into the dark brooding soul of one of America's Baseball heros. Based on Tyrus Ramond Cobb's biography as written by Al Stump, it paints the picture of a wretched man, who is still today remebered as one of the Greatest Baseball players of all Time. Tommy Lee Jones' performance as Ty Cobb is captivating and often scary as he captures the essence of a truly horrible man. Sadly his performance is unrecognized and is possible one of his best of all time. The film is journey into one man's dark half and a fantastic addition to any collection. "},{"Title":"Heroes have clay feet too!","Date":"15 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones is convincing as the despicable Cobb. He swaggers and bullies his way through the movie like the man he portrays. Robert Wuhl is a nice foil for the overbearing man he must cajole to get his story. What could have been a depressing movie was actually entertaining because of the spice and verve of Jones. The costumes are eye-appealing- very much like this anti-hero wore.  This is a film about a human gone wrong- a hero of sports yet unable to relate in a kind way to anyone. Some of the scenes are remarkably funny- like the car ride down a snowy road, other scenes sad- like when Cobb's daughter won't come out of the house and other ball players won't let him join the party. The director did a good job of rounding out the story of this obnoxious but talented man.  "},{"Title":"A Fair Film on a Bad Man.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Cobb is one of those ambitious projects that strives for great things, but just never does come together. The individual parts are a lot better than the whole as the highly controversial baseball star Ty Cobb (Tommy Lee Jones) is examined by a hired biographer (sub-par actor Robert Wuhl) and after a vast amount of time with the long-retired legend, he decides the only way to complete his assignment is to write two separate biographies (one for Cobb and one for the reading public). A strange screenplay that is not sure how it feels about its titled character struggles to engross its audience as it goes back and forth between dark flashbacks into Cobb's life and playing career then comes back to disturbing present-day actions of the unique legend. Baseball players who dominated the game during Ty Cobb's era were for the most part super jerks who took every advantage of their celebrity by being enemies to their fans and local media syndicates. Underworld involvement was also prevalent for people like Cobb and others like Babe Ruth. These people were good athletes, but not good people and a biography on someone as dastardly as Ty Cobb is almost as tasteless as a biography on a personality like Adolf Hitler. A little interesting, but overall a film that has no clear-cut audience. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Another great!!","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  As usual, Tommy Lee Jones does an excellent job.  I rate him up with Al Pacino and Sean Connery.  This movie is one of our favorites, a member of our video collection.  I can't believe only 140 people have voted for this movie!  It isn't just another baseball movie.  Ty Cobb is baseball!!!! "},{"Title":"Tommy Lee Jones makes me care","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I normally would have absolutely no interest in seeing a Baseball movie. But this is no normal Baseball movie. This is a movie with Tommy Lee Jones in it. He portrays a vicious, nasty, evil, abusive, racist, violent, rage-filled man. And his fans know, Tommy Lee Jones does this type of man as no other can. Although he is perhaps too young for the role, he was unfairly absent from the Oscar ballot that year. He made me laugh during his insane moments (of which there were many), he scared me during a particular brutal moment, and he made me cry during his weak moments. Side-kick Robert Wuhl seems a bit toady, but you eventually realize he loves Cobb <Jones as Cobb, at least> as much as you do. This is a wonderful movie. Worth renting, absolutely. For those of you whom doubt Tommy Lee Jones ability, rent Cobb, The Fugitive, and Heaven and Earth or Men in Black. This man is fantastic; he makes Cobb great. "}{"Title":"I live in his home town.","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" My grandma and her sister were both in the movie. They are in the church at the part that is filmed in Royston, Georgia. I have never seen the movie, that is why I gave it a 5. Royston is a really nice place that you should visit if you have seen the movie. There is a museum about Ty Cobb among other famous people from Royston. You can visit his grave site and places that the movie was filmed. We have a great downtown with shops and a few places to eat. Visit the funeral home and the train depot. It says that the minimum has to be 10 lines for a comment so I am trying to take up as much space as possible and I think that this is a stupid rule. Ty Cobb is one of the greatest baseball players ever and I am proud to live in is home town of Royston, Georgia. "},{"Title":"The greatest player of baseball.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" Based off the biographical book and article by sportswriter Al Stump, this is the story of Ty Cobb, the greatest player of baseball. Tommy Lee Jones does a terrific job playing Cobb and Stump is played by Robert Wuhl (the reporter who asks for a grant in Batman), whose performance sometimes feels a bit fake. The movie has Stump follow around a dying but still lively Cobb (at his demand, I mean, request) in his final months of life. See, Cobb wants the true story of his life to be told. And boy, what a story it is. The movie manages to be both tragically sad and quite humorous (Cobb is a handful and one vulgar SOB!) and at that, a pretty entertaining feature. Even non-baseball fans could enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Tommy Lee Jones is great","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I remember that I said that Tommy Lee Jones could walk on the moon and wouldn't even need a spacesuit. This man is an incredible actor. He deserved the Oscar that he won for playing Lieutenant Gerard in The Fugitive. He played a tough guy with a heart of gold and was wonderful. In this film, however, he plays a very different role. EVERYONE HATED THIS BASEBALL LEGEND AND HE LOVED IT!!!That was the ad that accompanied this film. Ty Cobb may have been the greatest baseball player that ever lived. Even today, he has set records that other players have not passed. However, was he really a hero? I think that it is very interesting that this film came out about the same time that the O. J. Simpson case was grabbing the headlines because it brought into our collective minds the question. WHAT MAKES A HERO? Ty Cobb was a vicious bigot, he was a wife and a child beater and he murdered a man in cold blood. Someone said once that he was the most terrifying figure that you would ever encounter in a biography except for Adolf Hitler and some comparisons favor Hitler! They said that he makes Vince Lombardi look wishy washy! Tommy Lee Jones is excellent in portraying Cobb's egotism and cruelty but at the same time he makes you feel sorry for him. Cobb's father had been shot and killed when he was a young man (a classic Frued situation). However, it makes me think that Cobb was just a bad seed to begin with. Robert Wuhl plays Al Stump as an ignorant fool who finally just gives in and tells his friends that Cobb was a great man know ye that a prince and a great man has fallen. He says that it wasn't because the kids of America needed heroes or some other nonsense it was because in the very end that I needed him to be a hero and I plead guilty because that is my weakness.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad film","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  My grandfather said he was the greatest baseball player ever.  My grandfather came from the maritimes and I find their mannerisms quite similar to Southerners.  This movie portrays Cobb as a great athlete but a lousy person.  A guess sports has not changed much.  This movie shows  how diverse and complicated people can be.  The movie shows the man's life and the fruits of his actions on and off the field.  It was sort of a sad movie in the end.  How one can waste so much.6/10 "},{"Title":"Cobb","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Tommy Lee Jones gives a splendid performance as the aging legendary baseball great, Ty Cobb. The movie shows the last few years of Cobb's life as he talks of the past with sports writer Al Stump. Never boring, great dialogue. The scene where Cobb literally coughs up a lung in a bathroom sink is one of the movie's highpoints. "},{"Title":"Cobb did very poorly in meeting my expectations.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Cobb was presented as a mishandled sophomoric attempt at portraying the last years of the famous Ty Cobb. Tommy Lee Jones' portrayal of Ty Cobb had to have been the poorest performance of his career. With the foregoing success as Woodrow Call in `Lonesome Dove', I expected a much better performance out of Jones. The movie is very inaccurate in historical content. Ty Cobb had to use his mean-spirited façade to keep others from getting the best of him.Ty Cobb wanted to win and it was this voracious trait that merited his title of the meanest man in baseball. Ty Cobb gave money to his town for a hospital and gave to other charitable causes and it was his ingenious foresight in investing in Coca-Cola that accumulated his wealth, not from an atrocious salary like the ballplayers of today. Cobb fallaciously portrayed Royston, Ty Cobb's hometown, as the towns that forsook Ty Cobb. The beggarly attempt at a motion picture proved evident that it was not meritorious of assigning the great baseball legend's appellation to its title.  "},{"Title":"A poor movie in most respects, although Jones's performance is quite superb...","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Passable 1994 film about the life and legend of Ty Cobb as told by Tommy Lee Jones in his own interpretation of the baseball icon's personal trials and tribulations. Gruff and brutal, and Jones isn't really showing any type of acting development here. This is the same guy who played K in Men in Black, and I don't mean literally--he's got the same basic coarse nature of all his characters.But that doesn't make him a bad actor, and he is able to salvage this film and make it almost likable in a sort of strange way.At least worth watching if you catch it on TV some time.2.5/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Far, far less than it should have been","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  When I think of some of the rather ordinary men about whom other directors have made stellar biographies, I become angry at Shelton for making such a weak portrait of such an extraordinary individual--Ty Cobb.  Really, just based on the subject, this should have been a slam dunk Oscar contender.     What do we have in Cobb?  A man who, in photographs always looks frankly, a little bit crazy, as Bill James has written.  A man whose suits were  always way too big for him, and who was never really comfortable around other people.  This aspect of Cobb was missed in the movie, and badly.       Jones as Cobb always seemed capable of working the room socially, and often did.  That was not Cobb.  The Cobb I have read about was not the obnoxious but socially confident and smooth-when-he-wanted-to-be character we see in  the movie.  He was a misfit.  Everywhere he went in baseball, he was hated, by teammates, fans, and strangers.  In short, he should have been played more seriously.  That would have required this often sappy and silly movie (the  unbelievably geeky group of sportswriters, etc.) to be serious, yes.    All I can really say is, Shelton ought to be, and surely is, ashamed at this  epic under-achievement.  I always knew there was something wrong with Shelton's Bull Durham, too, and now I will never again mention it with The Natural.         "},{"Title":"Good pic.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Over all, it was a real good movie. Though all the actors, besides Jones, sucked. By the time I was half was through it I was really getting tired of seeing 'Al'. Only change I would have made to it would to have more flash backs, possibly with the real Cobb. "},{"Title":"Amatuerish Whitewash","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I don't know about the real Cobb but I got the distinct impression that the filmmakers' aim was to try to soften his jagged edges and reputation, not give us a true portrait of the man himself.  In the movie, besides a few racist remarks, he's shown to be just another hard-nosed, cantakerous old coot (he's so full of life!) with a heart of gold(more or less). This is also the worst acting I've seen T.L.Jones do(he brings nothing new or subtle to his stereotyped character). He just doesn't flesh out Cobb in a way that pulls me into the movie. Not for one minute did I forget that it was Tommy Lee Jones on the screen pretending to be Ty Cobb. Robert Wuhl didnt impress either. The comedic elements in this movie were just distracting and didnt ring true at all. A bloody waste of time, it is "}{"Title":"Not Fun To Watch, Even For A Big Baseball Fan","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" As someone who loves baseball history, especially the early 20th century in which Cobb was a main figure, along with a ton of colorful characters, I was looking forward to seeing this baseball film. Well, it wasn't a baseball film, which was disappointing. No, it was just a sportswriter's account of being with Cobb in the ballplayer's later years while the two collaborated on a book. Even at that, this could have been a more appealing movie than they made it.Granted Cobb was anything but a nice guy, an extremely talented player but brutal in that he would do anything to beat you....and he was viscous, intimidating and had a lot of demons to fight. He was so hated his own teammates tried to hinder his chances of winning a batting title one year. Nonetheless, this an over-the-top portrayal of the man. It makes him into something almost cartoon-like. Watching and listening to an old man rant, rave and profane for two hours is entertainment? No, it isn't. Some day, I'd love to see a real biopic of Cobb showing him in his ballplaying days and if they want to portray him as an evil guy, so be it, but the way they did it here with just a bitter, blasphemous old man making an ass of himself in front of a reporter is not fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Who cares?","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is an awful film. Not because it portrays a man in a not so positive light, nor because it may or may not be true to life. Simply because the story is enormously uninteresting.Tommy Lee Jones gives the pest performance as he can under the circumstances. He fires guns, belts a lot of people and is antagonistic towards just about every character in this atrocity. Character, is the main word here. Not once did I believe that any of the people here were portrayed with a minimum of accuracy. Like the character, Cobb, himself points out What is the truth? I think that there must have been a serious attempt at making a decent biopic but it was probably too boring. So the director thought of an angle. Let's make it as cartoonish as we can possibly get away with. To quote another line from the movie He knows greatness, said by the Al Stump character, commenting on why he doesn't get the hell out of writing the bio on Cobb. He will never know greatness from Cobb and neither will we.There is another scene towards the end where Cobb is dying and has discovered that Stump has betrayed him. What does he do? He gives Stump his blessing to write a tell-all bio on him. That is maybe the best scene in the film. He basically says Who cares?. Ironically, a lot of people does seem to care, for about a minute, until they find some other gossip that's juicier. The only people who will truly care are the box office profiteers and by the looks of it, they were truly hurt because it was one of the more notorious failures of movies starring Tommy Lee Jones. "},{"Title":"Cobb rename it GRUMPY DRUNK OLD MAN","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Cobb.  It sucked.  I learned nothing about the man I had not heard before. The performances were over the top.  A scene where Cobb and Al are driving down a snowy road in search of women in Reno has to be one of the worst conceived scenes in recent memory. It's just plain STUPID and unentertaining. The flashback sequences were terrible.  And they used the same sequences OVER AND OVER AND OVER again. If I saw the same shot of Cobb fighting with someone at a base one more time, I would have become physically ill. By watching this 'movie', we get to learn NOTHING of what it was like in Cobb's era.  We learn nothing about his relationship with his players, nothing about his days as a manager, nothing about his relationship with his family members, other than that `they don't like him'.  I thought when I sat down to view this film I would learn SOMETHING about the era of baseball in which Cobb played.  Instead, all I got to see was a retread of how Cobb hated everything and everyone, and how they hated him.  Boy, what a great movie (sarcasm intended).  Cobb is portrayed as a constant liar in the film, so which one of his stories is supposed to be accurate?  Who knows? Who cares?  No one will after viewing this piece of crap.  If you decide to rent this film, make sure the fast forward button on your VCR is working, as you will be tempted to use it repeatedly.  Hopefully someday someone will make a GOOD film about Ty Cobb.   I liked this film about as much as the people in it liked Cobb, which is to say - I HATED IT.   Now I know why I found it in the RENT ONE GET ONE FREE section of the video store.  I think I will ask for my fifty cents back from the video clerk, since I can't get back the time I wasted watching this trash.  Oh well, what could I have possibly been thinking about a movie that would feature Robert Wuhl.  "}]