[{"Title":"Witty and sparkly","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"29 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In 1920's New York a young author, David, manages to get his play off the ground with funding from mobster Valenti. The money allows David to get actors of the caliber of Helen Sinclair and Warner Purcell, however there's a catch.  Valenti wants his screechy girl friend Olive to play a key part.  This problem is compounded by Olive's minder Cheech who has plenty of constructive criticism on how the play could be better.  David tries to balance all these in the name of art.It's rarely new ground that Woody Allen walks &#150; but how come he manages to make it so damn sparkly and witty?  Here he delivers wonderful spoof on theatre people and the assumptions we all make about characters based on what they do or how they talk.  The writing is spot on, Allen delivers tonnes of great lines but also creates characters that he expands over the film.  It is very watchable and it rarely suffers from the fate on some of Allen's recent comedies &#150; feeling too light or whimsical for it's own good.  Instead it is funny but has some points to make.Of course it always helps if you have a great cast and this does.  With people like Warden, Broadbent, Wiest, Tilly, Parker, Fierstein, Reiner, Falco and Palminteri it's hard not to have at least the majority of the cast giving good performances &#150; Wiest, Tilly and Palminteri were my favourites.  Cusack was good as the overpowered writer but the one thing I didn't like is the same with many actors who do the traditional Woody role &#150; he gives a slight impression at times rather than cutting out the role as his own.Overall Woody Allen may not be everyone's cup of tea &#150; but for fans this is him at his whimsical best.  Not a classic comedy but a warm Allen film that sparkles in nearly every scene. "},{"Title":"Mobsters and thespians","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen had the inspired idea to let another actor played what would have been a tailor-made he wrote for himself. As a director, Mr. Allen has always done well. Of course, there are exceptions, but in Bullets over Broadway show an inspired Mr. Allen doing what he does best. This comedy, written in collaboration with Douglas McGrath, is a happy take on a situation that only this director would have been able to create.We are shown two different worlds. In one, the roaring twenties gangsters have the control of all illegal activities in Manhattan. On the other, we meet an idealistic writer, David Shayne, who wants to have his play produced. Enter the capo Nick Valenti. This man has enough money to buy his current paramour, the dizzy Olive Neal, whatever her little heart desires. Thus, the vehicle chosen is the drama David has written.Thus begins a frantic comedy of errors where the theater and the mob intermingle with funny results. We watch as the play gets produced on Broadway how the different factions come together, each one with a different idea as to what to do with the play.The cast is first rate. John Cusack, as the ambitious playwright, does some of his best work in showing what this man is going through. Dianne Wiest, one of the most accomplished actresses around, makes a splash with her take on Helen Sinclair, the first lady of the American theatah! Jennifer Tully is excellent as Olive Neal, the girl from the provinces with high aspirations, but no talent.Chaz Palmintieri, as Cheech, the mobster that understands what's wrong with the play is hilarious. The late Joe Venturelli was born to play his mobster Nick Valente. Jack Warden is perfect as the producer. Tracey Ullman and Jim Broadbent are simply marvelous as the cast members of the play in production. Mary Louise Parker and Harvey Fierstein, Rob Reiner are also seen in smaller roles.Bullets over Broadway, as most of Mr. Allen's films has a great musical score of the jazz songs of the era. Mr. Allen, in taking a seat behind the camera, delivers one of his best and funniest films to date. "},{"Title":"Rollicking, rib-tickling 'Roaring 20s' comedy gem -- a diamond among the Woodman's recent rough.","Date":"21 November 2002","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sadly, I've been let down by most of Woody Allen's recent comedies.  So it was most rewarding indeed to see the Woodman back again true to form (after a lengthy drought) with 1994's Bullets Over Broadway.  Fun, foamy, and clever, it has everything we've come to love and expect from the man.While Take the Money and Run and Bananas first turned trendy audiences on to his unique brand of improvisational, hit-and-miss comedy episodes, and the more neurotic, self-examining cult hits like Annie Hall and Manhattan cemented his Oscar-winning relationship with Hollywood, the comedy genius has stumbled mightily in this last decade.  Attempting to contemporize his image with the coarse, foul-mouthed antics of a Coen or Farrelly brother (see Mighty Aphrodite) is simply beneath him, and has been about as productive as Stevie Wonder taking a turn at hip-hop. Moreover, casting himself as a 65-year-old romantic protagonist with love interests young enough to be his grandchildren (see Curse of the Jade Scorpion) has left a noticeably bad aftertaste of late.  With Bullets Over Broadway, however, Allen goes back to basics and wisely avoids the pitfalls of excessive toilet humor and self-aggrandizing casting, and gives us a light, refreshing bit of whimsical escapism.  Woody may not be found on screen here, but his presence is felt throughout.  Though less topical and analytical than his trademark films, this vehicle brings back a purer essence of Woody and might I say an early innocence hard-pressed to find these days in his work.John Cusack (can this guy do no wrong?) plays a struggling jazz-era playwright desperate for a Broadway hit who is forced to sell out to a swarthy, aging king-pin (played to perfection by Joe Viterelli) who is looking to finance a theatrical showcase for his much-younger bimbo girlfirend (Jennifer Tilly, in a tailor-made role).  The writer goes through a hellish rehearsal period sacrificing his words, not to mention his moral and artistic scruples, in order to appease his mob producers who know zilch about putting on a play.  The rehearsal scenes alone are worth the price of admission.Aside from Allen's clever writing, brisk pace and lush, careful attention to period detail, he has assembled his richest ensemble cast yet with a host of hysterically funny characters in spontaneous banter roaming in and about the proceedings.  Cusack is his usual rock-solid self in the panicky, schelmiel role normally reserved for Woody.  But even he is dwarfed by the likes of this once-in-a-lifetime supporting cast.  Jennifer Tilly, with her doll-like rasp, is hilariously grating as the vapid, virulent, and thoroughly untalented moll.  Usually counted on to play broad, one-dimensional, sexually belligerent dames, never has Tilly been give such golden material to feast on, putting her Olive Neal right up there in the 'top 5' fun-filled film floozies of all time, alongside Jean Hagen's Lina Lamont and Lesley Ann Warren's Norma Cassady.  Virile, menacing Chazz Palminteri as the fleshy-lipped Cheech, a dees, dem and dos guard dog, reveals great comic prowess while affording his pin-striped hit man some touching overtones. Dianne Wiest, who has won bookend support Oscars in Woody Allen pictures (for this and for Hannah and Her Sisters) doesn't miss a trick as the outre theatre doyenne Helen Sinclair, whose life is as grand and exaggerated off-stage as it is on.  Her comic brilliance is on full, flamboyant display, stealing every scene she's in.  Tracey Ullman is a pinch-faced delight as the exceedingly anal, puppy-doting ingenue, while Jim Broadbent as a fusty stick-in-the-mud gets his shining moments when his actor's appetite for both food and women get hilariously out of hand.  Mary-Louise Parker, as Cusack's cast-off mate, gets the shortest end of the laughing stick, but lends some heart and urgency to the proceedings.While the play flirts with a burlesque-styled capriciousness, there is an undercoating of seriousness and additional character agendas that keeps the cast from falling into one-note caricatures.  And, as always, Woody's spot-on selection of period music is nonpareil.  With healthy does of flapper-era Gershwin, Rodgers & Hart, Cole Porter, Hoagy Carmichael, not to mention the flavorful vocal stylings of Al Jolson and Eddie Cantor, Allen, with customary finesse, affectionately transports us back to the glitzy, gin-peddling era of Prohibition and slick Runyonesque antics.I remember the times when the opening of a new Woody Allen film was a main event.  As such, Bullets Over Broadway is a comedy valentine to such days. In any respect, it's a winner all the way, especially for Woodyphiles. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Of all the Woody Allen films that I have seen (not that many, I confess) this movie and Everyone says 'I Love You' are the ones that I have enjoyed the most. Bullets Over Broadway is a very funny, clever, and entertaining comedy. The acting is top-notch; Dianne Wiest is fantastic, Jennifer Tilly and Chazz Palminteri are great and John Cusack is as good as ever, that is he is extremely good.So, I enjoyed this film immensely, I laughed a lot, and I thoroughly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"You better get in the mood, honey, 'cause he's payin' the rent.","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Set in 1920's New York City, Bullets over Broadway (1994) tells the story of a young playwright David Shayne who tries to produce his first play. He stands on the brink of greatness. The world will open to him like an oyster. No... not like an oyster. The world will open to him like a magnificent vagina but he needs to find money for production first.The money comes from the gangster Nick Valenti on one condition - Nick's stunningly untalented bimbo girlfriend Olive (She ruins everything she's in. She ruins things she's not even in) has to play a psychiatrist. Olive is accompanied to each rehearsal by hit-man/bodyguard Cheech who knows how the real people talk and turned to be a greater writer than David. David's leading man, Warner Purcell eats compulsively every time he gets nervous (and there are plenty of reasons for him to get nervous). David's relationship with the girlfriend Ellen suffers when he begins an affair with the talented leading lady Helen Sinclair (I'm still a star. I never play frumps or virgins.) who is in the last couple of years... better known as an adulteress and a drunk. Bullets over Broadway is one of my favorite comedies by one of the favorite directors/writers, Woody Allen (I love you Woody, always have, always will - please make your gems, and I will be there to watch them). It has everything I look for in a comedy - brilliance, wit, clever writing, hilarious and sinister twist in the plot, amazing performances, authentic feel of the era and great musical score. Bullets over Broadway is pure delight from the beginning to the end. The best I could describe the film - to paraphrase the famous line from John F. Kennedy's Inaugural Address Ask not what Art can do for you &#151; ask what you can do for Art.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Intelligence and humour","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen is a genius indeed. Once more in this movie he presents us with a mixture of intelligence and humour conveyed by his famous witty dialogues where the characters seem to play with serious things but are indeed giving us through humour an image of what people think and feel about life nowadays and about the relationships that spring among them. This story mix up with considerable success two ingredients that a priori seem not to combine very well the world of theatre with the world of mafia and gangsterism in the crazy twenties of last century. All the characters are very typical and greatly performed the young playwright looking for a place in the sun, the ham actress who overacts a lot even in real life, the mafia boss who imposes his girlfriend on the playwright as an actress, the Greenwich Village intellectuals and so on. In my opinion however the feeblest character is the one of the gangster who becomes also playwright from a certain moment on. Some of his interventions lack authenticity. But this is only a minor flaw in the whole. Like all the other Woody Allen's movies this one seems superficial at first sight but it's well made and deep enough to amuse us and simultaneously make us think and feel life in it.  "},{"Title":"A Strong Supporting Cast Dominates the Action","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A Woody Allen written and directed film that does not include him in a single frame.  It may seem strange, but it's true.  Allen's Bullets Over Broadway deals with a struggling stage writer (John Cusack) who is so desperate to get one of his plays on Broadway in the 1920s that he reluctantly enlists the help of the local mafia crime lord to fund the play.  Of course there is a large stipulation.  The crime lord's girl must be in the play (hilariously played by Jennifer Tilly in an Oscar-nominated role).  Needless to say she's terrible and Cusack struggles with her in the play.  However, he has booked A-list actress Dianne Wiest (in her second Oscar-winning role) who is an alcoholic who has seen better days in her career.  Tilly's bodyguard (Chazz Palminteri, also in an Oscar-nominated role) sees the play rehearsed firsthand and gives Cusack some directions on the project that Cusack cannot refuse.  Palminteri is street smart and knows how people really talk, while Cusack is so educated that his words make no sense to the normal audience.  This film is what The Godfather would have been like if Allen had directed it.  The screenplay is outstanding and Allen's direction has rarely been better.  Cusack is fun and hilarious, but it is the supporting cast that makes the movie work.  Other than the aforementioned Oscar-nominated actors, there are great turns by several others.  Mary-Louise Parker, Tracy Ullman, Jim Broadbent, Jack Warden, Rob Reiner, Harvey Feinstein, and Joe Viterelli are all superb in well-calculated supporting roles.  4 out of 5 stars.       "},{"Title":"takes on the egotistical qualities in artists- and gangsters- in Allen's very funny send-up of Broadway","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now this is something sort of rare, though not really Woody Allen mixing satire and drama, and the satire actually even more convincing than the drama. The opposite was in a more serious affair, Crimes and Misdemeanors, where art and murder and infidelities all get into one big pot of personality crises. This is the same case with Bullets Over Broadway, though this time Allen's tackling of the ego-maniacal crutches of the Broadway scene- the aging star Helen Sinclair (Dianne Wiest, one of her very best performances, funniest too), the bumbling boob Olive Neal (Jennifer Tilly, appropriately annoying- and then how it sort of infects the outsiders to the major Broadway scene, one the protagonist David Shayne (John Cusack, excellent here), and Olive's bodyguard, Cheech (Chazz Palminteri, a character he could play in his sleep, but played pretty well anyway). Cheech is hanging around during rehearsals of David's first play he's writing and directing, following getting funding (on the condition of Olive as a psychiatrist) from a heavy-duty mobster, and soon he's suggesting ideas, and in the process becomes David's uncredited collaborator. But meanwhile infidelities are abound, with David falling for the wonderfully self-indulgent Helen, and a goofy romance between Olive and the thespian Warner Purcell (Jim Broadbent), leading to a purely ironic climax.Allen's skills at navigating the neuroses of all the characters is very skilled, and sometimes the one-liners are surprisingly funny, all based on the personalities (Wiesst especially, in a voice that is a little startling at first, gives a classic line about the world 'opening' up, and her running gag with don't speak). Even with the more dramatic connections, which doesn't seem to be as much of Allen's concerns since it's pretty one-note with the mob side of things (and, frankly, the fates of Olive and Cheech sort of seem a little too contrived for the sake of the irony par for the course), we do get a very memorable bit to make things worth the while, like David and Cheech's down to earth talk at the bar. But if there's anything else to recommend more strongly it's for the sharpness of the script in the theater scenes, the backstage banter, the hilarious tension stirred up by grudges and ill-timed romances. Plus, there's a bit of an added treat for fans of past Allen films, where he casts Rob Reiner in a role sort of similar to that of Wallace Shawn in Manhattan. Not a masterpiece, but a very enjoyable work that's successful on its dark-light terms. "},{"Title":"I'm NOT An Artist -- Thank God!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  These last two words were what SHOULD have been added to the last line of the film to make this excellent movie even better. John Cusack, in one of his better roles, plays an aspiring playwright during the 1920s, and considers himself to be a great one--although he later learns that he really isn't. Like his Marxist-inclined intellectual friend Flender (Rob Reiner, looking very much the part), Cusack thinks that art is of supreme importance, perhaps even more important than human life itself. Discussing art in a Greenwich Village cafe, Reiner gives the analogy of a burning building if you could rush in and save only one of two things--a human being or the last known copy of Shakespeare's works, which would you save? His answer, of course, is Shakespeare's works. Why say such a horrible thing? Because to intellectuals, art lives. You'd have no right to deprive the world of this great art just to save the life of an anonymous human being, he says. Cusack agrees. But this belief is put to the test when in order to save a work of art, gangster Cheech (well-played by Chazz Palmentieri) actually commits murder. Cusack then realizes that no work of art is worth a human life after all. At this point, Cusack says, I'm NOT an artist. This, I think, is the film's underlying, Dostoevskian theme that because intellectuals deal in art and ideas, they place far too much value on such abstractions, and correspondingly too little value on human life. Didn't the 20th century prove how deadly this insane notion can be? Now we see Deep Greens telling us that the life of a human being is no more valuable than the life of a tree or a dog! I wish all the Deep Greens would watch this fine movie and be disabused of their inhumane notions. For my part, I can also say that if art is to be considered more important than human life, I'm not an artist--Thank God. "},{"Title":"Great but not one of my favorites from Woody Allen!","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is typical of Woody Allen's brilliance. He creates the scene about 1920's New York theater scene with scene stealer Dianne Weist who wins her second academy award again with Woody Allen plays a theater dame with a grandiose presence who takes on John Cusack's character. Of course, the play has problems getting produced. They filmed it at the real Belasco Theater in New York where I saw Jackie with Margaret Colin in 1997. Of course, that's what makes Woody Allen's films special is that he always films it in New York. I don't recall him as an actor in this film. He was wise enough to pass the role over to Cusack who does a superb job playing Woody's younger self. Anyway, Tilly does a terrific job playing an annoying and terrible actress but girlfriend of a mobster. What she wants is what she usually gets. First rate cast with Chaz Palminteri who was nominated along with Tilly for supporting acting Oscars. I hope Woody Allen will finally be recognized for his genius and get top honors like the National Medal of the Arts and honored by the Kennedy Center finally for his work. Nobody does New York like Woody Allen, of course, we all would like a bit of diversity in his films. "}{"Title":"Guys and Dolls","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen sends up the world of Broadway and the gangsters who love it in this Runyonesque comedy, one of his very best.John Cusack is the Allen surrogate, a nebbish playwright who's struggling to remain true to his artistic vision amongst countless obstacles. Those obstacles include a gangster's girlfriend (Jennifer Tilly) who Cusack is forced to cast in a lead role; her bodyguard (Chazz Palmienteri), who reveals quite a few dramatic instincts; a high-maintenance diva (Dianne Wiest, uproarious); a leading man who eats too much (Jim Broadbent); and a dithery actress very much in love with her dog (Tracy Ullman).Because Allen sets his movie in a world he knows well (NY theatre), this feels like one of his strongest and most realized screenplays. The whole thing is a riot. Between Wiest, Tilly and Ullman, I still can't decide who's funniest.Grade A "},{"Title":"Artists, like criminals, have their own moral universe. But Don't Speak that to any of them!","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Because they would take advantage of you with such positive remark. Artists and criminals and their little and complex worlds of being powerful gods, creatures who can create and destroy at the same time. The power of the criminals, gangsters in this case, are the use of his weapons against their enemies or whoever appears on their way; artists like the play writer/director in this film has the power of creativity, words are carefully chosen, scenes and dialogs are marvelously written in order to make the most fantastic creation of all, and the writer has the final word on everything. Well, almost everything. John Cusack's character is a down-on-luck author who finally gets the chance of developing his play in the way he wants, at first by resurrecting the career of diva Helen Sinclair (Dianne Wiest) and selecting his favorite actors. But his luck ends when the play's financier, a mobster (Joe Viterelli) gives the ultimate that his girlfriend (Jennifer Tilly) must have a part on the show, but she has never acted before. The guy gets toyed by this goofy and demanding new actress, by her tough bodyguard (Chazz Palminteri) who'll try to change the play's script, always bothered by the irrealism of it; and at last the less negative interference of Sinclair, of whom he madly falls in love with. As the movie progresses we keep asking ourselves There's a real chance of this play ever become a hit? and How does this writer will ever make his way through fame with such interferences?. While the work of his life gets deconstructed in a turbulence of confusion we keep laughing at all of his drama, or at the other characters eccentric ways of doing things. Outrageously comical Bullets Over Broadway is Woody Allen's sound and fury on the power of artistic creations and how they happen, and the way they're developed, constantly changing from what they used to be. Here's a treasure to be admired; it leaves you in a complete state of amazement, a powerful ecstasy. Hilarious situations are wonderfully created, not a single moment is wasted or let down, everything is a feast for our senses from the magnificent casting to the art direction, costumes and cinematography. Allen at his greatest, so enjoy the spectacle! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome Woody Allen","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. The only other Woody Allen movie I've seen is Annie Hall, and I liked this so much more! The reason I wanted to see this movie was because Jennifer Tilly stars in it; furthermore, she was nominated for an Oscar because of her performance in it. In the middle of this crime/comedy, I realized why. I predicted that the mobster would shoot her because she wasn't as good as the understudy in the play that she was forced to be casted in because her boyfriend, the mobster (Joe Viterelli) was funding the production for an aspiring and talented writer who had recently made flops because as he claims I wasn't able to direct them. This play he was able to direct. It's well-known that actors and actresses who play characters who die in film are more likely to be nominated or to win an Oscar. While Jennifer Tilly played the stupid moll, mobster's girlfriend well, her death should have been the addition that made her win. Unfortunately, Diane Wiest won in a very overacted performance. This movie is hysterical, and makes you realize that art can come from the most unexpected of places10/10 "},{"Title":"Woody should have been in this one","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bullets over Broadway has one of the best casts for a Woody Allen film ever. John Cusack, Chazz Palmenteri, Dianne Weist, Mary-Louise Parker, Jennifer Tilly, Jack Warden, Tracy Ullman, Rob Reiner, and a slew of good character actors. And the premise is good. A playwright who wants to see his work of art transformed into a masterpiece on a Broadway stage and not hacked to pieces by producers and directors and actors who take it upon themselves to change the script. This movie has much of what has made the Woody Allen films work in the past. Great music from the jazz era in New York city, which is where and when this movie is set; excellent and well developed script and characterizations, and even good cinematography. BUT. . . and alas, this picture tends to run just a bit uneven and even feels canned some of the time, especially during the ending (which is not atypical of some of Allen's earlier works as well). The actors occasionally tend to look as though they could have used one more rehearsal. Mostly I wish Woody had played the John Cusack role of playwright/director David Shayne, who starts out thinking he is a great artist but comes to find out he knows almost nothing about life, letting the chanteuse's bodyguard take over the script writing of the play he is bringing to Broadway. It is a funny premise, and overall I liked the film. How could I not, I ultimately asked myself. But I will quibble. It could have had more humor had Woody played the playwright himself. Not that Cusack does a bad job, he is just not as funny as Woody is. And Jennifer Tilly gets a bit over the top at times playing the bimbo chanteuse Olive O'Neal. She tries just a shade too hard to sound completely stupid at times. However, much of the time she does perfectly well. That said, I loved Dianne Wiest and Chazz Palminteri in this picture. They seemed to have a handle on their roles a bit better than the rest of the cast. All in all this picture earns about 7 and a half stars (out of 10) from me. But it is not QUITE a classic Woody Allen picture as some have suggested, and as Woody himself would admit (I'll bet) if he were pinned down. And he has made a lot of real gems along the way. "},{"Title":"funny and well made, but not one of Woody's best","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" SPOILERS Woody Allen has written some brilliant work over the years. With classics like Sleeper and Manhattan Murder Mystery, Allen has created some of the funniest comedy to come out of New York in recent years. Bullets Over Broadway absent of Allen, Diane Keaton and other Allen regulars is not quite up there however with the finest, but it's still brilliant.David Shayne (John Cusack) is a struggling playwright in 1920's Broadway. With financing from the mob, Shayne seems to be finally catching a break. Unfortunately this break doesn't go in quite the direction he wants.In a role distinctively Woody, Cusack is a brilliant, young leading light with a bit of a complex. He is superbly aided by a cast including Oscar winner Dianne Wiest, Chazz Palminteri, Jennifer Tilly and Jim Broadbent. In fact, the one key problem with this film is the notable absence of Woody himself.The comedy itself is as good as most Allen work. With some classic lines and some hilarious scenes, Bullets Over Broadway is witty and funny. It does feel distinctively like something is lacking however, whether Allen himself or a different camera style, it feels different to most of his films. Still, sometimes change is good.Bullets Over Broadway is an entertaining piece of Woody Allen history. With a superb cast it is a brilliantly witty film. Not quite Allen's greatest work, it remains a piece of fun. There are better Woody Allen films out there, but this is still well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Pretty high-standard Woody offering","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a charming and funny film from the Woody Allen canon, featuring a fine performance from John Cusack as the standard Allen character, the nervy, unfaithful creative type, this time a prohibition era playwright whose play is put on as a vanity project for Meg Tilly's truly horrible gangster's moll. The wacky goings-on at the theatre and the interplay between the luvvy theatre types and the mobsters provide most of the laughs, while the relationship between Cusack and Chazz Palminteri's hit-man is the central story, Cusack's realisation that a true artistic gift is just that and not something that can be learned or acquired just by wanting it. As usual with Allen a brilliant cast is assembled and all allowed to shine, music and sets are sublime and the dialog is a scream throughout. Perhaps not his greatest but certainly better than most writer-directors manage in a lifetime. "},{"Title":"The Broadway theater comes to life with Woody's magic.","Date":"29 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Just one of several dozen movies to be musicalized for the Broadway stage since the beginning of the 21st Century, Bullets Over Broadway is already musical enough even without being a musical. The 1930's razz-a-mattaz atmosphere comes alive in Woody's love letter to the great white way that is up there with The Purple Rose of Cairo and Radio Days in his tributes to nostalgia, a genre known today as pastiche. Woody's Broadway isn't filled with innocent chorus girls who become stars, just a dumb gangster's moll (Jennifer Tilly) who tries to become an actress after baring practically it all in a mob owned nightclub, and ends up paying for it dearly thanks to the sudden snobbery of her bodyguard, Chazz Palminteri. Writer John Cusack is having a difficult time truly understanding the characters he's writing about for the play being produced, and Palminteri begins helping him out as a ghost writer, ultimately getting his taste of being a Broadway baby, a la one with a machine gun instead of a pacifier. A group of typical Broadway eccentrics surround Cusack in his desire to see his art make it to the big time, and while they all have good intentions (with egos of varying styles attached), they end up causing him more headaches both professionally and personally. Of course, the most memorable is the diva star of the show, Dianne Wiest, as far from her kindly mother roles and previous neurotic Allen characters as she can get. Helen Sinclair is Tallulah without the Southern drawl, a boozy broad who sweeps into the theater as if she were Norma Desmond back on the set. Wiest deservedly won her second Oscar (two for Allen films!) for this showy performance that made legendary the simple lines of Don't speak!, also comically repeated by Marin Mazzie on Broadway. When she orders two martini's, Cusack is floored by her knowing what he wanted to which she replies dryly, Oh, you wanted one too? For this legendary stage star, who never plays frumps and virgins, Cusack is her muse of future greatness, and of course, that lands him in her bed.Tilly typifies the stereotypical dumb moll, although she is not a blonde and quite selfish and nasty underneath her bird brained intelligence. She obviously hates her sugar daddy (Joe Viterelli), a fat old fool of a mobster who loves her in spite of herself, treating him with disdain. Annie Jo Edwards, who refused to be suckered in The Purple Rose of Cairo, steals every moment she's on as their tough-talking maid who refuses to make anything out of horses when asked to make hor dourves and comments on how their illegal hooch ate threw the bottle. Jim Broadbent appears to eat everything in sight as an aging leading matinée idol who is having a serious weight problem (even eating the dog biscuits of flighty co- star Tracey Ullman) and ends up in an affair with the dumb but horny Tilly. Mary-Louise Parker and Rob Reiner also appear as Cusack's long-suffering wife and his communist best friend who end up betraying him while he's too busy to notice thanks to the stress he's under with everything going on backstage.Allen's most honored film since Hannah and Her Sisters, it is a delightful valentine to the hard work that goes into the creation of live theater and the dreams of those achieving success that is rarely given. The mixture of artists and the underworld gives it a fun vibe, and everybody delivers the goods. There's tinted effects in the coloring that make it feel very much a part of its era, and that ended up making it the surprise hit of 1994. While the musical chose to use period songs to help tell the story, the few that are heard here are also appropriate to the time as well. Unfortunately, the magic of the movie was missing according to critics for the Broadway version, and it didn't repeat its success on stage that it had found on film. But the cast, while not award winners, were well chosen, and it is a testament to Allen's initial screenplay that it did manage a national tour and a bit of a cult following. "},{"Title":"Not My Favorite Woody Allen","Date":"22 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In New York in 1928, a struggling playwright (John Cusack) is forced to cast a mobster's talentless girlfriend (Jennifer Tilly) in his latest drama in order to get it produced. The film received numerous Oscar nominations. Just in the acting category, we have Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor &#x96; Chazz Palminteri. Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress &#x96; Jennifer Tilly. Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress &#x96; Dianne Wiest. Interestingly, Wiest won. Personally, I would have given the award to Tilly between the two of them.Although I love Woody Allen and I tend to enjoy mob stories (writing mob history is how I bay my bills), this somehow is not one of my favorite Woody tales. I think it is the lack of a real intellectual undercurrent. There is some talk of the art and the artist and even Nietzsche gets tossed around a bit, but this seems a bit light. Of course, when he is pumping out a movie a year for 50 years, I suppose not every one is going to be a philosophical gem. "},{"Title":"Woody Strikes Gold Again!","Date":"14 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen scored another comedic bullseye with 1994's Bullets over Broadway, another delicious comic romp from the Woodmeister that takes the accustomed loopy characters that we are accustomed to from Woody and puts them in a more structured story and a period setting.Set in Manhattan during the 1920's, the film follows a playwright named David Shayne (John Cusack), who is having trouble getting his latest work on Broadway until his agent (Jack Warden) informs he has found a backer for the show, a dim-witted mafioso (Joe Vitrelli) who has agreed to finance the show as long as his girlfriend, Olive (Jennifer Tilly) gets a role in the show. Things get complicated when the don sends a bodyguard named Cheech (Chazz Palminteri) to keep an eye on Olive, but he ends up making life for our hero even more complicated when he starts making suggestions regarding the play and they make it better.This is another example of classic Woody, where Woody brings his own personality to the leading role and Cusack does an admirable job of channeling Woody (only Kenneth Branaugh did it better in Celebrity). Dianne Wiest won her second Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her over-the-top, but totally hilarious turn as Helen Sinclair, a melodramatic Broadway diva who pretends to be in love with Shayne in order to improve her role in the play. Palminteri and Tilly both deliver star-making performances that earned them both Oscar nominations as well. Jim Broadbent has some very funny moments as a hammy actor in the play who has a problem with overeating and Tracy Ullmann is funny as another cast member who is driving Helen crazy with her dog.Woody's screenplay with Douglas McGrath provides all the fun twists and turns we expect from Woody and his sharp direction and flawless ear for music are also assets to a grandly entertaining comedy that Woody's fans will eat up. "},{"Title":"An utterly hilarious comedy with some surprisingly dark moments","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A Roaring Twenties take on Cyrano de Bergerac involving gangsters and Broadway, this is an utterly hilarious comedy with some surprisingly dark moments. The film has a very clever, sharp script by Woody Allen and Douglas McGrath while the former's direction is superb in both the magnificent comic scenes and the more tense ones. The film makes good use of the music of the period, including my favourite 1920s song Let's Misbehave. I know very little about Broadway as I've never been to the US, let alone New York City, and the only other films that I have seen on the subject are the wonderful but probably not too realistic The Muppets Take Manhattan and the very bad A Chorus Line. However, this film succeeded in giving me an interest in it that I never had before.I was initially a little concerned that he would be little more than a second rate Woody Allen but John Cusack gives a great performance as the struggling playwright David Shayne. He is a highly strung, neurotic, egotistical and occasionally melodramatic self-described artist but a good and decent man. David is trying to get his latest opus God of Our Fathers produced but he is not having much luck as his last two plays were flops and he insists on directing it himself. His agent Julian Marx succeeds in obtaining the financial backing from a single donor, albeit with two significant catches the donor is the notorious gangster Nick Valenti and his dreadfully, dreadfully untalented moll Olive Neal must be cast in the major supporting role of the psychiatrist Dr. Phillips. In spite of David's earlier conversation with his Bohemian friends on the sheer importance of art for art's sake rather than for money, he agrees to compromise in order to get his play produced. It soon becomes clear that David is not half the artist that he thinks it is. God of Our Fathers is filled with unconvincing characters with even less convincing motivations and his attempts to sound clever end up sounding more nonsensical than insightful. However, as is pointed out several times, the play has some promising ideas so, while David may not be Eugene O'Neill, he's not exactly Broadway's answer to Ed Wood either. As the film progresses, he receives help from a very unlikely source a two-bit hoodlum named Cheech who is acting as Olive's bodyguard.Chazz Palminteri gives an excellent performance as Cheech and was deservedly nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar. A Mafia enforcer and former jailbird, he has hidden depths that even he did not know about. His life experience, combined with his natural intelligence, gives him an understanding of people that David will never have and that feeds into his understanding of art. He frequently interrupts rehearsals to criticise the play's often painful dialogue and illogical moments. David becomes extremely angry when he makes a suggestion that everyone else loves. The temperamental playwright temporarily quits the production in protest but he eventually realises that Cheech was exactly right. Within days, Cheech is rewriting huge chunks of it himself and everyone begins to praise the changes supposedly made by David as having allowed the play to find its voice. Over time, Cheech becomes so serious about his art that he is willing to take steps that most people would never even contemplate when he thinks that the integrity of his work is being threatened. As good as Palminteri is, however, the best performance is given by Dianne Wiest, who is an absolute laugh riot as Helen Sinclair. She is simply fantastic as the fading star, serial adulteress and drunk. The archetypal diva, she is prone to hilarious, dramatic outbursts about acting, life in the theatre and her own talent. She has not been in a hit in three years but still considers herself to the biggest draw on Broadway. She and David become infatuated with each other and begin an affair that winds up in all of the gossip columns but I don't think that there is ever any genuine love between them, even though David thinks that he is in love with her at one point. Wiest gets the lion's share of the best lines and plays a giant ham to perfection. She won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role, becoming only the second woman after Shelley Winters to win the award twice. Her previous Oscar was for Hannah and Her Sisters and it is hard to imagine a character more different from Helen Sinclair than Holly. To date, this is her last appearance in one of Allen's films, which is a shame.Jennifer Tilly is likewise hilarious as Olive Neal, who yearns to be an actress rather than a mere showgirl. She wants a bigger part than Dr. Philips and yet she balks at the idea of having to learn so many lines for that role. Unlike Cheech, she has no hidden depths but she believes that she does. My dad always says that the essence of ignorance is that you do not know that you are ignorant and Olive is a textbook example of that. She is merely a brainless gangster's moll who cannot even remember simple lines from one day to the next. The film also features first rate performances from Jack Warden as Julian Marx, Joe Viterelli as Nick Valenti, Jim Broadbent as the compulsive eater Warner Purcell and Tracy Ullmann as the eccentric dog lover Eden Brent. The latter two had some of the funniest smaller moments in the film. It also features nice cameos from Rob Reiner as the insufferable Bohemian Sheldon Flender and Harvey Fierstein as Helen's long-suffering agent Sid Loomis. However, Mary-Louise Parker has a largely thankless role of David's equally long-suffering girlfriend Ellen.Overall, this is a marvelous film which rollicks along at a great pace. There was barely a minute where I didn't laugh out loud. "}{"Title":"pretty good Woody","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the late 20's NYC, idealistic playwright David Shayne (John Cusack) is trying to get his play on Broadway. He gets finance from ruthless gangster Nick Valenti but he has to cast Nick's talentless loud-mouthed girlfriend Olive Neal (Jennifer Tilly). He is horrified that he's whoring himself out. Her surprisingly-insightful escort Cheech (Chazz Palminteri), not Mr. Cheech, starts making great suggestions. David falls for aging leading star Helen Sinclair (Dianne Wiest) and cheats on his girlfriend Ellen (Mary-Louise Parker). Olive has an affair with leading man Warner Purcell (Jim Broadbent).It's an irreverent Woody Allen movie taking a sharp jab at the backstage world with a healthy dose of mob violence. There are some hilarious moments but I do want more. I keep thinking that the movie is on the verge of great madcap fun. This is a pretty good Woody movie just below some of his greats. "},{"Title":"Not everyone can be an artist, but an artist can come from anywhere !!!!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen films are not for everyone. Not much happens in them, people keep on talking, there are very few overtly dramatic scenes and the films are generally always quirky. But the fact that he is a master director and a brilliantly artistic storyteller can't be denied. Although his style is very lighthearted, but in a Mozart- esque way, it is deceptively so. He can be hit or miss at times due to the immense rate at which he makes films, but when he is in form, he is absolutely marvellous. Bullets Over Broadway is an example of him being at the top of his form.Bullets Over Broadway is set in 1920s New York which clearly is an era that Allen is fascinated by as he explored it again in one of his subsequent films 'Midnight in Paris' although that was set in Paris. The script beautifully explores both the Broadway as well as the organised crime scene in New York during that time, but in a quintessentially Woody Allen-esque quirky , humorous way. It is the characters and ensemble that make this film fantastic. Every character is colourful, funny and also deep. The central theme that runs through the film is the dilemma that a true artist can experience when he is faced with a decision of picking one option between success or staying true to his/her artistic creations. Should an artist make any compromise just to ensure the success of his work, or should he keep his work uncontaminated even if it is at the cost of commercial failure? Allen also makes a subtle commentary about why we should accept who we are instead of trying to be something that we are not which will ultimately give us fulfillment. While all that might sound heavy, but the film tackles these issues in the most quirky, understated and hilarious manner possible.John Cusack plays the struggling playwright David who is the quintessential Woody Allen character that the director himself has played throughout his life and Cusack is good at it. David is paranoid, neurotic, insecure, slightly delusional and can be manipulated. The character of Helen Sinclair played brilliantly by Dianne Wiest seems clearly inspired by the character of Norma Desmond in Sunset Boulevard. She is loud, over the top, at times cranky and also one who still lives in the past and can't let go of her memories. Olive Neal played by Jennifer Tilly arguably provides the most amount of laughs in the film. Tilly is absolutely fantastic as someone trying to be an actor who clearly isn't good at the craft. The character of Cheech played by Chazz Palminteri is thematically probably the most essential character in the context of the screenplay.Palminteri provides great range to the character and makes us like him even though he is a gangster. The ones mentioned along with other characters played by Tracey Ullman,Jim Broadbent,Joe Viterelli,Jack Warden,etc. make the film an extremely colourful experience.The script by Woody Allen and Douglas McGrath is beautiful. It essentially captures the aura of the theatre scene in the 20s and the gangster angle serves as a masterful complementary element. The screenplay is witty, sharp and Allen's direction elevates the film to a higher level.Bullets Over Broadway is probably not my favourite Woody Allen film, but it has certainly become of my favourites of his films and that's saying a lot. Allen's style of storytelling is not too dramatic, but it has a serene quality about it that keeps you engaged and makes the film linger in the viewer's thoughts. Bullets Over Broadway is one of his best. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Enjoyable! 6/10","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Review I quite enjoyed this movie, even though it does seem to drag in some parts. The actors made the movie interesting and Woody Allen wrote a witty script which was more dramatic than funny. The concept, which is based around a writer producing a play with the pressure from the mob to cast a bad actress, wasn't bad and I have to give credit to the cast, who all put in great performances. The actors who play the gangsters, seem to be in every gangster movie that comes out, but they made movie enjoyable, even though the movie wasn't totally based around them. I have learnt not to have high expectations for movies nowadays so when I see a well made movie, I end up enjoying it even more. This movie is well put together by Allen and he portrayed the period well, even though the storyline is a bit silly in parts. In all, it's a average movie with some good scenes and good performances, but it could have been a better movie if it didn't have the comedy element. Average!Round-Up This film definitely wouldn't have worked if Woody Allen was in it. He seemed to cut out the silly lines, which I have seen in many of his movies, which is why the film really did work. John Cusack was good as the lead, but it was Dianne Wiest that made me laugh. She was playing a role that was completely out of her comfort zone, but she played it well, especially when she kept on telling John Cusack to Shhhh! Tracy Ullman also played her role well alongside Jim Broadbent, and I enjoyed the whole gangster side to the film. Personally, I was expecting a typical Woody Allen movie about sex and troubled relationships, but this film wasn't that bad and I must admit, I did stay interested throughout. Budget $20million Worldwide Gross $13millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a play writer whose determined to get his play on Broadway with the help from the mob. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Alongside Husbands and Wives and Manhattan Murder Mystery, one of Woody Allen's best films of the 90s","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not among Woody Allen's top 5 best films but of the films I've seen of his so far- 36 altogether- Bullets Over Broadway's in the top 10. The period detail looks absolutely incredible and the whole film is photography beautifully, everything just looks so glitzy and glamorous without being too idealised. Tilly's costumes are also to die for. The wonderful score, somewhat a mix of jazz and Broadway, adds a huge amount to the period, the music itself is catchy penned by greats like George Gershwin, Rodgers & Hart and Cole Porter and the vocals are similarly great. Allen gives some of his best direction in Bullets Over Broadway and the screenplay is sheer brilliance, a vast majority of the lines are hilarious and intelligent(Allen in his films has a lot to say about his subjects and on the most part knows how to say it) in a way that is distinctive of Allen's style and there are some quotable ones too. Love also that the comedy has a light-hearted, biting and whimsical touch without going overboard in either area, and Allen to not make things too one-note includes a seriousness that is well pitched and balanced and an ironic ending that rounds things off nicely. The story goes at a brisk pace and the rehearsal and theatre scenes are incredibly entertaining. A great job is also done with how the characters are written and expanded, though it is a case of the supporting characters being more memorable than the leading one with Helen Sinclair and Cheech especially so. The ensemble performances are great, John Cusack has a difficult task playing Allen's younger alter ego and while you don't quite shake off the feeling that Allen himself would have been better in the role(though you can understand why he didn't) Cusack is actually one of the best actors that have attempted to play Allen's younger alter ego along with Will Ferrell in Melinda and Melinda and Seth Green in Radio Days, something that inevitably has had mixed results(as seen with Jason Biggs in Anything Else and especially Kenneth Branagh in Celebrity). Jennifer Tilly and Joe Viterelli are fine in tailor-made roles, true Tilly is a touch annoying and over-enthusiastic at times but seeing as it's part of the character it's not a problem at all. Jim Broadbent is marvellous and has rarely been more adorable and Mary Louise Parker, Jack Warden and Tracy Ullman provide plenty of humour and heart too. Harvey Fierstein is good and it is interesting to see Rob Reiner in a small role. But the best performances for me were Dianne Wiest, who won an Oscar and deservedly so in a performance that sees Wiest at her comic best(she's never been funnier), and Chazz Palminteri who is menacing, very amusing and sometimes charming, a gangster with a heart and the soul of a poet if you will. Overall, a wonderful film and one of Woody Allen's best of the 90s. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"To be or not to be (an artist), that's the (Woody Allen) question ...","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Never underestimate Woody Allen's capability to surprise you. The first act Bullets Over Broadway didn't put my expectations very high, until an expected little twist in the middle transformed everything and contributed to one of Woody Allen's most fascinating secondary characters.The film opens in the 1928 Broadway, with one cinematic archetype following another. John Cusack is David Shayne, a young playwright. Convinced of his artistic genius, he's your typical struggling newcomer trying to impose his unique style. Not a revolutionary character, Cusack almost replays some mimics of Allen's neurotic writer, only differing physically, with his tall frame canceled by his constantly hunched demeanor, he's handsome enough to make his sex-appeal believable. Although with such a title as God of Our Fathers, the line between the very talent he claims to have and a sort of pompous pseudo-intellectual vibe is very thin, but we give him the benefit of the doubt.Anyway, Shayne's manager, played by Jack Warden, finds a generous heart accepting to finance the play. Not your typical patron of art, the man is Valenti, a mobster played by the irreplaceable Joe Viterelli. Theater is not his cup of tea but who cares, he's absolutely in love with Olive, his girlfriend, a dancer as ambitious as she's talentless. With her nasal voice, voluptuous forms and misplaced self-satisfaction, Jennifer Tilly revives the performance of Jean Hagen as Lina Lamont in Singin' in the Rain, with &#x96;I don't think that was even possible- a much more horrible voice. And no one can even say a word against her, all through the rehearsals, she's chaperoned by a bodyguard named Cheech, one of Viterelli's button-man, more at ease with playing craps and disposing of some bodies, than enduring Shayne's intellectual junk.To go on and on with archetypes, Shayne lives with Ellen, his caring girlfriend, played by Mary Louise Parker, but she lacks the flamboyance and charisma of her soon-to-be rival, Helen Sinclair. Sinclair is the obligatory diva, who played so much plays, worked with so many writers (always the best) that all her characters spill over her mannerisms. If Jennifer Tilly is a dead-on Lina Lamont, Dianne Weist Sinclar is a perfect Norma Desmond, an actress so wrapped up in her ego, she oozes a natural commanding presence, when she orders Shayne 'Don't speak' with a voice as low as possible, he knows it's an act, but still, he has no choice but obeying. Both Tilly and Wiest's performance earned them two deserved Oscar nominations for Best Supporting Actress (Wiest won). But had the film only relied on these performances and the great roles of Jim Broadbent and Tracey Ullman, the result would have been a charming little comedy, with no impact whatsoever.To give you an idea, there's a moment when Shayne has a drink with Sinclair, she orders two martinis, in fact the two martinis were for her. The gag is cleverly written, it's funny, but coming from Woody Allen, it didn't have that extra little spice I expected, granted the film is magnificently directed, with costumes and art-directing revisiting the roaring twenties with exuberance, there was not much to hook our hearts on. But then, in the middle of one rehearsal, when the actors and Shayne have an argument about the script, Cheech intervenes. The thug who exuded intimidation and street-smart force, suggests a little revision to the play, and guess what, it works. I knew Chazz Palminteri was Oscar-nominated for this role, I thought he would play in the stage, I thought everything except the fact that he would reveal the genius Shayne obviously lacks.Then the movie took off and turned into a clever and insightful commentary about the meaning of being an artist, creating an oeuvre and being so passionate about it that you wouldn't let anything undermine it, anyone interfere with it. It's about the conflict tormenting a man who tries to be an artist, only to be confronted to another who's genuinely an artist, much more a genius. The romantic subplot involving Shayne and Sinclair takes a whole new importance to the story. When Shayne discusses with his friend Sheldon (Rob Reiner) about it, Sheldon makes one of the most unforgettable statement from any Woody Allen's film an artist creates his own moral universe. It seems like an alibi to justify the craziest actions committed by an artist, in fact, it echoes the very actions committed by Cheech, out of love and passion for his work, that will push to the extreme the notion of moral universe. The brilliance of the script is that Cheech' actions illustrate both what he is and what Shayne is not.And again, Woody Allen is able to transcend usual movie archetypes and illustrate through them the deepest torments invading the heart of artists and wannabe artists. Woody Allen shows the gap between those who got the talent, and those who don't, and he's so talented that he's even able to create a great character who realizes that he doesn't have the talent. The ending of Bullets Over Broadway is not the apotheosis we expected, but it's not a downer either. Shayne is finally able to realize what counts for him and what doesn't, it's about knowing oneself and acting in consequence. It's about responsibility, and the level of maturity expressed in the ending is so unexpected it does highlight the hidden genius of the script.And as nothing is gratuitous in a great script, first, its greatness relies on a fascinating contradiction, and I'll never forget the thug with writing genius played by Chazz Palminteri. And even a cute inoffensive gag like Olive not remembering what came after Hamlet's To be&#x85; is a subtle reference to the main conflict of the film.To be an artist or not to be an artist, &#x85; to be or not to be, and Bullets Over Broadway provides some of the smartest answers to that eternal question. "},{"Title":"Another Woody Allen classic!","Date":"2 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen successfully combines gangsters and Broadway theater in this riveting comedy that earned seven Academy Award nominations. John Cusack stars in the leading role, doing his best Woody Allen impression of course, as David Shayne, a playwright who has to cast a mobster's girlfriend in one of the starring roles. She is given a body guard named Cheech, played by Chazz Polminteri, who has to sit back and keep an eye on her during rehearsals. As the show starts to come together Cheech has some ideas of his own about the show, and they end up making it a better play than the one David originally wrote. This comedic turn of events fuels the rest of this lively and genuinely funny film.Bullets Over Broadway is simply more of Woody Allen doing what Woody Allen does best. It's quick, witty, whimsical, and intelligently hilarious. It's a great story full of wildly eccentric characters played by an ensemble of great actors. It possesses that engaging Woody Allen cadence full of all the Woody Allen quirkiness that makes us love watching his films. Bullets Over Broadway has a lot of charm and delivers a lot of laughs.There's nothing revolutionary here, but Bullets Over Broadway shows us a great time with all its witticism and frivolous ingenuity. Woody Allen is a pure genius, and he always seems to know exactly what he is doing when he makes a film. His specialty is quirky comedy, so it's no surprise that Bullets Over Broadway is just a great film. The story is simple yet effectively hysterical, and the characters are brilliantly constructed and wonderfully written, each displaying their own quirky uniqueness that becomes part of clever quirky whole. This is a great film, and one that continues to show what a brilliant man Woody Allen is. "},{"Title":"Bullets Over Broadway","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As Woody Allen's MIDNIGHT IN Paris (2011, a 6/10) doesn't impress me much and his latest Italian carol TO ROME WITH LOVE (2012) gets horrifying feedbacks, so I fumble around his earlier oeuvre, thanks to his prolific filmography, thus comes BULLETS OVER Broadway (a 7 Oscar nomination receiver in 1994) courtesy of one simple criterion, more often than not, films in which Woody is not starred are much better than in which he is both the director/writer and the actor.I have only watched a handful of Woody's films, but BULLETS OVER Broadway could easily sit in the top row of any years-best list (for me, it just misses my top 10 film in 1994, which is an ultra-competitive year for films, but Cusack, Wiest, Tilly and Palminteri all crack into my top 10 acting rankings). Wiest and Tilly, obtained two Oscar nominations and Wiest was the final winner, who is divinely lofty and my pick as well, she is simply amazing in her delivering of the repetitive don't speak lines and the voice warm-up scenes before the final premier. Meanwhile Tilly is plainly acting herself (being slightly amusing and largely annoying), this is an exact example of the disparagement between a bona fide actress and an one-off sensation (Palminteri's Oscar nomination may also belong to be the latter unfortunately), notwithstanding the fact that most acting laborers will never even procure such an opportunity, for instance John Cusack, who is playing Woody Allen in the film and is reliably superb but regrettably snubbed again (after THE GRIFTERS 1990, a 7/10). Speaking of the film, the script has Woody's distinctive bourgeoisie and artist self-mockery in it and the genre mash-up of gangster comedy and a Broadway playwright trapped in his writer's block works adroitly well, although the shooting shots are not Woody's strong suit and the diamond-in-the-rough deployment is over-simplified (maybe there is just no reason beyond it). But on the whole, the witty conversations will always strike a chord if you are an ordinary man with a highbrow heart, and in the final analysis, Diane Wiest alone is worth the time. "},{"Title":"Among Mr.Cinema's Best Works!","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mr.Cinema aka Woody Allen delivers one of his finest films in 'Bullets Over Broadway', a delicious comedy, that's magnificently written, sharply directed & amazingly performed. Its humorous cinema at its finest hour!'Bullets Over Broadway' Synopsis In 1920s New York, a struggling playwright is forced to cast a mobster's talentless girlfriend in his latest drama in order to get it produced.'Bullets Over Broadway' is a delicious comedy, that's magnificently written by Allen & Douglas McGrath. The characters, the entire set-up is so interesting & funny, that there is hardly a moment when the film falters. Allen's Direction is sharp! Cinematography by Carlo DiPalma is excellent. Editing is good.Performance-Wise Dianne Wiest won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress & she deserved too. She delivers a career best performance. John Cusack is fantastic. Seriously, why is he so under-rated? Jennifer Tilly is marvelous, while Chazz Palminteri takes an unforgettable turn. Jack Warden is always terrific. Mary-Louise Parker leaves a mark. Tracey Ullman & Jim Broadbent are outstanding.On the whole, 'Bullets Over Broadway' is a must see. "},{"Title":"Bullets over Broadway","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody at his best. A movie about artists - not only about writers ( but mostly about them ), but about any artist, who is trapped between his talent and the expectations that other people have about him. A movie about what it takes to make something perfect. I strongly consider John Cusack's ( David ) character and Chazz Palminteri's ( Cheech ) character as different sides of the same person - the bohemian, who sees in art just an excuse for meeting famous people and living like them and the real artist, for whom art and creating are only reasons to live. And the moral? I guess no one can say it better than David's girlfriend - one could not love an artist if he hasn't got enough dignity to be a man in the first place. "},{"Title":"It's hard to tread the boards while worrying about concrete boots.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Another wonderful Woody Allen comedy, this film is all about playwright David Shayne (John Cusack) and just how far he will compromise his artistic integrity to get himself and his play talked about in all the right circles by all the right people. This leads to him allowing a gangster's moll (Jennifer Tilly) to play a main part, becoming smitten with an ageing starlet (the wonderful Dianne Wiest, never in better comic form), being helped in rewrites by the man (Chazz Palminteri) chosen to look after the gangster's moll and generally dealing with a number of strange people who need careful attention paid to their egos (Tracey Ullman and Jim Broadbent being the other main pair).Written (with Douglas McGrath) and directed by Allen, as usual, this movie may not be the most intelligent or most philosophical in the New Yorker's illustrious career but it deftly blends a lot of genuine fun and laugh out loud moments with some minor musing on just what the artist needs in his life to fill his heart. Fleeting acceptance or genuine love? All of the performances are splendid (with the top marks going to Tilly, Broadbent and Wiest) and while some may feel that the characters are rather broadly played for easy laughs I tend to think that each one gets just enough time on screen to be more than just a one-joke caricature. But I would say that, simply due to the fact that I could watch Dianne Wiest saying don't speak on a constant loop (just watch the movie and you'll know what I mean).Warm, witty and full of great actors, I rank this as one of my favourite Woody Allen movies and hope others love it too. "}{"Title":"Something wonderful about the way people talk.","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen will always be remembered as a director who could create situations in which characters talk frequently and superbly. In this film, he puts together his spin on life and conversation with the setting of the 1920s Broadway background to create a memorable and sweet film about a group of people that we become so enamored with that they turn out to be more than characters; they become human beings on screen.A terrific cast bolsters this already fine story as we witness a young, idealistic writer/director of the stage (John Cusack) attempt to have his play unscathed by the actors. He soon casts a great Margo Channing-type legend (Dianne Weist), a wacky side-lady (Tracy Ullman), a great actor with an eating fetish and a mobster's girlfriend attempting to break into acting but doesn't quite have the chops. The key to the whole story is the character of the mobster's hit-man, played by Chazz Palmenteri who turns out to be the most theatrically sophisticated and wise of all the characters. Here, Allen shows that genius can come from the most unlikely of sources and also uses it to bring out a number of great comical scenes as well.I guess the best thing to say about this movie is how wonderful Woody Allen's writing is. By this time, he has gotten down the pacing and rhythm so perfectly that it truly is an art-form for him to write screenplays. And, as always in a Woody Allen movie, the actors are terrific and have great fun by playing the parts with gusto and joy. This is a much lighter effort than say, Husbands and Wives or Crimes and Misdemeanors, but it stays in the tradition of Allen able to mix together great dialogue, unique characters and a story that unfolds so easily and delightfully. A treasure unlike any other, Woody Allen creates a fun film one right after the other. "},{"Title":"Very funny, with a few ideas thrown in for good measure","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not deep, but very, very funny. Wonderfully written and splendidly acted, especially by Diane Wiest in a wild and hysterical role. John Cusack does his usual extremely solid work as the straight man holing it all togetherAmazing 1930s production design by Santo Loquasto. The film has a nice, dark edge to off-set the wacky, farcical tone. The very end is a bit sappy, but it also leaves the film with an interesting moral complexity.Not quite great Woody Allen, but extremely good Woody Allen, which means great by most film-making standards. "},{"Title":"Broadway ... at its realistic ,emotional,melodranatic, best..","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Trial and tribulations of a struggling, insecure playwright amongst the manipulative, emotional, melodramatic, compulsive eating actors; crazy love sick mob financiers and a gangster body guard who is a creative literary, temperamental genius right until his poetic death. Broadway at its best where when everything seems to go wrong, everything is actually going right and when things go wrong, they are actually terrible. John Cusack is at his emotional dramatic best. His interaction with the Sicilian, operatic and charismatic Chazz Palminteri is sensational. Where else but in Broadway will a playwright get advice from a gangster about real life? Dianne Wiest is of course the ultimate melodramatic queen of the theatre manipulating everyone to her hearts content.. This film is wonderfully entertaining, which will make you laugh and think right until the curtain falls. "},{"Title":"Don't Speak!","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's to be said that sometimes the viewer -- us -- can view a picture and think, How idiotic was that film's screenwriter to have had this-or-that character behave in this-or that way, or say those awful things? It completely stops the movie dead in its tracks. It's why there's a critic in all of us, writers and movie goers alike, it's why those who can watch will be able to judge accordingly even if we may not be totally right or even able to reproduce what we are seeing.Now, the premise of BULLETS OVER Broadway is just that a playwright finds a producer for his play in the Roaring Twenties. The catch is, the producer in charge for the plays financing is a mobster. The second catch is, he wants his outrageously stupid moll to play the lead. But the third has to be the strangest of them all one of the mobster's henchmen happens to know this play better than its very own playwright. He thinks that the moll makes a terrible actress. He literally... takes over.And that's it. Woody Allen thankfully is not present in this movie other than its writer and director -- it is becoming something of a stretch to see Allen, who is about as visually inviting as an eyesore and has those ticks in speech that were cute in the Seventies but now amount to little more than hiccups laced with mothballs. John Cusack, seen in SHADOWS AND FOG, takes over the writer in this story but doesn't try to act like Allen (a tendency every actor who's subbed for Allen has done since Michael Murphy mirrored Allen in MANHATTAN, Michael Caine did in HANNAH AND HER SISTERS, and so on). Chazz Palmenteri, however, really takes over and drives the movie through and through, being the brains behind the play in production and a thoroughly masculine presence that somehow becomes more and more feminine as the movie walks towards its conclusion. Jennifer Tilly, the moll patterned (at least in the likeness of) Clara Bow, is the bimbo and plays it to the hilt. Dianne Wiest is again on board, this time playing completely against type as a self-absorbed stage actress who throughout the entire movie makes Don't speak! hilarious. A fun ride with a shoot-'em-up finale, this was one of Woody Allen's best films of the Nineties after the Mia scandal, because after this one his movies began a sharp decline in quality and what had been up until then been an anticipated wait -- to see a release of the new Woody Allen film of the year -- had by the end of the Nineties been an Eh... whatever thing. "},{"Title":"Broadly recommended for generations & generations to come!","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" David (John Cusack) is an aspiring playwright with one big problem no financing. When a mobster offers to sponsor his latest work, David is appalled, especially when the mobster's girlfriend, Olive (Jennifer Tilly), is supposed to get a starring role. Nevertheless, his agent convinces him that reality dictates that he accept the deal. David does get his choice of other cast members, including an aging legend named Helen Sinclair (Dianne Wiest). The rehearsals start, with Olive getting on everyone's nerves, Helen grandstanding quite a bit, and Olive's bodyguard starting to critique the show and suggest rewrites. Has David sold out to get his name on a marquee? This is one of Woody Allen's absolute best works ever. The cast is a gift from heaven, with Tilly giving the performance of a lifetime as the dimwit, screechy-voiced Olive. The script is likewise heaven-sent, with laughs on top of giggles on top of guffaws. The costumes and settings are perfection to the time period of the roaring twenties. Thus, this movie is recommended for any and all who want to laugh their problems away and live to fight another day. It could make the palace guards at Buckingham palace start tittering in two seconds flat. "},{"Title":"Another Woody Allen masterpiece","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Most fans of Woody Allen have come to love and appreciate his movies for their neurotic psycho sexual themes revolving around psychiatric visits, mass psychosis, and usually with Woody as the main character. This deviates a bit from the Allen model. Not that there aren't sexual innuendos and insecurity but it is not the main theme. For one thing this Allen comedy is not contemporary but is set in the late 1920's to early 1930's. Of course the movie takes place in the only true love Woody has ever known and that is NYC.The cast is superb here and each player does their job with aplomb and grace. To site one particular performance does the cast an injustice but the Academy Awards did so by awarding Diane Weist the Supporting Actress award as an aging grand dame of Broadway caught somewhere between her fading star and her need to be adored and revered. Weist really was incredible and her signature line of Don't speak resonates throughout with perfect timing.As for the storyline it is simple. Young playwright and veteran producer need backing for their script and make a deal with the top mob boss in NY to back the play. The only hitch is that in order for the mob boss to back the play his sexy, younger former stripper girlfriend must have a featured role. By the way I probably should mention the girlfriend (played by Jennifer Tilly) has absolutely no talent! The movie takes many turns and highlights the considerable talents of the cast along with classic Allen humor in the writing. This is just a very funny movie, with a terrific soundtrack of early 20th Century music. For anyone seeking to watch a comedy that relies on wit rather than pranks or slapstick this movie will make it for you. "},{"Title":"A Woody Allen film for people who don't like Woody Allen","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've never been able to warm much to Woody Allen's works with a contemporary New York City setting, filled as they are with over privileged chatterboxes whose neuroses are far less involving than they&#151;and perhaps Allen himself&#151;would have us believe. His period pieces, however, tend to liberate Allen from navel gazing, and Bullets Over Broadway is one of his best efforts of this sort.The central character and Woody stand-in is David Shayne (John Cusack), an earnest young playwright who is horrified to learn that his latest effort will only be produced if Olive Neal, a gangster's moll, is given a role (her boyfriend is providing funding). David agrees and promptly has a very funny breakdown, melodramatically declaring himself a whore for selling out. (This scene has an added poignancy later on when it becomes clear that poor David never had much talent to betray in the first place). Initially it might seem as though the viewer has been set up for a Pygmalion story in which the thoroughly vulgar Olive will turn out to have genuine potential and will show up all the snobs who doubted her ability to act. But the brilliant twist of the film is that it turns out to be Olive's bodyguard Cheech (Chaz Palminteri) who has genius&#151;previously a menacing background presence he suddenly becomes the center of the story when irritated by David's pompous dialogue he begins to rewrite and greatly improve the play.The film veers somewhat off course towards the end when David reacts with horror after Cheech (who has become the brilliant obsessive artist David always imagined himself to be) shoots Olive because he can't tolerate her bad acting another second. Allen appears to want us to share David's shock and disgust. However, the film's gangsterism has been mostly played for laughs up until now, making it hard to treat this cartoonish situation as a serious conundrum. However by the time Cheech, fatally wounded himself, uses his final moments to make one last suggestion about the play and to quote the resident diva Helen Sinclair (Dianne Wiest) things are nicely back on track.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Delightful, Brilliant","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen pen is definitely mightier than the sword. This film skewers the conventions of the theatre movie. In here, his wit is at its sharpest, giving us a little insight into what motivates the different personalities in the business. There are moments of unbridled hilarity, particularly in the scenes where Olive inadvertently tries to derail the play.The cast is overall incredible. John Cusack's insecure and tense playwright is amazing. Palminteri and Weist shine in their parts, as the bodyguard and the haughty actress.In addition to a brilliant script, the era has been lovingly recreated with Allen's usual group of collaborators. It's Allen at his best! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable crime comedy, but definitely not Allen's best...","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...Bullets Over Broadway is a mob movie about a writer...or a writer's movie about the mob...or both.  Woody Allen directed, it details David Shayne (John Cusack) and his attempt to bring his play to the stage, which involves funding from a powerful mafioso (Joe Viterelli).  The mob boss' girlfriend (Jeniffer Tilly) insists that she have a part, which is just the first in a number of compromises David takes to put his play on Broadway.  His leading lady (Dianne Wiest) wants her part to be more glamorous, Tilly's character wants more lines but doesn't want to memorize them, the list goes on.  Eventually David is taking writing tips from none other than a mob hit man, Cheech (Chazz Palminteri) who turns out to be a great scholar.I have to say, if it wasn't for Palminteri and Wiest, this would've been a very dull film, almost too Woody Allen-esque.  That's usually not a bad thing, but the guy has to create some characters that are unlike his usual neurotic art types.  For Annie Hall it was the title character, for Hannah and Her Sisters it was Wiest and Michael Caine's characters, and for Bullets over Broadway it's Palminteri and Wiest.  These Allen characters are usually the best, you'll notice that they always get the Oscar nomination (or win).Like I said, aside from Palminteri and Wiest this would've been a dull film.  Filmed like The Godfather franchise, with grainy camera shots, it does succeed in taking you back to 20s Broadway, and the art direction and costumes are all detailed and good too.  The other performances vary, Cusack, Viterelli, Tilly and Jack Warden do well while Jim Broadbent, Rob Reiner and others seem to kind of suffer, they're not really up to the task of bringing Allen's words to life.The direction is great though too, done in Allen's style, but the writing lacks, it's not one of his greatest scripts.  There aren't enough one-liners, you could say, and most of the characters aren't developed very well.One thing I have to point out though, is how great the ending is.  In a way it's surprising, bringing you back to a plot point that you thought was over with, but it works, it's really a terrific ending.Of course, there are more good elements than bad in this film, 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"One of Allen's best.......","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bullets Over Broadway (1994) One of Mr. Allen's best features.  As opposed to Mighty Aphrodite,  the more I watch this film, the  better and better I like it. A  1930's writer has his play produced  on Broadway backed by Mob money.  Diane Weist as a Grand Dame of the  Theater won a richly deserved Oscar  for supporting actress. Jennifer  Tilly also turns in a wonderful  performance as a brunette bombshell  showgirl put into the play by her  mob connected boyfriend. Great acting,  funny lines and wonderful period  setting make this a must-see Allen comedy. "}{"Title":"Woody Allen's writer at work in BULLETS OVER BROADWAY","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen here tackles an immensely difficult assignment for a screen-writer (or playwright) Give us a story about a writer where the focus is on the writing-process. By writing-process I mean the usually internal action of conjuring an effect wanted right here, watching your imagination serve up utterances, actions, scenes that might do it, having your sensibility/intelligence judge the offerings -- No. No. Yes! How can you ever dramatize -- i.e. make filmic or stageworthy -- internal stuff like the `writing process'? (This is distinguished from the external story of how a writer acquires his/her story-material, or how he struggles to get produced, or how he fights those who don't want him to write at all. Thus BARTON FINK, SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE, AUTHOR  AUTHOR, CHAPTER TWO, THE ADVENTURES OF MARK TWAIN, the various scripts about Oscar Wilde, Donald Margulies's COLLECTED STORIES, William Nicholson's SHADOWLANDS -- none of these quite qualifies.) For many reasons, perhaps the closest a screenwriter can come is this avoid the original scribbling and show the writer in the act of REVISION, or fleshing out a given outline or assignment. ADAPTATION gives us the second, BULLETS gives us the first. The heart of this particular theme within Allen's movie is the interplay between the playwright David (John Cusack) and Cheech (Chazz Palminteri). It's not at all silliness on the part of Allen that he chooses an unlettered thug to correct the writer -- in fact I think it's part of what Allen seriously (and hilariously) wants to convey. No doubt David can spell better, and discuss Shakespeare, Ibsen, and O'Neill more learnedly than Cheech, but imagination, and sensibility to story and character, can't be learned in school. Allen has found a form that allows him to articulate each of those steps a writer goes through -- knowing the effect he wants, imagining the answer, rejecting the offered action and giving the reason why, and, in Cheech's case, even imagining the right answer See, what she has to do right here is XXXXX, because if she doesn't then YYYYY -- and nobody in his right mind can swallow that, and who'd wanna anyway. Before you shrug off Allen's accomplishment too quickly, name one other movie/play that exposes the writing-process this nakedly and truthfully. (Truthfully? Yes -- ponder Salieri's ranting at God in AMADEUS for giving the gifts to a crude, juvenile  like Mozart, and not the fine, cultured, dedicated Salieri.) If, on the other hand, the writer's process strikes you as a shitty, boring subject, this isn't the movie for you. I think this movie is seriously funny, and I like it a lot.  "},{"Title":"The world will open up before you like a magnificent vagina","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the movie that introduced me to Woody Allen.  It's a good first Woody - for starters, he's not in it, so a wonderful ensemble cast get to try and outshine each other.  It seems to be about a struggling writer and his blossoming relationship with an older actress, but suddenly a gangster, who seems to be a minor player, begins to take over the plot, and the film just gets funnier and funnier.  I was using the `Don't speak!' catchphrase annoyingly for ages.  A Woody for people who think they don't like Woody. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I come across a movie that I really like maybe once or twice a year. Virtually everything that Hollywood churns out is predictable, unoriginal, not interesting, and (if a comedy) not funny.  This movie is clever, different, funny and thoroughly enjoyable.  It's a great movie with a great cast that I would recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"Forced, sometimes amusing","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is not one of my favorite Woody Allen films, maybe because it's missing Woody himself. John Cusack just didn't cut it for me as his alter ego in this movie (and I actually liked Kenneth Branagh better, when he become Woody a few years later in Celebrity).  The movie is too over-the-top and loud, and also a bit stagy; the latter is understandable because this is a movie about producing a Broadway show.  But I've always felt that Woody could have made a better, funnier movie here.  Dianne Wiest won an Oscar (I think) for her performance, but what's the big deal?  She just turned herself into Gloria Swanson in Sunset Boulevard.  Maybe that is Oscar worthy in itself.  There are some laughs to be had (this is a Woody Allen movie, after all).  And I thought Chazz Palminteri, Jim Broadbent and Jennifer Tilly did great jobs (having Broadbent a compulsive eater was a nice touch).  All in all, this is not one of his deep films, and led the way for his triple whammy of light comedies from 2000-2002 (Small Time Crooks, Curse of the Jade Scorpion, Hollywood Ending).      "},{"Title":"My fav Woody Allen Movie","Date":"26 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is my fav Woody Allen flick, and is in my top 100 all-time favorite movie list.I think Woody Allen's films can be roughly divided into three main areas. It's like the philosophical concepts of thesis, antithesis, and synthesis. First, his early broad farcical era - the funny ones; like BANANAS, TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN, SLEEPER, ZELIG etc. Then comes his more critically acclaimed, romantic, self-absorbed, psychotherapy section like MANHATTAN, ANNIE HALL, HANNAH AND HER SISTERS and so on. And then comes the final amalgamation era that - IMHO - actually combines the best elements of the two previous sections. And the film to start the mature, best-of-both-worlds period was this movie. (Though obviously the critical elite prefer the middle section, since they have such a poor sense of humor!!!)This is also the film that I once heard Woody say most closely represents the original idea he had for the project. The story is both hilariously funny, and heart-warming in all the right amounts. John Cusack is superb as the frustrated playwright trying to get his magnum opus on the stage; and teaming with a brilliant Chazz Palminteri as his minder and unwitting muse.And the supporting cast is equally brilliant in their realization of a storyline that is both tight in its comic timing, and yet has great human characterization as well.As I said, in my own consideration this one is the tops. "},{"Title":"My Personal Favorite Comedy","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am not a Woody Allen fan, though his talent is unmistakeable. By removing himself from in front of the camera and letting John Cusack taking on his mannerisms, he has done the film a world of good.Allen's talent is in his writing, and the coaching of his actors. And Bullets Over Broadway is the best he has to offer in both categories, which makes it a great film.A stingingly devious plot, vibrant characters and witty dialogue are only the half of it. This is Allen's 'Foucault's Pendulum', where he questions his own art and artistry as Eco questioned his own intellectualism in that masterpiece of modern fiction.Make no mistake, it is a comedy first and foremost, but with more artistry and intelligence than most 'arty' films can manage. A classic. "},{"Title":"Proof that woody still has it!","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think woody allen was looking for a way out of the limelight when he made this movie, he co-wrote the screenplay (Allen rarely co-writes, and when he does it is usually with Mickey Rose or Marshall Brickman), He stayed out of the acting, instead passing the lead onto John Cusack, tossed in a great cast and made an awesome flick, we hate Cheech (Palmenteri) at first, but we grow to love him, and we always hate jennifer Tilly, which made her a great character, too bad Bullets Was up agaist such tuff competition in '94, snagging only 1 oscar, when Chazz and Allen could have easily won had the film been released in '93 or '95, bad timing for woody, but, he doesn't really do it for the awards anyway "},{"Title":"Fabulous Dark Comedy","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Bullets Over Broadway is a wonderfully crafted dark comedy, written beautifully by Woody Allen.Bullets is primarily a theatre story.  For any lover of theatre and Broadway, this film will be a delicious treat to you.  Allen crafts a witty satire about a no-talent playwright, trying to get one of his less-then-perfect dramas started with a gangster's ditz in one of the leading roles, carrying on an affair with an aging diva, and trying to control the leading man's eating habit.  The film takes many a surprising and witty turn, and Allen fans will partake in it with joy.One of the articles an Allen film usually has is an amazing cast, full of talented performers suited for the roles they play, and Bullets is no exception.  John Cusack plays the Allen role, stuttering and mumbling an over the top aroma, just like Woody himself.  Jennifer Tilly is gorgeoussly fitted with an incredibly annoying voice as the dumb girlfriend, the role which won her an Academy Award Nomination.  But the award in 1994 went to Diane Wiest, who steals the show, as an aging stage diva.  She's hillarious, and pulls off legendary one liners (Don't Speak, no, Don't Speak), so that every Allen fan came quip them at the top of their heads.Set in the roaring twenties, in a crime soaked theatre world, Bullets Over Broadway, is a film not to be missed by any theatre fan, Allen fan, gangster fan, or anyone whose ready for a stomach wrenching laugh. "},{"Title":"of course it's funny","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Of course it's funny, it's Woody Allen, but there is so much more.  This is true of so many of the man's films.  He claims his only goal in making movies it to give people a simple piece of entertainment, a pleasurable couple of hours.  I'm sure it is.  But the fact that he fills his movies with so much more than is a testament to his genius.  Like Hitchcock, his movies are enjoyable on their face, but there's some real meat there too, if you're hungry.  Take the scene where David and Flender are talking with a bunch of their friends early in the film.  It seems like an utterly disposable scene.  Charming, funny, but light.  Not necessary.  Couldn't be more wrong.  This simple scene contributes enormously to the film as a whole.  On the simple level, it establishes the character of Flender, which is crucial, given the role this character plays in the denouement.  It also provides a link between Flender and Ellen, which is crucial for the same reason.  It also plays an enormous part in establishing the artistic milieu.  Since the premise of the film is the mixing of artists and gangsters, and moreover, the mixing of their worlds (their attitudes, values, drives), it's vital to show the artisitc characters operating exclusively in their own world.  But it also presents a philosophical point of view, in one, small, easy to overlook exchange.  Which would you save, some random human being, or the work of Shakespeare?  David says Shakespeare, and Flender agrees.  But the same argument is repeated late in the film between David and Cheech, and David's answer is different.  This is the thematic crux of the film. Along the way, of course, we're treated to oodles of jokes, gags, one-liners, and some truly remarkable comic performances from the supporting cast.  Dianne Wiest deserves that Oscar, no doubt.  She is magnificent in a very tricky part.  She makes her character outrageously funny without stepping over that nebulous line beyond which humor degrades the character.  Helen Sinclair is not a vehicle for delivering laughs.  She is a character. And who knew that Woody Allen could make gangsters so funny.  I mean, we all know gangsters are funny.  The Godfather films, Scorsese's gangster pictures, and The Sopranos all have plenty of humor.  But these gangsters are totally credible in a way that they often aren't in mob comedies.  It's a tricky thing to pull off.  Having Palminteri helps immensely.  The man has an overlooked gift for comedy.  Sure, he was in Analyze This, but as the straight man/villain.  The man can do comedy, and this proves it.  It also helps that Allen has such a gift for dialogue.  It stinks on f***ing hot ice.  I don't know what it means, but it's hysterical. I've seen a lot of commentators talk about Cusack doing Woody.  I can't tell if you're flattering Cusack or insulting him.  If Woody had played David Shayne, he would have done it very differently, I think.  Cusack doesn't have, and did not emulate, Allen's distinctive vocal cadence.  His physicality was utterly different.  Looking at the lines, just the lines, it could be a Woody Allen character.  But Cusack did it his way, and it works wonderfully.  Enough outta me.    "},{"Title":"Woody at His Best","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a nicely paced comedy out of the tradition of the 1940's when people didn't take themselves so seriously. A playwright who has developed an inflated view of his work is faced with the fact that he has sold out to a gangster to get his play on Broadway. The kicker is that to do this he must cast the guy's self absorbed girlfriend in one of the important roles. She has the childlike rasping voice that would lend even a good actress impotent. But she must be there. The other side of the equation is that the playwright just isn't very good. He eventually makes his success with the aid of a super talented neanderthal bodyguard who does the rewrites and critiques the playwright's work. Throw into the mix the angst experienced by the principle character, a group of volatile or unpredictable actors, not to mention the mob and their expectations, and you have one of the funniest films Woody Allen has ever done. Woody my not appear in this one, but his being is plastered all over it. Every time I begin to count him out, I am surprised by one of the greatest geniuses of our time. "}{"Title":"Which is more important the artist or the man?","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At the beginning of the film, David Shayne (John Cusack) is sitting in a coffee-bar with a group of friends, including his girlfriend and a &#145;genius' whose plays are accepted by the rest of the group as being too good to be produced. They discuss the importance of art and the genius poses a dilemma what if a house was burning down and in the house was the last surviving copy of the complete works of Shakespeare and an insignificant human being. You can rush into the house and save one or the other, which one would you choose. Of course everyone says that even the most insignificant human being is more important than the complete works of Shakespeare but, in the course of this film, Woody Allen offers a wry version of the same dilemma, a woman is murdered to save Shayne's play. Shayne is appalled by this murder, preferring a small success to an artistic triumph at the cost of a human life but he nevertheless profits from the crime.During the same coffee-bar conversation another topic is discussed which is more important, the artist or the man? Woody Allen has been here before, as an actor if not as a writer-director in Martin Ritt's film The Front, where he plays a frontman who obtains money, success and the beautiful girl by passing off the works of a blacklisted writer as his own. In Bullets Over Broadway, Shayne has the same dilemma when he takes the credit for the hitman's work. Shayne's girl leaves him when he has an affair with his leading actress, and she goes to live with the unproduced genius. He is outraged at the genius's stealing his girl but she says, &#145;When you are a genius, you create your own moral universe'. This may be Woody Allen being a little too truthful for some people's comfort. Eventually the girl returns to the successful playwright, dismissing his confession that he is not all he seems with, &#145;I can love a man who is not an artist but I can never love an artist who is not a man'.The protagonist is clearly a Woody Allen character but Allen had the good sense to realise that he is thirty years too old for the part. John Cusack, who plays the part of the playwright, has an uncanny resemblance to Allen both vocally and in his mannerisms. Many of the actors belong to the ad hoc Woody Allen repertory company that makes up the cast of most of his films. Diane Weist is particularly effective in an untypical, over the top role as the leading lady. Chazz Palminteri as Cheech is brilliantly believable as someone who is a natural born killer and a natural born dramatist. Jennifer Tilly is effective as the shrill-voiced Olive, perhaps foreshadowing Mira Sorvino's less successful, similar role in Allen's next film. Allen's penchant for British character actors is once more indulged with supporting roles for Tracy Ullman and Jim Broadbent. As in his previous film Manhattan Murder Mystery, Woody Allen has avoided his most fertile subject matter of marital and extra-marital relationships in favour of a beautifully crafted theatrical story. It ranks with Manhattan, Alice and Crimes and Misdemeanors as one of his most satisfying and mature works to date. "},{"Title":"one of his best","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Have to say I loved this film.  Superbly plotted and well written.  Dianne Wiest was great.  John Cusack is a little overhwlmed by Wiest though.  Joe Mantegna was terrific as a mobster with the insight of a playwright.  As my brother and I were watching this and saw, from the DirectTV info, that the mobster had a special gift.  We kind of guessed he woudl turn out to be an amateur with this great gift of the gab.  It Jennifer Tilly was also very funny.  She plays this girl who is so accustomed to getting what she wants although she doesn't seem to have many interests in reality.  She is used to just being granted whatever she wants.  But then finds that acting is a challenge; she really enjoys it but finds that she's having trouble with it.John Cusack seems to want to retain artistic integrity, but is not strong enough to do so.  Some of the funniest scenes are those when Mantegna pulls Cusack aside and tells him how he can fix his play.  Cusack is just blown away by such smart suggestions but resists showing his amazement because he doesn't want to admit he has been out-thought by a mob hitman. Also the idea that Dianne Wiest is falling in love with the person who wrote those words-and that she says it so explicitly-is very funny. Cusack wants to tell her not to fall in love with him but can't resist the praise of this distinguished, accomplished, stage actress.  One knows the other shoe is going to drop at some point and you trust Woody to do it well.  He certainly doesn't disappoint this time.  It is also funny to see Cusack's affair, of which he seems proud in some way, owing to Wiest's stature as an actress, outdone by his girlfriend's affair which appears to be even wilder.The staging is excellent.  Terrific attention to detail.  I think this is probably one of Woodster's more expensive flix coz of such attention.  Certainly this is a very interesting examinations of the vanity of actors and actresses and of the fight for artistic integrity.  More raucous than Hannah and Her Sisters, more trenchant than Small Time Crooks, I really loved this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies i have seen","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a brilliant picture.Great dialogue,specially cool Chazz lines(Take that kid outside and teach him manners maffioso wit at its best)and great acting by Cusack,Palminteri and the rest.I liked the eating guy  also.PAll in all,a high quality entertainment with unforgettable cast and story.Another Woody Allen goodie. "},{"Title":"How does he manage to do this?","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Everytime I see a Woody Allen movie I know I am watching a movie he made. No one else makes them like this. He practically is the only person who can claim an unique style, which links his movies in a group apart from the others. And the thing which stuns me more than any other is - how does he manage to make such fresh movies everytime? How does he manage to make his movie again, but at the same time in a totally different way?Bullets Over Broadway is no exception, and its story is really original - a play which goes stellar thanks to the oppinion of a apparently cold and brutal mafioso. Of course, this crossing between opposite worlds makes the whole juice of the movie, as hilarious situations rise at every turn, and comedy flows at an unique pace. Fantastic every time you see it, this one can actually make a viewer become a fan of Allen's movies. Kudos to the incredible period detail, and all the actors, although it's really Dianne Wiest who shines the most, deserving every inch of her oscar. But it's better for me to don't speak....  "},{"Title":"Another brilliant film from Woody Allen","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen does it again.  Possibly the greatest movie-makers of all-time, Allen scores with Bullets Over Broadway as one of his funniest and most-intelligent comedies.  Dianne Wiest (who won her second Academy Award for her performance) single-handedly steals the show with her hilarious antics as an aging Broadway actress.  Tracey Ullman and Jennifer Tilly are both riveting in their supporting performances while John Cusack and Chazz Palminteri are equally remarkable.  Wiest won the most-acclaim, respectively, and why not while this is the film the actress will and should be remembered by. "},{"Title":"Woody's Best Of Recent Years","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is Woody Allen's best movie in recent years and certainly one of his funniest.John Cusack plays the young writer(a part Woody himself would have played if he had been younger)who is  trying to stage his play on Broadway.A superb ensemble cast and the great lines, courtesy of Woody,make this film a total joy.It is a shame that Woody doesn't do more movies like this. Too often he is talking about his own life through his movies and the characters he acts are just variations of himself. In this film he does not appear and the whole thing is just a good well-told story. Perhaps Woody should act less in his films as one could say his appearances can bring a great deal of baggage to a role.    "},{"Title":"One of his best","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I would only choose Annie Hall and Manhattan over this in my Woody list but it is interesting that he himself lists it as one of his best. I think he is quite interested in the era in which it is set.The acting in this film is superb, the best thing about it. It is Cusack's best performance and yes I have seen Con Air. Dianne Wiest is also great(her character is basically Norma Desmond moved to Broadway and moved back 20 years).The production design is so pleasing on the eye, you, well I, find it hard to merely focus on the actors.The script is not very deep although at times the dialogue would suggest the viewer has had a deep insight into the characters when they haven't. The final scene is hilarious and typical Woody. Love is very deep,sex only has to go a few inchesAnyway, if you liked Sweet and Lowdown, see this film. Not that they are similar but they are set in roughly the same period and Woody is obviously enthusiastic about this time.  "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I recently saw this movie and I thought it was pretty good.  Although, I did think that Mighty Aphrodite was better.  That's not the point.  This movie got a little slow at times and it wasn't too outrageous either.  But it was still a good movie. Good acting, good script, pretty nice job overall.  I'd give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen Finds a Hit with the Mob","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In many ways Bullets Over Broadway is the best Woody Allen film of the last 20 years. Breaking the usual super low budget Allen mold, this is a quality period piece with good costumes, beautiful locations, interesting lighting and music that fits the story. From the start the atmosphere of several New York worlds are quickly created, the Broadway theater, the mob life and the artist enclave of Greenwich Village. The comedy flows very naturally throughout each scene in what is Allen's funniest movie since Annie Hall.The cast are terrific and are essential in making you believe in each situation and then turning it upside down. In the mobster world there is Jennifer Tilly's in her best role by far, Joe Viterelli whose career begins with Bullets and Chazz Palminteri who is great. The theater people include Academy Award winner Diane Wiest, Tracy Ullman and Jim Broadbent who almost steals the show. The artists are Rob Reiner, John Cusak and his dutiful girlfriend, Mary-Louise Parker. Now there are many other fine actors who do well but unlike other talent packed Allen films of late, each part fits the story which is also very good. A final word about Cusak who has the Allen role. He does his character naturally by not trying to be a Woody imitation.The jokes range from the intelligence of gangsters, the grandiose image of artists to the self centered, insecure vanity of actors. Yet each of these jokes are turned backwards. One gangster is as smart as anyone, one artist realizes that his vanity was all hot air and the actors? Well they go on being their self centered selves only more so. Finally, there is a recurring Woody Allen theme that is touched upon, how far can a person push moral boundaries? Because this is a true comedy such heavy ideas do not weigh the whole movie down. We get Allen's point, the ending ties up all the loose ends and we are just left admiring this film.  "},{"Title":"Lovely! Funny! Adorable! Coochy-pooh!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A great cast with a great script and a great director made this lovely movie. The conflict between art and money is nice as well as the criminal element. It all plays nicely to the hilarious climax.It's not too heavy, it's a very light movie actually, and a very good one too. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is utterly spectacular!  It keeps getting funnier with each viewing!  For those who are scared off by the fact it is made by Woody Allen, need not fear! It does not focus on his sexual hang-ups....it is just pure hilarity!  From start to finish, everything is amazing! Particularily, Dianne Wiest, Jennifer Tilly and Chazz Palmenteri!  Great fun! "},{"Title":"Witty film that grows funnier with each viewing.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've seen this movie three or four times now, and it keeps getting funnier and funnier. Every time I watch it, I pick up on more things -- like the way John Cusack's eyebrows lift when he meets Jennifer Tilly, who plays the floozy would-be actress, for the first time. Also, very interesting camera work from Woody; at times, the camera would find a position and just hold, as if we the audience were just standing there watching the scene unfold on a stage. Excellent acting all around as well, particularly Cusack, Tilly, Dianne Wiest and Chazz Palmintieri.  "},{"Title":"Watch it, you punks!","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is clever and good. The pacing is great (you're never bored) and the characters are nuanced and interact in very hilarious ways. The setting is nice, inside and outside of 1920s Broadway, and is taken right out of Woody's childhood romantic fantasies of Manhattan.It's always fun to see different actors play the leads in Woody's films and this one is no different. Everybody here is great Chazz Palmi-whatshisface is fantastic as the thug whose bluntness accentuates the character interactions, John Cusack is a more casual choice as the Woody stand-in, Tracy Ullman is always fun to watch, Jennifer Tilly is so annoying it is almost inconceivable, etc. etc.There is one exception to the excellent cast, and that is Rob Reiner. The dude is frikkin' annoying! Can't act or come off as remotely believable. I found myself feeling bad for him throughout the movie. I'd much rather have seen Jason Alexander doing his role.I can hear you now but that would just be typecasting Jason Alexander! Ahahaha, like that hasn't already happened! Besides, we need unlikable portly dudes who are unlikable in a way that is relevant to the film. And geez, you act as if Woody is a guy who doesn't go and type-cast people. He type-casted HIMSELF, the world benefited, end of story!So, yeah. Good Woody Allen movie. Good use of your time. Watch it, punks! "},{"Title":"Sans Woody (the actor) = PERFECTION!","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the first Woody Allen movie I ever viewed. I was pre-warned by several friends that I would NEVER want to see another one of his movies after I saw my first one, and they couldn't have been more wrong. The language, acting, fast pace and overall subject matter were what did it for me - a very entertaining story with great actors and lots of cool twists.I watched my next Woody Allen movie the next night - Curse of the Jade Scorpion - and although the idea itself was fun and unique, I couldn't handle Woody as an actor. Reminds me too much of my dad, who can't tell a joke to save his life, God love him. In other words, if you don't like Woody the actor, see Bullets Over Broadway. The only Woody Allen in this movie is in the script, not in the actors credits.  "},{"Title":"Funny and profound","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember liking this movie a lot when I saw it in the theater.  Irecently caught it again on HBO and was struck by the deeperthematic resonance that you might not pick up on first viewing.The character of Flender speaks the film's theme for his ownshallow reasons.  He says, True artists create their own moraluniverse.  Flender uses this mantra to rationalize boinking hisfriend's girlfriend.  But it is true nonetheless.  Artists believe thatgreat art transcends human life, because it perserveres throughgenerations and it enriches the lives of countless people.  On oneside this is a beautiful notion.  But the flip side of the notion isviolent.  The artistic ideal is unforgiving  it demands everything from itsdevotees.  That's why many a great artist (Picasso, Pollack,Hemingway) has broken hearts and even killed rather thancompromise.Most people in the world don't live that way.  They follow the goldenrule.  This moral integrity allows them to feel at one with humanity,and it gives them a sense of peace and self-worth.For artists (like gangsters), civility is a luxury.  If they want toachieve greatness, they have to be willing to push mediocrity, andmediocre people, aside.Chazz Palmentieri (not Joe Mantegna, as some have incorrectlystated) plays Cheech, a gangster who discovers he has a passionfor writing.  He's willing to kill and die for his work, and that's whatmakes him an artist.  John Cusack plays David, a playwright whohas great ambition and even great good fortune, but who realizes,through his association with Cheech, that he is not willing tosacrifice his common humanity, and therefor, he is not an artist.I think this is one of Woody Allen's best films (in the top three orfour).  But I have to believe that Douglas McGrath had a great dealto do with the script, since Woody's other recent efforts are farinferior to this.  So I applaud Doug McGrath, from one artist toanother. "},{"Title":"I have to disagree","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you are a die-hard Woody Allen fan then this movie is probably right up your alley. But four of us attempted to watch it and gave up after 27 minutes. EVERY character has the typical neurotic, angst-filled personality Woody Allen is famous for. Watching Woody Allen movies is exhausting, and after a while, boring. All (or most) characters are cut from the same cloth and it gets tiresome sorting through all the whiny, self-important dialog. Mr. Allen needs to learn that not everyone out there has the stereotypical Jewish personality he does and that he loves to foist on others in his movies. He insults his audience and doesn't do much for the image of the American Jew either. "},{"Title":"A real Trompe D'oeil","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Trompe d'oeil is a French expression which means an image that looks perfectly normal at a glance and yet when you look at it closely, you see something is not quite right. There's something askew about it. Something is off.Well, this is what I get when I watch Bullets Over Broadway. Everything about it looks like a great film the cast is amazing, the script is sharp, the story is cool. And yet there's something really off about it. When I watched it I felt that it was off by a few seconds, like one of those delays which happen when things are transmitted over long distances. The pacing, the composition, the lighting, almost everything about Bullets Over Broadway felt out of sync. This is the problem with screwball comedies if the pacing and the delivery are not just right, then everything looks good, like your standard film, but it's missing something important, missing an important ingredient to gel the whole thing together.I really wanted to enjoy Bullets Over Broadway. Alas, the whole thing missed the mark. It's not bad by any means. In my opinion, it just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"My Perfect Idea of a Movie","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen is such an acute and masterly dramatist that he tells a story of a playwright whose play is self-consciously artsy and too hollowly dramatic. This is a terribly challenging concept to flesh out, yet he does successfully. He proceeds to tell one of his most entertaining and deeply dramatic stories to date, fielding questions artists of any kind themselves rarely dare to explore the answers to. He leaves us realizing that a man is not made an artist but born one, and the one with the pen may not be the one whose born and in fact anyone from any profession may be. The subtle hints discerning the two in the relationship between John Cusack, whose performance is wonderful, and Chazz Palminteri, who ingeniusly and perceptively plays the character some may not think to found in a Woody Allen film.Bullets Over Broadway happens to be shot in a style that is truly my favorite. Perfectly atmospheric period settings aside, it is reminiscent of the first two Godfather films, a bleak but clean wood brown dominating many scenes as well as lots of black and red. The camera never draws attention to itself and instead does what many of the truly most brilliant visual stylists of the cinema want it to do, which is to tell the story as opposed to flaunting voyeuristic class.Most of the film's humor does not come from Allen's signature quips and broadly comical farce situations, with the exception of Jim Broadbent's eerily funny actor whose eating disorder is always a worry, but from the hilarious bombast of Jennifer Tilly's gangster moll. She is lazy, selfish, completely unaware, and more than a handful for everybody. This is the best performance I've seen from her, and like all aspects of this film, there is a careful moderation to its temperament. Dianne Wiest wonderfully plays the classy, seductive master actress that Tilly thinks she is, yet with real superstar drawbacks such as several failed marriages and a drinking problem.The reason the film works so well and for me sets a standard for cinematography and atmosphere is because of how masterfully Woody Allen tempers the look, cast, violence, and thematic elements of it. Bullets Over Broadway has nary a single flaw and is definitely one of Allen's absolute best. "},{"Title":"She'll get some lines, or I'll nail your knee caps to the floor.","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Let's face it. I am not a Woody Allen fan. So, I had to pick a movie that was written and directed by him, but I would not have to see or hear him. It was brilliant! John Cusack was the right shade of neurotic as a director who had to get into bed with the mob to get his play on Broadway.And, who better to represent the mob than Joe Viterelli and Chazz Palminteri. Excellent choices. Jennifer Tilly was a real treat as the mob boss' girlfriend who couldn't act. And, her relationship with Jim Broadbent was a gem.The movie was as funny as I expected a Woody Allen film to be and the shades of Sunset Boulevard with Dianne Wiest was captivating.There are so many little gems in this show that it would not be possible to repeat them here. You have to see them in context to enjoy them, and you should take the time to do just that. "},{"Title":"This may sound pretentious . . .","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of those great movies which works on so many levels. The humor is extraordinarily clever and witty, and the movie's reflexive commentary on pretension makes all the high-brow wittyness that much more funny.There are a lot of messages in this movie. One being the old baby vs. Botticelli question, though phrased differently in the movie human life vs. art. Also, the idea of selling out and the motivation to keep up an image is discussed.There is simply an ocean of meaning and ideas in this movie, but even if you ignore that, the basic whole mob sub-story is enough to keep anyone entertained.A couple minor complaints I don't see why David Shayne (Cusack) would ever cheat on his beautiful girlfriend with Helen Sinclair (Wiest), even if he does respect her. Also, I thought there were a couple jokes which strayed from the story a little. For example, the discussion of art and sex at the end didn't really add much plot-wise, but it was still a hilarious addition.These are extraordinarily minor complaints. Check this one out for sure. "}{"Title":"Jazz-era gangster comedy gets the full treatment from Woody...","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Gangster Cheech (CHAZZ PALMINTERI) tells playwright JOHN CUSACK, An artist creates his own moral universe. A line that could only have been written by Woody Allen and it's a theme that runs through his hilarious jazz-era comedy mixing gangsters with show biz.It's got more laugh lines than anything you're likely to see from Woody and, mercifully--for me at least--he's not in it. Instead, he has a wonderful cast of actors supporting JOHN CUSACK as the writer who gets help from gangster Cheech to write realistic dialog for his play--actors like DIANNE WIEST, as an egotistical stage actress who shares some hilarious scenes with Cusack; JENNIFER TILLY as Olive, an actress whose voice is worse than chalk screeching across a blackboard; ROB REINER as Cusack's fat loverboy friend whose only solution to Cusack's problems is, You gotta do what you gotta do; and JOE VITERELLI, as Nick Valenti, a trigger-happy man who lends Cusack the money for the play as long as it includes a good part for his dumb broad sweetheart, the talentless Olive.Propped up considerably by a jazzy background score and some familiar 1920s music from Porter, Kern, Hammerstein and others, it never fails to hit the laugh target. Outstanding supporting roles by DIANNE WIEST (the overly theatrical diva) and CHAZZ PALMINTERI as the tough hood who shoots first and asks questions later, were properly given recognition by the Academy--Wiest with a Best Supporting Actress Oscar and Palminteri with a nomination.Absolutely delightful stuff with the laughs coming fast and furious and some nice period atmosphere to boot. One of Allen's best. "},{"Title":"A good film, a bit silly, not great, but solid","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen's interesting film set in the 1920s in New York City as a playwright David Shayne(Cusack) struggles to fund a play and has to cast a mobster's girlfriend in a supporting role, while falling for the lead actress(West) in the meantime. I actually thought the Cusack-Allen connection worked, Cuasck can play those perfect characters that woody plays himself and writes for the screen. Chazz Palminteri also did very good in this movie, one of his best performances, while Jennifer Tilly though annoying was good (the role needed an annoying performance). Meanwhile the rest of the cast, especially Broadbent and Dianne Wiest were pretty good too. The only problem i had with this one was at times the dialogues got a bit silly, which happened to a greater extent in the worse film called Small Time Crooks with annoying Bette Midler. However this one was not that annoying, a good film, not great though. Woody has done better.--- IMDb Rating 7.4, my rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Overrated for an Allen film","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While many raved about this film, I felt it belonged in the bottom half of Allen's offerings. Still, an average Woody Allen film is better than 90% of what comes out of Hollywood. This movie relies more on situations and characters for its humor so is therefore very low on jokes. Its mostly a wry comment on Broadway theatre. All the stereotypical characters are there, gloriously overplayed by everyone, but as someone who is in theater, I felt the in-jokes and observations to be only mildly amusing. I suppose if you're in the right mood for something campy, it could be a howl and the acting is marvelous. Woody always gets an astonishing array of top actors but you need more than mere theatrics. If you're a Woody Allen fan and have somehow missed this one, by all means add it to the list. If you're just discovering him, you would do better to start somewhere else with his funnier, more accessible movies. p.s. Most underrated - Shadows and Fog. Funniest, by sheer volume of good jokes - Deconstructing Harry.  "},{"Title":"Potentially hilarious, but only with Woody on-screen","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love Woody Allen. But his talent is really an on-screen thing for me, although of course his writing is so creative and lucid. With that being said, this movie had all the opportunity to be hilarious, but failed because Woody was missing. There is nothing to read into this movie; everything is laid out right there for the audience and it is therefore pure entertainment. This is what Woody wanted, as I understand it, and he achieves just that. The script, the story line, the lines themselves, the colour, the characters, the bad play feel were all there. But the one connecting character, the writer, just couldn't make it really work. John Cusak was the disappointment. But can you blame him really?  These were Woody lines, Woody gestures, Woody self-discussions. John just isn't Woody, and the part just wasn't John. The characters complained repeatedly that they were not comfortable in their lines - that's exactly how John Cusak came across to me. And how could he be? There is only one Woody.  Maybe Woody needed to write the part away from the type of character he is so someone else can fill the role because his type is so pervasive and reliant on his particular delivery. I felt sorry for Cusak, and I was sorry it wasn't Woody. I spent the whole movie imagining it was Woody in that role, and it became really funny only then.  I think we all hate bad, overacted plays, and this movie played like a camera is mounted and we are watching a bad play with bad actors being rehearsed. Lots of intentional yelling, grandiose gestures, overdone acting, but with Woody in the writer's role, it would have been particularly hilarious because he would provide the one sane side (which is saying alot) to the whole thing.  John Cusak tried, but couldn't pull off that unique reaction that says who are these people and what am I doing here and oy if my mother only knew where I was the way Woody can (like in the scene when Cusak first meets the mob boss and Olive - can't you just see Woody in that role?). The whole situation with gangsters, falling in love with a grande dame and taking writing tips from a killer seemed almost acceptable with John Cusak in the role, yet would be absolutely and completely preposterous with a very Jewish and nebbish Woody.  Maybe you gotta be Jewish to be able to appreciate the whole displaced bit...Instead of saying Hilarious! on the back cover of the DVD, it should have said Potentially Hilarious! because it had the potential of being the one of Woody's best if Woody was there. But as it stands, oy vaiz meer.  "},{"Title":"This movie stinks.","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Woody Allen, think he's a great talent, but everybody strikes out or fumbles once in a while.  As a director, he flunks with all those long shots. This is a movie, not a play. We, at least I expect to see close ups. The human face can say as much if not more than dialog. Plays are limited to dialog, in expressing emotions. You can't see the actors faces in the back row. Allen flunks as the co-writer. The ending is not believable. Cheech 's only problem was that the bosses girl cheated, and his job to prevent that. If Cheech wanted to dispose of the actress who was messing up his play, he was smart enough to come up with the most logical solution. Tell Valenti, the truth. Valenti wouldn't have killed Cheech for being a lousy bodyguard, but he would killed him for showing disrespect by lying to the boss about something important. The character of Cheech is developed into an composite street smart guy and writer. But a wise guy wouldn't lie when the truth was a safer bet. The ending just didn't make real life sense.  Oh, yeah, I watched the movie because it was a Woody Allen movie, billed as a comedy. I don't think murder and 20's music is funny. If the movie was billed as a serious drama or farce showing defects in human nature, I would not feel as though I was a victim of false advertising. "},{"Title":"John Cusack playing Woody Allen .........","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bullets Over Broadway doesn't work for the same reason other Woody Allen comedies he's written but not starred in don't work. It's very simple, having someone else playing a character that has all the Woody insecurities and mannerisms leaves one wishing for Allen to be playing the part, and feeling cheated that he isn't in the film. Such is the case with John Cusack's playwright character. What you get is a Woody Allen clone that simply can't deliver the comedy intended by Allen. The cast is game, but fine comedians Jennifer Tilly, Jack Warden, and Rob Reiner, don't deliver enough chuckles to overcome the lack of Woody Allen playing the part he obviously was meant to play. - MERK "},{"Title":"Completely ruined by overacting!","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can not share the generally enthusiastic opinion of this film shown by most other IMDb database users. I am sorry about this as I want to like it - its main theme, contrasting the relative importance of love and art, both for Society and for most of its individual members, is significant for us all; and it is a very visually appealing presentation giving an excellent depiction of New York city as it was some 80 or more years ago, mainly in shades of brown that are never jarring to the eyes. I am not one of those who dislike Woody Allen's work .The Purple Rose of Cairo and Love and Death (where he showed he was able to combine farce with both fairly natural dialogue and his beloved philosophical discussions, this deserted him in BOB) are both treasured parts of my private movie collection. Although BOB is largely free of the artificial dialogue which spoils many of Woody's other films, it was spoilt by unrelenting and continuous overacting. Many films include at least one actor guilty of this heinous sin, but when they almost all do so the fault probably lies squarely with the Director. Here you could watch a few minutes culled from almost any point in the film and be confident of finding a shouting match, or characters waving their arms about like windmills.Many cinema fans do not like watching silent films because of the overacting they are said to feature. This is conventionally explained by the absence of dialogue forcing a greater emphasis on gesture, but John Barrymore even in some of his most unrestrained roles seldom continued exaggerated gesturing beyond the point when it was needed; and this need was often due more to difficulty in creating effective close ups than to the absence of sound, problems that co-existed in those early days. Today an actor can convey a world of meaning whilst quietly sitting at a table by, for example, just raising an eyebrow and uttering the word Really in an appropriately questioning tone. In silent days a one word caption Really would be almost as effective but the scene at the table, filmed from 5 or 10 metre away, would not do justice to the raised eyebrow in the same way as a modern close up, filmed from a distance of no more than a metre; so I can watch, for example, the 1925 version of Ben Hur more readily than I can Bullets over Broadway - improved technology has made us much less tolerant of artefacts that destroy the intended atmosphere. Fans of BOB claim the behaviour shown in this film is in fact typical of interactions between the types of character being portrayed, and the overacting is not as severe as I am suggesting. I doubt if this is true, but even if so the film itself makes it clear that this would be no excuse. The gangster's hit man Cheech in an early sequence explains carefully that it is no good presenting any dramatic work in a manner with which a viewer cannot empathise - depicted dialogue and behaviour must always be adapted to what would be expected and accepted by the potential audience. I do not live among people who shout and wave their arms about all the time, although I will of course accept such behaviour in a film where it is a natural response to a stressful situation; but if I do not live among people who behave like that, I am not likely to watch a film that shows everyone doing so continuously, for very long before I turn it off - or at the very least feel compelled to complain, as I am doing now.Bullets over Broadway is of course dangerously close to being a direct copy of the film Mistress, released a couple of years or so earlier, the stories are almost identical, except that the locale has been changed from Hollywood to New York and the film being produced has become a stage play. The same type of moral and artistic issues are brought out in both of them. Mistress was not so well enjoyed by IMDb users, but it is very interesting to compare the impact created by the two works. Whereas BOB plays more like a farce most of the time, Mistress provides biting satire which for me is both more enjoyable and far more effective. It was extremely well acted by almost all the cast, and Robert De Niro in particular gives a performance worthy of an Oscar nomination. No wonder the Hollywood elite did not like it, many of its barbs must have struck very close to home! Recently, after watching Bullets over Broadway I re-watched part of Mistress to decide whether my more favourable recollections of it were justified. I noted one short slanging match develop towards the end, this was quickly cut short by another character telling the perpetrator to calm down. Back to reality - this was all I really needed to see.. Mistress was real enough for me to feel like an outsider watching events happening, whereas BOB was definitely more like watching entertainers trying to keep me amused. For me the wrong film has been made available on DVD. "},{"Title":"Jack Warden, RIP","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jack Warden's recent death brings to mind all his movies, including this one. Watching Bullets Over Broadway, one gets the feeling that Woody Allen is representing a personal experience. Whether or not he is, though, the movie's still pretty good. Portraying producer David Shayne (John Cusack) trying to put on a play in 1920s New York and having to acquiesce to a gangster's (Joe Viterelli) demands to cast the gangster's floozy girlfriend (Jennifer Tilly) in order to put on the play, the movie goes all out.Yes, it sounds like a situation that we've seen before (including a Gilligan's Island episode), but Allen has some treats in store for us. For example, Dianne Wiest - who won Best Supporting Actress - has a comment about the world opening up; it's the sort of line that could only appear in Woody Allen movie! And there are many more.Anyway, this just goes to show that Allen does much better when he goes for straight comedy, rather than idiotically focusing on neurotic rich New Yorkers. You're sure to like BOB.Oh, and Jack Warden plays John Cusack's co-producer. Also starring are Chazz Palminteri, Mary-Louise Parker, Rob Reiner, Tracey Ullman, Jim Broadbent, Harvey Fierstein and Margaret Sophie Stein. "},{"Title":"Mostly firing blanks","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm a big fan of Woody Allen and rarely do his films disappoint, but I found this piece rather lame and tame for my taste.The plot is weak, but I could live with that.  The main shortcoming is the two-dimensional characters.  Woody Allen has a great eye for talent, so we have an opportunity to see John Cusack, Jim Broadbent, Tracey Ullman and Diane Weiss all do their stuff, but the characters are so weak these fine actors have so little room to display their talents.The piece felt a bit Woody by numbers to me - I could see the strings where usually I would be surprised and delighted - the way Olive's minder develops being the prime example of spotting the manipulation.This movie tries to address some big issues - is the art more important than the man being one such, but it tackles the issues without subtlety. For big issues, try Crimes and Misdemeanours instead.  For Broadway charm, try Broadway Danny Rose.  Both these films are fine films in their own very different ways.  By way of contrast, Bullets is mostly firing blanks.  "},{"Title":"hilarious and serious","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'd have a hard time choosing between this film and Crimes and Misdemeanors as my favorite Woody Allen film.  Bullets uses much more comedy to ask its serious question -- what, after all, constitutes a true artist -- than Crimes does.  Wonderful performances and ideas that stay with you for a long time afterwards - especially if you have any artistic aspirations yourself. "}{"Title":"Chazz Is Good, But Cusack's Loudness Ruined Film","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There was period in the early '90s where Chazz Palminteri was on a roll.. He emerged as a name actor and was really entertaining and even likable as a killer, as in A Bronx Tale. This movie, Bullets Over Broadway, was another example of him looking good. Palminteri, as Cheech, was great to watch in this film.Unfortunately, his other two costars were not entertaining, especially John Cusack, as playwright David Shayne. Cusack's character shouted, ranted and raved throughout his scenes. Yeah, I know he is supposed to deliberately overact, but that still doesn't make it fun to hear. His hysterics really begin to grate on you after awhile and especially if you watch this movie twice, which I did. I liked the story and Palminteri, and could put up with Jennifer Tilley's deliberately-stupid bimbo character Olive Neal, but Shayne finally did me in. His character ruined the movie forever. "},{"Title":"I don't think I've ever made one that really has lived up completely to my own expectations for it","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...So said Woody in a recent interview with the BBC's Mark Cousins. When prompted, he listed four that came close, which were The Purple Rose of Cairo (1985), Zelig (1983), Husbands and Wives (1992) and this one. While the other three are fine films, if this is Woody's idea of near-perfection then I far prefer his failures.The only thing you'll earn from Bullets Over Broadway is a headache as the constant shouted machine-gun delivery of the cast bombards the viewer on a non-stop cavalcade of decibels. The whole film is directed like a Broadway farce, with a repetitious, incessant pace. In the middle of all this is John Cusack, encouraged to deliberately overplay his part in a poor imitation of Allen, a problem which would later dog Kenneth Brannagh to a greater extent in Celebrity.This is the sort of film that must have looked great on paper &#150; Broadway production sponsored by gang boss in 20s era, complete with beautiful jazz score. Song and dance numbers play pleasantly while one of the hoods suggests rewrites on the play. Unfortunately it all becomes rather tedious, the level of unreality meaning you can never really empathise with &#150; or care about &#150; any of the characters.In fairness, the second half of the film is much more entertaining than the first. Infidelity is everywhere, and Cheech (Chazz Palminteri) starts taking the play and its consequences into his own hands. Much more importantly, everyone stops shouting, which was a relief to my ears. Yet the constant drawer room comedy - such as adulterous Jim Broadbent hiding in a wardrobe while a dog sniffs him out - appears unsophisticated on film.Direction is excellent as always from Woody. Despite the often-frantic pace, the camera almost always stays still, letting the action play out in front of it, treating the audience like a theatre audience. It's a nice touch, and, if you're not a Woody fan then this is probably the least Woody-like film you can see. Traces of his writing are still there, but they're not obvious, and his absence from the screen is notable. There are many witty lines, and I'm sure the actors involved had a great time making the movie. Far more so, it would seem, than I did watching it.  "},{"Title":"Akin to dental surgery without benefit of Novacaine","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A film so criminally overrated and staggeringly unfunny as to defy description. Allen takes a very promising concept and somehow manages to craft a film that is devoid of hilarity.Idealistic playwright John Cusack finds the backing to mount his play from a gangster. The catch is that in return the gangster's bimbo mistress Jennifer Tilly is to be cast as a psychiatrist in the play. Henchman Chazz Palminteri is dispatched to babysit Tilly and coach her in acting, but in the process makes suggestions to Cusack's play that dramatically improve its quality.This should be hilarious - yet it is not. I don't think I cracked a smile once during the entire course of the film. I have begun to believe that it is utterly impossible for Allen to write genuinely likable or appealing characters - even within the constraints of a broad fable such as this one. Nearly everyone we see on screen is selfish, obnoxious and nasty.Too many scenes are directed as though by chaos. For instance, I lost count of how many scenes start or ended with a group of characters stationed at different points of the set and shrieking their lines at each other, often at the same time, so that the scene is reduced to a wall of incoherent noise.While Allen thankfully delivers us from taking on the leading man duties again, Cusack is simply too bland and uninteresting to hold attention or anchor the action. Tracey Ullman, Mary-Louise Parker and Jim Broadbent are wasted in underwritten roles. Dianne Wiest gets to ham it up as a legendary Broadway diva brought in to headline the show. While she throws herself body and soul into the part, her lampoon of the haughty dowager becomes repetitive. This is a fault of the screenplay more than the actress. She is playing a caricature and one that we have seen done better and funnier in other films. The first time she strikes a pose like Greta Garbo and admonishes Cusack Don't speak! is barely amusing. By the umpteenth time she has done this throughout the film, it has ceased to have any comedic impact at all.Apparently the majority of the comedy is supposed to come from the interactions between Palminteri's flustered gun man and Tilly's bimbo. Unfortunately, their scenes are incredibly unpleasant. Palminteri is stuck playing a stereotypical goombah (with the twist that he writes better than Cusack) and Tilly is the quintessential floozy. Both of them hate each - and I mean they really hate each other. Their line readings are loud and shrill and generate all of the charm of a legion of car alarms going off at the same time. There is almost a collective sigh of relief when their scenes conclude and their dialog pretty much goes along the lines of Why don't you shut up!, No, you shut up!, You shut up!, and You shut up yourself! Oh, the hilarity. It must have taken Allen all of five minutes to fabricate this winning dialog.By the time the film itself rolls to its unsurprising conclusion, one realizes that you don't care about any of these characters and you want back the time that Allen and his minions have stolen from your life. A real endurance test akin to dental surgery without benefit of Novacaine. "},{"Title":"Sharp, assumption-churning comedy","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In a compendium of films that use plot twists they may have to be an ancillary category for the surprise of the subverted stereotype. Woody Allen lives this oxymoron, playing out the lover of beautiful women in his films. He also incorporates it elsewhere and in none so clearly as this flick in which the wiseguy turns out to be a more capable stage writer than the troubled artist he's meant to strong-arm.Chazz Palminteri in fact went on to make one of the great twist-films in The Usual Suspects. Here he clearly knows how to pace the emergence of his literate thug Cheech - surely not only the name but also the role is in homage to the scene with the wiseguys who press Allen for his autograph early on in Annie Hall. Cusack walks the director's biographical role with steam coming out of his ears, Jennifer Tilly is the ditzy moll and Diane Wiest does her whining but not unsympathetic shtick familiar from Hannah and Her Sisters etc. Good fun. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Sub-par Woody Allen...","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen film with an amusing premise playwright/director in 1930s New York City agrees to let a gangster's girl into his newest production in exchange for funding, causing chaos. Middling Allen effort, handsomely-produced but not particularly witty, and with no exhilarating highs...it's just routine. Dianne Wiest shows her comic aplomb, and won a Supporting Actress Oscar, playing a veteran theater performer, but John Cusack doesn't do much in the main role except a fair Woody Allen impersonation, and the rest of the cast falls equally short. It certainly looks rich enough, and there are scattered laughs in Allen's script, but the film amounts to very little, ending on a puzzlingly flat note. ** from **** "}]