[{"Title":"Well...I loved it","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" Being a tremendous superhero nerd, I loved everything about Blankman! The hokey jokes, costumes and plot. Damon Wayans must have watched all the old 60's Batman shows, as did I, and loved all the garishness of it, just as I did. Anytime I watch a movie and think...I would make this movie EXACTLY the same way, means that it's one that I will always watch on TV, and even buy on DVD. I loved the Blank Station, the references to David Alan Grier's superhero character as The Other Guy still make me laugh out loud. Yeah it has toilet humor, yeah it's a goofy parody of a goofy medium, but that just makes me love it even more. And even, God help us, Robin Givens is good enough in her role to make the whole ride an enjoyable one. "},{"Title":"Way better than I expected.","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  I remember that I wanted to see this film when it was first released, I realized that it looked very dumb, but nonetheless, I wanted to see it.  So I finally got around to renting this film and I thought it was hilarious!!!The film is loaded with great jokes and very clean jokes (well, most of them).  Damon Wayans was hilarious throughout the film, as was David Alan Grier, and their relationship and chemistry on film was excellent!  Robin Givens looked fantastic throughout the film and does a fine acting job as well.  Jason Alexander and Jon Polito were very good as well, although I have to say it was very odd seeing Jason Alexander with a shaved head.Anyhow, if you liked the film Mystery Men, then you really ought to like this film.  If you watch this film, don't take it seriously, keep in mind that this is a super-hero spoof.  I truly hope you enjoy the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorites","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" This movie is great! I have always thought Damon Wayans was a funny guy. (I thought he was awesome in Celtic Pride.) However, I saw this movie on HBO not that long ago and wasn't expecting much. I was wrong and basically it is VERY funny. It has all different kinds of humor. Maybe it is because I am a huge Batman fan at heart, however the main character was very likable. (Yet you didn't feel bad when you laughed at him for being a wimp.) He literally did scream like a Susie. Jason Alexander (It kind of does not look like him at first) does an excellent job also. I really wish they would make a follow up film. The movie also connected very well. So many comedies today go for a cheap laugh and don't worry much about making the story come together. Blankman did an awesome job at staying funny the entire length of the movie and also making the story come together. He is to date the only super hero who is a strong wimp. It is a great movie for someone looking for some great laughs. This movie is very under-rated (I think) and totally deserves more good reviews. Totally worth the time to watch or rent. (I am buying myself a DVD copy to enjoy over and over again.) Thank you Blankman. R.I.P. J5! ) "},{"Title":"Truly better than when I last saw it","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" The last time I saw this movie was at least a good nine years ago... years later, I find it just as funny as I did then.How could you not enjoy this movie? It was actually enjoyable to watch Damon Wayans' character make all these far-out gadgets... some of which look totally outlandish, but actually make sense! Sure, the comedy may be a little too goofy for some, but in the end, it helps. This movie also helped me further my belief that if you get out there and do something about a problem, you'll be making a real difference in a world of indifference.this movie is worthy of an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Damon Wayans Has done it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  Blankman is what you would call a parody. And what I mean by that is that this is a spoof of the famous Batman television series from the 1960's. The kind of stuff it spoofed was a relative being killed, a gangster wanting to take over the city, having a dumb sidekick, bringing a journalist to the hide-out, ect. It was still a hilarious movie with some memorable moments though.Science nerd Darrel Walker (Damon Wayans) has been working on some pretty stupid inventions lately. He even has a stupid robot named J5. Anyway, he and his older brother Kevin (David Alan Grier) live with their grandmother. When she is murdered by crime lord Michael Manellie (Jon Polito), Darrel becomes so depressed that he makes a costume and creates stupid weapons, he turns himself into BLANKMAN! A crime-fighting super-hero that will stop at nothing until the streets of Detroit are safe again! He even meets the sexy reporter Kimberly Jonz (Robin Givens). Kevin eventually joins him, but in the mean time, Kevin is more than annoyed by Darrel's behavior.Written, produced, and starring Damon Wayans (My Wife & Kids), Blankman is a hilarious spoof that will leave you cheering!  "},{"Title":"Ugggh!! You mean I have to see her... thingie??!!","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  Damon Wayans cuts it up as a (Grand)Mama's Boy with dreams of being a crimefighting superhero. David Alan Grier dreams of busting out his Mack Daddy on the star reporter (Givens) at the TV station where he works as a cameraman. Sprinkle liberally with The Return of Duckman -- Jason Alexander in the guise of Grier's producer, and as caustic as the quack ever was -- and throw in lots of junk... but it's *great* junk. With his wringer-equipped, flashlight-eyed, wrist-remote-controlled 1950's era automatic washing machine robo-buddy J5, Blankman (Wayans) creates an aura of mystique and cobbled together super-gadgets that would make Batman wonder Where did he get all that junk? (see also Spiculum of Life) while making his neighborhood safer for his children. Nevermind that he's still a virgin. A gloriously campy superhero gigglefest that will at some point touch the heart and mind of every kid (grown up and otherwise) who wanted to open a can of whoop-ass in snazzy duds with groovy toys, then retreat back to your secret Super-Do-Gooder Hideout. Plenty of physical comedy to keep you chuckling, tricks and traps ingenious enough to qualify as Diabolical Disastrous Doom... will our heroes be back next week?. An excellent rental. "},{"Title":"Utterly Bizarre","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  Seriously - this is one of the most bizarre films I have ever seen. What does it want to be? A super hero pastiche? Race issues comedy? Surreal wack-fun? Not sure how favourably it can be compared to other flicks such as Meteor Man or Brother From Another Planet. There are some pretty original jokes and situations, and some very unsubtle moments which still work. it held my interest for a while, but the tone seemed all over the place. Still it has Jason (George from Seinfeld, Duckman) in it. "},{"Title":"Mildy Amusing","Date":"11 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" I found the character a bit annoying. The voice and the over the top awkwardness mostly.On the bright side, the story was cute. Basically, a super hero parody, but on the light side. An event in the awkward and geeky Darrel's (sp?) life made him want to make a difference in the world. A lab accident led to a formula which made him somewhat indestructible.Where the movie shined, was in some pretty good comic moments. The rorshach test was funny. There was a scene I am pretty sure was stolen from Live and Let Die, where the voodoo guy comes out of the ground. Just to name some.There are better superhero movies. Some of the humor falls flat, or is cliché. The movie lacks focus at times, as another reviewer pointed out.But if you want a mindless tribute to Batman (the campy TV version,) and like movie on the light hearted side, you might like this one. Very little mean humor, swearing, adult and potty humor, which in itself, is refreshing (I like that stuff from time to time, but I also like it when a movie makes do without it for a change of pace.) "},{"Title":"Transcends film stereotypes","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" First, let me explain that I understand that this film has a crazy story with not the best acting. Damon Wayans and David Alan Grier do an amazing job as the two protagonists of this film unfortunately it falls a bit short with comedy. The cliché love story I think is part of the superhero stereotype it is adding into the mix. This movie came out a decade too early I think. As we are now, in 2014, flooded with superhero films like Kick-Ass, Super, and all the comic book movies we are getting. Blankman is a wonderful attempt to get change film for black lead actors. Let me explain. There is a trope in film called the White Savior Character, in which a black person is the lead actor but always have to be saved or helped by another white character. He can't do anything on his own, there are numerous examples of these types of films including Finding Forester, 12 years a slave -brad pitt, Hardball, Gran Torino, Amistad, Cool Runnings, Wildcats, Mississippi Damned, and The Blind Side. Also I would use Django Unchained but in Gjango QT flips this and Django escapes, saves the girl, and makes revenge all on his own after his friend has died. Blankman reverses this trope and has a black superhero save the day despite his nerdiness, try and save a white mayor, and defeat the bad guy. This goes against years of films to the contrary and I think it should be commended for this exact purpose. It's one of those movies where the story isn't the best, the acting isn't the best, but the message and themes far exceed expectations and for that I rated it so highly. "},{"Title":"Blankman, not for all tastes","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" Wayans is a talent, that's for sure. I really like his sense of humor, which is smartly cheap, but doesn't constitute for good comedy, but I guess, wasn't really meant to. You can like it or lump it. This one really has it's moments, that's for sure, and even though he's a writer, mate, don't forget, Wayans can act. As the film's title character, he and his brother (David Allen Grier, a very underrated actor) have watched the caped crusader one two many times, where Wayan's virginal character, has really never grown out of this phase or grown up. He invents a lot of smart crap, out of cheap stuff, including a robot, you kind of feel embarrassed to have around the house. I loved his means of transport, something you've just gotta see, that takes him to his private crib of junk. When it city is ruled by these nasties who take the life of their grandmother, a victim of a small slaughter in a campaign office, this coaxes Wayans' to take his fictional hero out onto the street with contagiously amusing results. Sexy reporter Robin Givens, and god, she is sexy falls for Blankman, where Grier who works with her has been trying to get into her pants, while also trying to reach a higher status of employment. The face of the mayor who explosively buys it in another scene, sticks out like a sore thumb, as that actor from that film, RUN, where this is one of few comedies which does have a bit of a body count. Jason Alexander was good as Grier and Givens boss, again diabolical and bad to the core. And I must say the Blankman tune was catchy, but again I said the slightly dry film, suffers from it's cheap comedy treatment, where even though it is funny and smart, it doesn't make for good comedy, but laughs abound for Wayons's fans, and his character, he portrays all so fantastically. "}{"Title":"Simpleton?!!!","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" Who is responsible for that summary? A simpleton inventor? Isn't he confirmed to be a genius in the movie? Apparently one does not need to be familiar with the actual definitions of words in order to write movie summaries for IMDb. I suppose the summary for Forrest Gump goes something like this Shrimp tycoon with learning disability goes green by traveling cross country by extremely environmentally conscious means with very low emissions. Pulp Fiction Two men who are closet homosexuals themselves aid a third in coming to terms with his sexuality by way of a tough love approach. If this appeals to you, you may also like The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"Quite underrated and overlooked","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" A lot of people seem to give this movie quite a low rating, I can see why. It is not really that smart or original, but it is made to entertain, and I say it succeeds. The story is about Darryl Walker (Damon Wayans) who, after his grandmother dies, is fed up with all of the crime in the city. So he gets his grandmother's house coat and makes it bulletproof outfit. Now he is the low-budget crime fighter, Blankman, but not with out his brother Kevin Walker A.K.A Other Guy (David Alan Grier). Although he goes 95% of the movie without him. This is not the smartest satire or the funniest of Batman. Fortunately, it keeps you interested (well at least me anyway). It's humor does not really rely on writing, but more on slapstick (I love cleverly written humor, but slapstick works well too). In conclusion, this movie is not bad at all. Although, I would only recommend this movie to the people who love the 1960's Batman. If you are not a fan of comedic superheros or anything like that, you are going to loathe this movie. If you are a fan of comedic superheroes or superheroes in general, I would definitely recommend this movie to you (unless you take your superheroes super seriously). "},{"Title":"Damon Wayans is always hilarious","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" There are few comedians today who are heartwarming AND funny at the same time- and Damon Wayans is one of them. His childlike quality a perfect foil for the incredibly crazy collection of junk he cobbles together to assist people in need. His first super hero rescue is a pregnant woman in the elevator, whose door he pries open with a prying tool he calls The Speculum of life. As a spoof on the genre of superhero movies this movie hits the bulls eye and make kids and adults chuckle and laugh. I am amazed that Damon has not made more movies, as he has talent to spare. If you and your kids like this I highly recommend Major Payne- in my opinion his funniest so far. "},{"Title":"Robin Givens provides the sexiness in Blankman.","Date":"19 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" In Blankman, Damon Wayans provides the laughs as a nerdy inventor who, through use of gadgets he's devised in his own home, becomes a costumed superhero who heroically rescues his hometown from corrupt influences. Yet it's Robin Givens as intrepid TV journalist Kimberly Jonz who gives said flick its charm and its sex appeal. As the reporter who breaks the story of Blankman and serves as the film's Lois Lane, she deftly employs her stylish beauty, her high-toned sexiness, and her stiletto-sharp intelligence to create an intensely desirable counterbalance to Wayans's out-there funniness. When Wayans, after having spent an evening with Robin's Kimberly, tells his ever-dubious brother, portrayed by David Alan Grier When she (Kimberly) stuck her tongue down my throat, it was only there a few minutes, a considerable part of us fiercely wishes that we could have been in his shoes. In sum, while Damon Wayans is undoubtedly the comedic center of Blankman, Robin Givens, as the film's aforementioned ace reporter, proves once again that she is without question the queen of the black celebrity/entertainment world. "},{"Title":"A wacky spoof of old superhero films","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  Damon Wayans has a rather odd role here but he manages to amuse fairly enough in this 1994 Columbia Pictures release. Wayans portrays an average guy with big ideas but he never seems to get any recognition for them so he decides to make an attempt at being a media celebrity by going around town in his underwear and fighting crime under the alter ego, Blankman. It's highly bizarre but also fairly funny. The hilarious David Alan Grier is also on hand costarring as Blankman's sidekick. "},{"Title":"Wow! One of The most silliest Movies I have ever Seen!!!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" ...But I Loved it, Although most of the jokes are very very low and the cast and acting level is one of the worst I have ever seen (frankly, It's seems to me that the actors WANTED to play bad..) -and, of course, the Lousy piece of Art design, Although all of that... I must admit that when I saw the movie I just can't stop laughing , Really... It is SO silly and SO Dumb and SO SO low, That it works!!! It did the Job!!!In my Hall of fame of trash-comedy-Movies It almost Equals to Jim Carrey Dumb and Dumber (that after-all does takes the honorably first place).Don't look for art here, cause you will not find any; Don't mind the plot, don't mind the acting, Don't mind anything about this film - just prepare yourself to waste one and a half hour of your life - take some snacks, sit down, relax and Laugh... (or cry).  "},{"Title":"It's funnier then you think","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  When I first wanted to see this movie I was much younger then I am now. I wanted to see it in theaters, but my parents thought it looked so stupid that they wouldn't take me. So I waited. The first time I actually saw it wasn't on video. It was on T.V. I loved it. It was very funny. Not to mention that it's a fun movie. David Alan Grier is just as funny as Damon Wayans. The whole super hero plot is very good and funny at sometimes with the situations. Take it from me. See this movie. You'll have lots of fun with it. See it with your friends, see it with your kids. Just see it and have fun.  "},{"Title":"Damon Wayans is so annoying","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" Darryl Walker (Damon Wayans) and Kevin Walker (David Alan Grier) are brothers who loved the 60s Batman TV show when they were kids. Darryl grew up to be a childlike gadget inventor. Kevin is a cameraman for local TV news and in love with anchor Kimberly Jonz (Robin Givens). The boys live with their grandma who is a big fan of mayor candidate Marvin Harris. Harris intends to clean up the city where the police stopped caring after they stopped getting paid. The Walkers are in a crime-infested rundown neighborhood in Chicago. Harris refuses to be bought by gangster Michael Minelli and he sends goons to shoot up Harris's campaign office. Grandma Walker is killed. Darryl creates his Blankman vigilante persona with a formula he accidentally created which turns fabric impenetrable and his various gadgets.Damon Wayans is so annoying in this and he destroys any hope for a comedy. The story is more akin to the campy 60s Batman TV show. There're a couple of ways to make a good movie out of this. All of them require Damon to play a likable character. It can be stupid if it wants to be but the audience has to find Darryle adorable. Without that, nothing else could possibly work. "},{"Title":"Can I get that time back?","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" This movie was a waste of time, time I will never get back. There were some cute moments but those were spread far apart. Givens, Grier and Thigpen were excellent with the roles written for them but Wayans was too far over the top geek. In fact, I'd say he played it more as an idiot savant than a geek. I've known better than to watch most movies by the Wayans bros for that very reason and this only proved my point. Before you knock me for being anti- superheroes, I love the old Batman and Robin and all the reincarnations. The difference is Batman, Spiderman, and Superman were handsome, intelligent men not socially awkward boy- men. I'm so happy it's over. "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" This is an amazing, marvelous piece of post modernist neo dadaíst art. Blankman manages to provide us with an action packed yet thoughtful parody of the typical 60-80esque super hero series like The Batman, thanks to Damon Wayans' astounding performance (and I'm not being ironic).Everything is delivered so powerfully in an extremefully dadaist way I actually cried while watching this film and it caused me to raise questions to myself Is this a SERIOUS movie? Is this a comedy movie? or what is this? It's impossible to know!It's a mix of many genres (action, super hero, romance, blaxploitation) that literally tastes like a tutti frutti confection filled with LSD and I mean it. It's so full of diversity and Damon Wayans' acting like someone with metal problems. A serious issue is raised by this movie on the funninness of his crazeness Is it okay to laugh at a character knowing the character has mental problems?Blankman definitely is worth watching. It had me thinking from the start to the ending sequence (which is great by the way). A+ trashy grade costume design and weird gadgets. "}{"Title":"Not Clever Enough for a Parody","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  Many jokes in Blankman center on certain private body parts which are for the most part, are played out in a pathetic and forced manner (the movie perhaps relies too much on this).  You can't really expect a significant level of cleverness throughout this movie.  The movie is seemingly willing to tell you from the start that it will get really dumb or juvenile in order to get a laugh, but it also tends to reach an amateurish level at the most. Blankman on certain occasions becomes a parody of the (what has by now been described as campy) 1960s television series Batman (an episode of that show even appears early on in the movie).  There are several parodies of the fight scenes in that show were various comic book type of words like Pow! would show up.  But Blankman doesn't really go further with these parodies. It doesn't really exploit the various aspects of the Batman television series effectively enough.  Along the way, we also get several views on urban neighborhoods, but there really isn't much to get out of this on a highly satirical level.  We're told that type of things that could possibly go on in reality in these types of places but the script is unable to twist this for some more humor. Instead, Blankman is perhaps more like a low-rent, much dumber, variation of comic book themes. "},{"Title":"Has Heart, But Not Much Else, Yet Retains Its Enjoyability In Spite Of Itself.","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" This was one of those funny-DUMB movies that many of us secret away as a guilty pleasure. I found a lot of warmth of character...downright heart, if you will...in this film. I'm not a big fan of the Wayans' work. I haven't been since the close of In Living Color, but I catch myself admiring a performance here and there, such as Keenan Ivory Wayans' performance in Glimmer Man.This film, superficially, appears to be pointless except to provide mindless entertainment to the masses. But beneath that, there is sufficient meat into which viewers may sink their teeth, and which will serve as inspiration to those who have been downtrodden, regardless of the degree.The performances herein are adequate, and the comedy is well timed, if mindlessly juvenile enough to make you inwardly cringe. While this was billed as a spoof of the latest rash of superhero movies, Blankman delivers a geeky hero who saves the day, gets the girl, and warms your heart.It rates a 6.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Another Stupid Wayans Brother Movie","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" In a world where the crime is not under control (because of mob connections to the government), only one man can save the ghetto Blankman. The danger is bad enough, but what happens when there is a love triangle -- a reporter, Blankman and Blankman's brother (also known as Other Guy). Oh my, the tensions mount.The Wayans brothers make bad movies. They're not particularly funny or well put together. Look at reviews for pretty much everything they've done and you'll see a trail of bad comments. This movie is no exception. While the concept was somewhat interesting -- an idiot savant ghetto kid who wants to be Batman -- it just didn't have a very deep structure to it and was too fluffy to be anything more than a waste of time.When the Wayans appear in other movies (say, Requiem for a Dream) they're fine, but not in their own work. And then we get Jason Alexander thrown in here and just confusing me more. Was he funny or just a poor cardboard cut-out of a sensational journalist? I'm not sure.What really gets me is how Blankman talks like a mentally retarded person. If he were more normal with better speech and nicer clothes, I would have liked the movie slightly more. I understand the bad clothes were the joke, but it just really wasn't funny for me. It seems more like a way for the studio to save money on the wardrobe than a decent plot device -- if he can invent a bullet-proof liquid, why can't he match his shirt to his pants? If you like the Wayans, you'll love this. But if you like the Wayans, you also have a bad taste in movies, most likely. Sorry. Don't take it personally, but there's so bad it's good and so bad it's bad and this clearly falls into the latter category. Just get Batman Begins instead, or heck -- the original 1960s movie if you like the bad wardrobes. It's much better than this was. "},{"Title":"OMG, this movie sucked so badly!!!","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":" My brother wanted to see this, mistakenly thinking this would be a good movie. Let's just say that it is not. We actually wasted 7 bucks each to see this in the theater during its two-week run! Ouuuch! Yeah, it's kind of embarrassing, but I had to admit it. I didn't even realize that this was Greg Kinnear's (rather inauspicious) film debut. I'm sure he'd like this one deleted off his resume! As well as Jon Polito, playing yet another version of his stereotypical mobster character that he first portrayed so well in MILLER'S CROSSING (1988). I already know from an interview he did on NPR that Damon Wayans would like to have this one back. He said it began with the Handyman character he did on the show In Living Color and somehow got metamorphosed into...this.Let me make this clear I did not laugh once during this entire 79-minute piece of crap. Even the movie's short length was not enough to save it. Or watch it. I guess the only good thing about this movie is that it put the final nail in the coffin of Robin Givens' film career. I have nothing against her, and God knows she suffered being married to Mike Tyson, but a film actress she is not. Sorry! Speaking of which, if you actually watch this movie, you will be sorry for having wasted 79 minutes of your life cringing at the embarrassing gyrations of the nerdy character played by Damon Wayans. "},{"Title":"Before there  was  Mystery Men","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Action, Crime","Review":"  This film is stupid, but funny. This movie is like the upcoming movie, Mystery Men. But there's only two lame super heroes in this movie. I recommended this movie, well... sort of.*** "}]