[{"Title":"Best Character In The Film Was The Dog","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Okay, But Not Memorable (Pun Intended) I didn't find this as humorous as I had hoped to find after Carvey's hit Wayne World farces. The high, in a dark humor-ish vein, was the dog in the film. The mutt who had a depth perception problem and kept running into things, was easily the best character in the movie.The premise was fine a private detective (Dana Carvey playing Maurice Pogue) with short term memory loss, meaning the following day he keeps forgetting what happened the previous 24 hours. Add a femme fatale and some wild gangsters, and this film should have been hilarious....but it wasn't. The running gags with Pogue faking things all the time because of the memory problems is what became annoying.Part of the problem might have been casting. Carvey looks like anything but a hard-boiled detective. Also, although I did laugh at some things, we have a modern-day comedy more needless sexual innuendos, sado-masochism offered and the like. Why? If you have a good comedian and a good story, you don't need that garbage. I think most Carvey fans were disappointed with this film. "},{"Title":"Hugely under-rated","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Interesting premise with many surprisingly funny moments. It's not Oscar Wild - but not low-brow either. The humour is unusually under-played at times - which makes a refreshing change. There are jokes here that you don't necessarily get the first time around - particularly liked the later explanation for the mural painters many attempts at Mona Lisa - + a nice tie in to the film title.It could have been a little 'sick' - but the medical condition is used to tasteful effect (I thought) - without milking it dry. So clearly the inspiration for Mememto that I'm surprised there wasn't more comment at the time. The 'system' for remembering things, and the abuse made of the illness by those in the know.....all directly lifted by the later Mememto - albeit in a more serious genre.Not sure how I missed this at the time - and much better than the current score of 5.5 suggests. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Clean Slate is a funny movie. I was one of the few people who saw this in theaters and its been a favorite ever since. A guy who loses his memory every night allows for some great comedic possibilities and the movie delivers. Dana Carvey is such a funny actor. I'd love to see him get more starring opportunities. Also great in this movie is the dog. This is a fantastic comedy. Anyone should enjoy it and laugh a lot. "},{"Title":"Dana Carvey is truly an underrated talent","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorite comedies. I saw it before I knew that Dana Carvey was Garth from Wayne's World (this was before my great interest in Cinema and now know everything about films in the '90s and '00s). I found it to be very entertaining and have seen it many times since. I love it when an ex-SNL actor is able to star in a movie that is not based on a Character they did on SNL (Mike Myers in So I Married and Axe Murderer, Adam Sandler in Billy Madison, and Chris Farley, David Spade in Tommy Boy). Carvey has this charm about him as seeming like a regular guy. He does not seem like the Hollywood type. I think he is highly underrated and I hope he can find his niche again. Clean Slate is the comedy version of Memento, or Memento is the serious version of Clean Slate. I heard that Adam Sandler was producing a script Dan Carvey wrote, so I hope something comes of that. "},{"Title":"Doesn't give Carvey a chance to really go for broke in the humor department but is a pleasant film nonetheless","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Pogue (Dana Carvey) wakes up one morning in Venice, California and doesn't remember a darn thing about his life. Suffering from daily short term memory loss, way before Drew Barrymore did, Pogue listens to a tape he made the day before. It states he is a private detective and that he has been called upon to testify against a gangster (Michael Gambon) who blew up an automobile containing Pogue's lovely girlfriend, Sara (Valeria Golino). Yet, Sara appears on his doorstep and asks for his help. How can this be? She directs him to follow her to a fashion show, where she will tell him more. In the meantime, Pogue is arrested by police officers, who take him to a surprise birthday party, where he is the guest of honor. It seems Pogue used to be a policeman and had contact with a D.A. (James Earl Jones), an assistant D.A. (Kevin Pollack) and others. But, Pogue fails to recognize anything that will jog his memory, not even with a doctor's help (Michael Murphy). Will Pogue and his darling canine, Baby, be able to dodge the bullets of those out to prevent him from testifying, without knowing exactly what is going down? This is a nice little film with a very fine cast. Jones is always welcome and Pollack is acidly funny most of the time, too. Golino is very lovely and Gambon is quite amusing as the designated gangster. As for Carvey, he has such great comic skills that it is a shame that he never gets to attain his usual go for broke humor, but he is still funny and a very attractive performer in his own right. Kudos to the little dog in the movie, too, as he is highly entertaining. As for the costumes, sets, and production values, they are quite adequate, and the script and direction show decided originality and zest. In short, if you love Carvey, you will like this film, even though his humor has been toned down. But, truly, anyone who loves off-the-beaten-path comedy films will embrace this one with zeal. "},{"Title":"Good movie, very funny, worth seeing.  Dana Carvey is great!","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a hight quality movie, in that it's not like Austin Powers where it's just kind of silly, weird humor (and don't get me wrong on that, I LOVED Austin Powers).  If you're looking for a movie with a good story line (and by the way there are some serious parts along the way that spices it up) and good quality humor, believe me, this is the one.  It's hilarious and you will be laughing from your belly.  It made ME crack up. There's only a select few movies that Dana's been in, but this one was one of his best.  He really showed off his how funny he really is in this one, and, like I said, what's even more worthwhile about this movie is that it actually has a plot and it's a good one. "},{"Title":"Dana Carvey rules","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dana Carvey, one of the most talented SNL alumni ever, shows that not all of his movies suck in this hilarious movie. Dana Carvey is outstandingly funny, and the whole situation is so bizarre that it's quite amusing. Why do the critics hate this movie so much? This movie is definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"Truly an underrated film...","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved Clean Slate, very funny movie. I know the critics weren't too crazy about it, but I love it! This film and it's lead actor Dana Carvey, deserve more respect. Though his movies may not be great(with the exception of Wayne's World 1 and 2)he is a very talented comedian. I give this film 4 stars**** "},{"Title":"Funny guy in a funny movie","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dana Carvey is an excellent comedian, and this movie makes good use of his many talents.  Clean Slate is a situation comedy with a decent setup, but what makes the movie is Dana's interpretation of the confused guy who has to untangle a mess he doesn't know anything about.  His facial expressions are hilarious, and his delivery perfect.  This is one of my favorite movies. The movie it best compares to is So I married an axe murderer in the sense that it follows a funny guy and a fox as they try to untangle themselves from a series of embarrassing situations, all the while trying to solve the underlying mystery. "},{"Title":"Clean Slate's A Great Kind Movie. I'm In Love With Valeria Golino.","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Clean Slate isn't a plot strong movie, and it's too bad because it could have used a stronger involved plot, but it's fairly good for what it is, some wacky character comedy. The writers forgot to involve Maurice's memory loss very well into the story. Clean Slate is very hapless. Outside of the lead by Dana Carvey, it has good acting, Valeria Golino, James Earl Jones, Kevin Pollack, Michael Gambon, Michael Murphy and Olivia D'Abo. As much as I like Carvey and as funny as he is, he's better off being Garth. It doesn't much too matter since Carvey's good for the movie being his bad acting skills don't hurt it too much. Carvey strengthens Clean Slate in many regards. Clean Slate is good for its unfaulty self-important perspective on account of its nonrestrictive memory lost plot line that makes for kindly absorption. Valeria Golino makes this movie all the worth while. In my eyes, she is the most beautiful woman. Golino is. I'm dead serious. She's drop dead gorgeous. She has the most beautiful accent and voice. I could sit and listen endlessly to her speak aimless, nonsensical comedy script and be completely love-drunk from it. I really love it. I love her in Hot Shots. I love her in everything she's in. Rain Man is one of my most favorite movies. Valeria Golino is my most desirable woman, just about. She's so damn beautiful. I ain't kiddin' about Valeria, sweet goodness. Her slight sense of humor makes her very deeply attractive. Clean Slate has a good edit and is kindly amusing, very worth while. Valeria Golino's incredible. Wow. "}{"Title":"Very underrated genre bender","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Agree with those reviewers who consider this highly underrated. The concept is very clever -- a film noir parody that manages to be a true noir film that somehow morphs into a screwball romantic comedy without any loss of continuity. Dana Carvey plays a private detective who suffers amnesia whenever he goes to sleep as a result of a traumatic injury at a crime scene to which he is supposed to a critical and endangered witness for the prosecution. The situation is creepy -- similar to the Jim Carrey character in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind. Yet Carvey delivers a better performance than Jim Carrey in Enternal Sunshine, rendering his predicament both creepy and funny in a gentle slapstick kind of way. The rest of the cast give marvelous performances in this effort. Great direction and editing seamlessly blend genres that are ordinarily mutual exclusive. I didn't see this until recently. I'm surprised that it did not receive much more critical praise and attention than it did. Not to be missed by anyone who loves good Hollywood film making. "},{"Title":"It's better than Wayne's World!","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"     Dana Carvey's performance as a private eye who forgets everything he learns by morning is truly exceptional.  Clean Slate is an underrated movie that deserved a lot better recognition than it got!  This movie was funnier than all the performances Dana did on Saturday Night Live combined.  In this one, Dana Carvey plays Maurice Pogue, a private eye who must remember every little thing about a crime he is investigating.  He teams up with a woman who helps him along the way.   Clean Slate is a roller coaster ride of a comedy.  Every situation our hero gets into will keep you wanting for more.  Another good thing about this movie is that it never seemed to run out of any sight gags like in some comedies of nowadays.  It had an array of colorful characters, a well-written plot, surreal sight gags, and it's just plain fun for anyone who is a fan of Dana Carvey.  Wayne and Garth?  Who are they, anyway?  Want to have some good clean fun?  Then Clean Slate is the one!  It's Dana Carvey at his best!  I give it 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Clever, witty comedy-mystery.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Clean Slate is an engrossing, cleverly plotted comedy, but be warned if you're looking for belly laughs, this isn't the film for you. It's a plot-driven film that can be categorized as a comedy only because of its light tone. With the same material and a serious approach, this could have been a great Kafka-esque thriller. Carvey is remarkably easy to identify with.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Witty and original","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is the film that really showcases Dana Carvey's talent for comedic acting. I picked it up in a closing down sale at a local video store - I loved the Wayne's World movies and it had also been recommended by a friend. I was not disappointed. This movie has plenty to keep the  audience entertained, and our main character never fails to surprise us with his innovation. This film had me in stitches from start to finish. If your not that inclined to go for Dana Carvey, at least remember this review when you're lingering in the video store and can't decide what to get. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Above-Average for a Comedy","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is definitely an above-average comedy. The premise is not very funny, but the situations that the main character are put into are hysterical. Whatever it was, it was certainly original, and certainly funny. The slide presentation is one of my favorite parts from any movie I've seen. "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After an explosion, private detective Maurice Pogue wakes up every morning with amnesia. The night before, he has always made sure to record on tape everything he would need to remember the next day, such as what is wrong with him and why. One very important detail he must not tell anyone what is wrong with him, because he must testify in the case against Cornell, the bad guy responsible for the explosion, and without his testimony there is no case. Obviously, if he can't remember the explosion, he has no credibility as a witness.Sarah Novak, who was supposedly killed in the explosion, comes to Pogue for help, saying she can't go to the police. She may be in the Witness Protection Program as fashion model Beth Holly. Or perhaps Beth is pretending to be Sarah.Pogue and Sarah/Beth must search for a coin worth millions. One gag involves this coin being put into a parking meter.And Pogue is also the father of a baby. It would be a disaster if a baby was put in the care of someone in his situation.Cornell would like Pogue to conveniently forget what he saw. Of course, he doesn't know that he has gotten his wish.Rosenheim is the prosecutor in Cornell's case, but he is so dense that when given clues the blind street musician could see the significance of, he can't figure out what they mean. Dolby is Rosenheim's wheelchair-bound boss.Speaking of the street musician, he is quite good. He plays the clarinet and people give him money. Next to him is an artist painting new versions of The Mona Lisa on the side of a building. I say versions because he is not good at accepting criticism.I liked a lot of the music in this movie. Some of it was traditional jazz, and the movie used various styles of music from old-style detective movies.The concept of a private detective with amnesia was the funniest thing. Pogue had to be a detective every morning just to figure out who he was. Groundhog Day in reverse.Dana Carvey was okay as Pogue. He had several standout moments, such as the time Cornell came to his door just after Pogue reminded himself the landlord was demanding the rent or else! And there was the scene where, while watching an old detective movie (Bogart may have been in it, but I'm not entirely sure), Pogue figured out how to solve his problem. And of course Dolby's birthday party at the movie's start.I thought Michael Gambon gave the best performance as the evil gangster Cornell. Not completely evil, but balanced and convincing.Pogue's dog Baby (played by Barkley) added a lot, because he kept bumping into things because of his lack of depth perception. And of course the name means Pogue keeps searching for clues related to a baby.It isn't great, but it is entertaining. "},{"Title":"great movie; best of carvey","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is one of the best I've seen out of Dana Carvey's acting. it was funny, but it ran just a bit long, to the point that it got boring in the end. Still, I give it a 4/5; way better than Master of Disguise "},{"Title":"Groundhog Day this is not..","Date":"11 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Judging from the scenes shown on Siskel & Ebert's review of this movie, this looked promising. Boy, was I mislead. Unlike 'Groundhog Day', Dana Carvey's character is not reliving time, but rather a poor memory, or more accurately, a lack of memory. There are funny moments few and far between, but mostly this is a lackluster effort. Basically, Dana Carvey is just being Dana Carvey. This plot lives completely down to its potential. It could have gone in a lot of funny directions. Instead we get this stuff about gangsters, and a pointless romance between the main characters, all of which go nowhere. There is one funny scene, which follows a trial. That's about as funny as the picture gets.** out of **** "},{"Title":"Dana's one of the funniest people alive...","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  But he's been stinking up the movie theater's for years and it is a relief to see him in something that actually has some laughs. There are a lot of talented people who are box office poison or just can't find the right vehicle to showcase their talent, and sure, the writing can be blamed for probably the majority of the problem....but why then, as in Dana's case, do they agree to be in such awful films? This one is passable. I've watched it three times now, which is probably one time too many. "},{"Title":"If you thought that The Master Of Disguise was bad, wait until you see this one","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Dana Carvey, the hugely popular TV comedian, had established himself as a film star with his hilarious portrayal of Garth in the films Wayne's World and Wayne's World 2. The success of those films was enough to give him the starring lead in this 1994 MGM release. Unfortunately, this film doesn't make good use of Carvey's comedic talents at all and reduces his character to a needless sight gag. Those who were really disappointed with Carvey's last film, The Master Of Disguise will be even more so with this one. "}]