[{"Title":"I don't need anything, but YOU need a bath","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"36 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The beginning of this final installment of the long-running Death Wish series is shaky with inappropriate humor (even the title comes off as a tasteless pun, as a central character is disfigured by having her face bashed into a mirror) and a lot of mobster-movie clichés (the henchmen to Michael Parks' villain are howling stereotypes), writer-director Allan Goldstein transforms Death Wish 5 into a surprisingly entertaining little crime thriller. Though frequently riddled with inept moments (the mobsters unload round after round into walls after their target has jumped out of sight) and plot holes (how is Kersey tracking the bad guys, and since when did he become an explosives expert?), the film is the most well-developed of the series in terms of character, plot, and pacing. I've never seen Charles Bronson more convincingly expressive than he is here, and Michael Parks (Kill Bill, Volume 2) is utterly reptilian in his loathsomeness. While the plot is essentially a repeat of the previous films, it contains a confident gloss that lifts it out of exploitation and closer to a mainstream film--it isn't entirely successful, but rooting for Bronson never gets old. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you would think","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"24 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a massive and regretful shame and lost it was that our good old beloved screen legend Charles Bronson passed away last august. Suddenly it meant that a great and talented actor and certainly one of the toughest and coolest action flick stars ever was gone forever and it also killed all the hope to ever get the final sixth episode in the Death wish saga. I know it was extremely unlike dream but right until I heard the sad and shocking news somehow part of me was always hoping for him to still make a return to the shoes of Paul Kersey for the very last time. At least the minor possibility was there. Unfortunately this was one of the last films of his respectably long career. Bronson was aged and tired but his acting was nevertheless still enjoyable. If I only look at Death Wish V The Face of Death as an individual action movie it's definitely pretty senseless, simple, ordinary and cheesy. But that would be a mistake. The only proper way to see this film is to consider it as the fifth part of the famous motion picture series and at least when I personally watch it with this in mind I can only admit in the end it's far from being all that bad. "},{"Title":"I didn't think it would be this easy..Bang Bang..Neither did I!","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" **SPOILERS** The fifth last and most vicious and violent of all the Death Wish movies based on the sadistic and brutal scenes in the film, even though the body count in Death Wish V seemed to be the lowest of all the previous sequels with the exception of the original Death Wish back in 1974. Paul Kersey, Charles Bronson, now thanks to the Withness Protection Program is living as an non-violent and law-abiding citizen in New York City, Paul is a professor of architecture at a local university. With his life back to normal, no more shooting of criminals, and having a classy and beautiful lady-friend Olivia Regent, Lesley-Anne Down, who has a cute and adorable daughter Chelsea, Erica Lancaster, things couldn't be better but then They came on the scene. What They did to Paul's future wife and to his and her friends, including little Chelsea, made Paul turn into the crime fighter and personal avenger that he tried to put behind him. In the end They'll never be the same, or in one piece, again after the outraged and infuriated Paul Kersey does His Thing or Job on them. They are a Westie-like organized mobster gang headed by Paul's lover Olivia's former husband and little Chelsea's father Tommy O'Shea, Michael Parks. Tommy is a borderline psycho who loves to hurt and torture people that he doesn't like or who don't obey him as fast as he want's them too. Getting his hands on the garment industry in NYC Tommy has a stranglehold on Olivia who has a line of clothes thats produced from a business that she owns there. The O'Shea mob starts to put the screws on Olivia's business and those working for her. The local D.A Tony Hoyle, Saul Rubinek, gets a number of workers in the garment center to agree to testify against O'Shea and his mob. Unknown to D.A Hoyle there's a member of his staff who's tipping off O'Shea to who's to testify and has the O'Shea mob murder them before he, D.A Hoyle, can provide them with police protection. One of those who's at first viciously mutilated and later murdered by the O'Shea Mob is non other then Olivia,this brings the wild animal out of the peaceful and kind Paul Kersey.Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey takes on organized crime in Death Wish 5 unlike the mostly unorganized street thugs and criminals that he took on in the previous four Death Wish films. Again like Kersey did in the earlier movies he does the bad guys in, and finishes them off, in the most spectacular ways that he can devise. Even though he was 73 at the time in 1994 Charles Bronson is very believable as the avenging vigilante Paul Kersey knocking off the entire O'Shea Mob. Kersey does his unpleasant and bloody job not only with bullets but with cyanide-laced pastries exploding soccer balls and clothes making and knitting machinery.Tommy O'Shea, as well as his gang, gets his comeuppances by being dropped, by Paul, into a boiling vat of acid and made to look a lot slimmer and 150 ponds lighter. Not realizing that their no match at all for the angry and rampaging Kersey the O'Shea mob tried to trap him, by kidnapping and holding hostage Chelsea, at the plant and do him in. Kersey was on to them from the start and in the end it was he who was the hunter and they, the O'Shea Mob, who were the hunted with the results, in this deadly cat-and-mouse game, being a forgone and bloody conclusion for them not Paul Kersey. "},{"Title":"ANOTHER BRONSON CLASSIC! BRING ON DEATH WISH 6!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"28 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every Death Wish movie is a classic. They continue to get higher body counts and plenty of action. I never get sick of watching Bronson blow away these scumbags. All of Bronson's movies are great and I think he is by far the greatest actor that ever lived. My favorite films of Bronson have to be the later ones. Kinjite, Death Wish 1-5, Murphy's Law etc. Bronson had big budgets to work with and plenty of people to blow away. The ending of each Death Wish just gets better and better. Blowing people away with Rocket Launcher's, Cannon's, Bazooka's, throwing villain's into Acid. How can any action fan not love this stuff? My favorite Death Wish film is part 4. What a great plot and plenty of Bronson action but Part 5 is also very good and the Villian played by Parks does a really great job. I saw this film in a packed theater and fans were clapping and cheering for each Bronson kill, It was great! The DVD was even better. Death Wish 5 had a good plot and plenty of bad guys for Bronson to play with. I would really like to see Bronson make at least on more Death Wish movie. In part 5 his closing line was Call me if you ever need any help. Well, Mr. Bronson today's action heroes are a joke and we could use your help to mop up these clowns. Guys like Vin Disel, Arnold, Stallone, Van Dam, Siegal to name a few. Even at your age these punks can't hold a candle to your acting or screen presence. I hope to see you again on the silver screen soon. That is my Wish  "},{"Title":"5 wifes killed by gangsters - What would you do?","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have noticed in the previous parts that Charles Bronson's character is himself a total psycho/mentally ill person. And that's totally understandable knowing what he's been through. So both the bad and the good guys are real extremes also in their sickness (in these movies). You have to be freakin' crazy to fight these crazies. Fight evil with evil. If you have to fight, you have to fight dirty. Because war in itself is bad, evil and crazy. (These citings are not from this movie, they're just clichés.) Is there any other way? But compared to the bad guys Bronson's character is also very, very sad and sympathetic. It's sad that some people have to see and experience so much evil in this world. It is a very interesting character and portrait of a time and a frame of mind.And the bad guys are not as comical as in some other Death Wishes, they are somehow more realistic.From the start setting of this film some mental professional would suggest that Bronson's character is begging for blood and violence in his life He has hooked up with some psycho-sadist-mob boss's ex-wife, who has a daughter with the mentioned. But let's not be shrinks. Shrinks (both amateur and pro) seem to be wrong very often, maybe as often as non-shrinks. Maybe it's just because they have fallen in love. And maybe Bronson/Kersey has heard about this only later.One of the most important questions that these movies rise is What would YOU do? Would ethics and philosophy of forgiveness be enough, if some person would for example kill some of your loved ones with no reason. Would you think that that person has deserved forgiveness and is worth of that? If that person would be a repeated killer, who has been in jail a couple of times already for his/her former crimes/killings? Would you think of that person as an equal to some person you love, and who you know is trying to be as good person as he/she possibly can? The movie is very well directed, shot, acted. Good editing and music. The atmosphere is whole. Some nice pictures. It's also more sexy than all the other parts combined. This might be one of the 3 best of the 5 Death Wishes, but wouldn't 3 have been enough? Obviously not, because these movies are just a small glimpse of the vigilante/revenge-movies genre... Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A good way to end the series.","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" CHARLES BRONSON reprises the role of vigilante PAUL KERSEY for the last time in this final chapter to the Death Wish series. The story starts out with Paul Kersey going under the name PAUL FINE & taking up the job of a college professor, he is also engaged to a new woman named OLIVIA, who also has a pretty little daughter, but like always, being Kersey's girl puts you in the arms of danger & Olivia is soon attacked & later killed by a group of men who work for her mobster ex-husband, so Kersey as always, decides to take revenge. Fifth chapter in the series is in my opinion, the best sequel to follow after the excellent, but violent original, the violence was also surprisingly played down & the story is much better than the last three installments, you see, unlike the last three where Kersey's family is killed, rather than picking up a gun & blowing the scum away who killed them, Kersey stands back & lets the cops handle it, but when it turns out that the cops can't do anything, he decides to take revenge, but in a different way, while he still uses a gun to blow some of the bad guys away, he also uses poison, bombs etc. Bronson puts in a fine performance, as do the rest of the cast & the bad guy characters are extra slimy & hateful. All though I was secretly hoping that Kersey would return in at least one more Death Wish movie & go on one last crusade before retiring, I'm kind of glad the series ended with this one, it was a fun decent sequel that closed the series out with style (At least I thought) I mean let's face it, each sequel was basically a remake of the last, i.e. Kersy loses his family, Kersey seeks revenge on the ones who did it etc. I mean you have to ask yourselves the question, What are odds of the same thing happening to the same guy five times? Bronson/Death Wish fans should check this out. R.I.P. MR. BRONSON, were gonna miss ya!***1/2 (stars) "},{"Title":"A Marvelously Mean Finale to the Series","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gangsters have bullied and murdered a woman. Now they had better watch out, because her fiancée is none other than Paul Kersey &#150; and it's time for Mr. Bronson to dispense some more swift justice! While this entry in the Death Wish series doesn't have the highest body count (see part 3 for that) and isn't the most grim and gritty (see part 2), it is the most sadistic. You see, in previous films Bronson got his wrathful business done with his trusty sidearm &#150; but we get some variation in this one. Here he breaks out a marvelous assortment of deadly amusements such as the exploding soccer ball and poisoned pasta mentioned in other reviews &#150; all seen in graphic detail as they work their murderous magic. Add to that the stress on facial disfigurement and scenes involving torture by steam press, plastic wrapping machine, and radial saw &#150; and you have a new and wonderfully vicious formula for more Death Wish mayhem.This is not the best in the series, but Bronson's presence alone gives it distinction, and it manages to make the most of the obviously very limited budget. If you're a fan of the series like me, you'll enjoy it in all its unpleasant, uncompromising glory. "},{"Title":"No matter who you are&#133; don't mess with Paul Kersey.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After years in L.A., Paul Kersey is back in New York with his new fashion-based designer fiancée Olivia Regent and along with her young daughter Chelsea. Kersey has put away his old habits, until Olivia's ex-husband Tommy O'Shea (who happens to be mob figure) uses her business to run an illegal money laundry scheme and tries at every optometry of scary her from testifying against him in court. They go one step to far when they disfigure and then later on kill Olivia. By law Chelsea is to live with her father. This tips Kersey's world up side down and vengeance mode comes kicking back in.What a crying shame. I'm shocked to see the user rating for this Death Wish instalment to be so low. Making it by far the weakest of the series. I don't agree, but hey you can't have it all your own way, right. Anyhow, this was the filth and final Death Wish to date and it was actually the first one I ever saw. Maybe that's why I seem to cut it a bit more slack then say number four.So, it's been going on for twenty years and Charles Bronson (who was around 70 at time) is still around looking to quite fit and rather animated. Definitely more so than his two previous efforts. Back to form with his dry, ice-cool persona and showing some feeling along the way. What I like about this outing (other than being a improvement over Death Wish 4) is that it seems to go back to the dark underbelly and cruel vibe (maybe more so) that worked in the earlier forays. Kersey is up against more upper-class foes, than the usual street pests. At heart is goes back to the basic, heavy-handed revenge yarn, where the detailed situations are harrowing and the violence is simply cold-blooded. He might not want to return the favour (as firstly he lets the cop do their job), but his finally forced back into his beloved side-trade, as it's in the blood and the loved ones are taken away from him&#133; again. Once you start, there is no going back&#133; even when the police know his secret. The way he subtly toys around with the guilty criminals to get them rather anxious, waiting for their turn to be mowed down. Only adds to that ominously nasty touch that waits and the dark humour has real snappiness to it here. The deaths scenes are at times wickedly inventive (well it beats going up to someone and just shooting them) and rapid stunt work is exceptionally pulled off with such thrilling poise. Oh and how can I forget about the gratuitous slow motion? Some times it works and other times your thinking&#133; Oh why?. Anyhow you gotta love it on this occasion! As director (and writer) Allan Goldstein stylishly tailored it on a much larger scale that seemed to pay dividends with its competently showy set pieces and crisp pacing. There's always something there to hold your interest. In all, there's no denying it's by the numbers and the predictable plot has a fair share of clichés grounding it. Although it goes out there to delve a little deeper into the material (a highly witty and concise script Idiots with guns, make me nervous.) and truly making you feel for the characters. The hammy bad guys are typically portrayed as slimy, ruthless tyrants that deserve what they get. You'll sure be cheering on Kersey here, after you cop a taste of the lively performances of Michael Parks (who's tremendously scummy as Tommy O'Shea) and Robert Joy (makes light work as the paranoid nutter Freddie 'Flakes'). Lesley-Anne Down's presence simply glows and is credibly good as Olivia Regent. Giving able support are Saul Rubinek, Kenneth Welsh and Miguel Sandoval. The technical side of the production is soundly staged. The special effects are put to good use and come off well. What is nailed down is a traditionally sounding music score that likes too flutter about with loud echoing cues and the standard camera-work sufficiently frames every shot with nice scope.By me saying it shares some common ground with the original films. I guess you'll be hoping for something rough around the edges and some exploitation to fit right in. Too bad, as that isn't going to happen. Those looking for the obligatory rape scene too (which appears in basically all four), forget it. This one is going for the mainstream pool. Even the ending has that cop-out feel about it with what has gone all before it.For all your troubles it's nothing more than a glossed up, blunt action/crime vehicle for Bronson, which manages to mix the good and not-so-good aspects of the series. Only fans should bother. "},{"Title":"A step up from the previous entry","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With his cousin and long-time partner Yoram Globus gone after the private feud that errupted when Cannon Films went bankrupt, Menahem Golan turned to schlock producers Ami Artzi and Damian Lee to produce the fifth entry of the series. Surprisingly, especially considering the general quality of their output, they manage to improve on the poor quality of DEATH WISH 4. The production values (as low budget as they may be) aren't as cheap as they were before, Bronson is a bit more lively in his performance, and the screenplay tries more for a story of substance. What really makes the movie fun at times is its twisted sense of humor. There's some nice black comic-moments, such as with one particular mobster's funeral scene, or the later plastic wrap sequence. Even better is Michael Parks' performance as the chief bad guy. His various comments (improvised?) about anything are hilarious, and he lays on the ham very thickly to be a lot of fun to watch.It still could have been better. One of the two big problems with the movie is that it takes about half of the movie for Bronson to start his rampage of vengeance. Even with Parks' entertaining performance, you'll likely be squirming in your seat with impatience for Bronson to get it on. And when he *does* get it on, it's kind of underwhelming - there's not much of a body count, and the length of time between kills is relentlessly padded. At least the end results are not the worst way the series could have ended. (By the way, Golan actually announced Death Wish 6 The New Vigilante in the trade papers not long after this one was released, though his company going bankrupt put an end to that plan.) "},{"Title":"Excellent, with plenty of good clean violence.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a great fan of the Death Wish films as I love to watch Bronson knocking off one by one the scum of society. My favourite is the number III by a long chalk but this one isn't bad either. This one also has some very comical moments notably when Chickie dies when eating a cyanide flavoured canoli (whatever that may be !!). Also, what is interesting here is when Bronson gets rid of the scum using different methods than just the usual old gun. In this vein, I liked most the radio-controlled football which blew apart Flakes' face, and the death of the villain at the end in the acid bath when we see his flesh melting away off the face in the acid.The only reproach I would make to the film are its picture and sound quality ( on the dvd at least ). These are really not up to scratch for a film made in the 1990's.I eagerly await the day when Death Wish 3 and Death Wish 4 will be available on dvd. Bronson is truly a great actor, whatever the role he plays, but he is especially effective in the part of a vigilante. "}{"Title":"Probably the best of all five Death Wish movies","Date":"22 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This would be the last of the Death Wish movies. I seem to like the last one more than the other Death Wish movies. Death Wish 3 is my second favorite....because there is a lot more gunfire action than that of Death Wish 5.But still--I give Death Wish 5 four stars.As I had seen in this last of the Death Wish films, Kersey's fiancée, Olivia, owns a top-of-the-line fashion design company (fictionally called Olivia Regent), and she celebrates with a big fashion show for the New York's elite. Her nemisis, O'Sheay, the head member of a ruthless mob syndicate, has other plans. (The name O'Sheay means indirectly that this is an Irish mob.)O'Sheay mixes in with the New York's elite in the fashion show, and finally begins the demise of Olivia when Olivia and Kersey dine at a top-of-the-line restaurant. O'Sheay disguises his face and as Olivia goes to the washroom, I had seen the big shock.....O'Sheay going into the women's washroom, disguised as a transvestite, and ramming Olivia's face into the bathroom's mirror glass a few times, changing her face forever. In a world where beauty is king, this despicable act tells me how evil can ruin innocent lives.The big allusion in the flick seems to be the bath of sulfuric acid in the fabric factory, when one of the mobster's friends tests out this acrid and deadly tub on one of Olivia's manniquins and several of her already-designed evening dresses. It would be the same dangerous liquid that would be used when O'Sheay is pushed back by Kersey's rifle right into the tub. And the rest....would be history.The big turning point was when members of the police--acting on orders of O'Sheay--storm into Olivia's home and kill Olivia...and attempt to kill Kersey also. This happened because of a twisted justice system when Kersey thought the police would come to Olivia's house to acquire protective custody from O'Sheay's mobsters so that Olivia could testify against the mobsters in order to bring them down and send them to jail for a very long time. But when Olivia dies, Kersey realizes that all of this is a farce.And most importantly, what was unusual in the first Kersey-style vigilante death (when he kills all of the mob perpetrators) was that one of the mobsters was not killed by the usual Kersey prop--a gun---but instead, by canoli tainted with cyanide powder....where the first mobster who died thought that powder was innocent flour. "},{"Title":"DEATH WISH V ---- GREAT","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Is it great to see another Death Wish. Well like all death wish's his girlfriends gets killed and he's not standing for it. Well in this great installment Bronson takes down the ex husband of he's fiancee. And the husband (Tommy) kills her, and he wants the kid too. But Bronson won't let them have her. So he goes back to Wintess Protection programme and gets help but theres a man who helping Tommy who is ruling half the city where Bronson now lives. But i'm not giong to say any mre because it's film worth watching, buying.go on10/10  "},{"Title":"better than part 4","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronsan is back for the last time playing Paul Kersey. This outing he's fighting the Mafiso backed Unions after his fiancé gets disfigured and later killed. He also must save his fiancé's daughter who is also the daughter of the head Union boss. Contary to public perception, this isn't the worst of the series (that dubious honor would go to part 4). No this film is a step up from the previous one, and while it's not as great as part 3 was, it's still a pretty good watch. This was also Bronson's last theatrical film and I shed a tear when I heard of the great actors passing. He will be missed.My Grade B- Eye Candy Sharolyn Sparrow gets topless, as do some extras. "},{"Title":"Wow, finally a sequel!","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish V The Face of Death (DVD title just Death Wish The Face of Death)is the first sequel into the series that really is any good. Death Wish, a classic. Death Wish II, a disappointment. Death Wish 3, good action otherwise lousy. Death Wish 4 The Crackdown, a sequel that never should have been made. And finally the underrated Death Wish V The Face of Death, the only sequel that measures up. Considering this was straight to video, it doesn't seem to be. There is enough Bronson action for fans but its not overblown to get in the way of the story. Most people probably won't even give this a chance because of the other cruddy sequels. Give this a try, I'm not saying your guaranteed to like it, but its a very good film for Bronson who has finally come to an end with his acting career. "},{"Title":"Go Charlie!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whatever you do, don't shack up with Paul Kersey, or you'll regret it - The fifth outing for Bronson in his famous vigilante series. Even in his 70's gunning down scum is never on the bottom of his priorities list. Now any movie ending with a Roman numeral may put off some people, but this movie is totally enjoyable and you'll cheer Charles everytime he guns down members of the mob headed by a very nasty mob boss. The Death Wish quintology ranks right up there with the Godfather and Star Wars Trilogy.  "},{"Title":"The return of Kersey!","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey(Charles Bronson) is back in New York trying to make his life peaceful again. This time, he's in the fashion show where his fiancé(Lesley-Anne Down), is a successful fashion designer. However, within the success, there's some pain from the past; her ex-husband, Tommy O'Shea(Michael Parks) who has a daughter(Erica Lancaster) who has her own attitude in her right. One night, Olivia gets disfigured by a man in drag named Freddie Flakes(Robert Joy, before CSI NY). Freddie has a condition with causes dandruff, gets the cure he'll never forget A bomb-laced R/C Soccerball made by Kersey himself. A cure for your dandruff, says Kersey. Head and Shoulders, Selsun Blue, Denorex won't work with that guy. After that, Kersey took out the muscle of the group by lacing the canolis with cyanide. Killer! It made O'Shea rethink about them. Paul Keresy gets the scum that the regular law can't. Many lawman won't condone to vigilantism, but when the lieutenant helps out Kersey, crime has a new nightmare, Paul Kersey! Revenge is sweet, criminals may think they're above the law, they're NOT when Paul Kersey around. Nothing seems to change, this sequel is fun, and never lost it's charm. 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not exactly the best one.","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not his usual vigilante style, less bullets. I guess because there were fewer but more complex villains than the usual roving bands of hoods.One mistake I noticed was when the heavyset worker was cut by the power saw there was no blood on him until he was escorted out of the room by his friend, then his shirt was full.Over all it was a good movie He didn't seem as intense in this movie.I missed the theme music from the previous movies, when ever he was ready to strike there was this howling grumbling base guitar noise that was played. It was very effective. It was almost his signature trademark. "},{"Title":"Gimmie 5 more","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" people like jonathan dabell are the reason the action genre is dead.acid baths are all the rage you fool...but I'm sure your much happy watching your CGI Vin diesel crap !!... Your type are the kind who moan about tom & jerry cartoon characters smoking ... and strive to see them delete history to appease god knows who !!! at the end of the day ... Death wish 5 ...Bronson is about 74 and hasn't lost his knack of knocking off the villains ...sum good graphic violence and typically vile villains ...( played to perfection by Michael parks) they don't make stuff like this anymore ...becoz u idiots prefare Borefests like  Miami vice  and weak soft core crap like the transporter check this one out its Better than number 4 !! "},{"Title":"I'm coming for you O'Shea","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At least Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) has justification for responding. He tried the law, and they failed. It's the basic revenge scenario, but without the senseless killing in Death Wish IV.At least this movie spent the first half setting up the reasons for Kersey's revenge and gave his efforts at having the law do their job.He was also original in his dispatches with powdered canolies, recycling, and some dermatology assistance.Criminals don't come any sleazier than Michael Parks (Kill Bill, Grindhouse). he got a needed bath.Good ending to the series. "},{"Title":"The Vigilante Killer Versus The Mob","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson's last theatrical film was a return to his most popular character, the vigilante killer Paul Kersey. This time Bronson gets to deal with organized crime in a most personal way.Bronson's now back in New York and involved with fashion magnate Lesley Anne Down who has a daughter Erica Lancaster. What Bronson doesn't know is that Down was formerly married to Irish mobster Michael Parks who has a nice hammerlock on the garment industry including her own business which he uses for money laundering. He's also Lancaster's father as well.As is the pattern of all the Death Wish movies Bronson springs into action when a woman close to him dies. Down was the fifth and final one that this happened to. Unlike previous Death Wish films though where Bronson is just capping bad guys as he finds them, he's got some very specific targets in mind.Death Wish V The Face of Death did not do all that great at the box office, Bronson was probably getting too old for the part and another generation of film fans had come along. That's a pity because this one was definitely better than the two Death Wish films immediately proceeding.Favorite moment was Bronson getting to contract killer Robert Joy, the follicly challenged hit-man who Bronson cures of his dandruff.It would have been nice had Bronson finally settled down with another wife, but I'm guessing Down was killed so that another Death Wish film might have been made that never was. "}{"Title":"Everything You Expect","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Bad Movie? No. Unnecessary Sequel? Yes. Did the world need another Death Wish sequel? Not really.I suggest you do yourself a favor and just watch the original Death Wish then skip all the sequels except this one. If you follow those instructions you should find Death Wish V mildly satisfying. However if you've already seen the rest of them this one is going to be more of the same. Read that however you want. For those who don't already know the plot throughout the Death Wish series is pretty simple. Paul Kersey is an everyday man who goes vigilante after someone hurts any of his relatives, close friends, heck even distant acquaintances. Such is the same here.Nothing within Face Of Death really stands out either in a good or bad way. Take that however you want... it is what it is. A mildly passable sequel sporting the number five that will distract you for ninety minutes while you watch Kersey extract revenge on low life scum bags. The aging Bronson is still a treat to watch, but everything about this production is strictly-by-the-numbers. Hardcore Death Wish fans will probably eat it up while others are advised to stick to the original. "},{"Title":"A presentable Face.","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, it's easy to be scornful of this movie, after all it is Part V of a disreputable series, and Charles Bronson is so old to be playing in an action picture it's almost funny, but the fact remains that it's actually competently made, and possibly the most mean-spirited, sadistic Death Wish chapter of them all. Predictable and ultra-violent, but still better than parts II or III.     (**) "},{"Title":"Charles Street Justice Bronson!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 5 is my least favorite of the series.  I enjoyed watching it though, but if I weren't a big fan of Bronson movies where he plays by his own rules or is dishing out some brutal street justice perhaps I wouldn't like it as much.The villains in it were really sleazy and evil, so you enjoy watching them die.  But then again, isn't that the same for every one of the Death Wish films?   "},{"Title":"got to 5","Date":"25 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson's last theatrical film was a return to his most popular character, the vigilante killer Paul Kersey. This time Bronson gets to deal with organized crime in a most personal way.Bronson's now back in New York and involved with fashion magnate Lesley Anne Down who has a daughter Erica Lancaster. What Bronson doesn't know is that Down was formerly married to Irish mobster Michael Parks who has a nice hammerlock on the garment industry including her own business which he uses for money laundering. He's also Lancaster's father as well.As is the pattern of all the Death Wish movies Bronson springs into action when a woman close to him dies. Down was the fifth and final one that this happened to. Unlike previous Death Wish films though where Bronson is just capping bad guys as he finds them, he's got some very specific targets in mind.Death Wish V The Face of Death did not do all that great at the box office, Bronson was probably getting too old for the part and another generation of film fans had come along. That's a pity because this one was definitely better than the two Death Wish films immediately proceeding.Favorite moment was Bronson getting to contract killer Robert Joy, the follicly challenged hit-man who Bronson cures of his dandruff.It would have been nice had Bronson finally settled down with another wife, but I'm guessing Down was killed so that another Death Wish film might have been made that never was. "},{"Title":"Back in action...","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This time Paul Kersey(Once again Bronson in his final Death Wish appearance) takes on the mobsters responsible for the murder of his new disposable foil. When(Naturally) she's killed Bronson vows vengeance and this time the blood flows in a meaner spirited way. I actually enjoy this chapter a bit more than most because I thought Bronson was more involved in his killings always making sure to let his victim know that he was the one responsible for his agony. This of course may seem twisted but I thought that this was well acted and felt the movie had more punch than usual. The Death Wish series was a guilty pleasure for me and although I think some criticism is valid, this is by far NOT the worst. Indeed in terms of quality it's the second best of the series. However this may have worked better as a stand alone film, for some reason the switch from giant body count thriller to drama is one that doesn't translate as well. Still it is Charles Bronson and any film with him is most likely worth watching, this is no exception. Also I enjoyed the fact that this could've almost been a slasher film given the gore level of this entry.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"Just an average sequel","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish V is the fifth and final movie in the series, and I really don`t see why Charles Bronson bothered being in this movie since he was 73 years old, and that is not the best age to be in when you want to do an action-film. Still, this movie isn`t that bad, it`s just average. Bronson was okay in this movie, but too old.  This is definitely the worst in the series, but fans might want to check it out. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Bronson getting to old and it shows","Date":"22 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kersey is back, this time, I guess, he must be a real playboy because in each flick he has a new wife with a daughter and again this time his new girlfriend is working in the model business but her ex is a mobster so you guess where this is going.The problem is that it doesn't have anything to do with scum walking in the streets and need to be killed. That's were it went wrong with this franchise and face it, Bronson is old too here to take it up against the mob. It was his final flick, sure he did made another 4 TV movies before leaving the scene. Some scene's are unbelievable like for example when 4 thugs are shooting towards Kersey standing in the open without being hurt. The acting is okay and the story was mediocre but the major problem is the quality. Sound and picture doesn't stand up to the standards of 1994. Guess being made only for the money; sadly the worst of the series.Gore 0/5 Nudity 1/5 Effects 0/5 Story 2,5/5 Comedy 0/5 "},{"Title":"These people, they steal, they murder, they destroy people's lives and they get away with it!","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ah yes, the Death Wish series of films, each and every one guaranteed to invoke some ire and even hatred from critical circles and film lovers alike. Yet to think that they don't have fans from movie land would be wrong - case in point Death Wish 5 The Face of Death.Often considered to be the runt of the litter, it's actually better than what some would have you believe. OK! So the formula is the same as usual, Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey will have to take up his vigilante arms once again when someone close to him falls by the wayside. The law is still an ass and the bad guys can literally get away with murder, but they can't get away from crossing the path of Kersey.It is what it is in that respect, another chance for Bronson to please fans of the series, to attack his role with machismo and a quip on the tongue. Where inventive deaths are conjured with a side order of vigilante relish. There's even strains of film noir in here, with a henchman as a transvestite and another with a dandruff problem that bothers him so. There's even a mannequin factory for added noirish flavours.The production isn't exactly high end (tongue in cheek folks), and the usual suspension of disbelief is very much required, but for fans of Chuck and the series, then this delivers the goods. Bloodily so. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A Fine End To The Franchise.","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Living back in New York, Paul Kersey is living under the alias Paul Stewart. His new girlfriend, Olivia Regent finds herself caught up in a mob case involving a mobster named Tommy O'Shea, her ex-husband. After one of O'Shea's goons disfigures her in an attempt to get her not to testify, Paul is warned not to go back to his old habits. But things go straight to hell when Olivia is killed, and is if that isn't enough, O'Shea gets a court order stating that her daughter has to live with him. So Paul has to take the law into his hands one last time for a final showdown.Released 20 years after the original film, Death Wish V brings the franchise to a conclusion. In my point of view, Death Wish V is a satisfying and enjoyable finish to the long running franchise. While the movie is far from being the best installment in the series, it's a good end to the series, so the saga of the vigilante went out on a good note. I initially thought that by this point, the series would be running out of steam, and while the signs of wear and tear begin to show in a couple of scenes, the movie on the whole is a good movie.Charles Bronson once again reprises his role as Paul Kersey, and while he was quite old when this was made, he still had it in him. What I think helped was that he didn't try to be an action hero like somebody in their 30's. This movie didn't have him running around like someone half his age, all of the action was written to where he would be able to handle it, and because of that, it worked, and he came off as believable, and it takes a lot to do something like that, especially at someone his age. I mentioned before that Bronson was one of the greatest action stars of all time, and what earns him a place among them, is that even when he got old, he still was capable of make his roles believable (maybe not all of them), but most of them he could.Also in this movie, is something that the fourth film kind of had a lack of, an effective villain. Michael Parks plays Tommy O'Shea, an Irish mob boss who finds himself on the wrong side of Paul after killing his ex-wife, who happens to be Paul's girlfriend. Chuck Shamata and Kevin Lund play Tommy's two most loyal underlings, brothers Sal and Chuck Paconi. Shamata and Lund play these two just like the way you'd expect, as slimy and menacing goons thugs who are just asking for Paul to deal with them. Robert Joy plays another one of Tommy's goons, Freddie Flakes, who is probably the most intimidating of the bunch. Whenever he's on the screen, he always gives off this feeling that nobody is safe. But as usual, it's Bronson who's the best one in the film. Another one I give kudos to is Erica Lancaster, who plays Chelsea Regent, Tommy's daughter (who hates him). I at first was kind of iffy about this, considering how there aren't too many good child actors out there, but Lancaster was surprisingly good in my opinion.Michael Winner directed the first three movies, and J. Lee Thompson directed the fourth one. This one his helmed by Allan A. Goldstein. Goldstein gives this movie a different approach then the previous directors. Goldstein makes Paul less violent and more sympathetic. Unlike the third and fourth films, where he is essentially a one man army, he's back to killing only a hand full of bad guys. However, some of the ways he does kill the bad guys in this movie are interesting. He goes it more than just with bullets, but also with cannolis sprinkled with cyanide and soccer balls rigged with explosives, as wells as vats of acid. Goldstein managed to make Paul sympathetic, while also adding some interesting points and spins in this film.As for where this movie ranks with the rest of the series, I would say that while I enjoyed all five of the films, this one is not as good as the original or the second film, but is better than the third and fourth films. The main reason I liked this one more is the fact that it's basically a throwback to 1974 when Paul was only killing a handful of bad guys rather than the large number of them that he took down in 3 and 4. As a matter of fact, producer Menahem Golan planned to continue the series without Bronson, in a film called Death Wish 6 The New Vigilante, but his film company went bankrupt, and that put an end to the plans for the sixth film. Personally, I like this one being the ending to the series, as it's just hard to imagine this role without Bronson, as he's more than just playing the role, he is the role, he defines it.All in all, while this fifth installment may not be the best movie in the series, it is worth watching if you're a fan of the series. If you enjoyed the four previous movies, then you probably won't be disappointed by this one. Whenever Charles Bronson plays the hero, he's always the kind of hero that you will be rooting for, and it never gets old or tiresome to see him come out on top. So if you decide to watch this movie, don't think about the negative things you might have heard, just think about it as a conclusion to the saga of Charles Bronson's most famous role, the vigilante known as Paul Kersey.8/10 "},{"Title":"Shite","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Is this the guy who heads the American Gun Club or whatever? Or is that Charlton Heston. I find it hard to tell those kinds of people apart.Anyway, the movie was a bubbling pile of badly-produced compost, although it did make me laugh in a few places. The star (what was his name again?) reminded me of Charlie Chan after a detectives' party. Or maybe someone from a 2008 remake of Star Trek using the original cast. He did have a nice thick coat, though, which must have got a bit crumpled when he was driving.The guns in the movie made me chuckle, with their bursty-flamey-spurty blue flashes. I love Quake.Still, give it another 10-20 years and it will become a cult comedy.BTW, I didn't think his bird had come out too badly after the mirror episode. A few scratches? Big deal. (But then, it didn't really matter for very long.) I've shagged worse. "}{"Title":"Death wish 5 ain't that bad","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish V The Face of Death (1994) 18 | 95 min | Action, Crime, Drama | 14 January 1994 (USA) plot Paul Kersey is back at working vigilante justice when his fiancée, Olivia, has her business threatened by mobsters . Death wish 5 is the final film in the series starring Charles Bronson is a middle aged man who is also a vigilante battles mobsters who are led by Michael parks who are trying to sabotage his girlfriends soon to be fiancé olive regent played by Lesley Anne down from continuing . Anyway the film isn't as bad as that bad as some people might say sure the script is ineptly riddled with clichés seen in other movies of this genre its preposterous to watch Charlie boy running about dodging bullets and killing off bad guys in macabre ways at the age of 75 but . I got to say he looks in great shape and his stunt doubles are far less obvious as seen in a couple of the previous films and his performance still shows the character of Paul kersey still has some depth left in him and its an going through the motions performance but still serviceable considering his age at the time . Lesley Anne down is gorgeous but severely wooden as Bronson's girlfriend Michael parks is in my mind undoubtedly the best villain in the entire series suitably smarmy and sleazy . so anyway its not a great film but if you liked the others . I guess check it out . "},{"Title":"From revenge drama to exploitation b-movies to TV action F-movie","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Despite the fact that I still managed to enjoy this movie despite its many, MANY flaws, I have to admit I'm sad that the series ended this way. It started off great, and while it was going downhill with all the sequels (thankfully not as many as Nightmare on Elm Street or Friday the 13th) it still remained an entertaining series all the way down to the fifth and final movie. The quality dropped considerably with each stupidly fun sequel, until finally we reach 'The Face of Death' it seemed so much like a TV movie, all the way down to the opening credits and the wooden acting. Even Bronson seemed less charismatic than usual.Anyway, Kersey now has himself a family of three with him. That is, until the mom has her face disfigured with a mirror ('Face of Death,' get it?), the daughter is kidnapped, and...... actually, nothing happens to the maid. Shocking.Kersy may as well have named everyone he meets 'Kenny,' because no matter where he goes all of these Kenny clones are killed within the first twenty minutes of the movie (forty, tops). Once again, Kersey wants revenge, and he'll get it. Because we wouldn't have a movie if he didn't. The daughter is kidnapped by her mobster dad, played by Michael Parks, who proves to be a really nasty piece of work.'The Face of Death,' while it is a tired sequel, still manages to have its moments. Remote control soccer balls (that EXPLODE), badass exits after committing a murder just TWO SECONDS before a cop goes in the same door without noticing the murderer leave; silly dialogue, nudity, brutal violence, and the sleaze that this exploitation franchise is known for.Unfortunately, the acting is the worst it's ever been, and the quality is also the lowest in the franchise. Despite that, it still delivers some fun and good-natured vengeance.And vats of hot wax.It's worth a watch, if only to say that you saw everything this series had to offer (although you could say that after just watching the first three). The series ends on a low note, which is a shame, but it gets the job done in a sort of half-baked way.If you need my help, call me.No, Mr. Kersey. You've suffered enough. Goodbye. "},{"Title":"Decent closer","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Part V, everyone probably knows the drill by now. Paul Kersey has met yet another younger woman (is he honestly that irresistible?), gangsters attack her, Kersey's had enough, everybody dies. The later sequels really just connect the dots between the best points of their superior predecessors, but at least they still provide acceptable action scenes. This time around the kills are creative when you're an optimist, and far-fetched if you're me. A radio-controlled soccer ball that can light on fire? Poisoning someone's canolli? We've seen this guy use machine guns that were bigger than him, so it comes of as a bit tame. I would say this is a very tiny step up from Death Wish 4 The Crackdown though, not only because it has the cooler sounding subtitle but also because the villains are more interesting. Michael Parks is a very entertaining actor, he gives the movie that spark of life that Charles Bronson couldn't really deliver in the later sequels. Not that seeing Charles Bronson gunning down scum isn't infinitely rewatchable, but his heart doesn't really seem in it anymore here. Death Wish V is about as good as a fourth sequel to a movie that barely even needed one can be, it's entertaining without being anything special. "},{"Title":"Death Wish 5","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This time Leslie Anne Down receives a death sentence by becoming involved romantically with architect professor Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson, more than a bit long in the tooth by this point; it was 1994, not 1983 any longer). Down is a fashion designer,named Olivia, once married to Michael Parks' ruthless criminal kingpin. Parks is Tommy O'Shea, his corrupt tentacles spreading throughout all of LA, from prostitution to drugs. He will not allow Olivia to become successful, not too happy that she gained full custody of their daughter. Tommy has Robert Joy's sadistic Freddie do his dirty work, eventually shooting Olivia in the back, with an attempt on Kersey's life as well. No surprise regarding Olivia's fate if you are familiar with the Death Wish franchise. Not to be denied, Olivia not only is shot in the back while trying to escape through a fire escape (after her face was smashed into a mirror by Freddie in drag in a restaurant women's restroom), but she plummets off the roof in slow motion to the top of a another apartment. Look, even by Part 5, the Death Wish series wasn't about to let the women off lightly; particularly, the women in Kersey's life. So Tommy will go after custody of his daughter, Chelsea, despite the fact that he sent Freddie to take out his ex-wife. Kenneth Welsh's exhausted detective loses a partner and witnesses who could finger Tommy for money laundering. So anyone involved with taking Tommy down through the law wind up on the losing end&#x85;option B is open and that consists of Kersey going Grandpa Vigilante. Parks' ass is grass. Look, Parks can play the scumbag with such comfort and ease; if you don't want him dead by the time Kersey gets his gun from the safe, then you're a sociopath. That's the whole point of this movie. The criminals are so loathsome and brutish, with a ringleader totally coldblooded and absent a conscience, that Kersey's revenge seems justified. Dwelling on how Kersey rids us of these cretins is of little consequence when Parks has his men use cars as battering rams, a pressing machine to torture, a sewing machine to cut into a stomach, and guns to shoot people in the back. Worse yet, Parks does in fact get custody of his daughter (much to her dismay and disgust), and turns Olivia's fashion company into a tawdry lingerie line. Oh, and there's a supposed friend of Kersey's who is actually dirty and taking money from Tommy to rid the crimelord of the vigilante nuisance. It is all about stacking the deck, of course. How on earth will Kersey not only get vengeance but escape all these people out to get him? Well, one thing's for certain Kersey is good at killing. If you cross him, get on his bad side, and harm those he loves prepare to die. Parks is so smug, I can only imagine those watching this movie will be waiting with bated breath to see Bronson execute him. Robert Joy is so adept at playing creeps; he may have found a home on CSI NY, but Joy's made a living playing human vermin. How Bronson uses a remote control soccer ball to get even with Joy has to be seen to be believed&#x85;it's kind of awesome actually (think of a human inferno). Look, this suffers from the going to the well one too many times. The last Death Wish (part 4) had been back in '87. By '94, this kind of vigilante action was dying, if not about extinct. That's not to say Parks wasn't game; he's got the goods for portraying a mean bastard who goes after what he wants, and f-all to the collateral damage and bodies left behind. After all Tommy does, we do get the pleasure of seeing each member of his entourage's funeral (those responsible for Olivia's death) when Kersey dispatches them. It all plays out in Olivia's clothing factory/company, with hired gunmen equipped with firepower, as Tommy and his remaining henchman, Sal, holding Chelsea hostage in a room upstairs, await word that Kersey is dead. With use of a cellophane machine, forklift, electrical equipment (sending out sparks and high voltage), and, too cool to leave out, an acid bath, Kersey, only a pistol in hand, will not be denied his chance to capitalize on his vendetta. Parks gets his just desserts in grand fashion. Nothing great (even The Crackdown was better) to speak of, and Bronson, even though he aged extremely well, had too kindly of a face by this time in his career and life to really convince as a one-man army. Still bad-ass geriatric vigilante does kind of have a nice ring to it. But, taking this seriously at all, I doubt many could really accept Bronson in the twilight of his career as walking ammunition. I love the guy, don't get me wrong, but I think he should have laid this part to rest after the awesomeness that was Death Wish III. "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey Takes On The Mob","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The original Death Wish was a genuine masterpiece, and, without doubt, the single most memorable vigilante film of all-time. Death Wish II, an exploitative and blood-soaked revenge-fest was nothing near the original, but still a highly entertaining must-see for fans of the great late Charles Bronson. Death Wish 3 was absolutely silly, but nevertheless great fun to watch, if only for Bronson. The fifth and final entry to the series that lowered in quality with each film, namely Death Wish V The Face Of Death is actually quite a bit better than the (dreadful) fourth part.After the events in part four, architect-turned-vigilante Paul Kersey has once again re-settled in New York, under a different name. He is working as a professor for architecture, and engaged to a Olivia Regent (Lesley Ann Down), a famous fashion designer and former model, whose little daughter he has accepted as his own. His wife-to-be, however, is still being stalked by her ex-husband, mobster Tommy O'Shea (Michael Parks), and as everybody knows, messing with Paul Kersey is not a good idea. While the fourth part annoyed with it's 'Those Damn Drugs' message, this fifth part goes back to the pure revenge, 'Paul Kersey won't put up with insolence'-premise. In Face Of Death it actually takes quite long for Kersey to go back to his vigilante ways - he is willing to let the law handle things first. But, as we all know, the world's toughest architect is always willing to help out where the law fails...Even though this is very far from a worthy entry to the series, Death Wish V is, as far as I am considered, better than the fourth film. The premise of the fourth was just too annoying for me, and this fifth has some interesting actors in the supporting cast, at least. Michael Parks fits in very well as the bad guy and Saul Rubinek has a supporting role as an FBI agent (both of these actors are far from delivering their best performances here, of course). Charles Bronson is, of course, great as always. Death Wish V may be an incredibly silly flick, but it is still a violent and amusing revenge-fest that I recommend to my fellow Bronson fans for the sheer entertainment factor. All others, watch the 1974 original and the first sequel only, and skip the rest. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Charles Bronson returns as Paul Kersey who this time becomes vigilante after the murder of his girlfriend Olivia (Lesley Anne-Down) who was killed by her ex-husband Tommy O'Shea (Michael Parks) a sadistic mobster who orders the hit to prevent her from testifying against him in this very mediocre sequel. Death Wish 5 is a movie that is so by the numbers that even the killings feel paint by the numbers, however some better then average production values and a few special killings help Death Wish 5 rise above it's tired plot. "},{"Title":"If you've seen one Death Wish you have seen them all.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yet another nail in the coffin for Charles Bronson's great acting career. This movie is better than 2, 3, & 4, but that's not the point. After Death Wish 2 was made there seemed to be no way Bronson could escape this vigilante character. And now at 78 he has just made Family of Cops III. Can't he get away from guns? What happened to the Charles Bronson of years past, where he was a serious actor. If you've seen the other Death Wish's then don't waste your time, unless you are like me. I can't stand not seeing a sequel. If I see 1 & 2 & 3 I have to see 4, even if the first 3 were horrible. I don't understand either. To sum it up, this movie is definitely not as good as 1, but better than the next 3.  "},{"Title":"You know what?  We need to stop.","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the fifth and final installment to the successful Death Wish series. In my opinion, it's the poorest. You can still watch it and get entertained, but something is missing.Let's recap Kersey had lost his wife, daughter, one girlfriend, another girlfriend and her daughter...now his fiancée. I think Kersey should have stayed far away from the cities after Death Wish 3.The good things about Death Wish V, Michael Parks plays a very convincing villain. Charles Bronson, at 73 years old, is also still convincing as Paul Kersey. And Terry Plumeri's musical score is very atmospheric and haunting.The bad...how long does it take for Kersey to say enough? His life as never been the same since he went into action in the early seventies. If I was him, I'd be angry! Sometimes when I watch this movie, even though I still get a kick out of it, I ask myself What made Chuck want to make this movie? and Who though they could get away with it?Death Wish V The Face of Death is not a great vigilante film, let alone a great Death Wish sequel. However, it's a fun movie and Charles Bronson does kick major ass as usual. It ends well with Chuck walking away silhouetted by light saying If you need any help, give me a call as if he was saying good-bye to his fans. "},{"Title":"The World's Deadliest Architect!","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This not the best Death Wish film, but who can resist seeing Bronson go nuts...especially when he was well into his 70s??!!! The plot of this movie is not unlike something that would appear on Lifetime. A fashionista's abusive, mobster ex-husband starts trouble for her and it's up to the vigilante architect Paul Kersey to help. The film is a little slow and the plot is pretty thin, but the supporting cast isn't too bad. Michael Parks and Robert Joy make very sleazy villains. So much so, the audience can't wait for Bronson to lay down the law on them. Not a fitting end to the Death Wish series, but it's nice to see that Bronson was still at it at this late stage in his career. "},{"Title":"Rocky V x2","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pushing it would be an understatement, although Death Wish IV should have never happened to begin with and Kersey losing yet another lover, it was justified when the final product came out pretty damn good.Death Wish V was like Rocky V, cept twice as bad, and you have to understand that twice something is a lot, that's doubling how good or bad something was, I'm not trying to exaggerate and say this was 50 times worse than Rocky V, because it wasn't.Rocky V failed because of continuation problems and the ending, Death Wish V failed because it was Death Wish V, made 7 years after Death Wih IV, and if having a 7 year older Charles Bronson wasn't enough, absolutely nothing is added, the action is the least since Death Wish 2, and since Death Wish 3 came out you knew the sequels had to have immense action to makeup for repetitive plot.Bronson was 73 when this film was made, so to his credit he did the best job he could with a 73 year old vigilante character, but it was really pushing it and I feel like I have to re-state that because it really was.A 64 year old Bronson scoring the blonde hottie in Death Wish 3 who asked HIM out was a stretch to say the least, the fact that in Death Wish V he's still making love to women half his age and they keep dying is more than just beating a dead horse...the carcas of that horse has long decomposed.Even though I give a lot to Death Wish IV for adding much needed down to earth realism to the series, Death Wish V was never suppose to happen, Bronson himself said he intended IV to be the final chapter, but no, some producer just HAD to keep it going and lucky for us the film didn't see a full theatre crowd. "}{"Title":"Not a bad film, but still the weakest of the series","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the context of the Death Wish Series, Death Wish V The Face of Death is definitely the weakest entry. On its own, this isn't a bad action-thriller, especially if you're a Charles Bronson fan. But it doesn't have the entertainingly squalid gang caricatures or brutality of the first two films, it doesn't have the war-like scale of the third and fourth films, and it doesn't have the tongue in cheek qualities of the third or the playful meta-level irony of the fourth. Bronson also doesn't have the same intensity or charisma here, particularly in the earlier sections of the film, although the final reels are satisfying enough.This time around, Bronson and crew went for a fairly straightforward action-thriller film in a typical early 1990s style. The basic Death Wish plot elements are still there (see my review of Death Wish 4 The Crackdown (1987) for a summary), but with respect to those elements, they're a bit bare bones this time. To make things a bit different, Death Wish V is more of a mob film. The threat comes from Bronson's new significant others' ex-husband. Bronson's beau is a famous fashion designer, and her ex worked himself into her businesses to use them as a money-laundering front.For most viewers, Death Wish V probably unfolds a bit too predictably. You know how Death Wish films tend to go, and you know how action-thrillers and mob films tend to go. There aren't many surprises on any end. Given how straightforward the film is, it may have been a mistake to not give Bronson a larger number of opponents to battle. But the army of thugs thing had been done a couple times previously, and it was probably felt that they had to do something different. When different amounts to pedestrian and formulaic, though, and you can't think of a novel angle instead, it's not a bad idea to give viewers more of the same, as contradictory as that sounds.Still, there are one or two surprises here, the set pieces are all very well constructed, there are a couple pretty brutal scenes, and a few action sequences are intense.Death Wish V should be watched with lowered expectations, but it should still be watched. "},{"Title":"Definite retread, as one expects of a movie with V in the title.","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not really as bad as some people say, but most of the criticisms are valid. Bronson is really too old for this film. I suppose he was 73 or so at the time, and could pass for, maybe, 60. But I thought that he still had it, even so. Of course, he should have been arrested for not telling Olivia (Leslie-Ann Down) that he was Paul Kirksey, which meant certain death for anyone who he likes at all. Lotta history there. I think the body count was twelve. It's been a long time since I've seen any of the earlier Death Wish movies; don't think I saw IV at all, so I can't really compare them. The main villain, can't remember the actor's name, was so trying to play it like Tommy Lee Jones. He missed. This is a must-see for fans of the series, or of Bronson. Can't imagine anyone else would be interested. Grade C- "},{"Title":"Despite some of its sillier elements, Death Wish V is actually a briskly-paced movie.","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It seems things are finally going right for Paul Kersey (Bronson). Far from his past troubles, he's now in the witness protection program, assuming the pseudonym Paul Stuart and the role of architecture professor. He's engaged to the lovely and successful fashion designer Olivia Regent (Down), and enjoys a great relationship with her young daughter Chelsea (Fairfield). But, once again, problems arise as super-evil gangster Tommy O'Shea (Parks) and his gang of thugs want control of the fashion house, and, oddly, Tommy is Chelsea's father and wants to take her away. After several events push him to the breaking point, Kersey dispenses his own brand of justice on the bad guys.Judging by his relationship with Lesley-Anne Down, Paul Kersey's still got it, even at his advanced age. Because the movie is a series of murders surrounding a fashion house, it is reminiscent of the Mario Bava classic Blood and Black Lace. Interestingly, neither in the opening credits or the movie's trailer is the number five or V shown. It simply says Death Wish The Face of Death. The filmmakers were clearly trying to distance themselves from the fact this series, like the aforementioned Bronson, is also reaching an advanced age. Possibly because of this, the filmmakers were forced to make the deaths more creative, so it's not just shooting all the time. Paul Kersey actually wields that most sinister of all instruments of death a remote-control exploding soccer ball. Because of this, Kersey's antics are more reminiscent of Kevin's injury (or perhaps death)-inducing pranks in the Home Alone series.Luckily, however, the movie has a really good pace and is entertaining, so it goes by in a flash. Helping that is Michael Parks as O'Shea, who resembles Adam West, and his goons, such as Chicki (Lund) and all the other baddies who all let out silly yells during the action scenes. Adding to the silly factor, besides some of the deaths and yelling, is the fact that it is Canada masquerading as New York.It was trying for low key, but some of the more ridiculous deaths go against that. We noticed some abrupt cutting during some of the death scenes - we're not sure, but there is a chance the U.S. DVD is cut.So, despite some of its sillier elements, Death Wish V The Face of Death is actually a briskly-paced movie with some pleasantly-familiar faces, and of course it has a strong pro-revenge philosophy behind it. It's good stuff, especially if you're in a mood that is leaning towards the more cartoonish side of things.For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"Man does this guy have bad luck...","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Paul Kersey had his first wife raped and murdered, his daughter rapped then killed in the second film in the series. His maid was then killed in part II before which she was rapped. Now in this one his soon to be wife is threatened my the mob. Trouble follows Paul wherever he goes. Of course there would not be any Death Wish films if the screen-writers came up with an original idea. When Death Wish came out in the early 70's it was original, and Paul Kersey was seen as a hero for fighting back against the street scum that killed his wife and rapped his daughter. Charles Bronson played the part well and you shared his rage and pain for what happened to his family. Since the first movie it just sunk into endless boring violence with no point at all. Paul Kersey just morphed from victim to the very scum he set out to kill in the first movie. What a sad end to a wonderful film Carrier for Bronson. Part 5 just stinks and is rotten to the core. Not just in film making but acting as well. "},{"Title":"A sad farewell for Paul Kersey","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" *SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS*SPOILERS After watching Death wish 5 I was really sad . How you could turn great and thought provoking original into a mindless franchise &#x96; with each next sequel more and more mindless, cheesy and empty ? By greed of course . The story of Paul Kersey didn't really needed a sequel. It was a great stand alone story. I could live with Death wish becoming a franchise , if it had at least some quality and ambition. This was not the case here. The sequels fall into cheap B-movie category and give a bad name to the famous original.Death wish 5 was obviously made for money since Bronson's career was pretty much dead at the end of the 80's . His name became associated with cheap and bad action movies made by Cannon pictures , which were full of cheese and violence. DW 5 wasn't made by Cannon group (which bankrupted) , but unfortunately stays on the same low level as previous movies .There are one good thing I can say about this movie . It's not so dreadfully boring as the forth one , so it's not the worst in the franchise. Also the movie makers were wise enough that Bronson is too old for action hero and came out with plausible methods how he could defeat his enemies.This time Paul Kersey (under different alias , of course) fights not with street punks , but with mob. Well , at least one gangster . Once again his in relationship which isn't one bit believable and once again bad things will happen to those he cares for. At this point he's probably the most unlucky person in the world . I mean seriously 5 revenge movies in a row ?! Allan Goldstein is the director and writer of this one. As a writer he created a story that almost becomes a parody of itself &#x96; gangster who likes to dress up like a woman and has problems with dandruff , exploding ball, poisoned pancakes , powerful gangster who rules the fashion world (LOL) , district attorney who is surprised that mob is eavesdropping him. As a director he tries to impress the audience with violence and hardly anything more . Also the way he directs shootouts is terrible &#x96; it's hard to find more blind gangsters than here. I mean seriously &#x96; look at the ambush in Kersey's house. I didn't know that gangsters have such bad aim that very old Bronson can easily run along the whole house and they aren't able to hit him ! DW 5 also offers some bad acting . Bronson gives another just give me the money already performance and it's obvious he doesn't really wants to be in this movie. The little girl was incredibly annoying , just like the growling gangster near the end of the movie . The rest of actors isn't better either.When Bronson kills the main villain at the end and starts throwing bad one-liners you know that the franchise hit the bottom. From movie asking important questions about justice , law , good and evil to the trashiest and cheapest dumb entertainment &#x96; the Death wish franchise has missed completely the point of original movie.Watch the original . Avoid the sequels . I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Swan Song For Bronson.","Date":"9 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson is back for the last time as vigilante Paul Kersey. Many years after Part IV, Paul Kersey is now living in the witness protection program(for undisclosed reasons) whose girlfriend(Lesley -Anne Down) is the ex-wife of a powerful mobster, who wants sole custody of their daughter, and retaliates against her, while at the same time trying to expand his empire in New York. Kersey must come out of retirement, and become the famous vigilante again.Charles Bronson is still remarkably game for his age, though looks bored in the film, which, despite some potential, is just tired and uninspired, though Michael Parks is good as the mob leader. Poorly directed , and filmed cheaply, sequel will be an unsatisfying end to the series, though Paul Kersey's last line to a policeman is good, and a nice coda for the character. Charles Bronson's last theatrical film. "},{"Title":"Michael Parks is the star of the film","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is a pretty stupid film. However, it is kind of fun to watch for its cheesiness. Poor Lesley Ann Down, thought maybe she would become a star and ended up in this movie. I'm sure she didn't expect this after her Upstairs-Downstairs classic TV series of the 70's, which I used to watch every week in the US on Maserpiece Theater. As for Mr. Bronson, yes way to old at this time. However, the actor who I think really makes the film is Michael Parks as the villain. He really makes the film lively, and plays the villain to the hilt. He's very creepy, and if I'm not mistaken, Chelsea, the young girl in the film is actually his daughter, which makes him a more terrifying villain. It is his role in a film like this, that I am sure made Quentin Terrintino recognize that Parks is a neglected actor, and why he has cast him in some of his films "},{"Title":"Dire","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson here doesn't act, just coasts - even more than usual. Perhas we can't blame him - because the script is so poor, and the supporting actors so mediocre at best, with not a few laughably bad. The film's full of mobster clichés, to the extent that you wonder whether this is self-parody. It isn't - it's just dire; 'camp' in a kind of trashy way. By this forth sequel the franchise appears totally to have run out of steam, such that every barrel's been scraped to supply the content. You imagine that even the cast knew it, collected their cheques and ran...I quite enjoyed some of the earlier films this is so poor it's unworthy. "},{"Title":"Thank god that's over","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The most morally repugnant franchise outside snuff films slithers to its sordid conclusion, and not a moment too soon. Like the other films in the series it uses disfigurement, murder and torture for titillation, revelling in the tasteless and misogynistic exploitation of its characters before sending mump-faced Charles Bronson off on another cop- endorsed killing spree. It's the tone and application of the violence that's the problem with the film, rather than the fact that it IS violent; it's all about context, and this movie is so empty I'm not sure it has one. Clearly, not a moment's thought has gone into themes, or characters, or a compelling narrative, or pacing; the movie moves so indifferently through its nasty scenes it bores from beginning to end, and without any sense that the film-makers are trying to do anything other than entertain in a grubby and sadistic way, it's all very depressing.Exactly what involvement are we supposed to have in this facile story? There's no satire or social commentary at work here. It's just thoughtless, offensive, scuzzy, mean-spirited garbage. "},{"Title":"0 For 3 On Wives In This Series","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember seeing the original trailer for this in theaters and it was thrilling. I finally got around to seeing 'Death Wish V The Face of Death' and it was a total waste of time.The movie isn't nails on chalkboard it just lacks any redeeming qualities. Characters, action, or entertainment of any type.The 'Death Wish' series have always had their own unique style as high budget exploitation films. 'Death Wish V' breaks that mold by trying to be something the audience doesn't want to see, a low quality mainstream Hollywood action film.Paul Kersey's (Charles Bronson) back in NYC after his stint as a California vigilante in 'Death Wish IV' and remarried to a beautiful rich fashion designer on 9th Avenue. Predictably she's being extorted by her ex-husband and gangster Michael Parks. While the gangsters' ethnicity is never made clear, Irish? Italian? Well at least they're Catholic as there are two separate Catholic funeral scenes. These gangsters have no gimmick at all. They're just boring.Mrs. Kersey wants to expose the illegal dealings of 9th Avenue to district attorney Saul Rubinek. It's also never made clear what kind of crimes are being committed in the garment district other than simple money laundering. Laundering money from what illegal business? Child labor? Smuggling drugs in clothing? It's never explained.Predictably Mrs. Kersey ends up just like the last two Mrs. Kerseys, dead. Bronson's 0 for 3 on wives in this series. I've been keeping count.Worse still, Bronson looses custody of his step daughter to Michael Parks. They don't fight it out in family court or anything. His goons just beat Bronson up.Now it's time for Paul Kersey to emerge as the vigilante to avenge his wife's murder. He better hurry, the movie's already half over! None of the death scenes are interesting, and the final shootout is reminiscent of 'Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein.'What's also odd is how the gangsters and the DA both know Kersey as the vigilante killer! So why is he walking the streets? He's killed dozens of people over the last four films? This movie is a total waste of time and makes no sense. Quit while you're ahead with number IV. "}{"Title":"Death Wish V The Face of Old","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even at about 109 years old Paul Kersey is still getting the babes. This being a Death Wish movie, this woman is living on borrowed time and like all females in this series, she's going to get riddled with bullets, or explode or get raped. Or a combination of those. After the inevitable, Paul actually runs to her dead body. So he must have really liked this one, because he just walked away from his woman who exploded in part 3 without a care in the world - and walked away from his woman who was machine gunned down in part 4, leaving her corpse on the ground. This one must have been really special to get a couple of seconds of Kersey grieving. With her out of the way, it's time for our favorite serial killer, I mean vigilante to take down the scum responsible. This time it's a group of mobsters led by a mumbling Michael Parks and his idiot henchmen. This film is steeped in 90s cheese and feels like a direct to video entry. The bar was not set high with any of the sequels, but this is bottom of the barrel filmmaking. It can't even deliver a decent death count and the few deaths that happen, even though they try to be comical, they are witless. The worst of the series and a sad footnote in film history as Bronson's final theatrical film. "},{"Title":"You need a bath.....","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" So Paul Kersey is back, and this time he has yet another girlfriend.As always, about halfway through the movie, she is killed by her ex-husbands gang, she is shot, and then turns into a man wearing a wig and falls off a roof.Kersey copies her and jumps off the roof disguised as someone half his age and lands on some bin bags....Time to take out the trash.The first two death wish movies were serious, but very good. 3 and 4 were semi-serious, but really camp and very tongue in cheek. They were the epitome of Cannon films, and because of this, these were the most enjoyable.This falls between the middle of the two movies. It's really serious, but the villain is way over the top, and when you have a henchman who has a dandruff problem, dresses up as a woman and finally gets killed by a remote controlled explosive football, there is some fun to be had.But it takes a while to get there, and the first twenty or so minutes are a bit of a drag. It just doesn't feel like a death wish movie. Bronson is great as always, but the man was in his seventies.If you can overlook this though, you get the funniest hit and run and go flying through the window scene, and of course the final act, which features a man being gift wrapped.Not a bad film, but the fifth best Death Wish movie. "},{"Title":"The Last and Most Least of the entire series","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After Death Wish 4 in (1987) many people thought that was the end of the Death Wish series, But 7 years later Charles Bronson returned for one final Sequel, Frankly i wish it hadn't been made and heres why.Lets begin with the plot, The Plot involves Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) Now living the quiet life with his new wife Olivia (Lesley Ann Down)who runs a fashion trade, and her previous husband was a psychotic mob leader. Everything seems to be going good for kersey and his new wife until, Olivia's ex-husband Tommy O'Shea (Michael Parks)returns to muscle in on her fashion trade, and after seeing her with Kersey he gets a bit jealous and decides to disfigure her, of course this Angers Kersey and once again he decides to pull out his guns and get the bad guys.CONS OK, first things first, This film came way too late, Charles Bronson was 73 years old when he made this film & It's Really hard to buy Bronson at 73 taking on A bunch Bad Guys In his old age, Not only that, his wife in the movie is like half his age and I really cannot believe she married him, I mean seriously, she is rich and famous in the fashion trade and she can have any man she wants and she chooses a 73 year old man, Its a bit Unusual if you ask me, and another thing is there is not much excitement in this film I never felt involved in the action or drama scenes because it's acted half heartedly, For me the film doesn't seem to get you involved.PROS Now I complained about Bronson being too old to play Mr.Vigilante again, Because Lets face it by 73 years old he should be having problems handling bad guys half his age, which would've been an interesting approach to the film, but no they tried to make it seem like he was in his 40s again, which at this point was silly, But to be fair From a Performance Standpoint Bronson really does well, He still seems fit, and has no problems doing the action and it's amazing to see him in great physical condition, Also the Main Villain is really ruthless, Michael Parks really does a good job playing the laid back mobster who could snap at any moment when pushed, and the ending fight between Him and Kersey is pretty cool, and of course there are some funny one liners from both Kersey and O'Shea.OVERALL 4/10 While it has it's Moments, It really Doesn't work, Bronson is Exceedingly old to buy as an action man, and overall the film fails to get you involved, It's worth a rental but not worth Buying.TRIVIA Believe it or not there was plans for another sequel without Charles Bronson entitled DEATH WISH 6 The New Vigilante, Would've been Interesting to see what they would've done with it. "},{"Title":"Not Much Of A Swan Song","Date":"1 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Charles Bronson is one of the great icons of late 20th Century cinema . Born Charles Buchinsky in 1921 he first started appearing in films in uncredited walk on roles in the early 1950s . By the late 1960s we became a well known face in supporting roles and as the 1970s dawned was a film star in his own right . Something strange happened during the cultural change in this period of American film making known as  The New Hollywood  . Actors no longer needed pretty boy good looks to be a star , audiences demanded a rugged machismo etched on an actors face and in no other decade except the 1970s would you have an unlikely actor like Bronson become a major star ? DEATH WISH saw him play Paul Kersey , a mild mannered family man who after his wife is murdered and his daughter raped turns in to a one man vigilante army . It was a highly influential film and it was the role of Kersey that cemented his legend . How fitting then that DEATH WISH V was his last theatrical cinema release The downside is that DEATH WISH V isn't much of a thriller in its own right never mind as a sequel . No one with any sanity can claim DEATH WISH 3 is a good film or a credible thriller but as deranged entertainment whose prime function is to entertain its audience it does its job superbly . DEATH WISH V tries to be a sensible revenge thriller but the genie had long been let out of the bottle . By this I mean if you have a vigilante who is dating a middle aged woman young enough to be his daughter that alone is problematic . You perhaps speculate that the makers of this are trying change the formula by having a smaller body count whilst making the deaths of the villains have a bigger impact in their novelty value but this is a gimmick that doesn't work . Having a smaller body count also means it's a much slower paced film that is borderline boring in the first half . As it stands Bronson's last three movies were TV productions in the FAMILY OF COPS franchise and Bronson's career ended not with a well deserved bang but a whimper "},{"Title":"Good Way to End","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish 5 (1994) *** (out of 4) Final film in the series has Charles Bronson returning as Kersey. This time out his girlfriend is murdered by her gangster, ex-husband (Michael Parks) so Kersey picks up the gun again for revenge. While this film isn't as much fun as part three I must say this is the best of all the sequels. This film came very late in the game so it's rather shocking that the producer's went all out and at least tried to deliver a good film that actually looked like a movie with its good production values. The story is the same thing we've seen throughout this series and various other Bronson movies but it's always nice seeing Bronson take out these bad guys. Bronson, needless to say, was quite old when making this film and the screenwriter made the right choice in not having him running around like a forty-year-old and instead wrote all the action to where he could do it. The death scenes are quite original and a lot of them are great fun because of the inventive way they are carried out. Bronson turns in a good performance and has a wonderful time delivering some great lines throughout the film. At one points he's asked if guns make him nervous and his comeback is priceless. Parks is also very good as the villain and having a great single villain is something that was missing from the previous film. I'm not sure if another sequel was ever planned but I think it was good that the series ended with this movie since it is a high note. "},{"Title":"This film brought to you by the NRA","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How this movie has escaped the stinging parody of Mystery Science Theater 3000, I do not know. This is just so awful it is funny. I love Charles Bronson, always will, he is very underrated. However, this movie should have been kept on the Junior High School spiral it was written on. You have this neighborhood that is simply hell on earth. Gangs run wild and the police are afraid to go into it. However, for some reason, middle-class women and the elderly feel compelled to live there and go shopping in it at night. Of course, when their loved ones find out that they were killed, they just can't believe it. You want to grab them and say, why!? because the neighborhood is full of rapists and murderers, and you let your wife go into the heart of it, at night! Of course, Bronson starts teaching all of the once victims how to shoot guns and they start blowing away everything that looks gang oriented. I imagine that Charlton Heston was captivated by this film. If only all people had guns, why would we need police? I would give this movie a very entertaining * out of ****. "},{"Title":"Death Wish V is total trash with no redeeming value","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let's face fact number one there was never any reason in the world to make this travesty of a film except to hand out a few paychecks. For those familiar with the series, the original Death Wish (1974) was actually a well-acted and thoughtful piece of film-making that resonated with that time period. The succeeding entries, however, have gone from bad to worse to mostly abominable. Unfortunately, Charles Bronson doesn't seem to care about the lack of quality in these films and it reflects badly on him and all others involved. As for the plot, there really isn't one to speak of. Suffice to say that Mr. Bronson kills everyone that crosses his path with nary a raised eyebrow on his part and without ever carrying any extra ammunition. Since all his victims richly deserve their one-way ticket to the hereafter, it doesn't really matter how Bronson kills them just so long as they suffer the tortures of the damned. As for the rest of the players, Lesley Ann Down appears briefly in this movie, so I guess she needed a paycheck, too. Michael Parks is also in this mess of a movie as the number one bad guy and his blatant over-acting fits right in with the rest of the dubious cast. Both he and Ms. Down have seen much better days (and scripts) than this nonsense.Milking this franchise for all its worth has done nothing for Charles Bronson's legacy. At least we can remember him for the fine work he did in his heyday Once Upon a Time in the West, The Magnificent Seven, The Dirty Dozen, The Mechanic, etc. Watching this movie makes one wonder about whatever happened to the artistic integrity of this former great star of Hollywood. "},{"Title":"They couldn't let dead horses just die could they?","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A modernized account of what Mr. Vigilante would do in the nineties, which is the same thing that he did in the seventies and eighties.......Kill the Bad Dudes! A very very tired and much older Charles Bronson reprises his role as the one man crusade himself, Paul Kersey, the poor man who every time he says 'I love you' to a woman, she gets murdered in the next sequence. This movie is shot and acted like a 'made for TV' movie and it really doesn't get interesting at all. Michael Parks plays his villain role of Tommy O'Shea to a 'T', Lesley Anne Down plays her role of Olivia Regent pretty well but like I said this is all put together like a made for TV movie and I wasn't expecting all the Hollywoodish clicks and whistles Hollywood usually provides. The revenge sequences seem to focus more on torture than anything and correct me if I'm wrong but that wasn't what Paul Kersey was all about in the first four Death Wish films. Three out of Ten stars for Michael Parks and Charles Bronsons' performances. "},{"Title":" A one I do not rate to many movie a one","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is awful, the only part in it I remember is a guy melts.  This stinker, which is direct to video, which should give you clue how bad it is, uses the Death Wish name for some unsuspecting fool, like my self, to rent it and be victimized.  Thus making me a vigalantie towards the makers of this criminal act.  No story, very little Charly, even less of a budget, and some stupid crime scenes equal a one out of ten.  Try watching test patterns they got to be better than this. "},{"Title":"Retire!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I read once that Charles Bronson turned down the part for Sergio Leone's A Fistful of Dollars, because it was the worst script he had ever read! At some point, he wised up and took the part in Once Upon A Time in The West, which I think is still his best work. With this fifth entry in the ever deteriorating series, maybe Charlie stopped reading scripts! He's definitely running on autopilot here. And what can you say about a sequel that even Michael Winner won't take part in? Canadian director Goldstein (who?) manages to outdo Winner and even J. Lee Thompson in shoot'em up clichés. You know before the opening sequence that Lesley Ann Down is going to get it, and that OTT villain Parks will die in the last reel in some horrible way. The original Death Wish is far and away the best, and any of its sequels just plain worthless. "}{"Title":"Don't believe the rest, this is the worst...","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what the other writers are talking about -- this is the worst sequel of the bunch! Bronson is barely even in this movie, he looks bored out of his mind and probably did it for a house payment. The crappy plot revolves around the mob moving in on his girlfriend's fashion business. Toronto stands in for New York. The Irish Michael Parks is supposed to be head of the Mafia. Yeah, right! These two facts alone should tell you that something is seriously wrong with this film. Don't know who director Goldstein is (I guess previous Death Wish directors Michael Winner and J. Lee Thompson couldn't bear to be involved here) but let's hope he's gone on to a better profession...Awful all around.  "},{"Title":"How ,much worse can it get?","Date":"27 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A 74 year old and puffy-faced Charles Bronson made his theatrical exit in DW 5, a movie that is so bad that it is hard to classify it as a movie. This time around, Paul Kersey is engaged to a woman (the very dull Lesley-Anne Down)) whose business is being threatened by a mobster (the seemingly perpetually stoned Michael Parks). Only after Parks badly hurts one of her employees, kills a second one and then kills her does Kersey decide to limp into action. By then, two-thirds of the movie has expired and I felt like I had expired as well. Kersey's first kill is not by gun but by poison. What the hell is this? Kersey poisons someone? Anyhow, I was just happy to see Bronsons still working, but watching him and this movie was painful beyond belief. A must-avoid. "},{"Title":"Paul Kersey - The Jinx!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Paul Kersey is in a happy relationship yet again. But of course death & bloodshed are never far behind & soon he must exact his revenge. This time against a violent mobster & his gang!In 1974 the much berated director Michael Winner made Death Wish. A hard hitting tale of vigilantes & vengeance starring Charles Bronson. Two decades later & the 5th film in a franchise that didn't need to stretch beyond the original arrived. Never has the law of diminishing returns been more apt than with Death Wish 5. Paul Kersey, the unluckiest man alive or just a bloomin' jinx! He must be the best customer at the local dating agency! Like Jessica Fletcher from Murder She Wrote he always seems to be 'coincidentally' around when the bodies start piling up & its no different here. Yet again his nearest & dearest are the victims of crime & yet again he is out for vengeance. This time with the help of cyanide, fork lift trucks & exploding footballs!Why on earth did this film get made & more importantly what happened to Charles Bronson? He gave some great performances in some great films such as Once Upon a Time in the West, The Dirty Dozen, The Great Escape & The Magnificent Seven. Apart from a strong supporting character role in The Indian Runner he seems to be resigned now to sleepwalking through bland, poorly written & flatly directed rubbish like this.A least Death Wish 5 offers some handy survival tips for todays violent modern world. Being chased across the top of a building by increasingly inept bad guys? Simply swan dive off the roof into some handy fall-breaking bin bags!  Want to know how to avoid bullets? Simply run in slo-mo waving your hands in the air! What can one say, this is a pointless entry into a dead franchise. The original was great but there is really no reason to see sequel number 5. Although maybe women should watch to know what Paul Kersey looks like. Then if you run into him at a singles bars you can beat a hasty retreat from Mr Death! "},{"Title":"Worse than bad....it was incredibly dull","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I didn't expect much out of this film. I was only looking for some mindless action where Bronson gets all worked up and kills some bad guys. It seems like FOREVER for it to get going, and when it finally does it is completely unremarkable. The whole step-daughter plot seems to be thrown into the mix for no apparent reason and never seems to go anywhere except to get Bronson and baddies in the same building. The bad guys are clichéd and so over the top one wonders how it is possible that the cops couldn't catch these guys. There is nothing worse than a bad action movie, and that is a boring action movie. It is very sad to read that this was Bronson's last cinema venture. He deserved better. "},{"Title":"They should find all the negatives and film copies and bury them along the side of the E.T. video games.","Date":"4 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie should have never been made. A sad chapter in the life of one Charles Bronson. Shame on the film-makers for making this poor excuse of a movie. The film is too bad for words. They should find every last copy of this movie and bury them in the New Mexico desert along with those buried copies of the Atari 2600 E.T. video game. I'm at a loss for words. A travesty if there has ever been one.F- "},{"Title":"Horrible way to end the series","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" By 1994, Bronson was pretty much dead already. 1974 began the Golden Age of his career. Death Wish was released, and to this day, it remains a classic. Eight years passed, and Death Wish II was released. That was a lame movie though. But in 1985, Death Wish III came out, and it is a cult classic, being my favorite of the series. In 1987, the fourth was made, and it was the end of Bronson's golden age. By 94, Charlie Bronson was over 70 years old, and he wasn't that cool anymore. This movie sucks. There isn't enough death. There isn't enough shooting. Plus, the movie is just too new looking for my taste. 1/10. RIP BRONSON. What a horrible way to end it... "},{"Title":"utter crap","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" All of the Death Wish movies only got worse after each sequel.The first was a good,entertaining film with real insight on the character of Paul Kersey.The second,was a rehash,and the 3rd was even more of a rehash that made Paul seem more like a ghost with a gun.There was no character development along with cheesy direction and script.As cheap as the 4th one was,it would have been better off as the first sequel to the first.Kersey had a purpose and seemed like an actual human.In this piece of garbage,it is the exact same formula that we've seen in the other installments.With tacky script,horrid direction and plenty of unnecessary mobster stereotypes,avoid at all cost.Its a boring wreck that just involves Charles Bronson.Bronson himself seems to be playing a different character.Nothing but junk for an hour and a half.This film is'nt even bottom of the barrel..its underneath the barrel! "},{"Title":"Charlie looks old, this movie looks bad","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the worst Death Wish movie. If you thought the others were unrealistic or stupid, you were right, but this movie blows them away. Charlie Bronson was not a good actor. He had a bizarre speech cadence that somehow made him seem like a tough guy. This movie was made when he was 73 years old and every year shows. While I like action movies, I don't particularly enjoy seeing senior citizens diving to avoid gunfire or trying to kill people. It just doesn't look good or believable. Granted, some old people kill. They don't kill entire bad guy operations, though. And jeez! he was engaged to a woman 33 years younger than him! I'm sorry, I just can't fathom why the filmmakers thought that the audience would think anything except wow, he's aging poorly when viewing this.I'm not saying that old men cannot be violent in movies. THE LIMEY features Terrence Stamp as an AMAZING vigilante. UNFORGIVEN is a great movie, too, and Eastwood looks like the leather on his face is at least 200 years old. However, both of those movies has the characters' age play a major factor in the film. This movie tries to ignore it.This movie should have had Charlie as a grandpa who, with an elderly wife, is killed by vengeful mafioso. Then, Charlie's son or grandson could pick up the vigilante torch and kill the bad guys for grandpa. Instead, the director tried to make an action movie with someone who could break his hip at any time.This movie is unique in the fact that it ties into the fashion industry. Yes, the bad guy is a fashion big-wig. Somehow, this fashion guy managed to head some large scale operation that involves murder and the mob. Okay, sure, whatever. The plot of Death Wish movies (aside from the first one) has never really mattered. All you want is for Charlie to kill the crap out of them. In that way, this movie delivers. It also provides a death via soccer ball. That guy then flails around with his upper body on fire. And then Charlie chuckles. I wonder why Charlie wasn't in more comedies; his sense of humor and timing are dead-on.All in all, it's pretty sad to see an old man try and act young. "},{"Title":"The worst of the lot.","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Death Wish V The Face of Death is set in Los Angeles where ex vigilante & architect Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson) lives happily with his fiancé fashion designer Olivia Regent (Lesley-Anne Down) & her teenage daughter Chelsae (Erica Lancaster), trying to break away from her past proves harder than she thought & her ex husband big time mobster Toomy O'Shea (Michael Parks) uses her fashion business to launder dirty money. Finally deciding to stand up to him & his thugs Olivia decides to give evidence at his trial but O'Shea has her killed & takes his daughter Chelsea back, unhappy about this turn of events Kersey decides to revert back to his vigilante ways & take O'Shea & his mobsters out & get some revenge...Written & directed by Allan A. Goldstein this was the fifth & to date final film in the Death Wish series, while I haven't seen the original Death Wish (1974) or Death Wish II (1982) I have seen the the following three & of those Death Wish V The Face of Death is probably the worst on all fronts. The script here is pretty slow going, technically speaking Bronson doesn't kill anyone until at least an hour in which is just too long, the attempt at some moral message as seen in Death Wish 4 The Crackdown is absent & the sheer over the top exaggerated fun of Death Wish 3 is also missing so what we're left with is a passable if forgettable & somewhat dull thriller with a couple of action scenes & Bronson by which to call it a Death Wish flick. Death Wish V The Face of Death is maybe the only serious action film ever to feature a sadistic killer with a dandruff problem. The character's are alright, again anyone close to Bronson is killed or abused while the bad guy is rather dull & although we are told he's this mean mob boss we never see him do anything other than walk around & act tough. The plot twists & double crosses are very predictable & feel very familiar especially if you have seen the other previous Death Wish films. It's not totally terrible but is the weakest Death Wish film that I have seen & it just doesn't feel like a Death Wish film.For some reason the location of the Death Wish films keep alternating, the original Death Wish was set in New York, Death Wish II was set in Los Angeles, Death Wish 3 was again set in New York, Death Wish 4 The Crackdown returned to Los Angeles with Death Wish V The Face of Death set back in New York. The violence is pretty tame & even looks cut in a few places, someone set on fire, a few gunshot wounds & someones head is smashed into a mirror is about the sum of it.Although set in New York this was filmed in Ontario in Canada, & why not? Apparently Bronson was paid more than the entire budgeted film which isn't too hard to believe. This was Bronson's last theatrical film & it's not much of a swansong. The cast is alright & Michael parks turns in a good performance as the main bad guy.Death Wish V The Face of Death is average at best & not as good as the previous two entries, there's a lack of action, plot & a story that really does feel very familiar. A further sequel Death Wish 6 The New Vigilante was announced but never made. "},{"Title":"Disgusting, irresponsible mayhem.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Death Wish 5 is awful. I thought Death Wish 4 The Crackdown hit a reasonably unsurpassable low, but I was wrong... this is the pits. How can anyone support a hero who gets more pleasure out of killing than the bad guys do? The sight of Charles Bronson grinning cheerfully as he explodes a remote control explosive device in a man's hand, sending the poor fella up in flames, is simply disgusting.The whole film is just a re-run of previous entires. Bronson has a new girlfriend (oh Christ, not another poor girl doomed to death!) who runs a successful fashion business. Her ex is a real slimeball (Michael J. Parks, in the film's best performance). Parks is quite a bitter kind of guy, and he disfigures her face in a bathroom mirror out of sheer spite. Not satisfied with that, he then has her murdered, provoking the ever-resourceful Bronson to take up his weapons of mass destruction for one more killing spree.I don't want to spoil the film for anyone who hasn't seen it, but I will venture to say that the ending involves an industrial acid bath and is one of the most sickening and violent climaxes I've ever seen. Hopefully, this will be the last of the series. In all honesty, it should have ended after part one, but with this instalment they've surely put the nail into the Death Wish coffin once and for all.  "}{"Title":"Death Wish V The Face of Death","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first film was a reasonable and successful film, so it was inevitable there would be sequels, the problem is they are all awful and a complete waste of time, and this was the final one I had to sit through. Basically Paul Kersey (Charles Bronson), the vigilante who has killed those responsible for raping and killing his wife, his maid, his daughter and a girlfriend's daughter, is in New York's Dodge City for a fashion show. His girlfriend Olivia Regent (Lesley-Anne Down) and he are soon engaged, providing a sense of security for her and her daughter Chelsea (Erica Lancaster), but her ex-husband, mobster Tommy O'Shea (Michael Parks) is muscling his way back into her life. Tommy tortures Olivia's manager Big Al (Jefferson Mappin), and then he hires master of disguise criminal Freddie 'Flakes' (Robert Joy) who smashes her face into a mirror, causing permanent disfigurement. Paul, with District Attorney Tony Hoyle (Saul Rubinek) and associate Hector Vasquez (Miguel Sandoval) are vowing to prosecute Tommy, but Freddie in disguise shoots Olivia dead before action can be taken. Paul is now ready to take things into his own hands, and come out of retirement as a vigilante with an array of weapons and tools. He first follows Tommy's thug Chuck 'Chickie' Paconi (Kevin Lund), putting cyanide in his cannelloni, and then he kills Freddie is his fortress-like home with a remote control football bomb. After killing Hector with a gun hidden in a doll, Paul finds out that Hoyle, who he trusted, is on Tommy's side, so the final scenes see him using Chelsea as bait to kill the last two villains, before walking away for the last time. Also starring Kenneth Welsh as Lt. Mickey King. Bronson, in his last cinema released film, still does okay as the smooth and determined good guy killer, and one or two of the deaths may be alright viewing, but as overall film, it was boring, predictable and just not worth the effort, a silly crime thriller sequel and conclusion. Poor! "},{"Title":"come on,are you f***ing kiddin' me","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" man,this movie is pretty bad.this time Kersey(Charles Bronson) jumps into action when his girlfriend is brutally facially disfigured and then killed,by order of her ex husband,local mobster and all around sh*t bag.the only somewhat decent thing in this movie is the creative deaths of some of the mobster's underlings.other than that,there's not much to recommend it.it slow and ponderous.it's not even fun to watch.all you want is for it to end.and,thankfully,it eventually does.honestly,you'd have to be pretty bored to watch this thing.clearly,the worst of the series,and made for no good discernible reason i can think of.i guess if i try really hard,i can squeeze out a 4/10 "}]