[{"Title":"charming love-during-war story","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" For the Moment is a beautiful little film of which few have heard. More's the pity. Filmed in my home province of beautiful Manitoba, Canada, it offers an insight into the experience and emotions of two charming young people who would never have met -- given their geographically separated homelands, Australia and Canada. -- except for the eruption of World War II which created many such alliances. The capital city of Winnipeg hosted a war-time canteen for service men and my aunt was a volunteer there. She had the honour of meeting many young lads -- from the British Empire and allied countries -- who were training at our various camps. Richard Burton was one such and he mentions, in his biography, his training experience.The beach scene was filmed at Grand Beach which was a very popular summer site for young families and young people so it was a pleasure to see it so beautifully used in this film.As others here have mentioned, the various backgrounds lent much to the story.The cast was well chosen and portrayed their characters with respect and sincerity.Thank you for the opportunity to voice my humble opinions here. "},{"Title":"A reminder","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":"  This film takes you to another time when there was a different pace to everyday life. We get an idea how families had to deal with the war and how quickly we sent young men off to fight. A very touching look at the past and a reminder that casualties of war don't just happen on the front.Luckily many of us have never had to go through what our great-grandparents, grandparents or parents went through during a war.  This film, I think, is a small thank you. Peter Outerbridge looks amazingly like a young Peter O'Toole and Russell Crowe is absolutely charming and as Australian as he can be. It's definitely worth listening to him recite High Flight and makes me wonder what he might accomplish with Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"Airplane buffs take note.","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":"  Very nicely done movie. It does stay in your memory. Better billed as a romance than flying or war, altho the flying parts are realistic and almost error free. Flying buffs like myself will enjoy this movie even if attracted by the airplanes, unless they have no sensitivity or have never been in love.Fun watching early Crowe. He is good and exudes charm.  His reading of High Flight is superb.cheers, Boom "},{"Title":"One of Russell's best","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":"  Russell, my fav, is gorgeous in this film. But more than that, the film covers a tremendous range of human passion and sorrow. Everything from marriage to homosexuality is addressed and respected. The film makes the viewer realize that tolerance of other humans provides the route to saving humanity. Fabulous love story between Lachlin and Lil.  I replay their scenes over and over again. Anyone who has ever been in love will empathize with these people. All characters are cast and portrayed excellently. "},{"Title":"It's never to late for daydreams","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" I have just seen this film, and fallen in love with it. There is a little bit of something for everyone, and its a particular free for all when it comes to the romance between Lachlan and Lil. When they are on the beach, I nearly cried... there is the unspoken realization that time is the most precious commodity and it is most evident when they are together. This idea taken from several angles, from marriage to sibblings to finding love in the least conventional of places. The film almost makes you long for that kind of desperation when you know that tomorrow could very well be your last. Crowe was particularly wonderful in his role of Lachlan. I've always had a soft spot for the accent, but I nearly melted with his portrayal of his character. The way this film was shot is also beautiful, with the music, backdrop of the open fields, and superb acting. All together, this is a wonderful film that tugs at all of human emotions. "},{"Title":"A movie you keep with you","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed every moment of this movie, even though I knew they could never really be together. With the life expectancy of a Bomber pilot being only six weeks,  It made me feel for all of those women and men back in the 1940's who must have lived this story. "},{"Title":"No peaking","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" For the Moment is a two-hour trailer for a good movie. It's all lead-in; it never peaks, just slowly wanders along. There's tons of character background and lovely scenery--some good acting, too--but it never all comes together with any excitement whatsoever...and suddenly it's over without ever having gone beyond what should be the intro.Think An expensively-made Hallmark Hall of Fame production. Plenty of longing looks between the two lovebirds, much dialogue that fills time but doesn't advance the story, some 90s political correctness to do with blacks and gays that never could have existed in 1942 rural Canada, guilt for everybody--and you know who the victims are going to be from the first time you see them.On the upside, Russell Crowe is beautiful. "},{"Title":"A Moment In Time","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" About midway through, a character invokes a bit of romanticism. Life, this person says, is a collection of moments; you got good ones and bad ones; they're all special if they stand out ... Once you've had a moment, it stays with you forever. Clearly, the thematic intent here is to celebrate each moment of one's life, to cherish it, and then watch it fade away.Russell Crowe plays Lachlan, a charming, Auzzie WWII pilot-in-training who, with his airman buddy, drops by to say hello to the buddy's wife-to-be at her Manitoba farmhouse. And Lachlan takes a romantic interest in the future wife's sister, Lill (Christianne Hirt).The romance between Lachlan and Lill is a bit dreamlike. As the plot moves along, characters express their joy and excitement, their guilt, their disappointments, their dreams, and their fears. Drama arcs high in the second half, and as one moment fades into the next, change brings tears and sadness. Not everyone survives.Production values are high. Cinematography is quite good. The excellent flying sequences evoke a sense of romanticism. Casting and acting are fine.My only real problem is the film's script. After the characters are introduced, the plot seems to go into a holding pattern; not much happens until the second half. Further, the main characters did not really interest me; I could not really identify with them. Also, I was a bit confused on several points; clarifying dialogue would have helped.For The Moment will appeal to dreamers and romantics. The WWII setting adds a touch of nostalgia. Overall, the story is a bit downbeat and sad, slightly melancholy. It's a well-made film, if you can get interested in the characters and are in the mood for a period piece romance. "},{"Title":"Wonderful characters, glorious scenes, emotional experience ..","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":"  I felt this film - throughout.  I waas impressed with Russell Crowe's talent in developing his relationship with Lillie, such a typical Aussie blend of softly softly approach, a bit self depreciating and very persistent.  Really loved the cinematography and direction.  Pace was just right and the portrayals of nearly all characters was impressive.Gosh, didn't Russell's talent even in 1993 shine!  .. and I have yet to see Gladiator. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":"  I became more emotionally attached to this movie than any other I have ever watched.  That may be because I can see the characters as my own grandparents, attempting to make sense of a world at war.  The ending and use of Pachabel's Cannon are both amazing. "}{"Title":"time traveling","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" Be warned if you are looking for a war-time adventure movie, do not watch this film.1942 is a scary and fascinating period and I think this movie captures that atmosphere of not knowing what is gonna happen after a war that changed the world. The film is a nostalgic review of a moment in time long lost forever. Many people will think the film is corny... Because it is. In a sense, it is like Brideshead Revisited a movie about a moment in time, about what you've lost and about taking life as it comes.The photography is beautiful and the immense blue skies give you a feeling of freedom quite in contrast with the sense of pathos and constrain that sometimes makes it hard to breathe. And beauty, it is truly a beautiful movie... Even the kitchen wall paper is sweet.The plot is simple and you'll know, more or less, what is going to happen. Sometimes the dialog is made from lines you have already heard before but then, at the last moment, Johnston manages to say something unexpected of funny and change the taste of it. But what starts with a smile and a song in the heart of the characters transforms into a dense, mature movie about relationships.Ultimately, I know I like this movie because I want to know what happened to Lill, Katie, Johnny and Lachlan afterwards. Probably, you'd want to know too.If you are a Russell Crowe fan, prepare yourself for a treat. He is absolutely talented and charming in this film. I never had a chance to see this side of his acting before and it is really worth the time.*SPOILER* The final credits follow the plane that takes Lachlan and the others off to war. If you have time to watch them, they provide a relaxing and beautiful experience. "},{"Title":"A minor classic.","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" Stuck in a hotel in Kuwait, I happily switched to the channel showing this at the very beginning. First Pachelbel's Canon brought a lump to my throat, then the sight of a Tiger Moth (which my grandfather, my father and I have all flown) produced a slight dampness around the eyes and then Crowe's name hooked me completely. I was entranced by this film, Crowe's performance (again), the subject matter (and yes, what a debt we owe), how various matters were addressed and dealt with, the flying sequences (my father flew Avro Ansons, too), the story - and, as another contributor pointed out, Crowe's recitation of High Flight. I won't spoil the film for anyone, but, separated from my wife by 4,000-odd miles, as an ex-army officer who was deployed in a couple of wars and as private pilot, I admit to crying heartily a couple of times. Buy it, rent it, download it, beg, borrow or steal it - but watch it.PS Did I spy a Bristol Blenheim (in yellow training colours)on the ground? Looked like a twin-engine aircraft with a twin-.303 Brownings in a dorsal turret. "},{"Title":"Intensely boring, leading to confusion.","Date":"12 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" This is yet another intensely boring Canadian film, to my great shame.In fact, it's so boring, that I started getting confused which characters were in bed with which other characters. Everyone seemed to bed everyone else at some point. And I couldn't possibly care less.Even worse, a character that I thought had long since exited the film via train appears back in town as if he never left. No idea what that was about.The acting, particularly one crying scene where Crowe stands by as one woman is regretting her hope for who died, was so bad as to be laughable.Also, I'm no plane expert, but I'm pretty sure that in WWII planes, you had to use things like flaps and rudders to get the plane to change direction. Not these planes. They float magically through the sky, nothing moving on them in the slightest, no matter where they go.I fail to see the point of including the gay guys. Is it to show how politically correct the filmmakers were in 1993? These days, gay characters aren't furniture that we use to judge main characters or the writers.As for political correctness, I found it was particularly crass to dedicate the film to the airmen who trained in Manitoba during WWII, thereby daring anyone to give it a negative review, lest we not be supportive of the troops. This film depicts them as sex crazed loonies just as likely to crash a plane in a rage, as to fly one straight, mostly because they spend most of their times inside women instead of planes.This film could easily have been cut down to one hour, and been somewhat better. Ultimately, it probably isn't salvageable. "},{"Title":"Confused","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, War, Drama","Review":" I don't understand. Not being a critic, i am not evaluating the quality of the acting, which I find believable, a good thing. My confusion lies with the content. Is no one else sensitive to the fact that these two unfaithful women were justifying their infidelity to men who were fighting and bleeding to guarantee the continued freedom of their families and their country. Should there not have been a prologue informing us if the men made it home and if so, what effect their cheating wives' infidelity had on them? While these women were bedding their paramours out of a sense loneliness, did they think that their husbands were enjoying being shot at while facing death or dismemberment daily? They didn't think of their husbands at all! Only of themselves. Pardon me, except when they wished their husbands dead. "}]