[{"Title":"I had fun, enjoy this for what it is, we don't get many family films like this any more","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"33 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flinstones, next to The Simpsons, it's one of the best known animated shows of all time, we all know the name Fred Flinstone. It's such a great series, I grew up watching it, I still will catch an episode or two on the Cartoon Network and I'm sure it's something that my children will watch too one day. So in 1994, we had the live action version of The Flinstones come into theaters, my family took me to see it, I was 9 years old, it was either this or Pulp Fiction, I'm sure my parents didn't struggle much with that decision. But still as a kid I absolutely loved this movie, I think I wore out the VHS quite a bit. So I grew up and of course caught the movie on HBO, I figured that I would just give the movie another shot to see if it was still as fun as I remembered and actually I still love it.Cliff Vandercave, the Executive Vice President of Industrial Procurement at Slate & Co., plans to appoint a Vice President of his division to frame for a crime. To find one, he makes an exam to give to the quarry operators, among whom are Barney Rubble and Fred Flintstone. Fred loans Barney money so he and his wife, Betty can adopt a child. They adopt a caveboy named Bamm-Bamm. Barney appreciates what Fred did for him and is determined to pay him back. While taking the exams, Fred fails it, and is disappointed since he will not be able to give his wife, Wilma the wealthy life she used to have. Barney takes Fred's exam up for him and notices how poorly he did. To pay him back for giving him the money to adopt Bamm-Bamm, he swaps his exam with Fred's and Fred is promoted to Vice President. Cliff orders Fred to fire Barney because of his exam score, and he fires Barney at the Rubbles' surprise party, but does his best to help Barney afterwards with financial problems. But Cliff still has big plans to set Fred up for a big fall and the Rubbles are starting to get sick of the Flinstone's over the top extravagances.Honestly, I really did enjoy The Flinstones as much as I did when I was a kid, I know the main reason a lot of people complain about this movie is because of the casting, but even with Rosie O'Donnell in it I thought she was adorable, we had a great cast, everyone has their own ideas, but just deal with it and understand who this movie was made for. Granted as an adult I'm not going to go out of my way to watch this movie by myself, but I still wouldn't mind at all showing this to my younger cousins and watching it with them. It has cute jokes, a fun cast, and a good story with tons of fun sets and props. I would recommend this movie to watch with your family if you get the chance, it's a rockin' good time.7/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent Live-Action Cartoon!","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"36 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm rather disappointed to see that this film has such a low rating on IMDb, this film was great!  I was a huge fan of the cartoon back in my childhood and it was great to see the live-action version of the cartoon!  The story is pretty good, although it is obviously directed toward it's child audience, but I still loved it.I can't talk about this movie without talking about the special effects!  They were incredible!!!  Dino looked absolutely spectacular!  As did the other dinosaurs and beasts in the film.  I really liked the sets and the wardrobe as well.  You can tell that a lot of work went into this film and a great deal of thought.The cast was nearly perfect!  John Goodman was just fantastic as Fred Flintstone and was perfect for the part!  Rick Moranis wouldn't have been my first choice for Barney Rubble, but he did a superb job!  I've always liked Rick Moranis, this guy needs to do more films!  Elizabeth Perkins was excellent as Wilma Flintstone, and is quite the looker in the film.  The only complaint I have is Rosie O'Donnell, I'm sorry, but something about her just rubs me the wrong way.  I've never really liked her acting very much, and I don't think she really fit the role of Betty Rubble.  I would have preferred to see someone else in the role.  Kyle MacLachlan was a very good villain and Halle Berry was PERFECT!  Elizabeth Taylor was a nice touch as well, I wouldn't have expected to see her in the film, but she did a very good job.If you like the cartoon, then you should definitely give this a shot.  The comedy was very similar to the television show, so I don't think you'll be disappointed.  Anyhow, I really enjoyed the film and I hope that you will too.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"I liked it, what can I say?","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I was 8 years old when this movie came out and remember really liking it despite the lackluster reviews it received from not only critics but most of my friends as well. I don't remember anybody out and out hating it, it just kinda got one of those meh grunts whenever it was mentioned.Now I'm twenty three and I just watched it again and I gotta say, I still think it's pretty damn good. And unless you just simply are not of a fan of the Flintstones cartoons I don't see how you can not like this film. It plays like an extended episode of the series, with a plot not unlike something we have seen in our Saturday morning reruns, but loaded with enough clever one liners and risqué humor to elevate it to a much more adult oriented comedy. It's also got tons of sight gags and background jokes that you will likely need some multiple viewings to appreciate. Not to mention the sheer scope and execution of the sets, costumes and animatronic and CG dinosaurs are really something to admire, especially for its day.The actors all play their parts well too, John Goodman and Rick Moranis as Fred and Barney are the standouts but there's nobody here that I thought fell short. Yes, I would have liked to have seen Betty portrayed with somebody with more curves in the right places...I mean she was the hottie in the cartoon and Rosie O'Donnell's physique definitely doesn't live up, but you have to give credit where credit is due and while she may not look quite the same, she plays the part well and has the voice and trademark giggle down perfectly.Is this a fantastic film no...but I enjoy it every time I watch it and I think the attention to detail and obvious care that went into making this movie alone should keep it entertaining for years to come and considering its unlikely anything quite like this will ever be done again outside of its sequels, I would not be surprised if this movie eventually earns its respect among film buffs in the future. "},{"Title":"Well-made live action imitation...","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  1st watched 1/12/2003 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Brian Levant) Well-made live action imitation of the popular Hanna-Barbera cartoon series. Maybe it's because Hanna & Barbera were involved and were two of the executive producers of the movie as well as having small roles in the production.  Besides this, this classic tale of life in the stone age had tremendous casting in the way of John Goodman(Fred Flintstone), Rick Moranis(Barney Rubbel) and the entire group for that matter.  The movie starts with the Rubbel family adding a new member in the adopted Bam-Bam and then the rest of the movie matches pretty much the way the two families lived their lives & worked together as neighbors in the prehistoric town of Bedrock.  Of course there is evil-a-foot within a demented man in a higher position in the stone quarry who tries to frame Fred and the rest of the movie is a culmination of all this.  What is great about the movie & the series the Flintstones is that no matter what trouble they got in, the families always patched it up in the end showing us what true friends our made of.   And besides all this the movie was funny & visually appealing too !! "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Making a live-action, feature film out of a cartoon show is definitely not an easy task, but the creators of this film pulled it off. THE FLINTSTONES is one of the most entertaining family films to come along in a good while. The great cast has a ball, particularly Elizabeth Taylor as Fred Flintstone's mother-in-law. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Pre-Historic Fun That Is As Good As It Can Be","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"20 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Flintstones is a film that tries hard to be likeable and succeeds for the most part, but with that said this is only a fair film at best.  The cartoons come to real live and the nostalgia carries some of the film.  However, the paper-thin plot destroys any chance that the film has to be a complete success.  Naive Fred Flintstone (John Goodman) has been promoted and is now a big-time businessman.  Of course the villains, Halle Berry and Kyle MacLachlan, are just using Fred to steal from Mr. Slate's company.  Wilma (Elizabeth Perkins) quickly becomes jealous of Berry, but overlooks everything because Fred is raking in the cash.  Barney Rubble (Rick Moranis) meanwhile is unemployed because he had the lowest score on an IQ test (he actually switched tests with Fred because Fred had lent him money to adopt Bamm-Bamm).  Throughout his financial crisis, Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) stands beside him.  Fred finally becomes wise to what is going on, but MacLachlan has a devious scheme up his sleeve.  All in all The Flintstones is a good looking film with high production values, but ultimately the screenplay and direction cannot save this film.  The characters play well on television, but are somewhat out of their element on the big screen.  The cast is hard-working in spite of the fact the material is just not present.  2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"A hearty attempt, but it just doesn't work...","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"30 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Live-action adaptation of Hanna-Barbera's TV cartoon brings prehistoric blue-collar family man Fred Flintstone to life with the help of John Goodman, exceptional in the role. The world of Bedrock is excitingly captured, all the surrounding details look right, but unfortunately the script is a pale, shapeless mess. Also, who cast Rosie O'Donnell as neighbor Betty Rubble, the Snow White of the Sabertooth set? O'Donnell is far too brash and distracting as Betty, who was mostly around in the TV show as a foil for Fred's wife Wilma (adequately played by Elizabeth Perkins). O'Donnell should have instead played Fred's mother-in-law, although Elizabeth Taylor is game for this loudmouthed harridan. There are some laughs here--although not big ones--while the plot is weaker than any of those written for television. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Great special effects","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a must for any fan of the great cartoon series from the 60's. The special effects and the sets are incredible, they have put a lot of work into making that. Every little detail, that can be seen in the cartoon, is also in this movie, for example a lizard like dinosaur running on a wheel to pull an elevator. However, less work has been done to write the plot, which is somewhat week and full of cliches. John Goodmann makes a great Fred, but Rick Moranis' Barney does not really  resemble Mel Blanc's from the cartoon. I think his laugh is missing, also the general way Mel Blanc's Barney speaks is different. Rosie O'Donnel's Betty, on the other hand, is good. This movie is still a must for any Flinstones fan. The plot is not the most important part of this movie, the way Steven Spielberg made drawings come to live is. "},{"Title":"Far from the best movie I have ever seen, but it is far from awful.","Date":"11 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I liked this movie. Yes, the plot is predictable and weak, and in some cases over-familiar. Yes, the script is a bit weak in places. Yes, it is a little lacklustre, and doesn't quite capture the feel good nature of the show. But it is far from the worst movie ever. I really don't know what people were thinking when they gave this film such a low rating. Some of the worst movies I've ever seen, are Home Alone 4, Thomas and the Magic Railroad, Cat in the Hat, Disaster Movie, Epic Movie, Pokemon the First Movie and Batman and Robin, but this film doesn't deserve to belong to this category. On the most part, due to the enthusiastic performances of the cast, it was quite entertaining. John Goodman was born to play Fred. He looks the part, and put a lot of much-needed enthusiasm into the role. Rick Moranis is fine as Barney, very like what I imagine him. The prequel is probably better, but Mark Addy and Stephen Baldwin don't quite fit the bill as Goodman and Moranis. I also liked Elizabeth Perkins and Rosie O'Donnell as Wilma and Betty. As the villains, Kyle McLachan and Halle Berry play their clichéd characters more than adequately. I do miss Elizabeth Taylor when she was pretty, but she was game as Wilma's mother, though not quite in the same league as Joan Collins in the prequel. The sets and costumes are spot on, and the design of Dino was superb. All in all, I liked this movie, it's not perfect, but it is far from the worst movie I have ever seen. 6/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Meet The Flintstones. Meet Halle Berry!","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flintstones is a live-action alteration of the '60s cartoon that does not remain too proper to the original animated series. The movie doesn't do a very well job in incorporating Bedrock and its world into the story or the viewing of the movie as it attempts to expand on the original cartoon without having all too much creativity, BUUUUT, it's still very good, and it's still a very lovely family adventure. I love the Flintstones movie. The Flintstones is amusingly funny all the way through with a likable story and a friendly disposition. The Flintstones has pleasant visuals; it has greatly glamorous sets as it is wondrously colorful. The interactive Bedrock environments are really solid. The cast is full of chiseled actors, well....okay, it's a really good cast. John Goodman plays a great Fred Flintstone. Goodman and Elizabeth Perkins are both fine as Fred and Wilma Flintstone. Rick Moranis is really good in a poorly written Barney Rubble character, and Rosie O'Donnell is pissy and not good as she struggles in what's supposed to be a sweet Betty Rubble character. This is a likable Kyle MacLachlan role as he's good in a consistently well-written villain character, but I have yet to ever take notice of MacLachlan while I am watching the Flintstones. Holy smokes! Hello, Halle Berry! My goodness! You're scorchingly beautiful! Wow! Miss Halle Berry as Miss Stone is smoking hot! My God! Look at her! Halle Berry as Miss Stone is so rocking hot beyond belief! Bamm-Bamm! The hottest girl in history! Halle Berry as Miss Stone is melting me with her fire! Oh my! Sweet Halle! Halle as Miss Stone gives one of the sexiest flirtatious jobs I've ever seen! Yabba dabba do! Halle Berry is unbelievable as she gives an all-time lovely performance. The Flintstones serves as a launching pad to Halle's destined superstardom. Berry blatantly owns this movie from beginning to end, and Halle is so clearly the great standout star of The Flintstones, not so much in an 'everybody else is bad she's so great' kind of a way but more so in an 'everybody's so good oh she's so very good' kind of way. Berry's amazing. It's more than just my imagination, Berry's scenes are just better; maybe it's her performance, maybe it's her bodacious body in that dress. Her scenes were meant to serve as a sweet getaway so that the audience could get lost in Halle's gorgeous eyes, and her freakishly fine physique for some time, but they actually serve as critical plot points. Halle has all the best parts. Miss Stone is a respectable and an elegant written character. Stone is the heroine of The Flintstones, and Halle's the heroine of my heart. I love Halle so. The lovely Elizabeth Taylor appears in her farewell performance and she's...so lovely. She's too great a choice to play Fred's mother-in-law; I'm grateful Taylor decided to do the role. Elizabeth brings real life to the character. The Flintstones is a gay old time. It's very good family fun that earns a good 6 graciously attributed to the perfect performance from the irresistibly sexy Halle Berry. "}{"Title":"I Yabba-Dabba-Don't Like this Movie!","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Yep, you read that summary right, I yabba-dabba-don't like this movie. I loved the Flintstones when I was a kid and my favorite characters were Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble. So, why should this movie stay in the Stone Ages? Let's dive in this movie with the modern stone-aged family, the Flintstones.Well, I like John Goodman(Roseanne), Rick Moranis(Spaceballs and Honey, I Shrunk the Kids), and Harvey Korman(The Carol Burnett Show) because they were funny. Unfortunately, when it comes to this movie, I wish these guys could've done better. The jokes try to stay true to the 1960's original animated series of the same name, but I don't think so. Rosie O'Donell as Betty Rubble?! Rosie didn't play Betty very well and she can't even giggle like Betty does! And then there's the animatronic animals. Honestly, I've seen better animatronics at Chuckie Cheese! The Flintstones Movie has never stayed true to the Flintstones cartoon series, the jokes are never original, the cast is all mixed-up, and Rosie O'Donell sucks for the role of Betty Rubble! If I were to invent a time machine, I would've warned the Flintstones that some idiot from Universal is going to make a crappy movie that would nearly destroy the Flintstones franchise. Would they believe me? I'll never know. Like I said, I yabba-dabba-don't like this movie and I wouldn't recommend watching it anyway. "},{"Title":"good fun comedy","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Flinstones, starring john goodman, rosie, elizabeth p., and rick m., was very cute and fun. It teaches you to forgive and that fame isn't as important as your family and friends. From all the reviews it got and the 4.3/10 it got here, I didn't expect much. But I did end up enjoying it. Pretty funny, too. Good Family comedy. I recommend this to people who like the show The Flinstones, or comedies. If you don't like either of those, then you might not enjoy it as much.Good Fun comedy! ****(out of five) stars "},{"Title":"What else can you say.... it was awful","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I don't think they could have done a worse job with the casting for this movie. Rick Moranis as Barney Rubble? Seriously? Other than Honey I shrunk the Kids, Rick Moranis has done nothing worthwhile in his entire acting career. This is another blunder on Moranis' resume. I didn't like John Goodman as Fred Flintstone either. Other than being overweight and slightly resembling Fred, Goodman just didn't deliver in this role. Now things get even more comical.... Rosie O'Donnell, a fat, unattractive woman, playing Betty Rubble?!? Truly amazing. Elizabeth Perkins as Wilma was the best choice out of the 4 main roles, but it still wasn't good.When you do such a horrible job of casting, it pretty much sets the stage for a disaster of a movie. The 4.6 star rating currently on here is a bit generous in my opinion. "},{"Title":"a good movie","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i enjoyed watching the flintstones movie, Its a yabba dabba doo movie. This movie was made in 1994, i remember seeing this movie when it first came out, i was only 7 years old and i thought this movie was a good idea to be made in a real life version from the cartoon, i like ti when movies are made fro cartoon and turned into proper verson (If all of you know what i mean) Like a real verson. I think Rick Morris and John Goodman are good actors, they both have made good movies apart from each other, i think Rick did a good job with the ghostbusters the honey I's (Shrunk, Blew, Shrunk ourselves) the little shop of horrors etc and john goodman, with mosters inc, the borrowers and the comedy show Roseanne. I give this movie 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Yabba dabba doo! I LOVE YOU!!!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  John Goodman A whole lot better then that other guy who was in Viva Rock Vegas. What was his name anyway? A fairly nice Fred Flintstone. I loved the way he played the character like it was his own real life person.Rick Moranis What a good actor. He also had a great character here. Enjoyed most of it. Especially his little thing about wanting thirty packets of ketchup in the lunch room.Script Awesome. The script had to be good to create such a cenematic masterpiece. I would love to read this.Direction Another hit.So, what I am saying, I recommend this highly. If you like the cartoon series of the Flintstones, you will love this.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A miss except for the visuals","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The visuals were perfect and fascinating. The story, with some rewriting could have been acceptable. What killed the movie for me was the total lack of understanding of the series as well as the lack of characterization. I know that John Goodman is no Alan Reed, but he could have watched episodes of the show and gotten the feel of it. Barney Rubble doesn't work in the quarry with Fred. No one knows what Barney does for a living. The sharp wit of Barney's dialogue was absent, to say nothing of Mel Blanc's characterization. Elizabeth Taylor was too thin to play Mrs. Pebble. (Wilma's maiden name was Pebble. The later episodes of the series forgot this.) Of course, no one could match the great Verna Felton as Fred's mother-in-law, but the writers and Miss Taylor should have tried. The pity is that with sufficient preparation and understanding of the series, this could have been wonderful. The only good touch was Rosie O' Donnell's imitation of Betty's laugh as originated by Bea Benaderet. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The FlintstonesContrary to popular belief, the Paleo Diet is more than consuming a bottle of Flintstone vitamins for every meal.Thankfully, this comedy will give dieters greater insight into what cave-people ate.When blue-collar Fred (John Goodman) is accused of embezzling by his boss (Kyle MacLachlan) and his assistant (Halle Berry), he's not only in trouble with the law, but also his wife (Elizabeth Perkins) and mother-in-law (Elizabeth Taylor).Meanwhile, his neighbors Barney (Rick Moranis) and Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) hope to adopt a cave-boy with Fred's financial help.While it does an adequate job of mimicking its inspiration for loyalists, this tepid 1994 live- action adaption of the 1960s primetime cartoon does an inadequate job of updating Fred's dilemmas to appeal to younger fans unfamiliar with his stone-age antics.That's because kids today cannot relate to when prehistoric birds had to etch your dick pic onto slate before you could text it.Yellow Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"A well made family film","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a well made product. The sets , costumes and props are good. The plot is nothing special but it's not bad. It's is not surprising that Steven Spielberg was involved the making of this film since the man is known for quality.The Actingis good the four stand outs being John Goodman as Fred who fits perfectly ,Elizabeth Perkins as Wilma who IS the character from the carton , Harvey Korman as the bird who has some really fun lines and Elizabeth Taylor of all people as Wilma's mother She is one of the highlights of movie. she is hilarious in every scene. This was sadly her last theatrically released film. on a side note the role of Fred's mother in law was originated by legendary voice actress Verna Felton she played the Fairy Godmother in Cinderella and had many roles in other Disney films until her death in 1966 her last film was The Jungle Book. The other actors are good but nothing remarkable.This is a good family film that everyone should show their children. "},{"Title":"Yubba Dubba Doo One of the few films based on a cartoon to be done right","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Yubba dubba dooFlintstones, meet the Flintstones They're the modern stone age family From the town of Bedrock They're a page right out of historyLet's ride with the family down the street Through the courtesy of Fred's two feet When you're with the Flintstones Have a yabba dabba doo time, a dabba doo time We'll have a gay old timeThe Flintstones is one of the most believed cartoons ever created I even was raised on the show and remains one of my favorite cartoons even now.The production deserves a lot of credit for the setting of the film to actually look and feel like the cartoon the sets are top notch with the way you would expect the characters to live in the cartoon.I just appreciate the set design team for how they made the film look like the cartoon for a live action film.The story was really good it really brought up a strong lesson that you have to enjoy. As for the casting some of it were hits others not so much the best casting and performances have to be John Goodman as Fred Flintstone John really took the role seriously and it's easy to respect his performance this is one of my favorite roles of Mr.Goodman Rick Moranis as Barney Rubble was just genius because Rick and John worked very good together and I believe had mutual respect for each other Kyle MacLachlan as Cliff Vandercave the film's main antagonist is just crazy where you had to see to believe this Villain's work.Dino of course who doesn't love that dinosaur.The writing in this film is very good and there is more than enough humor along with reference to the TV show it just does a lot more than people give it credit for. Seriously This is one of the few films based off a cartoon that got it right sure there are some things to hurt it but the result is The Flintstones is a strong movie for the family I give The Flintstones a 8 out of 10 Yubba Dubba Doo! "},{"Title":"Decent live action adaptation","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fred Flintstone is promoted to vice-president in order to serve as an unwitting patsy for a fraud, and it costs him his lifelong friendship with Barney Rubble.This film exists in order to bring to life all the anachronistic gags from the TV series, and it does this very well - the iconic title sequences, in particular, are recreated with loving accuracy. Of course, a film needs rather than that in order to sustain 2 hours' running time, and here we have a story of corporate skulduggery with a subtext about the value of friendship. It is perfectly adequate as a basis for the visuals.Because Bedrock is just about perfectly realised, and the casting is very nearly spot-on, too - only Rosie O'Donnell comes across as a little too brash and robust for Betty. The playing is broad, but it needs to be.This is a fun family film, but it will mean rather more to those who grew up with the TV cartoon series. "}{"Title":"The animated show comes to life with John Goodman in the lead role","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" While critics love to bash this live-action cinematic version of The Flintstones and the rating here at IMDb is surprisingly low, the movie was a huge hit in 1994 and fittingly so because this is a great movie for what it is. Speaking of which, this explains why The Flintstones is such easy prey to incessant panning &#x96; it's a movie based on a cartoon. So freaking what? The question is, does it work for what it is and the answer is a resounding yes! Movies should be critiqued and graded according to what they are and aspire to achieve. For instance, Godzilla is a colossal-creature movie and should be reviewed on that level. Compared to the original Apocalypse Now it's dreck, but how does it stack-up to other gigantic-monster movies? It's the same thing with The Flintstones. Roger Ebert criticized the film on the grounds that the story is confusing, not very funny, and kind of odd, given the target audience of younger children and their families. Do kids really care much about office politics, embezzlement, marital problems, difficulties with adoption, aptitude exams and mothers-in-law? For one thing, the film IS funny if you're familiar with The Flintstones and, more so, if you're a fan, which I am. I've seen the movie four times now and, without exception, laughed from beginning to end. Now the laughs may be more giggling at silly humor than uproarious laughter, but laughing nonetheless. As for the criticism that the story's confusing and misses the supposed target audience because of adult-oriented elements, this just shows that the target audience wasn't just kids. The Flintstones is for kids AND adults equally, which was true of the original cartoon as well, but more so with the movie, and I'm glad. The live-action version of Dudley Do-Right (1999) made the mistake of aiming solely for kids &#x96; real little kids -- and it seriously bombed and justifiably so because it's a complete dud. It's impossible to watch that movie as an adult and stay interested. The Flintstones doesn't make this mistake and that's why it was such a hit and remains thoroughly entertaining to this day.The cast is great, even Rosie O'Donnell as Betty (who I didn't think would work), but John Goodman as Fred is so good it's like the cartoon come to life! Furthermore, the sets and F/X are top-of-the line and surprisingly hold up to this day. In addition, the story has warmth and offers realistic and worthy themes. Take, for instance, Fred and Barney's bond. They're best friends and their personalities balance each other out. You'll see this in real life. My best friend, for example, is similar in some ways to Barney while I more fit the Fred role.The bottom line is that The Flintstones is entertaining from beginning to end for all the reasons noted above and it wisely doesn't overstay its welcome at 91 minutes.The film was shot at Vasquez Rocks, Santa Clarita and Sun Valley, California, and Snow Canyon State Park, Utah.GRADE A "},{"Title":"search of childhood's spirit","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" it is not a good or a bad movie. it represents only an exercise to remind the flavor of childhood. the result is decent, the cast is not bad, the special effects almost meritorious. something missing and that fact is the shadow who defines the film. for me, the great surprise and the motif to remember the film is the presence of Elisabeth Taylor. it is only cause for remember that comedy because the role of great Liz is marks the end of a glorious career. sure, John Goodman or Rick Moranis are inspired option for the lead roles but the film has not the gift to impress. maybe, only, to resurrect the memories of childhood. a good thing, at first sigh. a film who remember a legendary animation. almost a homage, almost an easy comedy.but nothing more. "},{"Title":"John Goodman Is Perfect As Fred Flintstone","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Far from the worst movie I have ever seen, but still a missed opportunity, and not really that good.Plot In A Paragraph Jurassic Jollies all around as we get the first live action version of The Flintstones in which there is trouble at the Quarey as Senior Executive Cliff Vandercave (Kyle MacLachlan) and secretary Miss Sharon Stone (Halle Berry) plan to swindle the company of its vast fortune and flee, but they need a stooge to take the fall for it. Enter a promotion for Fred. The film stars John Goodman as Fred Flintstone, Rick Moranis as Barney Rubble, Elizabeth Perkins as Wilma Flintstone, and Rosie O'Donnell as Betty Rubble, along with Kyle MacLachlan as an executive-vice president of Fred's company, Halle Berry as his seductive secretary and Elizabeth Taylor, in her final theatrical film, as Wilma's mother.Visually it's impressive, and a lot of the fun things to see are usually little things, often in the background. Goodman is the perfect Fred, whilst Moranis is great as Barney, elsewhere Halle Berry literally steams up the screen she is that hot. Sadly Kyle MacLachlan is in full pantomime villain mode and it's just as well this was Liz Taylor's last movie as she over acts horribly. "},{"Title":"Every time I watch The Flintstones, I see new things to love","Date":"14 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I agree that this is different from the cartoon, but I like the differences. That doesn't mean I like the cartoons less. I just like them both in different ways.I especially loved the moments where the music sounded just like the cartoon, when they took time to recreate frequently used images from the cartoon series.I'm old enough to remember when Flintstones and Jetsons were a Friday evening prime time staple. Our paperboy would time it so that he'd collect the 57 cent per week subscription rate from my parents just before the shows started, then leave afterward.I look forward to seeing this again in a few years.John "},{"Title":"Nothing Like the Cartoons","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When this film was released nearly twenty years ago, I was expecting an animated cartoon film since the kids toys being released through McDonald's looked cartoonish. It was a pretty good film being live action, even spawning a sequel six years later.I like that John Goodman plays Fred Flintstone, it was a great fit for him after Roseanne. And the fact that Rick Moranis plays Barney is somewhat out of place, after seeing him in Ghostbusters and the Shrunk series.However, the film was very entertaining and I enjoy to watch the film to this day. Watching it takes you back to better times. "},{"Title":"It captures the imagination!","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When I first got the movie, I was afraid it would suck and be crap like some other live action movies I know. But that ended up being a negative as this movie was actually quite amusing and entertaining. Having not watched the Flintstones in years, I was having to re-remember everything as I watched this movie. But they re-created everything perfectly.The plot of the movie was simple and almost cheesy. However you must remember that this is a cartoon and it's supposed to be funny and entertaining. Thus, despite what I read with some people disappointed a little with the plot, I think it works quite well considering it's for this cartoon.I'll have to rate it 7/10. Close to 8. They could have done a little less with the secretary as far as her attempts to appear sexually appealing, but other than that it wasn't that bad at all!7/10 "},{"Title":"a little rocky","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Live action film of the classic 1960's Hanna Barbara cartoon series which ran for many years until it was beaten in longevity by The Simpsons a series that does bear some similarities with the Flintstones.The film starts well and is pleasant enough but loses momentum at the half way point, despite game efforts from a cast that seems to be enjoying itself.In my opinion John Goodman and Rosie O'Donnell being the nearest to being like their cartoon characters Fred Flintstone and Betty Rubble.Elizabeth Perkins and Rick Moranis are less successful but Perkins and especially Halle Berry are decorative.A reasonably fair effort but lacks that certain something to make it come off completely. "},{"Title":"Dino was the only thing I liked about this movie","Date":"9 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is an attempt to turn a classic cartoon into a live action movie. The question is did it work? I found the Flintstones to be clichéd, full of shameless advertising which did not work on me, having a very bland and boring plot, and generally I thought it was rubbish. The film was targeted at children, but those of us who grew up with the Flintstones, would have seen this movie for the memories. My comment on this is that I am glad that I waited for it to come on to television. The Flintstones worked as a cartoon, but it does not work as a live action movie.The idea behind the Flintstones is that they are a typical American family living in the stone age. The original creators did this as a parody of the American way of life. The concept was clever and the show was very popular. What the filmmakers have tried to do is to continue this theme and in the movie it does not work. I thought that their attempt to parody the American culture failed abysmally. The worse part was their attempt at doing this with McDonalds. It was supposed to be funny, but I thought that is was a shameless product placement for a place that I detest anyway. In the original cartoons, I thought that the creators taking modern inventions and placing them in the prehistoric setting was clever, here it is not.Turning away from the rubbish that is this movie, I think that there is something that is interesting that appears in the original cartoon as well as here. Remembering that the movie is an attempt to copy the cartoon, the concept is probably not as important here. Everything in the Flintstones is big. With the modern age of miniaturisation, things have become smaller, which means that we have more space for more stuff, but what we see in the Flintstones is a reflection of hyperconsumption. Everything here is much larger than life. Spare ribs are so big that they tip the car over. Families have sabretooth tigers instead of cats, and Pterrodactyls do their business on cars instead of pigeons. The direction of society today is to have more and better things, especially in regards to food. With 60% of Americans on weightloss programs, it is interesting to see how big things in the Flintstones reflect the hyperconsumer of the American way of life.The only thing that I liked about the movie was Dino. He was obviously computer animated, but I thought that they did an incredible job with him. Dino is seriously cool, the huge dog that always jumps on Fred and slobbers all over him. The interaction between Dino and Fred was quite impressive. Other than this, I did not like this movie one bit. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Family Entertainment.   ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fred Flintstone (John Goodman) & Barney Rubble (Rick Moranis) work at Slate & CO. mining Rock... Barney and his Wife Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) are desperate for a baby, so Fred lends them everything he and Wilma(Elizabeth Perkins) have in their savings account so that they can adopt Cave Boy Bamm-Bamm (Hilynur & Marino Sigurdsson)To return the favour, Barney during an Exam swaps his paper with Fred who has done particularly badly, and by doing so Fred ends up being promoted to Vice President, but only because Exec V.P. Cliff Vandercave (Kyle Maclachlan) & his accomplice Miss Stone (Halle Berry) need a Fall guy for their embezzlement scheme. REVIEW- It took a while but after 30 Years (at the time) since the original 60s classic Cartoon series was shown, Finally in 1994 a live-Action Film came to be produced by Steven Spielberg...Is it any good?..... Well I first saw this on it's original release in 1994 on my 10th Birthday, and at the time I thought it was the best Film I'd ever seen....15 Years or so later, I no Longer think that, But I still Find 'The Flintstones (1994)' hugely enjoyable from Start to finish, The set design is magnificent and it's incredibly charming with great performances by John Goodman and Elizabeth Perkins (as Fred & Wilma)The Bad news is the story feels like it was written on the back of a Cigarette packet in 5 Minutes, Rick Moranis is TOO weedy to Play Barney, Rosie O'Donnell was badly miscast and way TOO fat to play Betty (Who was slimmer than Wilma in the series) and Elizabeth Taylor again miscast as Fred's Mother-in-law and is pretty much wasted in one of her last roles.On the whole the spectacle outweighs the Mistakes...Just sit back and EnjoyThe Critics Hated this...But The Paying Public loved it - It opened to $29.6M on Memorial Day Weekend in 1994 and went on to gross over $130M in North America and over $340M Worldwide on a $45M BudgetFollowed by a Prequel in 2000 'Viva Rock Vegas' Without This Cast and Bombed accordingly***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Nothing horrible about it that I could see, but it certainly isn't very funny","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flintstones, a groundbreaking cartoon series of the 1960s from Hanna-Barbera, ended about twenty years before I was born, but I can remember seeing quite a few reruns, starting at a very early age. I also first saw this live action movie based on the cartoon when I was nine years old, the year after it came out, and again a few years later, when I was in my very early teens. I'm not sure exactly what I thought the first time, but I clearly remember that I liked it a lot the second time. However, as you grow up, your tastes tend to change, and seeing the low rating for this movie, it doesn't surprise me that I no longer care much for it.Fred Flintstone gives his friend, Barney Rubble money so he and his wife, Betty can afford to adopt a child. Barney is very grateful, and feels he must somehow repay Fred. Soon after this, an exam is held at Slate and Company to determine who is worthy of being the new vice president, and whoever gets the job will become rich. Barney does well on the exam, but Fred does very poorly. When Barney discovers this, he sees it as a good opportunity to try and repay his friend, so he decides to switch the tests. As a result, Fred gets the highest score and becomes the new vice president! However, the proud Flintstone is totally unaware of the fact that he is being used! Cliff Vandercave and Rosetta Stone plan to use money from Slate & Co. to go to Rockapulco, and the whole purpose of the exam was actually to find a scapegoat! Now that Fred is vice president, he will be that scapegoat! Worse still, now that Fred and Wilma are rich, they are not quite the same, and this could mean the end of their relationship with the Rubbles! If you're at all familiar with the cartoon show, you would obviously assume that this movie is a comedy, and it is. However, as such, it fails miserably in my book! I never laughed, and barely even smiled. The only scene that gave me a full smile was the one where Wilma and Betty try to wake up the Dictabird, and he says, No, Mumsie, I don't want to go to school. The other boys make fun of me. I also found Green Jelly's Anarchy in Bedrock (a parody of The Sex Pistols' Anarchy in the U.K.) during the end credits fairly amusing, but I don't know if that counts. Now, this live action adaptation does have an interesting premise, some impressive sets, and a good serious moment here and there. I also think Rick Moranis makes a very good Barney, and certain other cast members fit their roles well. Unfortunately, this is not enough to prevent most of the movie from being dull, with mostly mediocre jokes, as well as some cheesy moments, most notably the scenes where Rosetta Stone flirts with Fred.Without a doubt, some Flintstones fans HATE this movie, or just don't like it. It's common for remakes and movie adaptations of TV shows to disappoint many fans, and this 1994 Flintstones movie is no exception. If you ask me, this is one of those movies that was aimed at kids, and doesn't have a lot for those outside that targeted audience. So, I guess I recommend it for kids who want an amusing adventure, but for adults, whether you're a Flintstones fan or not, I wouldn't get my hopes up. After watching this first live action adaptation of the cartoon again, it certainly hasn't made me feel desperate to watch the apparently inferior The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas, a prequel to this movie released in 2000, which features a totally different main cast. "}{"Title":"The Flintstones in the Flesh","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fred and Wilma Flintstone (John Goodman & Elizabeth Perkins) along with Barney and Betty Rubble (Rick Moranis & Rosie O'Donnell) bring the cartoon classic to the big screen with the aid of some cool visuals effects and of course Steven Spielrock...erm...berg.For a start off the cast represent their cartoon counterparts with a fair degree of accuracy and the direction is sympathetic to the fans of the cartoon, the visual effects represent the fantasy world of Bedrock beautifully and the main cast are supported well by Kyle MacLachlan, Elizabeth Taylor and the lovely Halle Berry.All in all this should have been way better than it turns out to be, but the very simplistic story leaves the film a little empty and short on the required amount of humour.Good Family Fun, but could have been better 6/10 "},{"Title":"an average effort","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i saw this movie when i was around 8 or 9 years old- and i didn't think it was that great even then. i did think that john goodman and rick morais did a pretty decent attempt at playing fred and barney though.the only scene i remember with any great detail is when fred is starting his first job with cliff and halle comes in and asks him how he likes his coffee. i think this was the first time i realised how attractive a woman could be, halle blew my mind back then! she was just so sexy and she stole the movie for me.overall though a pretty weak attempt at modernising the flintstones cartoon series. not enough sustainable plot to really make it a decent film. "},{"Title":"Very underrated...A lot of fun!","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Why does this film get such a slagging? Sure, it's flawed in some ways, but it's just so much fun! I'll start with the casting, which has it's ups and downs. John Goodman was born to play Fred; he did an incredible job. On the other hand, Rick Moranis didn't make for a great Barney. He was OK, but just didn't seem to fit the part. I'm not even going to get in to how awfully cast Rosie O'Donnell was. The other characters, such as Wilma's mother or the villain, Cliff, were all well cast and did great. Oh, and Harvey Korman as the Dictabird was easily one of the highlights.The style of Bedrock translates perfectly to the screen, and looks amazing. Just like the cartoon come to life, they did a great job.The only real downfall of this film is the plot. Sure, the cartoon always had kind of cheesy plots, but this takes the mud-pie. Essentially it's just a formulaic spin on Greek tragedy, complete with catharsis and all that fun stuff. Fred as a tragic hero? Bad idea.When it comes down to it though, this is A lot of fun. Lots of laughs, great sets, great effects and (some) great acting. Definitely worth a watch.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Top class movie adaptation","Date":"27 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a brilliant piece of film adaptation of a classic TV animated cartoon, that brilliantly captures the tone of the original series. The gags are delivered with deadpan seriousness, which makes them work very well. It is well cast, especially the leads of John Goodman, Rick Moranis, Kyle MacLachlan and Halle Berry. Even the kids come across as convincing versions of the animated characters, which is totally amazing!Of course the most outstanding element of this movie is the magnificent production design, art direction, and other elements that make the recreation of a 20th century-style Stone Age very involving to hang the story on.But as I said before, what I really like about this movie is the excellent deadpan comic style, which up to that time hadn't been effectively presented for a long time (certainly not in Hollywood productions anyway). The general feeling at the time was that 80s-90s big budget Hollywood couldn't handle satirical or farcical comedy very well. The wit got lost in the mix. And Steven Spielburg proved them wrong. To quote from a professional critic Well, if you're going to make a feature adaptation of a one-dimensional TV show, I guess this is the way to do it. How's that for a back-handed compliment? High praise indeed! "},{"Title":"I guess it's fair","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this film again on TV one night, and while it looks entertaining for kids, adults will want to reckon back to the days of the TV show (or maybe just the Honeymooners).  The actors are somewhat credible here, with Rick Moranis always getting some laughs as Barney, but hey, that might be it here.  Not great, but  it is a whole lot better than the sequel at least. C "},{"Title":"Wonderful remake of the cartoon sitcom","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember when I took a friend to this movie back when it was playing in theatres.  The humor was just so darn similar to that of the cartoon series. There were also many familiar stars.  Let's see now, we have Fred played by John Goodman (from Roseanne), Barney played by Rick Moranis (from Honey I Shrunk the Kids) Rosie O'Donnel as Betty, Elizabeth Perkins as Wilma, and Elizabeth Taylor as Wilma's mother.  So if you like the cartoon series, you'll love this. "},{"Title":"Recreates Certain Elements of the Series Well, but Still Lacking In Material","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Flintstones seemingly tries its best to create a similar feeling towards the television series.  While the movie atmosphere (i.e. the set design) can be really amusing, there's still something lacking in terms of the script. One problem that The Flintstones seems to have is that it apparently derived a majority of its material from episodes of the show.  The humor itself is really one-note as it spends most of its time showcasing the special effects, mild moments of slapstick, and recreating certain gags from the show (e.g. the tip-toe sound effects during a bowling game and scenes from the opening and closing credits).  It's fine if the movie was trying really hard to pay a homage to the show for which it's based on but the script doesn't really do much to greatly enhance the material.  The humor probably works the best when it takes something from the present and slightly twist it.  Although the story is perhaps too simple and ultimately predictable, it's somewhat understandable since it is after all based on a cartoon. "},{"Title":"One of the best TV to movie remakes","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Flintstones is a fun and energetic and a very amusing film. John Goodman was born to play Fred Flintstone. Not only does he look like him but he has even taken abroad his characteristics. Rick Moranis makes a likeable Barney. All the other performances are adequate.However the highlight of this film is not the acting but the detail producers have gone to in the construction of bedrock. Everything is exaggerated and parodied and is a delight to watch.The basic plot sees Fred Flintstone getting a promotion where his evil boss uses him for his own financial gain.Watch out for Elizabeth Taylor in one of her few recent movie roles as Fred's mother in law.**** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Rocky","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe a live action version of the old cartoon could have worked, but on this evidence, probably not. Over the years the screenplay had been worked over by almost every screenwriter alive, which has left us with an overly complicated plot involving corporate shenanigans and embezzlement but not many jokes; it's hard to get enthusiastic about the recreation of the famous title sequence and other references, or gags about 'Steven Spielrock'. A game (and, Rosie O'Donnell aside, spot on) cast certainly try their best but this is thin - not to mention pointless - stuff. It doesn't help that Bedrock has been brought to the screen as a kind of day-glo, polystyrene theme park; I know this isn't exactly a documentary but it would help if the rocks looked like rocks. Oh, who cares? "},{"Title":"Kinda surprised ...","Date":"3 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" that this movie got such a low rating, but I realize expectations are different and the movie plot clicked for some while others were turned off.I remember liking this movie a lot (and I still do). I liked the cartoon series too but somehow I felt the movie was better.I could see that they tried to re-create as much of the original cartoon in the movie. When I saw John Goodman appear, I said to myself Omigosh, that is Fred! Also, the rest just seem to fit into their parts.What I also liked was seeing the cartoon take solid form. Sure, the movements were clunkier but I was expecting this. I liked the car with the passengers using their feet. Though it didn't have the zip of the cartoon car, the semblance and feel were there. I got a kick out of the different creature machines though again different from the cartoon but fleshed out in the movie.Lots of novels turned into movies disappoint some fans and make the rest happy. I'm one of those who liked this movie version of the Flintstones, not that I haven't been disappointed before. For example, I remember reading Jaws and it really gave me the chills but the movie with the big, heavy, floppy and clumsy white shark was nowhere near the novel ... but I enjoyed the movie anyway.So, don't judge the Flintstones by the rating. Give it a try, especially if you're nostalgic about the original cartoon series.I give it a ten. "}{"Title":"Takes Movies back To the Stone Age","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The movie just doesn't translate from the original cartoon series. It's like trying to reheat pizza. It just isn't as good as when it was hot the first time. And I can do without seeing Rosie O'Donnell in a one piece bareback skin tight outfit- yuk. What was with Fred Flintone wearing what looks like a rolex watch. It's like he forgot to take the watch off before the shot, and the director said, Oh, well, shoot it anyway. I know kids are going to enjoy this movie, but for many of us adults who accompany our kids to the movie, it was a challenge to sit through this. I've never seen Barney look so goofy in my life. I'll take the cartoon every single time. "},{"Title":"My one true love","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What is it with parents? You spill juice on the floor and they're okay with that, but you set fire to their sofa and suddenly they don't want you playing with their son anymore. Okay, so I set fire to their bedroom as well, but that's no reason not to let them play with their son.As a result I spent a lot of time on my own as a child, and made friends with the people on TV. I was friends with the Lone Ranger, the Cast of Thunderbirds and Huckleberry Hound, but there was a special spot in my heart for one lovely lady. Ahhh, Betty Rubble, she was the girl I had a crush on, and one day I just kind of knew that I'd get together with her and get married. So when I heard that there was a live action movie being made of the Flintstones I was overjoyed! Who would play the delectable Mrs Rubble? Sandra Bullock? Winona Ryder? That women from the toothpaste advert whose teeth went &#145;PING'? Oh no. Those people at Universal had got a much better idea they'd get Rosie O'Donnell to play Betty. I think in Start Trek The Wrath of Khan, Khan was actually thinking of the person who made that decision when he cursed, `From hells heart I stab at thee!'  And boy, do I know how he feels? Sure, Rosie's head is about the same size as Betty's, but Mrs Rubble was a cartoon character, who was naturally deformed. When will these studio execs learn?Plus, Ms O'Donnell then goes on Letterman and starts giving all this rubbish about how she was giving the Royal Family attitude when she was over here at a premier! You might have an abnormally large head Rosie, but so does Geri Halliwell, and Prince Charles didn't take any nonsense from her.As for the film, well it was on at Christmas, but I'd had too much to eat and couldn't be bothered to change channels. It's all right I suppose. "},{"Title":"Tacky and dimwitted.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Flintstones cartoon series is in essence a dumbing-down of the Honeymooners TV series of the 1950s.  Change suburbia to caves, add dinosaurs and sabertooth cats, and cut the IQs of every character from the 90's to the 80's and you have the Flintstones. Fred and Barney can dream big, but they are too dumb to realize the folly of their dreams.So here's the big story -- Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble compete to become executives. They are the only ones to not know that they are being set up. Duh-uh!Costumes and scenery are tacky. The plot is weak (white-collar crime isn't good for a plot). Characters are stereotypes. Technically this live-action film qualifies as science fiction due to anachronisms, but it's the fiction of pseudo-science.The dinosaurs-and-humans stuff is utter nonsense. Large mammals (anything larger than Yorkshire Terriers) could never have survived around T. Rex. If your children like dinosaurs, then stick to Barney (the dinosaur, not Barney Rubble) or the animated Land Before Time series. When they get older, then introduce them to the documentary (animated, but as realistic as it can be) Walking With Dinosaurs. Don't let your children get any idea that Man and dinosaurs ever coexisted!  "},{"Title":"I think overall it was a great movie. It was pretty funny.","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that the flintstones was a great movie. I just think that pebbles is so cute. But I was just watching The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas tonight with my cousins and I just do not understand why they filmed that one after The Flintstones Movie. Because in the The Flintstones Movie they already have pebbles,bam bam and Dino. But in the Viva Rock Vegas one..Fred wins Dino at the fair, and betty and barney, and fred and wilma just meet. To me it just doesn't make any sense why they wouldn't make the rock vegas movie then the flintstones movie.  "},{"Title":"The TV series brought to life","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Unlike many other live action cartoons, the Flintstones, The (1994) did not try to update or modernize the original from the TV series.  (Except for the use of obviously modern actors and rock bands).  This movie was the Flintstones circa 1966(B.C) down to the detailing of the dinosaurs.The characterizations were pretty much on, except Barney (he worked in a rock quarry and probably should have been stockier), and Betty (she was a babe in the TV series, but for some reason was played by a more rotund Rosie O'Donnell--though she was slimmer then than she is now).The plot was a bit weak, but it was still great fun for fans of the TV series.Look for some inside jokes, like Fred being called Flagstone-- supposedly the original title of the series.I believe, overall, the sequel to this was better. "},{"Title":"Better Than The Animated Series","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flinstones This is what you'd call a cute movie, the cuteness mainly being the funny takeoff on objects, such as regular household appliances, that you see in here caveman-era-style. Most of those are prehistorical creatures having to perform the tasks of cleaning, but they are clever and funny to watch. In fact, there are so many of them it's tough to catch all of them. It would take a number of viewing to fully appreciate all the visuals in here.When I first saw this, I expected a really stupid movie. I had enjoyed but not been a big fan of the animated Flintsones series on TV, and thought this would be more of the same except with real actors. Actually, it was much better and had a surprisingly good cast for such a lightweight cartoon comedy.I mean, who would expect a big star like Elizabeth Taylor to be in this movie? She had the funniest lines, too, I thought. Her put-downs of poor Fred (the rotund John Goodman is perfectly cast) included lines such as, the only good thing you provide for my daughter is shade. This is quite an eclectic cast with the likes of Taylor, Goodman, Rick Moranis, Rosie O'Donnell, Elizabeth Perkins, Kyle MacLaughlan and Halle Berry.As for the kids, there is no language problem in here, although they inserted the obviously- and-purposely misspelled word, fuk on a headline in a newspaper Fred was reading. (Hollywood just can't help itself.) "},{"Title":"Mildly Adorable","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This isn't as bad as some people have said. At the same time, it isn't Oscar-worthy material, either. The play on words, everyday objects, products, and proper names (Univershell) is quite cute, and the performances are about what you would expect.This film is cutely quaint, though full of cheese, just like the animated series. I particularly enjoyed the many modes of transportation and machinery, along with Elizabeth Taylor, Rosie O'Donnell and John Goodman.The animated series always mildly reminded me of the Honeymooners, and this reminiscence is exacerbated by the live action version, in Goodman's on again, off again New York accent, and Barney's total loyalty to Fred.The story itself is typical of a Flintstone's animation with little surprise and nothing new, but seeing it in live action form makes it worth viewing if you are a fan of the series. It is adorable, if only mildly so.It rates a 4.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Alright!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This was a great movie that defenitely lived up to it's hype. It's great for both kids and adults. If you liked this you MIGHT want to give the 2000 sequel a try, but it has different actors and the plot isn't as good.  "},{"Title":"great cast, but average film","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Fred Flintstone (John Goodman) and his best friend Barney Rubble (Rick Moranis) work together at the Slate and Company Rock Quarry. When Fred loans Barney some money that allows him and his wife Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) to adopt a child, Barney is looking for a way to show his gratitude. Barney thinks he's found one when the executives at Slate and Company announce that they're giving all their employees intelligence tests to help determine a promotion. When Barney switches his high-scoring test with Fred's, his plan works, but not quite the way he had hoped. Fred is chosen as executive and given a big promotion, complete with a sexy secretary (Halle Berry) who makes his wife Wilma (Elizabeth Perkins) jealous, while Barney is soon out of a job and can't pay his debts. While Fred and Barney are feuding, crooks Mr. Vandercave (Kyle MacLachlan) and Fred's secretary (Barry) are embezzling Mr. Slate's (Dan Florek) Quarry. The Flintstones had a great cast, Goodman as Fred was a perfect selection! The Flintstones was still enjoyable film, but the great actors didn't have much of a story to work with though. "},{"Title":"Modern Stone Age Classic!","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         The Flintstones star in their first live-action movie. Four years earlier, the Jetsons had their own movie. It was animated, because I guess to do a live action Jetsons proved difficult back then, but the Flintstones live-action would be easy, so Steven Spielrock made it in 1994.          Fred had given money to Barney and Betty so they could adopt a baby. They get Bamm-Bamm. A tough child, always carries a club, and doesn't talk, just says his name. The Rubbles painstakinglyget used to him. That night, Fred and Barney go bowling and Barney says he'll pay Fred back someday, somehow. The words really touched Fred.          When Fred get's home, his mother in-law is there and insults him, like usual. Fred is determined to be a somebody someday.He soon get's the chance when his work, Slate & Company, gives aptitude tests to the employees to determine which one of them is fit to be an executive. Fred takes the test and does poorly, but Barney did very well and remembering his words of paying Fred someday and somehow, so he switches tests and soon Fred is crowned the new Vice President. Next day, he's shown to his new office by an evil executive, Cliff Vandercave. He also meets his sexy new secretary, MissSharon Stone. Fred's office also contains a Dictabird, a bird who memorizes every word said around it; Cliff also wants to make sure Fredwill do whatever he tells him to, so he tells Fred to fire Barney, whoreportidly did the worst on the aptitude tests, when Fred declines,Cliff threatens to fire both of them. So Fred does the deed...During aparty Barney and Betty threw for him. They even gave him a nice newbriefcase.          Financial troubles get to the Rubbles, so Wilma invites them to live with them until they're back on their feet. Barney get's a job at Chevroc gas station, and even becomes a crash test dummy. Fred, meanwhile, hits upon million dollar decisions, for example, Cliff shows all the executives the future. A steam powered machine that would do all the labor. It was a model of the macinery, there was also a model house that made Fred wonder, who's going to live in those small houses? Cliff has also been playing Fred for a fool, making him sign documents without reading them, then gives Fred a huge $$$ bonus. So Fred trades in his Flintmobile for a new La Sabretooth and remodels the house; Fred and Barney's friendship comes to an end and Fred finds out not only was he an embezzler, but he also inadvertantly fired everyone from the company and those ex-employees want to see him hung. Barney shows up and inadvertanly confessed it was his fault, so he too was at the end of his rope. Literally. Wilma and Betty take the Dictabird from Fred's office, for evidence that proves Fred's innocence. When the Flintstones and Rubbles return home, Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm are gone. They were kidnapped by Cliff.         They go to the quarry at dawn to face him and the new machinery. Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm were about to be made into stone blocks.Barney tries to rescue them and Fred bowls down Cliff with a rock used as a bowling ball. The machine leaks alot of water that mixes with rocks and it all tumbles down the hill and lands on Cliff. Thus the creation of concrete. Mr. Slate loved the idea and Cliff Vandercave was no more.         Very good idea for a movie. It was followed by a sappy sequel!John Goodman is a terrific Fred Flintstone, Rick Moranis was a great Barney, Elizabeth Perkins was a good Wilma, and Rosie O'Donnell gave a real edge to Betty Rubble. Watch for creators William Hanna andJoseph Barbera in the movie. William Hanna is in the boardroom, he's the guy that says Steam! He's a mad man!. Joe Barbera, I don't know what scene he's in. He's credited as Man in Mersandes.Jean Vander Pyl (voice of Wilma on the cartoon) plays Mrs. Feldspar. She's dancing behind Dino in the congo line. Anyway, see this movie whenever you can!! It's good!--       "}{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I remember going to the theaters to see this movie. I really enjoyed watching it. All of the excitement, the special effects, the great laugh from Rosie O'Donnell. But then when I look back at this film, it lacks in just the same spot as the new prequel does. It lacks a decent plot and a great villain. Both of the actors in these movies are likeable, the story just never quite takes off. It's like getting stuck in neutral. Though this movie is likeable overall "},{"Title":"A Great Cartoon and surely A Cool Movie!!!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  If you've seen the cartoon...........If you were raised up on watching it daily..........If YOU LOVED IT.... Then you must surely see this cool movie, It brings back all childhood memories of The Flint Stones Cartoon.John Goodman is one of the funniest men on earth. 0) He fits the Fred Flintstone character perfectly.That's all folks. "},{"Title":"The novelty wear off quickly","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It would seem that no popular cartoon or comic book hero is safe now. Nothing is sacred! Brian Levant's The Flinstones follows a plethora of animated features cum screen sensations from Batman to the other recent Hanna and Barbera production, The Jetsons.Though that well loved space age family did maintain its animated status, the modern stone age family was not as fortunate. John Goodman, reputedly at the insistence of Steven Spielberg, got the choice role of Fred, the great big lovable oaf who has a heart that's every bit as soft as his head. Elizabeth Perkins plays stern wife Wilma, Rick Moranis is old pal Barney Rubble, and comedienne Rosie O'Donnell (A League of Their Own) is Barney's wife Betty.While everybody looks the part, and no expense has been spared in re-creating Bedrock, none of the characters are ever interesting enough to hold your attention for more than ten minutes. The cartoon-esqe plot, with villains Cliff Van der Cave (Kyle MacLachlan) and sidekick secretary Stone (Halle Berry) framing Fred for embezzling, is painfully stretched out for ninety or so minutes with the assistance of a subplot involving the Rubbles' adoption of a darling little Neanderthal named Bamm-Bamm. In fact the only interesting and genuinely entertaining character is Fred's talkative piece of office equipment, the Dictabird (voiced by Harvey Korman).All this is not to say that Brian Levant has let us down, as he has been very true to the original 60's cartoon series, and both Jim Henson's creature creations and William Sandell's production design are a credit to their collective geniuses. However there is very little one can do with a show that was never really meant to leave the T.V. set.I guess the novelty wears off all too quickly, unless you're a Flinstones freak or a minor. Look out for cult rock group the B-52's, appearing as the BC52's. Also an enjoyable guest appearance from Liz Taylor.Thursday, September 22, 1994 - Balwyn Cinema "},{"Title":"Fred, it's a great job, and this time you deserve it!","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Part of me really wants to like this film, considering the hearty efforts of the cast. John Goodman is an ideal Fred and there are tons of great prehistoric gags on modern pop culture (Rock-Donalds, Tar Wars, Universe-Shell, Steven Spiel-Rock, etc) and great lines (I think my bronto-crane's pregnant again. I tell ya, you forget to lock her up one Saturday night...). But at the same time, the film becomes unnecessarily mean spirited as the plot unfolds and the morality tale is put into effect.An ambitious cave man executive, played by a sneering Kyle Dune McLaughlan, at the quarry where Fred and Barney (Rick Moranis) work tries to engineer a plan to make off with a lot of money and the quarry itself in shambles with a lot of the workers out of business by getting one of them promoted to an executive's position so he can manipulate him. He holds an IQ test and guess what, Fred wins. However, Fred only wins because Barney switched their tests as a thank you to Fred for loaning him the money to adopt little Bam-Bam. Barney's well intentioned good deed later comes back to bite him in the ass when Fred is forced by Kyle to fire him for allegedly scoring the lowest on the test. Barney, Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) and little Bam-Bam are forced to move in with Fred, Wilma (Elizabeth Perkins), little Pebbles and Dino after Bam-Bam trashes a crystal exhibit while Betty & Wilma are out shopping and the Rubbles credit card is deemed no good.Like all blue collar working men who finally get that big break, Fred wants to do some good for the workers, but both he and Wilma are slowly corrupted by the size of his new bank account and they become snobs while Barney searches for work. After Fred is tricked into firing all the workers so that new machinery meant to replace them can be installed, an enraged Barney tells Fred the truth and then he walks out with Betty and Bam-Bam. Wilma also leaves Fred, trashes all the stuff he bought and takes Pebbles to go and live with her mother (ideally played by Elizabeth Taylor). Divided, Fred returns to his old self as he begins to long for his family and friends, and is then forced to go on the run when Kyle frames him for embezzling. When Wilma catches wind of this, she and Betty (who has temporarily left Barney while he works selling snow cones) go to the office and steal the dicta-bird with the hope of using the bird to clear Fred's name. Fred is hunted down and nearly lynched by the angry workers, and so is Barney when he shows up with his snow cones and reveals that it was all because he switched the tests. Fred & Barney make up, but just as they're about to be lynched (You'll have plenty of time to bond in the after life! shouts Richard Moll) Wilma & Betty show up with the bird and the bird reveals the truth after Fred apologizes to him.When they return to the home of Wilma's mom, they find the mom and Dino all tied up and Pebbles & Bam-Bam kidnapped by Kyle, who demands the Dicta-Bird in exchange for the kids. Fred & Barney go to the quarry and try to rescue the kids, which they manage to do and thwart Kyle in the process with a little bowling prowess and destroy Kyle's machines in the process, while Kyle himself is buried in concrete! Mr. Slate, the owner of the quarry, offers Fred an even better job as a reward for creating concrete, but Fred declines and asks instead that he begin back his old job and his old life along with a few more perks for the re-hired working men (health care, paid vacations, little packets of ketchup in the lunch room, etc).Something of a mixed bag, and that's a shame considering that it sticks a lot closer to its source than the live action Scooby Doo films (not that I dislike the Scooby films). Well, rent it and judge for yourselves.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Film","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have always been a skeptic when it comes to seeing cartoons transferred to live action. What works in animation may not work with flesh and blood actors. Luckily, The Flinstones was one of the better films adapted from a cartoon.A lot of it's success rests with the actors-John Goodman, Rick Moranis, Elizabeth Perkins and Rosie O'Donnell. I cannot imagine anyone else being able to pull it off apart from the four above.The story itself is very good. Just like the cartoon show we see two good friends in Barney Rubble and Fred Flinstone helping each other out and just generally enjoying life the way life should be enjoyed.The story was great, the casting was great but I think it would be fair to also mention the great sets and props in this film. They just added to the magic of this wonderful movie.Yabba-Dabba Doo. "},{"Title":"Yabba-Dabba-Doo!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Flintstones is one of the best movie remakes of a tv show in years. John Goodman is excellent as Fred Flintstone and Rick Moranis is an okay Barney. Everyone else is adequate. The story really is not that good, but it certainly revives elements of the series. Thumbs way up! "},{"Title":"Various objects can be inserted into the orifices of the human body","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I am not a fan of the Flintstones cartoon. I never found them to be either entertaining or funny. In fact I remember hating the Flintstones, and that hatred still endures. That's a quality hate, the kind that endures for decades. When the movie came out I was baffled as to why it was made, I assumed it was because evil rules the world. Much later when I found the movie for sale on VHS for one dollar, I bought it under the hopes that maybe an ironic viewing might somehow redeem this movie. Irony could not save the Flintstones. My only option left is fire, it's up to fire now to save this movie or destroy it. I believe in the power of fire to right our wrongs. "},{"Title":"An Older Audience That Grew Up With The Flintstones Wont Be Impressed,","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flintstones is a decent movie with a surprisingly clever story line,but only a alright cast,and most of them don't really relate to the characters their playing.If you grew up with the Flintstones,like myself,you will definitely be disappointed with this movie.I felt the only member of the cast who stayed true to his character was John Goodman,he sounded and behaved just like Fred Flintstone from the classic animated series.I didn't appreciate Rick Moranis,who sounded nothing like the original Barney Rubble,and I especially disliked Rosie O'Donnel,Betty Rubble is one of the most attractive cartoon characters ever,and then they get one of the ugliest characters in Hollywood to play her,that was a bad casting decision.I also didn't like Halle Berry,she was just thrown in to amuse the dads watching this with their kids,and her name literally being Sharon Stone was not at all funny.When Fred Flintstone (John Goodman) gives Barney (Rick Moranis) money so he can adopt a child,Barney gives Fred the opportunity of getting the job he has always wanted. "},{"Title":"Have a Yabba Dabba Doo Doo time.....","Date":"1 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fred and Barney work at Slate and Company, mining rock. Fred gives Barney some money so he and Betty can adopt a baby. When Fred and Barney take a test to determine who should become the new associate vice president, Barney returns the favour by switching his test answers for Fred's, whose answers aren't very good. Fred gets the executive position, but little realises that he's being manipulated by Cliff Vandercave to be the fall guy for an embezzlement scheme.....As soon as the credits roll, you know that the makers are really trying too much to entertain the adults as much as the kids, and when Berry introduced herself as Sharon Stone, I gave up.It is faithful to the cartoon, and to be fair, the effects and the references to the cartoon are wondrous, and Bedrock really does come alive on the screen.Goodmaen is way over the top, but I don't believe there is any other way. The rest of the cast are just there, but Moranis is great and really shines in this.The plot is simple and straight forward, and it's as predictable as alway, friends fall out, argue for a while, hero gets the blame, every one hates him for a while, come the end, everyone is happy.It's not good, and it's not clever, just a tirade of product placement and silly references to adults.That made me grimace rather than smile. "},{"Title":"Too serious","Date":"14 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" When Fred (John Goodman) gets promoted, evil sleazy executive Cliff Vandercave (Kyle MacLachlan) sees a stupid patsy to take the blame for his embezzling scheme. First Fred is forced to fire Barney (Rick Moranis), then the rest of the employees. Then he signs all kinds of memos without reading them. It all comes back to haunt him when the embezzling comes to light.This is a live action take on the classic cartoon. I actually like the visual styles. It's got the crazy rock look. But they needed more colors and brighter colors. The story is too serious. Not only is there scheming, but also fighting, firing people, money troubles and kidnapping. It's a children's cartoon. There is too much danger especially for the kids. It needs to be much lighter. "}{"Title":"They Just Couldn't Pull It Off","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Years ago, there was a fad in Hollywood for making live-action adaptations of old cartoons. Most if not all of these live-action adaptations didn't work. This movie is one such instance.Yes, it tried to stick to the spirit of the old series, plus adding a few new jokes, such as a volcanic eruption closing a highway forever (and that type of event being considered routine). But the main joke of the cartoon was the idea of using animals in clever ways, such as a bird for a factory whistle or dinosaurs for construction machines. This idea worked as an animated cartoon. Unfortunately it just wasn't the same, or as effective, using animatronic animals. The other effects, such as Slate's stone spectacles, also didn't really work in live action either.The actors did okay, though Rosie O'Donnell was the worst choice possible for Betty Rubble. The story is a standard Flintstones-type plot evil manipulators try to loot Fred's employer, and as part of the plot, Fred is promoted to a high office in the company, and Fred is too stupid to realize he is being used.Recommended for Flintstones completists only. "},{"Title":"Pretty good. Under rated by idiots.","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Its very easy for so many idiots to put down this film but how many would appreciate that they tried to stay true to the cartoon and concept at all times? What were they expecting? Schindler's list? These snobs should stop pointing their noses towards the sky as nobody really respects them.At no point during the movie do the actors embarrass themselves in trying to portray the cartoon characters and their performances of the related roles has been excellent. All the bedrock props and environment have been fairly realistically constructed. But most importantly, like every Flintstones episode, this movie has a great story and twist. This movie is a must watch for any one who liked or followed the cartoon. "},{"Title":"The Flintstones","Date":"14 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is the live action film of the popular Hanna Barbera cartoon about the stone age family. There is not that much good comedy, it is more emotion and family based, but it is quite good for some reasons. John Goodman plays Fred Flintstone, husband and father of the famous stone age family. He is exactly as ignorant and fat as the the cartoon version. Elizabeth Perkins plays Wilma Flintstone, she is quite pretty, but she is not as worrying as the cartoon version. Honey, I Shrunk the Kids' Rick Moranis plays the cartoon's best character Barney Rubble. He is giggly and a bit dumb, not quite as good as the cartoon though. And Rosie O'Donnell as Betty Rubble is just not right, she is meant to be thin and attractive, not fat and quite loud. Also starring Kyle MacLachlan as Cliff Vandercave, Halle Berry as Sharon Stone (probably meant to be irony, but they did originally want the actress of the same name), Elizabeth Taylor as Pearl Slaghoople and Richard Moll as Hoagie. Not all people who loved the cartoon show would bother with this, but it is still quite fun for the family. Halle Berry was number 99, and Dame Elizabeth Taylor number 77 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Taylor was also number 11 on The 50 Greatest British Actresses, and she was number 7 on Britain's Finest Actresses. Okay! "},{"Title":"Sure, it LOOKS like the Flintstones..but that's all","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flintstones with real actors - hey, that sounds cool. Great special effects, good casting(John is SO much like Fred), and Steven Spielberg - how could it go wrong? Well, somehow, it did. Probably because of the script, this movie that starts off nicely, soon turns into a bore for grown ups and hardly a blast for the kids. The story is dull, and all the cliches are there - nagging mother-in-law, sexy secretary, rich ppl becoming arrogant, you name it! The question is, why did they bring these grown up elements into the movie? This is marketed as a kiddies' film, and I doubt they understand the story very much; for grown ups, it's simply boring to see the old cliches used once again, just in a funny setting. There are few truly funny moments, and though the actors do their best, they can't save the movie from being dull, silly, and in parts very sappy. It's a disgrace, as the original cartoon was funny, cool, and the family scenes were simply endearing.One of the things I liked was Rosie O'Donnell doing Betty's role. In the original cartoon, Betty is as slender as Wilma. It was nice to see a big girl cast in a positive role, her weight never being an issue. And Rosie does it so great - listen to her laugh. Go Rosie!All in all, I give this movie a 3 out of 10. That's for the special effects and casting. Too bad they didn't bother to write an actual storyline.  "},{"Title":"I'm sure someone worked hard...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I know that it takes a lot of people and a lot of work to make a film, but this film is absolutely horrendous.  Only thing good is the costumes.  This is the only film to date where I have actually walked out of the theatre in the middle of it.Bottom line...big pile o' pooey.  PLEASE don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Yubba Dubba Don't See It.","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flintstones (1994) Dir Brian Levant / Cast John Goodman, Elizabeth Perkins, Rick Moranis, Rosie O'Donnell, Elizabeth Taylor Here is a huge opportunity to create movie magic and instead a celebrated cartoon is turned into a pathetic showcase. It is claimed that over thirty writers were assigned to the screenplay but I have read instruction booklets that regarded how to put batteries in appliances that were more artistic than this film. Fred Flintstone assists his friend Barney Rubble in adopting Bam Bam and he repays him by switching aptitude tests that will determine who will be Vice-President at Slate Enterprises. This leads to a conspiracy that costs workers their jobs and has Fred on the run. Horrible translation by director Brian Levant whose best asset is the prehistoric production. The screenplay throws in aptitude tests, embezzlement, office politics, fraud, and adoptions that will not interest the intended audience. With that said the characters are given little of a plot. John Goodman and Elizabeth Perkins give it a welcome attempt as Fred and Wilma, but Rick Moranis fails to project Barney's mannerisms, and Rosie O'Donnell hardly looks like Betty although she did deliver on the famous giggle. Elizabeth Taylor as Fred's mother-in-law is another horrible miscast. Thirty writers could not prevent this from becoming an embarrassing prehistoric failure. Score 3 / 10 "},{"Title":"No one but John Goodman could....","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I really enjoy John Goodman and have seen most of what he has done. Therefor, I wanted to see this film due to him being in it and because the Flintstones take me back. I think the film was o.k. The set design was great and nobody else could play Fred. Rick Moranis and Elizabeth Perkins were great for their parts too. Rosie O'Donnell shouldn't be in any movie. Ugh. The plot was transparent, but good acting and nostalgia kept me interested. I liked the animatronics in the film. They were very good for the time and Steven Spielberg is a master. The details in the backgrounds were very good. The Flintstones is a movie done well, but it is still a movie about the Flintstones and that's why it wont ever have a high rating. If John Goodman wasn't in this film, I probably wouldn't ever watch it, but that's just me. I would say watch the film, but don't spend money on it. "},{"Title":"Does Not Deserve The Low Rating...","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's current rating is 4.7, and I think it's unfair, so I'm giving it 10 stars.I would've probably rated it 7 out of 10 under normal circumstances, but I don't understand all the hate, and I think the current (very low) rating is undeserved, so...I don't get all the harsh criticism this movie has received. I, too, have watched the cartoon when I was a kid, and I do think this is a fairly good adaption.The movie is funny, original, and entertaining. It's a light-hearted comedy, which isn't meant to be serious or realistic. It is what it is, and it serves it's purpose (to entertain and generate laughs) well enough by my standards.I did not think Rosie O'Donnell was a particularly good choice. She does not portray Betty very well, but the rest of the cast were actually very good. I was particularly fond of Wilma's Mother! She was funny! What are these people complaining about, exactly!? I think it's a great family film that can be enjoyed by both - kids and adults alike. "},{"Title":"Sprite is right","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Once upon a time a young woman had a husband and 2 young twin daughters. She lived in a time when men were still trying to feel themselves out. One day the Creator came to her husband and asked him a favor. He and his buddy had no clue what to do so the Creator sent these other 2 young men. One from the sun and the other an earthling. Things got wicked and people had to make a mad dash for some quick cash holling ass up some damn hill. the Sun dude told them all to not turn around for he didn't want them to see what he was going to be upto with all these dudes who wanted to give him some dick. She this young ladyfinger turned her ass around and burned right up. What is your name agame? Can you have your friends who are in the know leave this message for life on earth before you whenever go? Grow more trees, grass and plants, at the top and bottom of every magazine, book, and newspaper there is. It would truly help sustain life here on earth for all the Creators creations. In advance..Thanks "},{"Title":"Feature Film Adaptation","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  From a successful cartoon series of the early 60's, 'The Flintstones' made the journey from cartoon to Hollywood in the 90's. Halle Berry was probably the first black actress to be apart of this journey of a 60's fascination being made relevant to a 90's generation. With the contribution of Spike Lee's films and the legacy that he left behind with 'Malcolm X', Hollywood was almost forced to find a black artiste to take part in this film. There is no doubt about it, it is definitely a token role, but it demonstrates that the black community were no longer invisible in Hollywood. The next question is, who would play Daffy Duck if an adaptation was made? "}{"Title":"A dreary mess.","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Alright, I admit it the only reason I watched this merchandise-selling spielbergian fluff was to trash it here afterwards. Guilty as charged. (And not the first time, either.) I remember well the mega-hype, the incessant advertising surrounding this crap 20 years ago, and knew (as any sane person did) that this celluloid junk wasn't to be considered even as a potential time-waster on the dullest rainy afternoon.Did I have ANY hopes at all that this garbage based on a mediocre kiddy cartoon could possibly surprise me? Of course not. Any movie that expects us to laugh at or with Rosie O'Donnell and Liz Taylor (ironically, the only genuine-looking large lizards) is doomed from the start. Not to mention that even as a kid I'd considered nearly all Hanna-Barbera cartoons as vastly inferior to Disney, Warner Brothers, MGM and others.In a sense, though, the movie was better than I'd expected I'd foreseen giving a 0/10 film but ended up dishing out a generous 1/10 rating instead. Naturally, this is only due to IMDb's rating system. IMDb is to blame that I can't allocate the appropriate number to this utterly useless pile of comedic debris. Normally I'm quite content with the 1 as the lowest rating &#x96; given that even a 3 signifies horse-manure - but I can't get rid of this ugly feeling of insulting all the 1-rated movies by giving this bull-manure a number larger than Nirvana.TF is fascinating though. It is absolutely fascinating how a bunch of Hollywood dummies managed to get together and get EVERYTHING wrong. (Not that any film-maker could have made a good live-action movie out of the The Flintstones; this was CLEARLY mission impossible.) No aspect of this embarrassing comedy had not been brought down to the level of a school play from the mostly abysmal casting to the grotesque/ugly (as opposed to cute) creatures to the unsuitable story-line to the cringe-worthy Porky's-level humour; this mega-turkey flops on every conceivable level.Supply and demand&#x85; corporate embezzlement&#x85; street protests&#x85; Did I dream it? How many kids understand these terms? There is even a lynch mob scene, complete with a noose is this the stuff of family pictures? I admit that my last viewing of the TV show was back when I was around 8, but I don't recall any episodes in which Wall Street terminology was being thrown around. Clearly, some money-obsessed Hollywood yuppie must have written this script, completely neglecting to consider themes and topics that kids are interested in and familiar with. Even the B-grade writers who concocted all those inferior stories in the overrated TV original knew better than to make corporate fraud the central premise of a dumb lowest-common-denominator caveman comedy. That Spielberg would actually OK this plot &#x96; plus the totally irrational casting of Rosie as Betty &#x96; speaks volumes about what an overrated film-maker he is.Then again, TF isn't really a family picture. Usage of the term family picture presupposes that adults can enjoy the movie as well as kids. Speaking of which, TF isn't for kids either; I doubt there are many 5 year-olds daft enough to laugh at this uninspired collection of bargain-basement gags. No; even they are too old for this crap. The only demographic group that might be suitable for this garbage is infants. They fulfill all the criteria 1) their brains are light-years from being on par even with Sean Penn; 2) they haven't yet opened their eyes which spares them the badness of the visual gags &#x96; especially the incessant mugging; 3) they don't yet understand English which spares them the anguish of hearing and understanding all the awful dialog. Infants are almost ideally suited as an audience for trash such as this.The only way this forgettable franchise could have been transplanted onto the big screen with any measure of non-badness would have been to do it as an absurdist comedy in the ZAZ vein. Even then it would have been a tall order, even for the best writers, to make it work. But for the WORST Hollywood writers this was a ridiculously impossible task. Nevertheless, this pile of chicken droppings managed to rake in tons of money at the box-office, reminding us that idiocracy didn't start in this century.As of this writing, I've seen around 800 comedies. I wouldn't hesitate for a second to rank this malarkey in the Top 10 of the Worst Hollywood Comedies Ever Made. Rosie & co make Adam Sandler look like Chaplin. Even Jack Black fumbling about in a wrestling ring becomes high art next to John Goodman going ya-ba-dubba-doo. "},{"Title":"Soundtrack","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film has a great soundtrack. My Life With The Thrill Kill Kult was an excellent choice for this film.I wish there was a way to post a comment without rambling on and on about how great or terrible the movie is. If it was a mediocre movie it deserves a mediocre comment. Goodman is great, as he usually is. He always reminded me of Fred Flintstone, so yeah, he was well cast. Rosie O'Donnell sucks, but I can't think of a better Betty Rubble. The cartoons are much better than this movie though. Its just not the same without the cartoon voices, it just isn't the same. If you were or still are a fan of the Hanna-Barbera cartoon, this movie probably isn't for you. It's a lot like how Hollywood ruined Scooby-Doo for me, although that didn't happen for another 10 years. Meh, yabba dabba doo! its the Flintstones. "},{"Title":"I guess I'm just not a kid anymore....","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I still love the Flintstones cartoon.  A reminder of a younger, some would say simpler time in my life.  This movie, on the other hand, is a reminder of a younger, some might say less intelligent time in my life.  I watched this movie tonight for the first time in about six or seven years.  First of all, I don't know how Halle Berry went from this movie to an Oscar winning actress.  As far as the story goes, there are not really any complaints.  Its expected to be simple, and I can respect that.  The problem with this movie, which is essentially eye candy(well it was back then), is the acting.  John Goodman, who has made some fine turns in films like Fallen and The Big Lebowski, is just bad.  It seems to me that he is doing his best Jackie Gleason impression, and its really not all that good.  Rosie O'Donnell gives a stiff, and yet somehow melodramatic performance.  Don't ask me how thats possible.  Rick Moranis is just annoying as Barnie.  Elizabeth Perkins is extremely one dimensional and fails to capture the fire of a cartoon character.  In all fairness, this is also the fault of bad direction.  All in all, I'm glad I'm older now because I can see the errors of my ways, and the errors of others ways as well.  If you're over six, avoid this movie like the plague because its just bad.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Tune in on TV reruns instead...","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Insipid and listless remake of the Saturday morning cartoon show of the 1960's. Obviously made to cash in on Baby Boomer sentiments. Lacks all the fun and humor of the cartoon, and goes on way too long. This sitcom format is rarely sustainable for more than standard 30 or 60 minutes shows. THE FLINSTONES wears out its welcome after the beginning musical score. The script is unfunny, predictable and dull. John Goodman is an exceptional actor, yet he can't save this turkey. Kids will be bored, and those who remember the original with any fondness, will likely get depressed. "},{"Title":"A live action Flintstones movie - find the flaw in that sentence","Date":"29 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I will confess and say that I was never a fan of the original Flintstones cartoon. I'm usually the one to jump on board and support poorly animated shows from the dawn of animated programs, but The Flintstones never resonated to me as anything more than a one note joke breathlessly carried out for an overwhelming one hundred and sixty-six shorts. Its setups were tired, its jokes cliché, and its characters bland and one dimensional.The film adaptation is more of the same, with one gleaming flaw from the start; its live action transfer. May I ask why? Why does the film industry continue to force programs that were born to be animated into the live action format. A way to save money is my only guess. But if you would stick to the old animation, wouldn't more people show up? Bottom line; The Flintstones was cheesy and completely cartoony with its slapstick, its ridiculous use of dinosaurs and prehistoric lifeforms as common household appliances, and its more subtle quirks that made the show memorable. All of those worked because it was all animated - you could never envision this happening in real life. Why would you want to? Our story begins with Cliff Vandercave (Kyle MacLachlan) discussing to a co-worker how he plans to take over the company Slate & Co. by looking like he is working hard on improving it while he is simultaneously shafting it out of much-needed cash. He plans on using Fred Flintstone in order to carry out this plan. Fred is played by John Goodman and his best pal Barney is played by Rick Moranis. To be fair, both men inhabit their roles nicely. Goodman is the go-to man to play Fred and while Moranis seems to not be built like the cartoon Barney, one must recognize that he does a faithful job at bringing the character to life.The same can be said for Elizabeth Perkins, playing Wilma, Fred's long-suffering wife, but the same can not be said for the woefully miscast Rosie O'Donnell as Betty, Barney's wife. One look at the cartoon Betty and Rosie O'Donnell and the resemblance is far beyond distant.Basically, Fred gets appointed the honorable job of being the vice president of Slate & Co. and it comes as no surprise that he lets the power get to his head and shortchanges his best friend Barney which starts by firing him. From there, it's all cliché best friend breakup arguments, tired sight gags, and a helluva lot of unfunny rock puns.The set design, at first, is welcoming and nice to look at. But after ninety long minutes of staring at rock buildings, CGI dinosaurs, and poorly crafted slapstick jokes, the endeavor goes from welcoming to downright bloated. The CGI, just as well, is uninspired, especially on Dino, who goes down as one of the most incessant and unnecessary characters of this decade. He's buffoonish, annoying, and transfers about as well to the big screen as Scooby-Doo did in 2002.The Flintstones is a rather monotonous adventure, much like how the show was. Its jokes become stale too quickly, its premise is dated (not pun intended), and even the slightly humorous little tidbits such as the creatures of Bedrock working as household appliances becomes unfunny because of the way they look in the film. Also, the film's concern with plot points that are likely not appealing to kids (or even adults in that respect) can't rebound the film's already ridiculous setup and ideas.Starring John Goodman, Rick Moranis, Elizabeth Perkins, Rosie O'Donnell, and Kyle MacLachlan. Directed by Brian Levant. "},{"Title":"What an insult!","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok John Goodman does a good job playing Fred and the rest of the cast maybe weren't born to be some of their characters but maybe those persons haven't even been born so they do a good job. Bedrock looks OK you can easily see that they've spent a lot of time working on it trying to make it look just like the cartoon but the story compared to the one the cartoon has is a definite insult just look at the ratings that this movie has here at IMDB 4.4 right now (March 7th 2000) those guys at Universal should have back in 1993 (when they were writing the script) well the story is really bad let's make a movie combining 4 of the most popular episodes in one story that would have been a very good idea I'm sure that it would have had made much more money than the 358.5 million it made worldwide even though that is a lot I know that if they had a better story it would have like 500M or more. Maybe lots of those 358.5M are because people couldn't believe that they had made a bad movie about a family that generations have grown with. I expect something better with the prequel that is coming out this summer even though I don't think the people they chose to be the new Flintstones look like them as the first cast did. "},{"Title":"If only we could vote 0","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This has got to be the worst of Speilbergs movies he has directed. The acting as awful especially John Goodmans and the characters dont represent that in the cartoon. If we could vote 0 in this movie website i would vote 0 for this movie. The 2nd movie was a lot better. Dont see this movie. Also the other rubbish thing about it is the awful group who sing the flintstones theme on this movie. "},{"Title":"It's not a realYabba-Dabba-Doo Time.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was not barely able to sit and watch this version.I tried to find something good till the end of the film and I didn't get it,but something upset.The production should be better than of what I had seen.Liz Taylor was a special cast but the weak script and production pulled everything down.Watch the original has been enough! The episodes were good stories.Some of them couldn't be forgotten with tears in my eyes during watching a friendship between Fred and Barney,,,,Great!!! "},{"Title":"A mockery of the original cartoon","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Movie remakes of TV shows have been notoriously failing miserably for some time (but they keep getting made anyway, for whatever reason), so it was inevitable that somebody would start churning out these remakes based on classic cartoons. An early victim was The Flintstones, a failed experiment that should have told them not to do any more of these.Quite simply, this movie stinks like a pile of dinosaur droppings.The original cartoon poked innocent fun at mainstream America, creatively clothing it with prehistoric costumes and primitive technology, focusing on an everyday family and putting them in wild situations. Fred, Wilma, Barney, and Betty were all likable, and we laughed at Fred's ridiculous schemes and the chaotic outcomes.The spirit of the cartoon is non-existent here. The characters just argue, screw up, argue some more, screw up some more. People lie, cheat, and back stab. Everyone is boorish and mean; and just make you angry. The script goes nowhere, in story or comedy. Jokes don't work--come to think of it, were there any jokes even in this thing? Or any comedy at all? Wait One (and only one) thing was funny--Rosie O'Donnell had the Betty Rubble snicker down. That's it.John Goodman, Rick Moranis, and Elizabeth Perkins (all normally good comic actors) seem lost in this primeval slop. As for some other actors in the cast, they were so obnoxious I was hoping a pterodactyl would sweep them up and toss them into a tar pit somewhere.If Early Man was like this, no wonder Neanderthals went extinct. "},{"Title":"Very underrated.","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Flintstones was a classic, beloved cartoon, and it seems like because of how well it was loved, people just couldn't accept a live action movie. This is actually an entertaining and amazing looking movie.Fred Flintstone (John Goodman) gets a promotion at work when Barney (Rick Moranis) switches tests with Fred and Wilma (Elizibeth Perkins) previously helped him and Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) adopt their child Bam Bam. Fred gets tricked and ends up being in debt and becoming an outlaw. It sounds stupid, and it is, but it's really a fun movie. The sets are amazing, and the best part is, instead of computer animation taking over, most of these awesome sets were actually built. Even the dinosaurs, excluding Dino at times, are animatronics. The acting is OK, not great, mainly because of which actors portray which characters. Barney on the cartoon was supposed to be a husky little guy, and Rick Moranis was in no way fat. Betty was supposed to be petite, and Rosie O'Donnell was terrible casting, and she gives an odd, bad performance. But other than that, this is a fun, great looking movie.My rating *** out of ****. 92 mins. PG for mild language. "}{"Title":"Just when you thought your childhood memories were safe...","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Is Hollywood ever going to stop remaking old classics, or turning old cartoons into live-action films? I was never a big fan of The Flintstones, but the show did have charm, and was decent children's entertainment. This doesn't, and it isn't. The film starts off with a poorly acted scene that acts as a prologue to the film itself and sets the tone nicely. That means that if you're considering watching this movie, just watch the scene preceding the credits and you can make up your mind on whether or not you want to sit through the rest of this. It acts as a fair warning to even the most overbearing parent. As soon as this scene is over, we get a live-action version of the famous and well-known intro to the TV-series which will make even the most mentally hardened die-hard fan break down in tears and yell Please make it stop! Oh my gosh! at the screen. The film ends with a live-action re-enactment of the end credits sequence of the show as well, which most likely will bring forth the same reaction. I'm not going to lie to you; I didn't pay that much attention to the film. It might have been because I saw it once when I was a kid (almost ten years ago). But, more likely, it was just because it was really dull and downright offensive to anyone who is/was a fan of the show, even slightly, or anyone who actually does demand just a little quality from a film they watch. It's so tacky and crude. Honestly, I couldn't tell you one single joke or gag from the movie, and I've just seen it. My mind, my very subconscious represses it, pushes the memory of the film away from the surface... and you know what? I'm thankful for that. No one should have to see this film. No one. It might have a good effect as a torture device, but that's it. Now, to break it down just quickly for you The plot is dull, pointless, completely predictable(in fact, almost painfully so). The pacing is awful. For a movie that's only 90 minutes, it certainly felt much, much longer. The acting isn't all bad, but it certainly isn't impressive. The characters are cheap clichés and stereotypes, mere cardboard cutouts of their characters from the original TV-series. The special effects are so see-through and poorly done that you have to wonder what the heck the film-makers were thinking... if they were thinking at all. Maybe that's it. They slept through the whole thing, and wound up with a bunch of finished film, had it edited by a man with two broken arms and sent it off to the cinemas. I recommend this film only to children, as no adult could possibly be forgiving enough and so indifferent to quality that he or she could actually enjoy even part of this film. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Unmitigated crap.....","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The worst movie I have ever seen - simple as that. It went plunging past the so bad it's funny stage and descended into the deepest bowels of bad movies. The only time I have ever really felt that I wasted my money to watch a movie. I would rather have a Tang® colonic than be forced to watch this movie again. If you want Flintstones, stick with the cartoon! "},{"Title":"awful","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  i dont even want to waste more than the required words for a comment. this movie is a shame to the cartoon and should never have been made,,it is one of the worst movies ever made ...  you cannot make cartoons like this into live action .. all you do is tarnish the cartoon ...  i wish hollywood would stop making crap like this and start makin movies again.. "},{"Title":"No-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o!","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" WHOSE DASTARDLY, INBRED IDEA WAS THIS?!!!!!!!!! I've heard of despicable adaptations, but The Flintstones is a level all on its own! Featuring Fred (John Goodman) becoming an executive while slimy deals are going on, the movie makes you feel like you died and went to the hottest part of Hell. Worse still, this God-awful excuse for a movie started a trend of dreadful movie adaptations of TV shows Mission Impossible, Lost in Space (although the show apparently sucked to begin with), The Avengers, The Mod Squad, Rocky and Bullwinkle, Scooby Doo, I Spy, The Honeymooners (although the show apparently sucked to begin with) and Bewitched; it's a pure fluke that the movie versions of The Addams Family, The Beverly Hillbillies, The Brady Bunch and Charlie's Angels were worth watching (although the same can't always be said for sequels my dad saw Charlie's Angels Full Throttle on an airplane and called it one of the ten worst movies that he'd ever seen). To add insult to injury, there was that Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas (which, thankfully, I never saw); John Waters's Cecil B. Demented made a joke about it.All in all, this just may be the worst movie ever. I know that it's hard to say, given that there are so many bad movies, but it's certainly up there. They wasted the talents of Goodman, Elizabeth Perkins, Rick Moranis, Rosie O'Donnell, Halle Berry, Kyle MacLachlan, and Jonathan Winters. And how did Elizabeth Taylor end up this swill? Not that she was one of the greatest actresses to begin with.In conclusion, I hear that they're making a Get Smart movie with Steve Carell. I guess that we should keep an open mind, but there's more reason to be suspicious than to be anticipatory. And furthermore, THERE HAD BETTER NOT BE MOVIE VERSIONS OF I Love Lucy, Mister Ed, Gilligan's Island, I Dream of Jeannie, The Flying Nun, All in the Family, Sanford and Son, Happy Days, and Three's Company! At least The Andy Griffith Show and The Dick Van Dyke Show are named after people, and thus can't get all fouled up on the silver screen. "}]