[{"Title":"TWO LEGS BAD!!!!!!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"32 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Agreed, the acting could have been a bit less melodramatic but the actresses concerned did a good job when they weren't looking like supermodels. The trick about it was they had to look good and they did look good.  Madeleine Stowe's Cool Cody, Andie McDowell's Elegant Eileen, Mary Stuart Masterson's Arch Anita, and Drew Barrymore's tomboyish Li'l Lilly, were fetching and gave rise to Girl Power credence.  I couldn't take my eyes off Barrymore who had come a long since E.T. and her drug/alcohol fuelled periods of teen angst/pain.  The fight at the end in the corral blew me away, those  girls proved they could outshoot anything on two legs!!!There should be a sequel!!!4 out of 5  "},{"Title":"Cast off the shackles that bind women of the West","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Jonathan Kaplan's Bad Girls leaves an interesting taste in my mouth. It is an energetic and fun film, offset by its ridiculous characters and plot. The believability factor in this flick is low, which encourages its audience to view it as a swirling maelstrom of metaphor and symbol. Woman, as defined by the early 90's, can overcome any impediment and still be beautiful, no need to become manly (and lose her femininity) to assert herself. The Western genre serves as a perfect tableau for this discourse because it is one traditionally dominated by men. Likewise, the men in Bad Girls each represent an institution of American culture that is dominated by men and their mentality, conveniently dispatched by the bad girls.Four whores raise hell by killing a Colonel and running out of town, complete with unnecessary slow motion of Drew Barrymore shouting heeyah! and the humiliation of every man who crosses their path. The military, traditional justice, and Christianity are trampled upon, left wondering how these motivated and hard working women could escape their clutches. The film from here takes some twists and turns, and several complete circles. In short, the whores chase a dream of establishing a home for themselves around a mill that Mary Stuart Masterson's late husbands owned, countering the murderous advances of men with their own sexual flaunting. Gunfights, smarmy dialogue, pseudo-lesbianic encounters, and female flesh fill the film to to a near bursting capacity, much like Barrymore's bosom.It is not what I would call a smart film, however it does present itself as an interesting fable about the empowerment of women by women who remain women. I would liken Bad Girls to that of the Freudian dreams of those who struggle against the man. I feel that it deserves to be seen at least once. "},{"Title":"Top Notch","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"23 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Best expression of women in westerns I have seen so far. This eclipses the Sharon Stone film The Quick and the Dead. The latter film softens the lead character by making her survival depend wholly on the Russel Crowe character. In Bad Girls Madeline Stowe eats up the dust on the west and shows a no nonsense gunslinger that has been rare since the Man With No Name hit his stride with a trilogy of spaghetti westerns that made Clint Eastwood a universal star. I can hardly ignore the great cinema style and the substance of this movie that transcends the gender of it's hero. Make no mistake about it this is Stowe's movie to win or lose and she comes away having broke the bank at Monte Carlo. See it with open eyes if you like westerns. If you don't see something else as this will surely disappoint. It is a western all the way. "},{"Title":"A fun, fast paced movie for all","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When I pick a movie to watch there are four elements that draw me to it. The cast, the story line, excitement and most of all I want the movie to be fun to watch. Bad Girls incorporates all four of these elements. The story centers on four former saloon prostitutes who are on the run after one of them shoots and kills a prominent citizen of Echo City. The four girls, Cody Zamora played by Madeleine Stowe, Anita Crown, played by Mary Stewart Masterson, Eileen Spencer played by Andie MacDowell and Lilly Laronette played by Drew Barrymore are great together. The story line may not be totally accurate from a historical standpoint but the action and acting are good and more than make up for whatever may be wrong. For me the story was more about the relationship that existed between the four girls without going over the line and making it sexual. For me, Bad Girls was a winner. "},{"Title":"Bad Girls Do...","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" ....have more fun. Bad Girls is about four soiled doves, Cody Zamora, (Madeline Stowe,) Anita Crown, (Mary Stuart Masterson,) Eileen Spenser, (Andie McDowell,) and Lily Laronette, (Drew Barrymore. Anita's abused by a client, and her friends promptly shoot him. Cody's almost lynched but they make good their escape, and meet up with Josh, a prospector on his way to Oregon to stake his claim. Meanwhile, the Pinkertons, in the form of detectives O'Brady, and Graves, are hired by Colonel Clayborne's widow to find them because she has a very low opinion of the law in the town. Cody, Anita, Eileen, and Lily, are in another town, where Cody tries to withdraw her money from the bank. Kid Jarret, an outlaw, and his gang, rob the bank, taking Cody's money, which totals over $12,000. Cody goes after Kid and finds his hideout. She meets Kid's father, who stole Josh's father's claim, and whom Josh wants did. Cody's beaten by Kid, and brought back to town. Will, a poor rancher, is deputized, by the town marshal, and is taken in by Eileen, who was left behind by Cody, Anita, and Lily, when she couldn't mount her horse. Lily's taken by Kid and held hostage. Kid plans to steal a shipment of Army rifles, and a Gatling gun. Anita, who's a widow, has a homesteading claim in Oregon, but can't make good on it because her husband's dead. Kid wants to have Lily as the gang's personal whore. Kid and his gang steal the shipment of Army rifles, and the Gatling gun, and Cody, Anita, and Eileen, steal the Army rifles and Gatling gun, from Kid and his gang. They also take Kid's father, whom they plan to trade for Lily. Josh kills Kid's father and they go to Kid's hideout to rescue Lily. Cody, Anita, and Eileen, rescue Lily and shoot up Kid's hideout. Kid's out of ammunition so Cody takes a bullet from her Winchester rifle, gives it to him, and tells him to shoot and die like a man. OUCH! THAT WAS COLD! I've always wanted to say this so here goes, Meanwhile, back at the ranch, Eileen helps Will pitch hay to his stock, and confesses to him that she's not from New Orleans. Her father was a dirt rancher from East Texas and she wanted to marry a rich man but all she ended up with was a broken heart. Cody gives Will some of her money so he can pay the mortgage on the ranch. Then Cody, Anita, and Lily, head for the Klondike. In Oklahoma, Graves asks a homesteader if he's seen her, and he says no. She's probably far away by now. This, as she and her two friends, are riding north. A good movie. "},{"Title":"If you are a female and a horse lover, then you will like this movie!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I really liked this movie because I love horses and I like the actors in this movie. The storyline is simple and it is a great action chick flick. It has humor, adventure and a great overall girl bonding feel to it.  It is the story of four friends who work in a parlor house who find themselves getting into trouble and having to go on the run. It is a story of the depth of friendship, strength, starting over, finding love and fighting back. Who said women can't kick some butt. A real feel good movie that is great to watch on a rainy Sunday afternoon. I would recommend adding this movie to one's movie collection. This is one movie where women are the heroes of the movie. "},{"Title":"Silly but cute...","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  This movie is pretty silly. The plot is laughably obvious, although there is a bit of interest at the end. It's cute though because the female outlaws are so perky. The leading ladies are ex-prostitutes who want to run their own ranch. One of them has a deed to some land, but en route to where they're going, they get involved accidentally with a robbery. The plot gets more unbelievable from there. This is a good movie if you're looking for a grin. Don't expect high action or compelling drama. "},{"Title":"Bad ___","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Cody Zamora (Madeleine Stowe), Anita Crown (Mary Stuart Masterson), Eileen Spenser (Andie MacDowell), and Lilly Laronette (Drew Barrymore) are prostitutes in the small Colorado town of Echo City. Cody kills a particularly rough client beating on Anita who refuses to kill anybody after the death of her true love. She is about to be hung when the girls rescues her. They are pursued by Pinkerton detectives Graves and O'Brady hired by the widow. Anita has a homestead claim in Oregon that she wants to start a saw mill with. Cody has over $12k to make the start. When the Pinkertons catches up at the Texas bank, Cody's old partner Kid Jarrett (James Russo) shows up to rob the bank and he takes her money to lure Cody to him. Eileen is captured by the town and Cody gets beaten by Kid Jarrett rescued by Josh McCoy (Dermot Mulroney).This was a great opportunity for women to lead a western. It should be a lot more than what this movie actually turned out to be. The sets look cheap and the style looks weak. This needs a great director to push a gritty tough style. Director Jonathan Kaplan has fallen into TV show directing after some early big screen success and there is a good reason for that. His style isn't cinematic or grand enough for a big adventure movie. The visual style is lacking. The ladies are all terrific actresses. The story rambles on and on. The tone is all over the place. This is a mess. There is a bit of good action at the end, but it's too little too late. "},{"Title":"Both fruitless and fruitful in equal measure western romp through an annoyingly Hollywoodised wild west, Bad Girls hits and misses but it ultimately enjoyable.","Date":"27 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Are the four titular lead women really all that bad in Jonathan Kaplan's 1994 Western thriller Bad Girls? Perhaps it's the nature of what they do lined up against what's expected of them that makes them so bad, that is to say, putting their necks on the line and obliterating whatever male dominated spectrum exists within the world they occupy as they strive for independence and individualism. Perhaps that's what makes them bad, the fact that they refuse to roll over for the majority of the men in the film and act like good little whores suitable to be looked at but nary heard. The titular girls do kill people, but most certainly in self-defence; they fight and they battle away, but do so against fair degrees of sexism; they're on the run, but their running is purely a result of pent-up rage and sustained marginalisation. As it happens, Bad Girls is a guilty romp through a west you couldn't really entitle wild about four gals just wanting a 'straight' American dream infused life but having to fight both misogyny and false charges brought against them along the way.The film covers the misadventures of a handful of women in pre-20th Century America, the ringleader and toughest of the lot of whom is Madeline Stowe's Cody Zamora; a woman nary afraid to stand up to men nor those lecherous and out to harm either herself or one of her kind, evident when we observe her react with violence to a patron's over exuberance at sampling the services of Drew Barrymore's Lilly Laronette. Stowe's reaction lands her in some seriously hot water, the death sentence carrying with it an air of disenchanted inevitability about it in that Zamora stands before the gallows on account of preventing the elderly man from having his way rather than defending a girl from rape. After a straight faced Zamora demands the execution party gets on with it, her three accomplices, with whom she has been working most of her life and will spend the majority of this film with, bound out of the wilderness and save both the day and Stowe's neck before charging off with her in tow. Fugatives to the law, Zamora; Laronette; Andie MacDowell's Eileen Spenser and Mary Stuart Masterson's Anita Crown hole up out of town after a verbal demonisation from those back at the party point out they are both the enemies of the people, religion and all things righteous.What transpires from this is effectively a weak rendition of 1992's Unforgiven, only minus Eastwood's character and Freeman's character; a tale about strong natured prostitutes maltreated but then themselves consequently being the ones whom go on the run as it's they whom are additionally stalked by a pair seeking their own brand of justice. Those men are two Pinkerton Marshals named O'Brady (Chinlund) and Graves (Beaver), men hired to track them down in this sprawling road movie of sorts and bring them to justice as the girls themselves attempt to get on with a more honourable way of living the allure of opening a saw mill in far off anywhere appearing particularly appealing. The film has fun with placing women at the forefront of its plot, allowing its lead characters to charm; trick and seduce their way out of tight spots and usually into tighter ones when they require some money rather than to throw around weight they do not have as might have been the case had male characters driven the film.The film isn't without flaw; its goofiness encapsulated by the fact each of these girls maintains a relatively photogenic look throughout, not once the years of abuse nor the results of their previous line of work really worming its way into either of their expressions nor overall demeanour and thus holding the film back from being the grittier tale it might have been. As time had passed and the four of them worked at that seedy tavern, each of them appeared to master the fine art of gunslinging and sharpshooting; Zamora managing to make best-friends/worst-enemies with a certain Kid Jarrett (Russo), a bandanna sporting low life thief with a small army of bandits whom waltzes around with a belt of bullets around his ribs, along the way. The chase element is surprisingly effective, a love plot to do with a young man named Josh McCoy (Mulroney) whom becomes mixed up in things, or more specifically Laronette, daft as it is good natured; a later sequence featuring this additionally consistent, in an unrealistic manner, photogenic young cowboy arriving to save his dame on horseback out of a dynamite caused cloud of smoke, suit of armour all that is missing, rather ridiculous but then spun around when it is he whom needs the collective power of the four women to save his own life.There's a glum and rather seedy sub-plot to do with Jarrett and his past-involvement, romantically, with Zamora which doesn't quite sync up with the rest of the film's boisterous tone of romp and circumstance; while Laronette's own swiping from the rest of the crew feels a little preordained, or more obligatory than is desired, since it is she who is the youngest of the four titular bad girls and it is she whom must then where the little dress her captors have lined up for her. You additionally feel their treatment of her might have been a little more sordid than it actually is, but a ruthless sticking to the overall tone of the film demands a watered down version of whatever might have happened in the real wild west; the taking of Laronette the result of Barrymore's sexuality when compared to the other three than that of any realistic plot driven reasons or mechanics. Flaws and frustrations aside, and there are a glowing number, Bad Girls is a daft but enjoyable frolic through hazy female empowerment and both action and western genre demands but done in a relatively fetching manner. "},{"Title":"You have already seen it.","Date":"31 January 2009","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Madeleine Stowe, as Cody Zamora, is a hooker who shoots a man in self defense. Being what she is, that is to say, not being Mother Teresa, she doesn't generate much sympathy in this rough-riding town and the good citizens decide to hang her. Get on with it, she tells them with Promethean contempt. They're about to do just that when three other young women of dubious repute rescue her at the last minute and ride off. In pursuit are a variety of justice seekers, including Pinkertons and other law types, one or two of them, such as Dermot Mulroney and James LeGros aren't too bad. On the trail they run into the Jarrett Gang. Some of the bad girls, and some of the pursuers as well, carry baggage with them related to the Jarrett Gang. There is a violent shoot out.Now, we must note here that the writers weren't reaching too far for original character names. The leader of the girls is Cody Zamora, whereas the leader of the Gang is Kid Jarrett. I'd be surprised if the writers hadn't seen James Cagney in White Heat as a gang leader named Cody Jarrett. At least there were no Wades or Coles or Lukes or Matts, although there was a bad guy named Yuma, which is pretty bad.In fact, though, all four of the bad girls could as easily have been men, or more easily. They WOULD have been men back in the 1950s or 1960s. But then I suppose the Jarrett Gang wouldn't have had an opportunity to treat Drew Barrymore to a lesson in Tough Love. At that, though, this is a BIG improvement over Westward the Women, with Robert Taylor as a sadistic wagonmaster hired to cart a caravan of would-be wives out to a female-starved Western outpost. Taylor consistently treats his wards like dirt and actually whips some of them when they don't work hard enough. There's nothing original here except the gender of the four leads. There is some suggested nudity but no simulated sex or anything else to pique one's interest. They just seem to have rounded up four popular actresses and thrown them into a well-worn dusty rut. The climactic gunplay is lifted straight out of The Wild Bunch, as are a couple of slow-motion gunshots. No reason for it, except that it had been done before.I thank the whole tenor of the pitcher is captured when there is a scene of them four hoorah gals a-settin' around the camp fire and a-havin' a peaceful chat. All four of them is exquisitely dressed and unimpeachably groomed with modern hair styles and make up in full panoply. Not a hair out of place, y'know? But the make up department has very carefully brushed a comely taupe area on one cheek or a smear of raw sienna across some otherwise impeccable forehead. That's dust and dirt from the road. They been on the trail fer quite a spell. And they talk like they just graduated from Wellesley. (That's this here classy college back East, kids.) Not a single g is dropped at the end of a word like nothing, or -- as we rawboned cowboys like to call it -- NUTHIN. How can writers and directors be so careless, so contemptuous of viewers? Or maybe I'm mistaken. Maybe they have a different audience in mind. But if so, what is it? "}{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"10 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" When the prostitute Cody Zamora (Madeleine Stowe) shoots a military man in self defense and is about to be hanged, she is rescued by her three companions (Masterson, Barrymore, MacDowell). They want to leave for Oregon, but are pursued by Pinkerton agents and their paths cross with Kid Jarrett, the local thug, and his mob.The movie itself is pretty fine; the problem is that it appeared too late. After such landmarks as Unforgiven, or even Dances With Wolves - not to mention the classic antiwesterns of the 1960s and 1970s - a western which is nothing more but a pure entertainment appears somewhat empty and unfocused. Also, it is somewhat underwritten the good chicks are individualised, clean and smart, the bad guys are a mass of dirty, drunken, constanly sinisterly laughing, idiotically-behaving, stereotypical villains. In the 90s? please! The movie could have worked as a tribute to classic old westerns, but what worked fine in the case of Silverado is here neglected - sadly, because this would significantly improve the picture. All in all, not a bad movie - just nothing new and original. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Seen worse by far.","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Bad Girls was a Young Guns wannabe with women. The actresses gave fair performances with the roles they were given, though those roles were clichéd and one-dimensional. The film was meant to show the struggles and hardships of women in the old west, yet the film failed on many levels. Rather than turning the women into gunslingers, they should've played more on the Thelma-and-Louise-of-the-old-west routine. What was worse was the whole we don't need you men, but we love you attitude. Overall, it could have been better, but then again, it could've been worse. It could've been Catwoman in the Old West. As crappy as it was, they should've had some T&A in the film, just for redeeming value. It would've made the show more watchable, at least. Feminists probably loved the film. At least it has a niche audience. "},{"Title":"Gunslingerettes line up for the atrocity exhibition.","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Bad Girls is directed by Jonathan Kaplan from a screenplay by Ken Friedman and Yolande Turner. It stars Madeleine Stowe, Mary Stuart Masterson, Andie MacDowell and Drew Barrymore. The plot sees the four girl actors playing prostitutes on the run following a justifiable homicide and a hanging escape. Suffice to say that they get into scrapes & double crosses whilst being pursued by the Pinkerton's.Being asked to suspend disbelief is one thing, being force fed drivel masquerading as pro-feminism is entirely another. Bad Girls is a mess of a movie, an insult to the Western genre, the fans of the lady actors, to the lady actors themselves; who simply deserve much much better and arguably worst of all; to women in general. The script is laughable, serving only as an excuse for the gals to sling those guns and hips when possible, and be abused and saved by men, while the plotting is by the numbers as everything falls into place readily. There's even slow-mo shots where they serve no purpose of enhancement. Throw into the mix that three of ladies look nothing like on the run outlaws, all shine and span and make up with nice hair (Masterson the exception as she has a modicum of believability about her), well it's rather a depressing experience all told. Sure, as a red blooded guy I'm not going to be turned off by Barrymore's shapely thighs adorned in white stockings, or Stowe's truly gorgeous face, but when the highlights of a girl Western is something that's only aesthetically sexy for men, then they clearly have got it wrong.So what's the justification for it being so bad? Well the back story offers up the answer. Film was meant to be directed by a woman, Tamra Davis (erm-Billy Madison & Crossroads), but she was jettisoned a couple of weeks into production. The plan with Davis at the helm was for it to be a Western told from a female point of view. However, Kaplan (The Accused/Unlawful Entry) was brought in quickly and the screenplay rewritten in a hurry. And boy does it show. Technically it's a duffer too, Jerry Goldsmith's score is cheap in texture and Jane Kurson's editing is choppy to say the least. There's no eye catching cinematography (Ralf D. Bode), while the acting away from the script hindered girls (ie the men), is either a waste of time them being in it (Nick Chinlund) or badly directed (James Russo). While Dermot Mulroney seems only to exist as being a link to Young Guns; the boy version that this is clearly trying to ride the coat tails in on. If you want a good Western about the girls fighting the good fight then seek out George Marshall's 1957 film The Guns Of Fort Petticoat. It's a fun movie that at least has believable women fighting back under duress. Bad Girls, tho, is just bad in every department. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Not bad, but half-hearted, attempt at a feminist Western","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" The idea of making a Western with women in the leading roles was an interesting one, but the casting was not exactly ideal. Don't get me wrong, the women in Bad Girls look great in their Western outfits, and they do a fine acting job as well, but only Drew Barrymore really convinces as a bad girl - you can see the fire of intensity burning in her eyes (Madeleine Stowe is a close second - at times she is convincingly defiant). And for a feminist Western, the women get mistreated rather frequently. But the biggest problem with this film is an unfocused script that never really takes off. Bad Girls was a big commercial and critical flop, but I don't think it's such a bad movie - it's just not as good as it should have been. (**) "},{"Title":"Opportunistic, meretricious, girl-power nonsense","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A girl-power western for the MTV generation, Bad Girls blatantly rehashes plot elements from The Wild Bunch and Unforgiven but lacks the depth of characterisation, the moral seriousness and the real feeling for the Western's history that made those films such outstanding examples of the genre. Director Kaplan seems to think he's pulling off some revisionist coup by putting women in the central roles, but he offers only lame stereotypes which combine the hoariest of old Western cliches (they're prostitutes!) with the emptiest of post-feminist attitude-striking (they're the Spice Girls on horseback!). The real offence of the film, though, is its opportunism and dishonesty. These foxy chicks are ostensibly rebelling against the oppression of women, specifically their objectification as sexual objects. But as they kick ass Buffy- or Xena-style, the camera lingers on thier hot bods as it would in any soft porn exploitation flick. There's even a lesbian subtext to titillate the most jaded of gentlemen's palates. What purports to be some kind of feminist fable in fact has the sexual politics of your average issue of Loaded magazine. Better seek out the surreal Freudian poetry of Nicholas Ray's Johnny Guitar (1954) or the down and dirty realism of Maggie Greenwald's The Ballad of Little Jo (1993) for Westerns that have something substantial to say about sex and gender. "},{"Title":"The Great Western that almost was.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" A decent enough film missing some key story and dramatic elements. The film takes no time getting into the meat of the matter, but the characters suffer because of it, ergo the film carries those same burdens.Were given the background of the four characters in question, but budgetary considerations scale down what could've been an epic western with its characteristic sale's point being fully explored. Regrettably it's somewhat cliché both in terms of a western and female oriented film. Because of this the film strives for an A+ but winds up hitting moderate B territory.A well shot pic with respectable acting, but not enough expose on the characters' origins, nor on how they developed into the outlaw clique they create for the film.Minor quibble; it's been over thirty years since I picked up a weapon of any-kind, but seeing the four leads handle their weapons shows the director wasn't too concerned about girlish overtones intruding on a traditionally masculine venue. It's a minor point, but an important one because Nimrods of both sexes understand how to handle firearms, and it puts a wry grin on this viewer's face to see the lead characters intimidated by their own weapons (even though they get off spectacular hip shots, a la the tradition of many other westerns).Acting and cinematography are respectable, as is the directing for what the shooting schedule allowed. Not an extraordinary film, but one that entertains on one level. That and the sexual component really didn't need the exposure it received in this film. In other words it could've been handled more tastefully, or axed altogether. Whoever thought seeing Barrymoore in a compromising position was way off base.I bought the thing at K-Mart for seven dollars, and given what I saw I think I got my money's worth. But what turned out to be a minor savings could have been a really bargain had FOX just allowed full development of script and story for this film. "},{"Title":"Not so much Wild West as rather genteel","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This is actually a fairly handsomely mounted and rather traditional western, if it wasn't for the unrelenting glamorousness of the protagonists. Even when they are dirty, you get the impression that it's designer dirt.But that's OK, because the glam factor is one of the things which sells this western.It sure isn't the story, because there are few surprises (although, to be fair, there are a couple of moments which aren't entirely expected).The confusing thing is that the movie is resolutely feminist, yet trades on the very un-feminist element of hot chicks. I suppose this enables it to appeal to two apparently contradictory demographics.The movie is a romp, which makes it a touch puzzling that Madelyn Stowe plays it very straight and serious.But, taking everything into consideration, it is entertaining, undemanding, and easy on the eyes. "},{"Title":"Bad Girls","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Bad Girls (1994) directed by Jonathan Kaplan is definitely a typical Western. It has the riding, the gun slinging, and the cowboys and prostitutes to fill it out. Yet with one large modification, the roles of the women are very different from what has come to be expected as the norm in this genre. The four leading women, even in their given roles as prostitutes, lead the movie and drive the storyline. The first woman, Cody Zamora (Madeleine Stowe) shoots a man for not stepping away from Anita Crown (Mary Stewart Masterson) her friend and fellow harlot. A group of religious zealots that happened to be protesting the hotel where the women worked brought her out to be hanged. Anita and the other two women, Eileen Spenser and Lilly Laronette (Andie MacDowell and Drew Barrymore) pack up to rescue Cody from the noose. From that point on, they are wanted women. They have strong wills and challenge the men that wish to capture them, or humiliate them. I like the idea of this movie in that you would turn gender roles in Westerns on its head, but there are so many instances that made the movie predictable and played down the intended role for the women. The women, regardless of how capable they are at shooting a gun and getting out of bad situations, seemed to just make trouble for themselves. This might have been a way to show the human fallibility, but it further perpetuates the Western genre classification. The only way they got out was though movie luck, the event where the antagonists' bullets never reach the protagonists or miss them completely, while the protagonist has perfect aim. My opinion of this movie is that it gets a little tedious, has seemingly unnecessary nude scenes, and is fairly predictable. This movie is merely entertaining on a superficial level. "},{"Title":"real good western like movie. Drew couldn't be cuter","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Cool western that tells about 4 women who are best friends on the run after one of them kills the sherriff. They had plans to start a sawmill in Oregon which go bad but everything ends happily. Drew Barrymore was excellent and smoking!! "},{"Title":"fun entertainment...beautiful ladies","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" I think I could have enjoyed Bad Girls a little better if I felt that ladies, particularly in the west were pathetic, helpless victims of the boorish, stupid, chauvinistic men.Oh well, I really enjoyed the fairly realistic town scenes and particularly the talent of the ladies....Drew Barrymore was quite fetching if not (like the rest of the movie).. even remotely....believable.I'd watch these ladies do just about anything....but riding horses, shooting guns, in bawdy western wear, corsets.... was pure entertainment on the hoof.The gritty lines were as good as I've ever heard...even the old widow of the dead officer whore monger....bag of manure...good stuff.Beautiful scenery....human AND location. "}{"Title":"Andie kicks ass!!!!!","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The reason why this movie is great is because it shows that girls can kick ass!! Andie was fine as the southern lady.       Drew was great as the trick rider. This movie also has a good soundtrack!! My favorite scene is where the girls attack kid jarrett at the end! If you have not seen it rent it! "},{"Title":"More than merely Hollywood production line pap","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" This film could easily be dismissed (deservedly) as yet another McMovie off the assembly line, but for one thing - it appears to be a really lame homage (as opposed to blatant rip off) to the mother of all westerns, _The Wild Bunch_ (http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0065214/). The opening features a Temperance Union march and the ending with a (lame and bloodless) shootout, complete with gattling gun - from which the heroines walk away unscathed and without a hair out of place. Everything in between is peppered with stuff lifted from _Wild Bunch_ - bandits robbing a US army arms shipment to sell in Mexico most prominent, and the lead up to the finale of the 4 gals on horseback riding into bandido town to rescue a compatriate is a carbon copy. Even chunks of dialog are lifted - Well why dontcha all kiss my sister's black cat's ass...This is more than simply bad - its insulting. Peckinpah must be spinning in his grave. "},{"Title":"Awsome","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I thought it was great and i thought Drew looked awsome. Maybe you needed to see the movie from a womens point of view. Although most people who are critical like movies i think suck, like American Beauty, I thought that was the dumbest movie i've ever seen. I will not say all of drew's films are great i was not overly impressed with poison ivy but it was ok.  Also from the looks of the list on the other page there are a few of drew's movies i haven't seen. But this one is AWSOME wheather you think so or not. "},{"Title":"Four amazing women","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Every time I watch Bad Girls it's like the first time, that's what I like of a movie and that's what this one has. Four amazing women interpret to another four amazing women, that show in the screen that toughness mixed with softness that most of the members of the so called weak sex have. I think women are very good represented for these experimented actresses that give to their roles what they need and the audience expect, credibility. Madeleine Stowe, always dignified, plays Cody Zamora in an amazing way but never diminish her fellows because they shine on their own.Even when this movie is not one of the most seen ones, I have to say that it is one of the films you must see, dialogues to die and will be in my memory for  ever, beautiful landscapes and great performances. The film is very fast, but with content, what makes it not boring and makes you be willing to see it to the end. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film that leaves you feeling nostalgic-not advised for emotionally low IQ males.Thanks","Date":"28 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Beautifully underrated film. Maybe that's a good thing, keeps it a hidden gem. This film portrays rich sensitivity and human relations told through the story of woman as protagonists who have gone' bad'. You really feel for the main characters and want them to succeed. The men play as side lines to the women but the 2 male characters are portrayed as sensitive and caring even though they are masculine and rugged. The actors and actresses are beautiful to look at, aesthetically pleasing to the eye especially the guy who plays Josh and drew Barrymore. The acting is excellent and believable. The characters make you cry and really connect with them. A true test of good quality acting. It made me cry in the end and left me feeling nostalgic. The cinematography is stunning too and the sound track matches the films emotional tone. It's amazing how great films get underrated and poorly rated, yet mind numbingly stupid violent films for the sake of violence and sex, get very highly rated on IMDb and elsewhere. Similar to the trash churned out in the music industry that gets all the air play, but the quality artists get pushed to the back. That's fine, it leaves them for the highly intelligent and highly evolved humans to enjoy like rare fruits. "},{"Title":"It was filmed beautifully!","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Bad Girls was filmed beautifully in the Texas wilderness, the story line between these women in the Old West held my interest and the humor was delightful. Starring Andie MacDowell, Drew Barrymore, Mary Stuart Masterson and Madeleine Stowe. These were brave gals trying to survive on their own, back when women had no rights if they weren't married, and society blacklisted any independent unmarried woman trying to earn a living, even if you were a widow with land rights denied to you. DrewBarrymore was especially adorable - although all the girls were quite good in their respective roles. A very enjoyable light story! The soundtrack was lovely as well. I have to rate this an R as there is some violence and bad-boy behavior toward woman. "},{"Title":"Start with a ridiculous premise, add a cliché-ridden script and bad acting,","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" And you will end up with this nonsensical mish-mash excuse for a film. Individually, I like the actresses who portray the Bad Girls, but they are totally wasted in this steaming pile of horse $**t. The concept of making a western that expands and amplifies the contributions of women in the Old West has merit, but this kind of girl-power fantasy is a disservice to that concept. Sarah, Plain and Tall, Thousand Pieces of Gold or even the classic Stagecoach (1939 version) take that concept and run with it, but this so-called movie instead erects a totally fictitious framework of... empowering prostitutes(?) to try and make some kind of bogus feminist point (whoring for success, I guess). Avoid this film. There are better films for those who like eye candy, better feminist/oppressive men movies (try Thelma and Louise), and Heaven knows, better Westerns. I liked The Daughters of Joshua Cabe a hundred times more than this road muffin. "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  TO THE USER COMMENT BELOW THIS MOVIE IS GREAT IT'S NOTHING LIKE MAGNIFCENT SEVEN AT ALL. THIS IS A MOVIE THAT IS UNDERRATED ANDIE MACDOWELL AND DREW BARRYMORE KICKED ASS!!!!!! SO WHOEVER HAS READ THIS RENT IT!!! IT'S A GREAT MOVIE!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Wretched post-feminist western","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  It's a tough choice who's the worst empowered ex-prostitute in this movie? I had to settle on Drew Barrymore, who looks (and acts) totally out of place in the Old West. Consign this one to the dumpster and watch Johnny Guitar instead. "},{"Title":"Rubbish plot, Poor Script and REALLY Bad Acting","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  The plot of this film is simple.  Some prostitutes get blamed for killing a man in self defence, and the town wants to string em up.  So the girls escape and go on a rampage.I don't know what happens next, because the opening 30 minutes was so bad that i switched off my video and watched the news instead (Thats REALLY bad!!!).With the cast, the films should have been able to be carried on their star qualities alone...  if the main players had chosen to attempt to act the film.  But they didn't...Suffice to say, in a recent poll for the worst film of all time, I voted for Bad Girls. "}{"Title":"Bad Movie (DVD)","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" It's a western thus the most restricted genre in movie it's one location at an exact time the Wild Wild West during the 19th. Technoclogy is lacking, horses are the only way of traveling, the daily life is harsh, homes are rusty, dusty.So it's not vacations and unless a great idea or great talent, when you see 1 western, you have seen all! Here, the surprise would be that the main characters are 4 strong willed women, bound together by their cruel past of male domination. To affirm themselves, they got to beat a vile bandit! But, the trick doesn't work The bandit is dull and boring and the bad girls are rare Madeleine Stowe is the only one, having a grumpy face the entire movie! The others are rather kind, especially MacDowell.In conclusion, I prefer Bandidas»! "},{"Title":"The Real Women Of The Old West Would Cringe ....","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Enabled by the magic of Encore on cable television, I was able to attempt to enjoy two viewings of Bad Girls from 1994. I do say attempt to enjoy ....What a rancid excuse for a western.Seldom in the tumultuous history of Hollywood has more talent and more authentic costuming gone to waste, than it does in this crippled dog of a movie. Before ranting any more, however, I will say certain things in defense of these four starring actresses Andie MacDowell is a scintillating screen beauty, and a talented woman with dramatic flair she absolutely made Groundhog Day a delight to watch and enjoy, and she was so very believable as the starry-eyed television producer stuck with Mr. Obnoxious Weatherguy, Bill Murray.Drew Barrymore, then nineteen years of age, is not among my favorites in the new generation of Girl Toys On Film but she was so easy to look at, that it was easy to forget how wooden her characterization was.Mary Stuart Masterson is a class act. Wasted in this dog of western.Madeleine Stowe has also proved herself as a contemporary screen actress of the first order. She gave an extraordinary performance as Cora Munro in The Last Of The Mohicans from 1992. Holding her own against a dynamic presence like Daniel Day-Lewis was no small accomplishment. She had several scenes with Jodhi May, as her younger sister Alice, that completely captured the tension and the panic of the moments in that revered classic by James Fenimore Cooper.Furthermore, 1994 was a good year for Madeleine Stowe Mora, as she starred in Blink, which was very good, and China Moon, which was really good. The premise of Bad Girls should have been a slam-dunk for the talent she was exhibiting at that time, but instead -- and here the Director, Jonathan Kaplan, has to take the flogging -- her character of Cody Zamora is neither lovable nor believable. Maybe the script was faulty, but a good Director has to find a way to nag the producers and the screenwriters to get what he wants for the shooting schedule. Afterall, most screenwriters want to get a good movie on film and the rules stipulate that they can get paid extra for doing rewrites while principal shooting is on-going. This could have been a classic modern western, in the mold of Chuka with Victoria Vetri and Rod Taylor or Silverado. It could have explored the cultural clash going on in the latter part of the 1800s between the rough-hewn and easy-going pioneers and the next generation of western settlers, who brought Temperance and religious fundamentalism into the little towns of the prairie and of the arid southwest. Claire Bloom took the same material -- the character of a beautiful prostitute with a soft heart -- and shaped the character to be a successful compliment to John Wayne's tough, earnest, Ringo Kid.So in Stagecoach from 1939, the entire plot moves around the fulcrum of this tension between the woman of easy virtue and the stiff-necked Puritanism of the new settlers, and brings the viewer into the emotional conflicts of the nine passengers on that stagecoach to Lordsburg. The Ringo Kid, seeking the less-than-noble object of revenge for the death of his brother, is redeemed by the love of Dallas the 'no-good saloon trollop.' Would that John Ford could have had command of the lens which captured Drew Barrymore, Mary Stuart Masterson, Madeleine Stowe and Andie MacDowell around a campfire, eating rattlesnake. Now, THAT would have been a movie worth viewing twice. Bad Girls gets a 2 vote instead of a 1 vote because the costumes were extremely well done. "},{"Title":"Such potential, such a shame","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":" Bad Girls was an interesting idea, but one that was always going to happen from time to time Ladies in the Wild West deciding to saddle up, lock and load. Seeing Drew Barrymore and Andie MacDowell on the cast certainly perked my interest, but unfortunately little was done thereafter to keep it up. The plot, seemingly starting off as women on the run then deciding to make a fresh start, starts to meaner aimlessly with no clear direction of where its going. Are they trying to make a new life, or are they going to turn and fight, or keep on running? They oscillate between the options and no clear decision ever seems to be made. The obligatory shoot-outs are fairly bland, and it is hard to empathise with any of the characters. Further, Dermot Mulroney is totally unconvincing as a lone rider, or any sort of cowboy. Even with his Young Guns pedigree, he simply seems far too clean-cut to garner an aura of brooding menace or roguish charm.The visuals are lush however, and the cast is certainly a good-looking one, but maybe that is a criticism. Surely whores would look less preened? Nevertheless, Drew Barrymore is certainly spunky, and doesn't even attempt a cliché western accent. Andie MacDowell attempts one, but it seems to be rather a hotch-potch of Louisiana, Texas and John Wayne.Overall, a good idea for a movie, but poorly executed and directed. With a clearer progressive plot, this could have been greatly entertaining. Unfortunately, the upheaval the film suffered in its infancy clearly has been derogatory, and with the complete re-write and new director, something has clearly gotten lost &#150; most probably the plot "},{"Title":"Don't make the mistake I did","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  A few years ago I reached down into the bargain movie bin for what I thought was The Quick and the Dead.  To my horror it turned out that Bad Girls was also in that bin and I mistakenly grabbed it, bought it, and brought it home.  When I realized the mistake, I decided This movie can't be too bad. How farther from the truth could that be.  I have a collection of several hundred movies, and too this day my worst movie still remains Bad Girls. It is an abomination and a dishonor to all other movies (except maybe teen wolf too).With such horrible acting (and plot...etc) at least they could have made this movie into a wannabe porn or something.  Well, never mind.  In order to do that they would need to hire actresses that wouldn't make you wanna puke if you saw some skin.  I don't think even a combination of Jane March, Sharon Stone, Selma Hayek, and Jeniffer Lopez could have saved this film from a sub 5 rating...well maybe a 5.I warn you now, do not see this movie.  If you do not heed my warnings you will be wasting your money, your time, and my time for going through the trouble of warning you. "},{"Title":"Shows why Westerns don't cut it any more","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  I think Bad Girls shows why westerns failed to really cut it in the 1990s. The genre looks outdated here and in many other attempts by the Hollywood studios to revoke interest in the early 1990s. Here they have tried to create a twist by substituting the norm of cowboys being male to an all-girl quartet on the run. It fails to really get past this idea and is unable to debunk western values. For instance although they are supposed to be able to stick up for themselves Drew Barrymore's character resorts to her gender(and the sheriff's weakness) to rescue her friend from jail. Although Barrymore may have looked nice the film does little to prove much about western or gender values. It debunks nothing. Mildly better is Pfeiffer in The Quick And The Dead which provides greater solid entertainment and less hype about how good four Hollywood stars look dressed up as cowboys. "},{"Title":"A Western from a different perspective......","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Bad Girls was always going to be risky. Take The Magnificent Seven. Subtract three of the heroes. Swop the remaining four heroes with rootin', tootin', gun toting heroines - namely Andie MacDowell, Mary Stuart Masterson, Madeleine Stowe and Drew Barrymore (probably the only reason to watch this movie). Add some ridiculous plotline, pathetic dialogue and over-acting. Finally, throw in some stereotypical bad guys for good measure. What do we end up with?A waste of time, money and effort. Don't watch Bad Girls, it really isn't worth 90 minutes of your life.   "},{"Title":"Ridiculously stupid...","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Western","Review":"  Ridiculously and dreadfully stupid film set in the Old West. Do you really need a plot summary? You asked for it Four prostitutes (Drew Barrymore, Madeline Stowe, Andie MacDowell, Mary Stuart Masterson) decide to fight back or something stupid like that.Skip it. Please, save yourself and skip this mess that is worse than a made-for-TV movie.1/5 stars -John Ulmer "}]