[{"Title":"Clancy's Best Movie Outing to Date","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan has had an odd time at the movies. So far 3 actors and as many directors have had a go at him, with varying degrees of success. Hunt for Red October might come up in conversations more often, but it's hard to get past the silliness of Sean Connery pretending to be Russian (and speaking worse Russian than Baldwin's American character).Clear and Present Danger is where your money belongs. One of Clancy's best Ryan efforts in print, this massive door-stop of a book was condensed by veteran scribes Steven Zallian and John Milius - how's that for a screen writing combo? - into a script that retains a lot of the original's moral complexity while making smart concessions to the blockbuster format. For a blockbuster is what you have before you, and one of the smartest ones out there, where art and commerce were combined in perfect harmony.As Ryan 2.0, Harrison Ford is perfect in the lead, and it's hard to believe at times, that Clancy didn't have him in mind when creating the character. With a narrative this fragmented, it is essential that the supporting roles be pitch perfect and across the board everyone does first-rate work, with special mention to Willem Dafoe as John Clarke and Donald Moffat at a devious commander in chief.Philip Noyce builds on his Ryan-debut Patriot Games and shows he is equally at ease with the quiet parts and the loud ones, particularly an RPG-powered car ambush centerpiece. The action beats are used sparingly but with brilliant precision.All in all, this is smart, tight, believable and expertly executed. It is that rare brainy action film that will involve you and have you hanging on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"A Lot More Good Than Bad","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford returns as Jack Ryan, star of the very well-done Patriot Games, the film adaption off the best-selling Tom Clancy novels. Also returning are Anne Archer and James Earl Jones.THE BAD - This isn't as intense, especially in the first half hour, as Patriot Games and the ending was a little disappointing with a action-scene credibility problem. Once again - it's getting to be a tired Hollywood theme - top U.S. government officials, going all the way to the President, are corrupt people, liars not to be trusted.THE GOOD - It's nice to see Willem Dafoe finally play a good guy. The villains in here are deceptively interesting, actors such as Joaquim De Almeida, Harris Yulin and Henry Czerny and Miguel Sandoval - not big names but recognizable and good actors. The violence is not overdone in here and when the action does occur, the sound is terrific. The best action scene was shootout in the streets with snipers firing at cars below. The positives are far more than the negatives, making this a solid thriller. "},{"Title":"Great Clancy novel brought to life.","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say that ALL of the Clancy novels that were made into films, with the exception of The Sum of All Fears were brought to life as great films. Harrison Ford reprises his role as Dr. Jack Ryan, who is forced in this film to step into the shoes of Admiral Greer, who is dying. While there is a lot of each characters personal lives carefully inserted into the film, it NEVER ceases to be clever and interesting. It's much better to watch than any senseless action picture with Bruce Willis or your wimpy little Ben Affleckish character. The film is perfectly balanced so that there is not a single boring scene in the picture. The wheels are constantly turning to make sure something dramatic is happening to really draw you further into the picture. I recommend this movie as well as it's two predecessors, The Hunt for Red October, and Patriot Games. Both of which are equally brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Condensed Clancy","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The makers of this movie are to be congratulated for turning a Tom Clancy doorstop into a tense, tightly woven international thriller with a top notch cast and believeable plot. Where the previous two Jack Ryan movies depended on stunts and quite unbelieveable plot twists this film concentrates on a grubby little military/political incident (more the domain of intelligence men) and the men of honour and integrity (Ford and an under used Dafoe) trapped in the middle of it.I also like this movie for its subtle dig at the American establishment and how it assumes it can coerce the weak into doing its bidding.The Clark character in Clancy's fiction is an interesting one and deserves to be further developed. Casting Willem Dafoe in the part was actually a stroke of genius, and I could easily imagine his character in Platoon doing this kind of work if he had survived Vietnam. The fact that Dafoe is one of THE most underrated actors in Hollywood also means I like this. "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"35 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A CIA anaylst, Jack Ryan(Harrison Ford), is promoted to  Deputy Director of Intelligence of the CIA after Admiral James Greer(James Earl Jones) suffers from illness. A close friend of the president(Donald Moffat) is murdered. The situation gets worse when the President is convinced to take actions against the drug cartels. Felix Cortez plays both sides. He tries to inform the CIA and he also works with the cartels. James Cutter(Harris Yulin) an advisor to the President, makes a deal with Cortez, and cuts off communications to troops in Columbia, through the Deputy Director of CIA Operations, Robert Ritter(Henry Czerny). Ryan goes to Colombia to save the troops with the help of John Clark(Willem Dafoe),  but not before Ritter blames Ryan for Clark's men being captured by Cortez's mercenaries.Clear and Present Danger is a great action/political thriller that is one of my all time favorite movies. Ford gives a great performance, perhaps his best. Theres also a great supporting cast including Willem Dafoe, Henry Czerny, and James Earl Jones. Besides powerful drama, Clear and Present Danger supplies good action sequences. I haven't read the book, but I plan to after seeing this movie.Although the plot is a bit complex, this is a great movie and a must see. If you like Ford, action, or great drama, then Clear and Present Danger is a movie you should see. This film recieves my highest recommendation. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford on form in an excellent movie","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have read some quite negative reviews of this film, with many being upset by the lack of coherence with the book despite taking it's characterisations etc...I agree that the film does not follow the book particularly well but it is a film, for film watchers, not a book or a film for book readers so stop criticising it on that level. This film is entertaining from start to finish with a surprisingly clever plot considering the genre and credit must go to Ford for starring and excelling in yet another blockbuster. People may say he's not the most versatile actor in the world and I'm not going to disagree, but he does what he does brilliantly and those who don't enjoy this movie really do need a good talking to. Along with Patriot Games, this is part of an impressive set of movies which are far more entertaining than the books (perhaps thats because I'm not an avid reader) and shall keep all you viewers out there happy, if only for a short while. "},{"Title":"Fully Entertaining","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know of anybody who doesn't like this movie, Clear and Present Danger.  There was a funny cartoon I once read called Clear and Present Dangerfield which showed Rodney Dangerfield saying I get no respect from these terrorists!  Very funny.  The movie has some cheesy moments and some patriotic moments John Wayne would be proud of.  The book and movie are different but the book, like most of Tom Clancy's books are so long that it's not possible to make it into an alike movie.  So therefore the movie is focused on the parts with Jack Ryan and the other characters are hardly in it.  Henry Czerny comes across as the top supporting actor in it and earned some roles from his solid underrated performance.   Donald Moffat plays a two-faced president better than any actor who would have otherwise played him as a straight up mean dictator.  Like in the book, the President has no name, he simply goes by the name the President of the United States of America.  Philip Noyce does his job well at directing this picture.  And of course this is one of Harrison Ford's last great roles since he did a Tom Hanks and has been desperate for an Oscar ever since.  Overall, it's a great movie for anyone to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A commercial thriller that lacks intelligence and ignores complexity but is still entertaining and provides good thrills on the Hill and in the jungle","Date":"25 October 2006","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When Admiral Greer is diagnosed with cancer, Jack Ryan finds himself as Acting Deputy Director of Intelligence at the same time as one of the President's personal friends is murdered by a Columbian drugs cartel. Despite the suggestion that his friend was involved in illegal money laundering the President gives the unofficial nod to National Security Adviser Cutter who falsifies a Presidential Order for Robert Ritter to employ a covert operation to strike at Escobedo's operations in Columbia. Meanwhile Ryan goes before the Senate to get funding for the fight on drugs &#150; although the funding does not include troops or direct action, which doesn't concern Jack as he is out of the loop on the covert op. While Jack tries to trace the money on the laundering, Clark's men get bombing in the Columbia jungle. However as things start to get out of control, political backs get covered, plausible deniability kicks in and both Ryan and Slater find themselves exposed and in danger.Despite Ryan's outings in Patriot Games and Sum of All Fears being roundly average at best, I decided to try this film and I actually found it quite easy to enjoy. The first thing to state is that it is very safe and commercial thriller in that, for all its supposed commentary on corruption and drugs, it really doesn't say much and the good guys and bad guys are painted very clearly and the lines between them are clean. Those familiar with the much more interesting look at America and drugs presented in HBO's The Wire will not find the same level of intelligence or comment in this film. Of course this doesn't make this a bad film, but perhaps a weaker one. The plot uses these clear lines and turns in an enjoyable if basic mix of political drama and action thrills. I found myself quite gripped by some parts and the plot regularly throw up tough talking and action to keep things interesting.Although Ford is already looking a bit older, he fits in perfectly on the intelligence side of the film but when he is called into action on the streets of Columbia then he doesn't look the part at all. Much better at this is Dafoe, who spends the majority of this in his own little action movie. He is convincing and was a good call for the role, although it doesn't help that the material calls for Ford to occupy equal status with him in the action stakes. Providing the political tough talk with good turns are Czerny, Yulin and Moffat &#150; each would have benefited from the script recognising the complexities of right and wrong but this wasn't the place for that. Almedia and Sandoval are both pretty average but they are handed half-cooked clichés to work with so it isn't really their fault.Overall this is a perfectly serviceable commercial thriller and I have no doubt that those who accepted the problems in Patriot Games and Sum of All Fears will find this easy to enjoy. Personally I would have liked a bit more intelligence instead of the black/white approach but it still worked for what it was and it was effective in catching me up. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Worthy of the Jack Ryan Series!","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With the book being so long, obviously not all of the plot twists and events could be squeezed into this film, which is a little over 2 hours.With respect to this, the movie is very good, with a good mix of action scenes and strong politically minded scenes. One major shame was the ending and the omission of notable characters that played a part in the end of the book. This was the same with Patriot Games.My only disappointment was that Ryan's friend Dan Murray was killed in the same scene where Emil Jacobs, the FBI Director was killed. He was a good character, but wasn't given time to show. In the books Murray becomes FBI Director at the end of Clancy's series.Other than the scenes with Murray and Jack Ryan, the acting and drama was perfect. A worthy addition to the Jack Ryan Series, and much better than &#145;The Sum of All Fears' with Ben Affleck was Ryan. Harrison Ford is without doubt the best Jack Ryan.Top notch!!!  "},{"Title":"A course of action, that he can suggest....he can't.","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford. Willem Dafoe. Anne Archer. James Earl Jones. Benjamin Bratt. Henry Czerny, Harris Yulin as a 'heavy' (National Security Adviser  James Cutter ) and Dean Jones. They have a cast of old school heavies and new talent all together. I hadn't seen Dean Jones in a while and he was fantastic! There is a 'chilling weight', that scores the film visually from the onset. The director Phillip Noyce, uses broad scenery (from what I can tell) it brings out a feeling of grandness, vast and encompassing. It just sort of takes control of the mind and vision.The story of a Cartel from Columbia taking 'Liberties' on a family that wound up unbeknown to Escabedo (the Cartel scumbag) being friends of the President of The United States of America. Violent liberties that have become deadly serious. A Cali Cartel. A decision, that the President discusses with his defense secretary. A course of action that he (The President) can't suggest, is exactly what he is suggesting, behind closed doors. Being inside the White House in a Tom Clancy /Phillip Noyce film always seems very real for me, as I watch the government employees walk and talk and what ever else.This has to be one of the highest Clancy novel/ movies that I have seen, just above  Patriot Games . Czerny is so good at being maligned. He is the one you don't want to be in a face-off with in a CIA office. He truly brings out a roundly compelling performance as Deputy Director of the C.I.A. ' Robert Ritter' . Deception, is all around. like a sort of wall-papering. Who can Jack trust when he must? This is a powerful story and a dramatic and strong ending that completes the story from start to middle and ending. I was very enthusiastic and impressed, by the directing performance, photography and music score. The film crew that worked on 'Patriot Games' (1992) was retained for this one too. I saw an inside interview about the production of 'Clear and present danger' and the Producer stated that Harrison Ford performed his driving stunt, during the ambush!! And in regard to that beautiful drug dealer home in the country, get this...it was not 'CGI' special effects, they actually blew the house to bits!!!! Yes, it was real too. Now thats how to make a top-end action adventure/ thriller, in my book. Can you believe this, of all the Ten and twenty million dollar salaries that Ford makes in his work, he barely got paid one-million for this body of work. This is a keeper. Recommended again and again. (*****) "}{"Title":"As a sequel, this is bigger in scope, but lacking in character","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clear and Present Danger, while grander and more daring (with its secret war premise) than its predecessor oddly comes off as just an adequate sequel. The ingredients were all here, it was just undercooked. Casting's just as solid as it was in Patriot Games on top of Harrison Ford and James Earl Jones, now we have Harris Yulin, Henry Czerny, Willem Dafoe and Joaquim de Almeida (always a badass). But the film's real excitement doesn't heat up until the third act, when Ford and Dafoe band together to clean up the mess. And I'd argue that Dafoe or even Yulin are the more interesting characters in the grand scheme of things (even poor Jones' death lacks impact, as he never had time to develop character). And the bad news is that, by the time we get to the good parts, it kinda felt like a chore getting there. 6/10Just how Hollywood or outlandish did the premise for Clear and Present Danger seem in the mid-'90s? Seems these days, it'd be a piece of cake to get an illegal war going. Also, Ford's epic staredown with the Prez is a crowd-pleaser. "},{"Title":"Decent if overlong","Date":"9 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The last of Harrison Ford's outings as Jack Ryan (following PATRIOT GAMES), CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER is a classy outing that throws the star into the middle of a drugs war between Colombian cocaine barons and some highly corrupt American officials. Along the way, he must contend with an ineffectual President (THE THING's Donald Moffat), an ailing buddy (the ever excellent James Earl Jones) and a mercenary leader (the scene stealing Willem Dafoe).The movie is well shot and entertaining, never better than when detailing the cyber hijinks between Ford and corporate schmuck Henry Czerny or an excellent ambush set-piece halfway through. Unfortunately, it's overlong, with a great deal of repetition that could have been removed in favour of a tighter, pacier ride. Still, we get a solid turn from Ford and a deliciously tough bad guy performance from Joaquim de Almeida, so it's not all bad. "},{"Title":"Decent movie, poor adaptation","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although you should never get too caught up in comparing a movie to the book it is based on, this is hard to avoid with this film.  Of all the Clancy books, this remains my favorite and I was highly disappointed with how it was handled, mostly because it made future sequels all but impossible to make without increasing the chasm between the two mediums.  Great characters from this book and future stories are either changed completely or killed off.  That is tough to ignore.As for the movie as a standalone vehicle, it was decent.  Nothing really new to be found in it.  Things just seem a little too predictable (even the original material that wasn't in the book) and cliche Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Boring Intelligence Agent","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clear and Present Danger starts out fairly well as an intelligence mystery, but it becomes less interesting as it goes along and finally winds up like some low-budget television action movie that you might see on late-night cable.  Ford is okay, but there's really not a lot to work with in the character of Jack Ryan.  He's not complex enough to be interesting or believable as an intelligence agent, and he's not cartoonish enough to be fun like James Bond.  He could use a sense of humor, that's for sure.  His earnest, goody-two-shoes act gets old by the end of the film.  The story concerns the murky world of politics, intelligence agencies, and the connections between governments, businesses and drug cartels, but instead of developing characters as complex as the situation, the director/writer deliver up cliched good guys and bad guys.  Very disappointing that way. At least it's better than Patriot Games, where the writing was even worse.  But it's not as good as The Hunt for Red October.  If you want a simplistic action film, this will probably fit the bill, though it may seem slow at times, especially in the first half.  If you want a good movie about intelligence agencies, you're better of with Three Days of the Condor or Spy Game. "},{"Title":"A classic! Harrison Ford's best action political thriller by Tom Clancy's novel!","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take Harrison Ford's classic best action political thriller by Tom Clancy's novel, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Clear and Present Danger (1994) Is the best of Harrison Ford's classic action political thriller since The Fugitive! I know this film is based on Tom Clancy's novel Clear and Present Danger and is directed by Phillip Noyce. It is a sequel to Patriot games (1992) in which Harrison Ford started as CIA analyst Jack Ryan. Alec Baldwin started as Jack Ryan in an action thriller brilliant flick The Hunt For Red October (1990) with Sean Connery and with the director John McTiernan. Those were all novels that films were based by writer Tom Clancy. My all time favorite films of all five Jack Ryan movies, that were released and are based on Tom Clancy's novels are The Hunt For Red October (1990) and this one (Clear and Present Danger). Of course The Hunt For Red October isn't Harrison Ford's film, but he later started with Phillip Noyce twice, with the film Patriot Games (1992) and this film (Clear and Present Danger) that I absolutely love it. As a kid, again the same that I have saw the trailer for the film The Fugitive (1993), year later I saw the trailer for this film which it became a hit in 1994, that time I watched Patriot Games with Harrison Ford which I liked. But watching this one again, I must say it is my second favorite Harrison Ford film not counting Indiana Jones films. The first one is The Fugitive and the second one is this one (Clear and Present Danger).Plot CIA Analyst Jack Ryan is drawn into an illegal war fought by the US government against a Colombian drug cartel.I love this film and it is the second favorite film of mine that I just love to death! Beside Harrison Ford gives you the best outstanding perfect brilliant performance, they are still a support cast from this film that you like to see and are famous. Beside Harrison, James Earl Jones, Anne Archer and Thora Birch all reprise there roles back from Patriot Games. I still don't know why actor Samuel L. Jackson did not reprise his role back to the sequel,but still this film works. When his mentor James Greer (James Earl Jones) becomes gravely ill, Ryan (Harrison Ford)is appointed acting CIA Deputy Director of Intelligence. His first assignment Investigate the murder of one of the president's friends, a prominent U.S. businessman with secret ties to Colombian drug cartels. Unbeknownst to Ryan, the CIA has already dispatched a deadly field operative (Willem Dafoe) to lead a paramilitary force against the Colombian drug lords. Caught in the crossfire, Ryan takes matters into his own hands, risking his career and life for the only cause he still believes in - the truth.This movie is about Colombian drug cartels, investigation of a murder of one of the president friends and his family, conspiracy and a rescue mission on the end of the film. This movie is intelligent, entertaining and brilliant, it keeps you on the edge of your seat. It keeps guessing you what will happened next. Willem Dafoe finally plays the good guy in this film, which I love him. The action sequences are excellent, the explosions are wonderful and perfectly executed. No CGI or shaky cam in here. The body keeps rising and the acting is brilliant, everyone does an excellent job. In here we have Joaquim de Almeida who is playing another villain, we see him playing another drug lord 17 years later in Fast Five (2011). Here you also have a marines who are destroying a drug cartels and risking their own lives. You even have Tom Bower from Die Hard 2 (1990) in here, who plays a helicopter pilot on a rescue mission. Than is Henry Czerny as another villain in CIA who later started in Mission Impossible (1996) film. The special effects are perfect, the film is fast paced and goes quickly around for the two hours.About the cast Harrison Ford did a perfect job playing Jack Ryan CIA analysts who becomes director of CIA when his friend becomes ill, you even have a funeral scene in here and the music score from James Horner is awesome for this film and I love it. James Earl Jones did a perfect acting support. Willem Dafoe was incredible in his role and in my opinion he gave us a perfect acting performance. Henry Czerny did a solid job and Thora Birch in a minor role was perfect. Anne Archer was also great as Jack's wife. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I don't dance. Jack Ryan's best quote for me.Overall Clear and Present Danger is a classic a perfect 10. Far way better than the last two films that come out and way better than Patriot Games. For me Harrison Ford is the only Jack Ryan CIA analyst I love and no one talks about this film today. I love this film to death!Clear and Present Danger is a 1994 American spy thriller film directed by Phillip Noyce, based on Tom Clancy's book of the same name. It was preceded by the 1990 film The Hunt for Red October and the 1992 film Patriot Games, all three featuring Clancy's fictional character Jack Ryan.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Paramount Pictures Starring Harrison Ford, Willem Dafoe, Anne Archer, Joaquim de Almeida, James Earl Jones, Miguel Sandoval, Henry Czerny, Harris Yulin, Donald Moffat, Benjamin Bratt, Raymond Cruz, Thora Birch Director Phillip Noyce Producers Mace Neufeld, Robert Rehme Screenplay Donald E. Stewart, Steven Zaillian, John Milius Based on Clear and Present Danger by Tom Clancy Rated PG-13 Running Time 2 Hrs. 21 Mins. Budget $62.000.000 Box Office $215,887,717 "},{"Title":"Thrilling!","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the book of the same name by Tom Clancy, 'Clear and Present Danger' is a thrilling film, that is neatly written, tautly directed & superbly acted. In short, Amongst the Finest Films from 1994!As in the novel, Jack Ryan is appointed Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Acting Deputy Director and discovers that he is being kept in the dark by colleagues who are conducting a covert war against drug lords in Colombia.Jack Ryan is a great hero to root for. Tom Clancy has indeed given us an Iconic Good-Guy, who in many ways, is a time-less personality. 'Clear and Present Danger' begins superbly and ends with a bang. The Writing Material is so Sharp, that it catches your attention right away. Also, The tense moments as well as the action-sequences, are wonderfully shot & executed. Phillip Noyce's Direction is taut. Cinematography is top-notch. Editing is good. Art Design is perfect. Performance-Wise Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan, is in full form. The Screen Legend delivers a terrific performance from start to end. Willem Dafoe is first-rate. Anne Archer is impressive. James Earl Jones is dignified. Miguel Sandoval leaves a mark. Others lend able support.On the whole, A Winner! Check It Out! "},{"Title":"Just When You Think You Know What's Going On...","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just when you think you know what's going on, another wonderful twist throws you for a loop. That's what helps make CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER a standout film and the most entertaining of the Jack Ryan series.CIA analyst Harrison Ford (in vintage form here) is left in the dark on secret plans by the U.S. government to fight the fire of Colombian drug cartels with the fire of cream-of-the-crop soldiers. When the mission is aborted and the soldiers left for dead, the stage is set for an emergency rescue and tense White House confrontations that go all the way to the top.Between the taut action and the crisp storytelling by director Phillip Noyce (surely his best effort to date), there's certainly no time to be bored. And unlike far too many films with a 141-minute running time, CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER doesn't wear out its welcome. This one's an intelligent winner. "},{"Title":"An awesome film for fans of Ford and Dafoe!","Date":"11 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clear and Present danger is an awesome film! It's exciting! Great story! Great cast, and when I mean great cast, I mean Harrison Ford, James Earl Jones (Darth Vader) and Willem Dofoe (Spider-Man, Spider-Man 2, Spider-Man 3, Finding Nemo, James Bond 007 Everything or Nothing.) It's a long movie. It kept me entertained throughout, I mean, I couldn't stop smiling because Harrison Ford and Willem Dafoe are such treasures! There is quite a bit of cussing, which bothered me. The story is very easy to understand. Again, Willem and Harrison are flawless!!! A must see for those who just love action films!!! Other recommendations for Harrison Ford fans Star Wars Trilogy, Indiana Jones, 40 days and 40 nights. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Outstanding! One of my Favorite Films of All-Time!","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a fun, entertaining, very awesome movie. I love it.The directing is great, the acting is great, the pacing is amazing, and the sound effects are some of the best i've ever heard.It's about Jack Ryan investigating events surrounding a Columbian drug cartel and a secret special ops team sent in to wipe it out.The movie starts off a little slow, like the first 30 minutes, but the pace soon quickens.The action scenes are some of the best i've ever seen. This is one of the best movies ever, in my opinion.The script is also spectacular.I remember a period in my life, like a year ago, when I would watch this movie every day! Sometimes twice in one day. I do remember watching it almost 5 times a week because I loved it so much. Now I haven't watched it in a while (I think I may have watched it too much!), but i'm sure i'll watch it soon in the future once again.I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!! I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Greatest Action Thriller Ever","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I forgot I had this film until recently. When I realised I had it only on video and saw the special edition DVD in the shops I knew I had to by it. This is a great film with lots of twist and you really feel for Jack Ryan's character throughout( Played outstandingly by Harrison Ford). Great back up cast Anne Archer, Willem Dafoe and James Earl Jones. Clear has all the gun ho feel to it with all the twists and turns you would expect from a thriller and contains some of the most edge of your seat set pieces I have seen in that period films (1994). I especially love the conversation Jack's Character has at the end with the President( President To Jack The old platonic two step? Jack To President Mr President I don't Dance!. Watch the film to see how poignant and unforgettable these words are . Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Good covert story of intrigue","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How many things go on daily in government planning that we, the public, and, frankly, the media, never find out about. This film reminds us of this factor and I liked its constant attention to corruption at the highest levels of government. We all know its there, but a constant reminder of it is a good thing.The drug angle that Jack Ryan investigates, tied in with the secret hit squad hired to bring it own, put these events on a collision course that is unpredictable, highly suspenseful and tense. Willem Dafoe's character as the mercenary is my only complaint. Not a complaint against Dafoe but how his part was under written. A little more development would have helped the story nicely. "},{"Title":"Worth watching if you can follow the plot","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a good thriller that is somewhat spoiled by a confusing plot. Maybe it's better if you have read the book, but I haven't and so found it a bit difficult to follow. Some characters were poorly developed so at times I wasn't sure who was who. Having said all that it kept me interested right to the end (and the plot did eventually become (fairly!) clear) and I thought Harrison Ford was great. I also found it refreshing to watch a movie without a million special effects and a thriller without lots of blood and gore in every scene. Worth watching. "},{"Title":"This film rocked!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this film!  Ford and Dafoe were perfect in this movie.  Raymond Cruz was also good.  Although it got confusing at times, you didn't have to be a rocket scientist to figure this one out.  Lots of treachery and action, etc. Although I agree that it hardly had anything to do with the book (except for characters), it would be very hard to do a movie that completely followed this 700-some page book.  It rocked.  'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"It continues to be relevant","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clancy is sometimes critiqued for being so unapologetically pro-American and specifically pro-Military. He is fond of show-casing all aspects of the US defense machinery operating at peak efficiency; a piece of information is gathered by some technical tool of spying, analyzed quickly and accurately by smart dedicated analysts, put in the hands of policy makers who make sound judgments for follow up by unfailingly courageous and outstandingly trained US military personnel, who strike with pinpoint accuracy.It is almost always a best case scenario of how US defense and security operations are supposed to work.This movie stands out for acknowledging some of the dark side of this, and explicitly rejecting the thinking behind operations like Iran-Contra, which are done outside of constitutional and legal frameworks solely on the say-so of a President or some of his subordinates. However highly Clancy may think of the US military, he demonstrates his rejection of theories of extreme Presidential powers to conduct any and all operations deemed to be for national defense. Further, he acknowledges how ambitious officials up to and including the President can misuse the vast powers of the US military and intelligence agencies for personal and political gain while ignoring vital checks and balances of the US system.Speaking as one who enjoys Clancy's writing and his meticulous research into specific details of how these technologies and agencies operate, I also feel sometimes that it is simply too idealistic and overstates the utility and necessity of the vast US defense budget. So it is nice to see Clancy still respecting the core democratic values of the US system unlike so many in today's political environment who believe in essentially unlimited and illimitable Presidential authority, and that America can do no wrong. "},{"Title":"A crackling thriller at its best.","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My Take The best of the Tom Clancy adaptations. Harrison Ford is Jack Ryan, and you better believe it. CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER is the third adaptation of yet another Tom Clancy bestseller, spawned by the success of the previous Clancy adaptations THE HUNT FOR RED October and PATRIOT GAMES. CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, like the previous films, successfully thrills their audiences with exciting sequences that, also, manages to stay plausible and never too unbelievably silly. CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER may not have succeeded to become a total thrill-ride, but in the end it delivers its political message well. It's a slightly long, but thrilling and exciting Clancy adaptation. Once again, Ford returns as Jack Ryan, who is appointed acting CIA Deputy Director of Intelligence, when CIA Deputy James Greer (James Earl Jones) is ill with cancer. His first mission To investigate the death of one of the President's closest friends, who has connections with drug cartels. Ryan, once again, fights for what he believes is the truth, unknown to him that the National Security Adviser (Harris Yulin) has already dispatched mercenary elite troops, led by field operator John Clark (Willem Dafoe), on a covert operation in Columbia. But even if you don't get involved with the story or haven't read any of Tom Clancy's bestselling techno-thrillers (like myself), you must admit how exciting, edgy and believable this film is. Once more, it's also well-written on the screen and don't get wasted. When the film doesn't stun you with its action sequences devised by director Phillip Noyce and his crew of cinematographers and stunt directors, it involves you in the political situations made real and plausible by the adapted script by Donald Stewart, John Millius and Steven Zallian. Honestly, the sequences that involves Ryan arguing with the President of the United States are just as good to watch as the films more exciting sequences (The memorable ambush sequence and the RAMBO-esquire finale are the first to come to mind).Even if the film isn't exactly the total keeps you on the edge of your seat action thriller, CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER delivers its political message as well as thrilling excitement all in the same show. Rating ***** out of 5. "},{"Title":"Top-notch Political Thriller","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clear and Present Danger is an exciting addition to the world of Jack Ryan, delving deep into the world of international politics. Nail-biting suspense and explosive action sequences add to the movie, with some truly awesome military special operations added to the mix as well. The inner conflict between acting CIA Deputy Director Jack Ryan and Robert Ritter is extremely entertaining, Harrison Ford and Henry Czerny play their parts impeccably, as do Willem Dafoe as John Clark, James Earl Jones as Admiral James Greer and Raymond Cruz as cool soldier Domingo Chavez. Do not miss this top-notch political thriller! "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford, the Reluctant Action Star","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" CIA Analyst Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) is drawn into an illegal war fought by the US government against a Colombian drug cartel.James Berardinelli remarked, Clear and Present Danger is all plot and no characters. The people running around on screen have about as much depth as the sheen of sweat on Harrison Ford's forehead. Jack Ryan is the most disappointing of all. He's disgustingly virtuous a flawless fighter for good and justice, a Superman without the cape. I spent half the movie wondering if this guy was ever going to show anything to mark him as vaguely human. That just seems too harsh, and for no good reason. This is an action film, after all. Sure, we do not get the depth we might like from Jack Ryan, but we have already developed him in two prior films. This is action, a spy thriller. We need twists, turns, gunfire and explosions! (And we get them, too.) "},{"Title":"CIA-man Harrison Ford clashes with the President and his men","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What's the Clear and Present Danger in this 1994 tale? It's the presidency and its powers. It's the blindness, hubris and hypocrisy of the latter. Who are the bad guys? As much the presidency as the Colombian drug lord target in this story. Ignoring the CIA's own negatives and misuses of power, this story makes heroes of the CIA and Harrison Ford (as Jack Ryan), taking up the job of James Earl Jones's terminally ill character.There are three bad guys in the White House. First is the president, Donald Moffat. He sets in motion a foolhardy special forces operation against a drug lord in Colombia for which there is no legislative authorization except his own unauthorized and unchecked powers. For a 1994 movie, it's a big plus to see writing that dares to put on full display an imperial and arrogant president, and one who doesn't foresee the consequences of his acts. Second is the National Security adviser, Harris Yulin, called upon to launch and direct the operation in secret, or as much in secret as possible. He uses a third figure, Henry Czerny, to recruit Willem Dafoe in Colombia, and he'll direct the special ops team. They are gung ho killers, trained to obey orders, and 100% patriotic. Therefore, the irony is heavy when they are betrayed by Yulin and Czerny and most of them killed by the drug lord's own private army. He's played by Miguel Sandoval, and to add more complication, he's got a rival in his own command structure, Joaquim de Almeida.Harrison Ford is rather naively in the middle of it all because he's being kept out of the loop. It's highly unlikely that this secret plan could go forward without CIA knowing it, but that's the story.Upon repeated viewing, the film feels rather stitched together and on the superficial side, working hard to insert its action scenes as climaxes. It still manages to roll along somehow. The script is best in showing the president's men. Elsewhere it's much more superficial in showing its characters. The rather extensive subplotting involving de Almeida doesn't gel and integrate quite as well as it should, but it is what adds danger to Ryan and leads to the main climax.Ford is in fine acting form, and he has to be because his character is not that well-written. Anne Archer gets almost no play or depth in hers. "},{"Title":"Perfectly Clear and Present for 1994","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Though I remember liking this when it opened in August of 1994 and more than Patriot Games but far under The Hunt for Red October and one climactic line (How DARE YOU, SIR!), I could not for the life of me recall anything else. That's probably not a good sign for a movie I thought I liked.The first half of this movie plays like a TV movie with a plot a seven year old could follow and the film really doesn't pick up until act 2. Luckily, by then we're invested and totally rooting for John/Jack Ryan. 21 years later and only my 2nd viewing in as many years, I believe it somewhat holds up. Not to mention and comparatively speaking, it blows the other Jack Ryan installments out of the water, with the exception of The Hunt for Red October. Patriot Games, The Sum of all Fears and Jack Ryan Shadow Recruit all wither to this film. Oh, and please, guys, five Ryan films, two good and the last one 21 years ago. No more trying. Just move on. "},{"Title":"nice mix of intrigue and action","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" President Bennett's friends are murdered by Columbian Cali cartel drug lord Escobedo. He seeks revenge by declaring them Clear and Present Danger. Presidential Adviser James Cutter and Bob Ritter sends John Clark (Willem Dafoe) and his team to direct bombs on the targets. It's a secret mission that neither Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) nor his mentor Jim Greer know about. Greer is sick with cancer. Ryan is appointed Deputy Director of Intelligence and sent down to Bogota. Meanwhile Escobedo has intelligence operative Félix Cortez who has inside info in the White House and plans of his own.It's an intriguing political espionage mixed with some well executed action scenes. The ambush in Bogota is terrific action. Joaquim de Almeida is a great villain. He has a great depth which is perfect for his double dealing. It's a well made Tom Clancy spy movie. "}{"Title":"Clear and present criticism (tv)","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, this movie is really surprising because it's really the first time that I see a Hollywood blockbuster adapting without filtering a bestseller in which the famous writer really depicts the pool of sharks at Washington DC and especially in the white house. In short, what triggers a more energetic politic against drug cartels is just the assassination of POTUS friends. This kind of personal revenge is indeed a special way to uphold national interest. As Nixon, POTUS feels he is not bounded by laws or frontiers as he authorizes guerrilla in other country. And he is so cynical that he doesn't order it clearly and when bad news arrive, he would like to put the blame to innocent mans (here, Admiral Greer). This aspect of revealing Washington life would be the trademark in later Clancy novels, always coupled with an armed conflict. Here, i must say that the drug cartel isn't a « prestigious » adversary but a rather boring, dull one. In that, the movie equals the book because I remember to be among the weakest Clancy ever wrote. However, Harrison as the white, honorable hero is always perfect and Dafoe as an experimented veteran is an excellent partner. "},{"Title":"Ford Brings Freshness In His Second Portrayal Of Jack Ryan.","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clear And Present Danger is a spy action thriller that is based on the novel of Tom Clancy of the same title.It features Harrison Ford in the title role as Jack Ryan with James Earl Jones,who portrays as Vice-Admiral James Greer together with supporting cast that includes Willem Dafoe,Miguel Sandoval,Belita Moreno and Joaquim de Almeida.it was directed by Philip Noyce,who also was at helm in other Jack Ryan films such as The Hunt For Red October and Patriot Games.The film's setting happens when Jack Ryan has been appointed as the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) acting Deputy Director.He later discovers that he is being kept in the dark by some of his CIA colleagues in the agency about a covert war operation against the drug lords at Colombia.Later,it was also revealed that the President's wealthy friend is well-connected to the said Colombian drug cartel.When the national security adviser and the CIA deputy director were captured in Colombia,the President's men decided to abandon their force.In the end,it was up to Jack Ryan and another operative to rescue them on their won risking his career and life. This is the second time that Harrison Ford will portray Jack Ryan after Patriot Games and he brings earnestness and freshness to the role.Aside from that,it the story provides complex political intrigue,interesting plot and lots of tension that it is fun to sit through as it is exciting and entertaining from beginning to end.Despite some confusion that it may provide in the political ideologies and beliefs that the characters in it adhere to including the President,what stands out here though is the moral dilemma that Jack Ryan as it brings his humanistic side of saving lives in danger which could probably considered the overall theme of this action thriller. "},{"Title":"Good enough.","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It was &#x85; decent.After The Hunt for Red October, this is the best Clancy movie so far. This is not saying much though since these movies have either been amazing or awful (yes, I'm talking about the last one).It stays true to the book, the plot development is a bit slow so you need to be patient. As true to a Clancy novel, there is no one guy saves the world type of thing here. Good people die, bad people die, neutral people die. The conclusion is bittersweet, more like a pyrrhic victory, which I like.I must admit it, getting a Tom Clancy novel in script form is not easy since his works tend to be very, very complex, with multiple sub-plots. However, they did a great job on this one. It's not a 10 but it is an solid 8. "},{"Title":"Drug Cartels","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Philip Noyce returned to direct this adaptation of the Tom Clancy novel that also sees Harrison Ford return as CIA analyst Jack Ryan, who has been appointed acting Deputy Director of Intelligence after his old boss and friend Admiral Greer(played by James Earl Jones) develops terminal cancer. Almost immediately, Jack has a crisis on his hands as a close friend of the President(played by Donald Moffat) is killed by a drug cartel, and unknown to Jack, a secret CIA operative(played by Willem Dafoe) was sent into Columbia to deal with the cartels, but has been set up, and now wants revenge. Jack must sort out this mess to not only save his career and reputation, but also several lives. Equally good third entry in the series is both exciting and intriguing, with solid performances. Sad to say, Ford's last appearance in the role(before it was rebooted...) "},{"Title":"A bit long in the tooth, but it's an excellent follow-up overall. Harrison Ford is the man!","Date":"21 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" No matter how entertaining a movie is, I always have difficulties with movies over two hours long. Despite that Clear and Present Danger is over 140 minutes or so, it's still a very good follow up to Patriot Games; Like Patriot Games. Clear and Present Danger isn't filled with jaw-dropping action, it's more of a thriller, and a damn good one at that. I will point out that Clear and Present Danger has more action than Patriot Games, but it's not quite as well done overall. It has exciting twists and turns, especially in the second half. Harrison Ford once again played an ideal hero, and I was with him the whole way. His escapes are a bit superman -esque in this one, though. The Helicopter sequence at the end, especially. It's my favorite action scene in the movie, I won't lie. I'm just pointing out Ford wiggles his way through a couple more harrowing escapes than he did in Patriot Games. Willem Dafoe provides excellent support with his unpredictable role. I always relish seeing him on screen. James Earl Jones's role is bleak, but he provided class in a big way as well. Anne Archer & Thora Birch have very little to do in this one as the wife and daughter. Henry Czerny plays an excellent slime-ball here. He played a similar role in Mission Impossible. He's good at it! The ending is utterly fantastic in this one. It's filled with deception.Final Thoughts Hunt For Red October provided modicum amounts of entertainment, but was fairly dull. I loved Patriot Games, and I loved this one as well. Ben Affleck wasn't horrible as Jack Ryan, and did what he could, but he wasn't the guy in the long run. Let's hope Chris Pine can take a firm grasp of the Jack Ryan role. The Jack Ryan saga deserves to continue. 8.2/10 "},{"Title":"Involving, although often too robotic, Ryan entry which knows what it has to do but often strikes us as to not knowing how to do it.","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Where does one go after having taken on, and successfully parried, the threat of that of both Communism and Terrorism? Why, to wage war on Narcotics of course. At least, that is how the good folks charged with bringing to life the adventures of a C.I.A. agent named Jack Ryan see it, as too does the series original author Tom Clancy, whose source material I read was actually published on the brink of the Cold War's termination. With the Irish and the Soviets vanquished, that of Colombia's cocaine barons are next up on the chopping block for the world's most powerful intelligence agency. There is an eerie procession to things in that regard that mirrors today, an attitude of bountifully hopping from ideology to ideology; from nationality to nationality usurping the tyrants and conquering the odds&#x96; not so far away from modern foreign policy the action starts when things kick off that we like neither the looks or sounds of it.Clear and Present Danger is probably the most cryptic of the first three Ryan adaptations &#x96; I imagine its title is meant somewhat ironically, as there are times when things are anything but clear and the narrative can actually be quite overwhelming. Thankfully, this is not a case of the same stuff being regurgitated as Ryan charges about; does his thing and works everything out in the end. This is the sort of 'action' film whereby romping scores of circumstance and pomp put to sets heavy in the decour of American governmental iconography, as two men bicker and grimace intently over a situation, is discernible as the 'spectacle'. Things have moved on internally, also. Where in The Hunt for Red October Ryan was more of a middle man caught in a cross-fire who was charged with investigating and, ultimately, defusing a situation, his role changed dramatically in Patriot Games, where he found himself an agent at the heart of a field operation. In Phillip Noyce's Clear and Present Danger, he has effectively been promoted to that of chief of operations following some health issues with James Earl Jones' evergreen M figure.The film begins where the last one culminated at sea. An American Navy vessel flags down a luxury yacht which, to their horror, has been invaded by rouge South American Cartel members and has had its rightful owners executed. Where things suddenly become relevant is when this innocent party of murder victims are revealed to have been close friends to the American president, something which launches an investigation where previously these tyrants were getting away with the horrors associated with trafficking; smuggling and murder anyway. The leader of these renegades is a certain Ernesto Escobedo (Sandoval), who's a poor excuse for a Robert Davi villain from a then-not-too-recent Bond film about similar themes. Escobedo is rich; has a huge house; a loving family and enjoys baseball, but from within a certain Cuban aide by the name of Cortez (de Almeida) has his own ideas on Escobedo's empire.The film launches itself into too very distinct cuts of raw material, with on the one hand Ryan's task of leading the Cartel investigation dominating with a very blue, very cold Washington atmosphere as the snow and chilly conditions settle in just as equally cold levels of animosity are met with practically everything Ryan does via his peers. On the other, an elite team of SEAL commandos land in the warmer, greener and brighter South American jungles. The team is mostly made up of insignificant extras, although one such trooper of a sniper class gets his own introduction et al. early on; thus, it is of little surprise that he's the only one left upon which to focus when the mission gets messy later on. One item, of which there can be little doubt, is Harrison Ford's worthiness in the role. There is a moment early on when he walks into his superior's office; there is a smirk, some small talk and a pile of papers outlining the latest situation. Straight away, we're at home with him in the role and he brings a measured assuredness to the part.The film plays out with that invisible confidence films as cryptic as these often have, that nonchalant swagger as it dives into yet another scene drenched in conflict and suspicion; only assuming that you're keeping up but delivering the blows for you even if you haven't quite. It certainly reminds us of how good-a job the team made of The Hunt for Red October, which was equally involving in this regard although always had the benefit of things zeroing in on that lone submarine so things were never going to be able to go too far astray in the first place. To another extent, it highlights just how limp in comparison to Hunt Patriot Games was; a revenge film which is made to look fairly bog-standard and unspectacular in comparison in spite of its traversing of the globe and its taking of its characters to some pretty dire emotional places. Perhaps that was the point; Noyce has essentially overcompensated in that regard, lumping onto us more of what we thought we got in Hunt that we didn't get any of in Games &#x96; something that was Noyce's fault in the first place. As a result, I think it finds a comfortable spot in-between the two. "},{"Title":"A good movie, but not as good as the original.","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGERIt was good, but not as good as Patriot Games.The film went on for far too long. It was nearly 3 hours long and I felt it didn't need to be that long.The story has nothing to do with the original movie, which I liked. It was just the same characters in another situation.The original cast returned for this film which is always a good sign. I hate it when someone makes a sequel for a movie but changes the actors for one reason or another. It just makes it better when the original cast returns.Harrison Ford returns as Jack Ryan. He, as always, does a great job. I loved the new cast members to this movie too... Willem Dafoe played John. He was convincing in his role. But I think the actor I am growing to like more and more is Joaquim de Almeida. I have seen him in a few movies now and he has been brilliant in all of them. He really does play a brilliant bad guy.The action in this film is great. There are a lot of really good scenes where the action, explosions and suspense is great. This is another good 90s action film. It's one of those films that you have no idea who to trust... it is better not to trust anyone.I really did like this film, but it was on for too long and it was not as good as the original film. It would have been good if they made a few more of these with this character, just as long as Harrison returned as Jack. He could have been the new James Bond.I will give this film 6 out of 10.It is a shame there were no more.For more of my reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"The better of Harrison's Jack Ryan films","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While less believable than the book by having Jack involved in almost every plot point - in Tom Clancy's novel he only properly comes into the main story in the last third - it's a more satisfying experience all round than Patriot Games.Some patience is required as much of the first half is spent introducing new characters, setting up plot, etc. The investigation of a hit on a businessman and his family on a luxury yacht by a pair of hired muscle reveals connections with a Colombian drug cartel - the businessman was skimming money from them, and he and his family paid for it with their lives. The money skimmed is located, and the US government seizes it which angers the drug baron who was being scammed, Ernesto Escobedo. Escobedo's intel man, former Cuban DGI colonel Felix Cortez, sees an opportunity to seize power by having the US Ambassador, and the visiting FBI Director assassinated. Meanwhile, the CIA, without Ryan's knowledge, is running an illegal covert operation against the drug cartels, with covert troops deep in Colombia staging hit and run raids on drug factories, and secret airports used for aircraft smuggling drugs. The assassinations provoke the President into ordering things to be taken to a new lever. An aerial strike is ordered against a drug baron's mansion while he is meeting with several others, and attempts are made to pass it off as a car bombing by angry cartel members. But not only is Jack growing suspicious that his own country is doing something illegal, Cortez also is becoming alert to the fact the US government is running a secret operation in a supposedly friendly nation.When Cortez blackmails a senior US official into giving him the locations of the US troops in Colombia, Jack, with the help of a shadowy field agent called John Clark - Willem Dafoe - takes matters into his own hands.Convoluted to be sure, but a thoroughly intriguing political thriller, with great action sequences, particularly the RPG attack on the convoy in Bogota. The climactic rescue sequence is rather weak compared to the more epic version in the book, more akin to a 12-rated Rambo movie, but it works well in itself. The showdown with the President provides plenty of sparks - I AM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES - though the ending departs considerably from the book. "},{"Title":"Indiana Jones The CIA years","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 1990's saw the addition of orbital satellites, laser guided bombs, fibre optic cameras, night vision goggles, personal computers, state of the art hardware, and more overtly militaristic themes to the techno-thriller format.One of the best of these films, which tended to coincide with the first Gulf War and the fall of the Soviet Union, was Patriot Games, directed by Phillip Noyce with a certain classiness. The plot is a generic revenge tale, but it takes place within a world that is genuinely interesting CIA conferences, Pentagon back-rooms, high-tech gear, telephone calls from the president etc. Building on the work of political thriller directors like Costa Gavras, Pakula, Frankenheimer, John Schlesinger and Fred Zinnemann, and mainstream novelists like Michael Crichton and Frederick Forsyth in the 70s and Tom Clancy in the 80s, an entire vocabulary was being added to here.Beyond the classy direction and the cool gear on display (the film has 3 good action sequences &#x96; one involving a CIA raid viewed entirely through a spy satellite- a big deal back in 1992), Patriot Games is mildly interesting for a couple other reasons. This is another in a long line of movies in which Harrison Ford finds himself playing a meek everyman who bravely protect his family, and it's funny to see the film's scriptwriters struggling to be politically correct. They want IRA bad guys, but they don't actually want to offend the IRA, so they opt instead for an Irish bad guy who is too hardcore for even the IRA. End result writers able to serve up easy cartoon villains whilst also placating their conscience.More interesting is the way all these films popped up during the First Gulf War. Like an unconscious display of American prowess, in the form of super advanced technology and all seeing surveillance gear, Patriot Games might as well have been an advertisement for the military industrial complex and the long reaching arm of Uncle Sam.In terms of flaws, the film has two at times the villains are pure cartoon and the film's ending features a silly action scene on a boat, hastily tacked on by nervous studio heads. A better director would have extended the action sequence in the house (the film's climax features a battle in a CIA safe house) and omitted the boat sequence entirely.Released 2 years before Patriot Games, The Hunt For Red October trades Gulf War muscle flexing for post Cold War, pro Soviet/American bridge building. But though it pretends to be about the healed wounds between Russia and America, this is still a rather propagandistic flick, about a Russian submarine captain who seeks to defect to the glorious promise land of Uncle Sam. Here, like Patriot Games, a techno-culturally superior America is filled with good leaders and upstanding generals, and Russians would be crazy not to come on over for a slice of freedom.Still, the film was directed by John McTiernan (Die Hard, Predator, Die Hard 3, Thomas Crown Affair &#x96; all good action flicks), so it has a certain style to it. Like Patriot Games, once you get past some clichés and some clownishness, it's a rather serious picture with some nice hardware on display for the boys and some well mounted action scenes.Released in 1994, and again directed by Phillip Noyce, Clear and Present Danger is the most sophisticated of these films, which were all based on Tom Clancy novels (Clancy, a major tech-head, fantasises about World War 3 for a living). Here, the world isn't made up of good guys and bad guys and there are lots of conflicting, self interests. The villain here is also nothing less than the President of the United States, a gutsy move, though by now this paternal villain cliché is getting old (The Fugitive, LA Confidential, Monster's Inc, Minority Report etc). Unusual for such films, Danger points out the immorality of affairs such as Irangate, doesn't salivate over the film's depiction of a secret war in South America (which Noyce links to Vietnam), considers (somewhat) the moral implications of violence, criticises snap emotive responses and deals with political betrayals and private agendas among both the President and his advisers. Where the film differs significantly from its 1970s predecessors, is it's total lack of impotency the 90s spy-hero doesn't shy away from responsibility, and will go so far as to topple the Presidency to maintain the good of his countryWhat's funny, though, is that the film treats its central idea (the President mounting an illegal covert war in Panama) as a shockingly evil thing. In the real world, despite the fact that the American President is not allowed to deploy or instigate any military actions without Congress first declaring war, he routinely does so. Iraq, Vietnam, Korea etc, not to mention countless CIA instigated coups in places like Haiti, Iran, Chile and Ecuador, were all illegal by the Constitution of the United States. The fact is, Congress is always sidestepped, most recently in the bank bailout package fiasco.This being Tom Clancy, the main attraction is once again the gear on display laser guided bombs, F18 hornets, sniper's hidden in the grass, an RPG attack on a convoy etc. From here, many computer game franchises would spawn, and from there, a banalization of military technology. People used to go to these thrillers and marvel at the hardware, gasping at the inside looks offered of the Oval Office and Pentagon, but now such things are routine, countless TV shows (West Wing, 24, The Unit, JAG) and video games (why be wowed by the sniper on screen, when you can BE him online) diluting the spectacle that made these films popular in the 90s.8/10 - With the down sizing of armies around the world, and all technology fetishized to the point of disaffection, the techno-thriller genre (itself a genre borne from war, see Lang's 1928 Spies) looks like it's winding down again. "},{"Title":"Feels good watching it, but the movie really makes very little sense at all","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This could be one of the sillier premises since Jurassic Park III.From the beginning. The U.S. gov felt a need to go into Colombia to disrupt the drug trade. So far, so good. Even though the president authorizes some troops to go down there without permission from Congress- there's no real serious crime being committed. We send down a unit to Colombia and they do their job-- they kill almost every drug lord in the country, and blow up millions of dollars of cocaine. Mission accomplished. They just missed one guy, Escobado. But here's the rub-- Escobado's right hand man, Feliz Cortez extrapolates from doing some forensics, that the U.S. military probably bombed the house where drug lords all met. Considering the Colombian's would've sent a forensic team to the site anyway- does it make any sense that the U.S. would've used a missile traceable to themselves? The U.S. would've had to assume that international teams of forensic experts would've spent weeks analyzing the bomb site. But the plot continues to get more and more ridiculous. Feliz Cortez, without any real proof, determines that the U.S. is in Colombia. So Cortez (an adviser to drug dealers and murderers) calls the NSA (National Security Adviser) and gets a face to face meeting in Panama to discuss. Cortez negotiates getting the coordinates of the American troops in return for promising that he'll kill Escobado and create a less violent drug trade and that he'll keep quiet about the trade for American lives. LOLSo the NSA, who is trying to keep this whole thing quiet-- decides that instead of pulling the troops out and risking a slap on the wrist-- they decide to hand over a dozen American troops to the drug cartel. So the NSA risks life in prison, and the worst political scandal in the history of America in the hopes that Feliz Cortez and other drug dealers would keep this information to themselves? And hope that the information doesn't get leaked from another source, like the Colombian military, or the soldier's families. And that Clark and Jack Ryan who would have all the motive in the world, never speak out. They go from the possibility that the American people might find out about this minor military excursion (which succeeded and no one was hurt)-- to murdering their own troops, based on Feliz Cortez's claim that he knows American troops are in Colombia? The real silly part, is why would Escobado and Feliz want to capture and kill American troops on Colombian soil anyway? I'll give you your victory, you give us ours, says Cortez. Makes no sense. Once the Americans find out that troops were captured and killed (or being held) on Colombian soil, that would green light their immediate death, whereby congress would authorize an entire brigade into Colombia to hunt them down like dogs. How is that a victory for the cartel?Cortez says in the beginning of the movie that Escobado should be very concerned because he killed a friend of the Presidents. Yet a few weeks later, he doesn't share the same concern hoping to capture American troops, killing them, and holding them in a make shift prison in their own drug factory, right by their house. Then after the gig is up-- the head of the CIA and the NSA negotiate with Clark, to murder the deputy head of intelligence? Over a phone that could've easily been recorded or tapped. Weren't they concerned that Clark would have motive to blow the whistle at some point? They lied to him, killed off his unit, and asked him to kill Ryan, and then hung up the phone on him. We're they hoping he'd just disappear?Why did Ryan (ala Rambo) fly down to Bogotá to help Clark get the soldiers out anyway? Why didn't he just threaten Ritter and the NSA to blow the whistle if they didn't pull the troops? He had the recording, coming back from the funeral. Flying down there himself makes no sense, and jeopardized his life and the lives of the troops. If the troops are being shot at, that means they're in a conflict zone-- what could Jack Ryan and his check book really do to help the situation? Other plot holes 1) Why would the Colombian drug lords kill the presidents friend by slaughtering them in their state rooms? Why would you assassinate someone by killing them on their boat and then driving the same boat with the bloody bodies into American waters? 2) If Escobado was so easy to find (that Ryan was driven there by some locals)-- how come the U.S. military didn't go their to kill Escobado after he got away, or in the beginning? 4) Why would the drug lords shoot missiles at Ryan and his entourage who went to Bogotá on a diplomatic mission? Why would the drug lords want to instigate a real fight with the American Government?5) What was the point of Feliz Cortez killing the girl, who worked as an assistant to the intelligence agency? 6) They got Feliz Cortez to Panama, why didn't they just arrest him. They had him on tape admitting his role in the cartels.7) Knowing that American troops were being held in his factory, and that his informant, Feliz Cortez, betrayed him, how did Escobado get killed by Feliz's lone bodyguard? 8) Knowing that the NSA and Ritter called for his death, and having the tapes of the voices of the troops, along with the actual troops that survived, wouldn't Ryan have assumed his life was still at risk coming back into the country? Wouldn't he and Clark have immediately gone on the record with the FBI while back in the country as to what happened? "}{"Title":"pretty good Clancy adaptation","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'Clear and Present Danger' is full of great scenes which never really come together to make a great movie. It's trying to tell too many different stories and so, even with nearly two and half hours screen time, each story feels too short and incomplete. There are at least a half-dozen major plot threads running concurrently; give the director credit for at least TRYING to fit everything that matters in from another of Tom Clancy's super-fat bestsellers. The other problem though is Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford). He is not the action hero of 'Patriot Games.' Here, he is a dupe at first, then a decoy at the end, and in between sort of a standard-issue government official (albeit a rare honest one). John Clark (Willem Defoe) is the closest thing to a 'hero' present. There is a large ensemble cast, everyone has a role to play, and Ryan frankly is reduced to being just another member of that ensemble. In short, the US President orders (without stating so explicitly, to cover his own butt) a covert military operation against drug cartels in Colombia. Clark heads up a small, elite squad that then begins going around blowing up labs and generally disrupting the drug business. In apparent retaliation, the FBI director and his entourage are killed in their motorcade while on a visit to Bogota. A Cuban intelligence expert working for one of the drug lords approaches National Security Adviser Cutter (the president's right-hand man) for a truce, and a deal-in exchange for his cutting drug exports to the US in half, he wants the inserted military team cut off and abandoned, so he can kill them. As mentioned, there are several other side-plots (Admiral Greer has terminal cancer, an FBI secretary is seduced by the Cuban intelligence agent and murdered) so there is a lot of jumping back and forth among the various players and situations. Among the best scenes is the ambush of the FBI director's motorcade in Colombia; very well-staged and realistic, it's a real nail-biter of a sequence. But there are several other good action set-pieces as well. 'Clear and Present Danger' does not seem as long as it is. It's just too bad the director, Philip Noyce, and the trio of screenwriters couldn't make the film a more cohesive package and found better ways to pump up Ford's role. After 'The Hunt for Red October' and 'Patriot Games,' we have certainly come to expect more from the Jack Ryan character than to be a fall-guy for a slippery Prez and his corrupt underlings, even if he belatedly turns the tables on them. "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan's third entry  with lots of  noisy action , tension  and thriller","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Third installment of the Agent Jack Ryan with lots of gun-rattling action, suspense and intrigue. Ryan is a high officer from CIA ,married(Anne Archer) and with sons(Thora Birch).After death a closed friend by Colombian drugs Cali cartel(Miguel Sandoval,Joaquin De Almeida) , the President(Donald Moffat) himself sanctions a covert operation against the drug barons by sending crack soldiers into the Colombia country under the command of mercenaries(Willem Dafoe,Benjamin Bratt, Raymond Cruz). Harrison Ford's Jack Ryan contracted into White House's staff(Harris Yulin, Henry Czerny,Dean Jones) investigates the events. Ryan thinks he's still after Colombian connections to the dead man's money.This blockbuster is an excellent adaptation of the novel by Tom Clancy , companion to ¨The hunt for Red October¨ with Ford taking over the role of Ryan from Alec Baldwin and second part ¨Patriot games¨ again with Harrison Ford , who's becoming the king of trilogies . Extraordinaries nail-biting action scenes, specially when Ryan and his partners are trapped by machine-gunners in a network of narrows streets and posteriorly parodied by Leslie Nielsen. Interesting screenplay plenty of twists and thrills by John Milius and Steve Zaillian. Spectacular musical score fitting to action and suspense by James Horner. Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Donald McAlpine. The picture is well directed by Phillip Noyce, an action movies expert, but he directed ¨Blind fury, The Saint, The Bone Collectors and Patriot games¨ among others. Rating Above average, the film will like to Harrison Ford fans and Jack Ryan novels followers. "},{"Title":"Jack is back","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clear and Present Danger is the second adaptation of a Tom Clancy novel to feature Harrison Ford as CIA agent Jack Ryan. This film involves a murder which is linked to drug cartels in Colombia and the subsequent efforts to take action against the cartels.Harrison Ford proves again that he is well-suited to the role of Jack Ryan and more appropriate than Alec Baldwin and Ben Affleck for the role. There are some great supporting performances as well, particularly from James Earl Jones, Willem Dafoe and Henry Czerny. Henry Czerny developed an interesting character and the rivalry between him and Jack Ryan was excellent.The story of this film is better developed than that of Patriot Games (1992), which is why I prefer this film. It goes beyond a simple Jack Ryan combats criminals story. There is not a lot of intrigue per se, but some interesting turns and friction between Ryan and officials within the United States government. There are also some well-made action sequences in the film to supplement the story. The film's ending was interesting and appropriate. Clear and Present Danger proved to be more interesting than its predecessor film, Patriot Games (1992). "},{"Title":"Okay, Clancy-Type International Action Thriller","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Set between the end of the Cold War and the beginning of the global war on terrorism, the films settles on Colombian cocaine cartels for a convenient set of villains. At that, however, it's a bit unusual for Tom Clancy, presuming the movie incorporates details from his novel. For one thing, the story allows at least one of the real murdering heavies to have a couple of kids that he delights in. And, BANG, the American Navy blows up a house full of drug lords and children. Unwittingly, to be sure, but still -- Secondly, the bad-guys-in-chief are not the Colombian drug lords. Their evil is taken for granted. Instead, the worst people are American politicians who undertake to do the Potomac two-step by engaging in illegal operations in a foreign country while preserving plausible deniability for the slyly knowing President. The PRESIDENT, mind you! What we seem to have here is not exactly a film a clef, but at least an approximation of the Iran/Contra affair under President Reagan, in which Admiral Poindexter, F. B. I. head Casey, and Col. Oliver North did some sub rosa trading, which Reagan had no knowledge of. But those real-life events only provide a framework for a fantasy in which sneaky Washington politicians agree to help a drug lord put a lock on cocaine shipments in return for his guarantee that he'll turn over all the information he gains on his rivals, which will double our drug arrests and boost the president's popularity.The price to be paid for this agreement is that the slimy pols immediately shut down a Special Ops mission involving a dozen of our armed forces' picked men. They do so, betraying the mission in the process. This leads to a couple of American deaths and the capture of the rest of the unit. A fierce fire fight at the end results in their extraction by helicopter, led by the stalwart Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford) and the better trained Willem DaFoe. I hope that some of us, those who paste bumper stickers on their cars that say things like, Surrender is Not an Option, will note that the Special Ops guys here, hopelessly outnumbered and surrounded, not only sensibly surrendered but lived to fight another day. In case you might miss the irony, the director cross cuts between the pious pompous platitudes given by the president at a state funeral, and the terrifying hell our doomed men in Colombia find themselves trapped in. It worked better during the baptism/slaughter at the climax of The Godfather but it's still effective.The film is pretty well done and must have been expensive to shoot. Lots of action scenes and an entire hacienda is blown to bits by a laser-guided bomb in a most spectacular boom. (Actually several spectacular booms as the special effects detonations went off in different places at slightly different times.) The technical stuff about paper-made bombs is pretty interesting. What a techie Clancy must be. In one earlier boom, Jack Ryan tumbles forward toward the camera while a slow-motion fireball explodes behind him. If I see this unbelievably hoary cliché one more time, I'm going to call the police, the FCC, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Holy Name Society.What happens in franchises like the Jack Ryan saga is that as time goes by, as the characters become familiar, as the story lines coalesce insensibly into one another, the writers start killing off some of the people we've gotten used to seeing. Children, of course, are always at risk, but usually one of the first guys to go is a mentor. It took Rocky Balboa three cracks to kill Burgess Meredith. I think it's taken the same amount of time for Jack Ryan to lose Greer (James Earl Jones), the admirable Admiral.Situation report. If you liked the earlier Jack Ryan stories, you'll like this one too. It's a little more disjointed in its plot, but has just as much in the way of intrigue and action, and Ryan remains the same boy scout he's always been. "},{"Title":"better than Patriot Games,but still pretty slow and boring","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" while i don't think this is a great movie,i do think it is better than the the last one,Jack Ryan film,Patriot Games.in Clear and Present Danger,Harrison Ford once again plays Jack Ryan.this one has a bit more intrigue than Patriot Games,and i also like the story more.it is more developed.to me,this one has a bigger scope.there is bit more urgency as well.having said that,i still think this movie is boring and slow,more often than not.Like Patriot Games,it's certainly not awful,but again i think maybe something got lost in the translation from Tom Clancy's novel.it's also almost 2 and a half hours long,and i think they could have trimmed some of it.still,it has it's good moments.for me,Clear and Present Danger is a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan Tackles the Drug Cartels!","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Clear and Present Danger of the title is the danger posed by the influx of drugs coming into the USA. This third installment of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series is an exciting adventure of intrigue.We pick up Ryan a couple of years after Patriot Games where he is living happily after with his wife Cathy (Anne Archer) a successful doctor, and his two kids, Sally (Thora Birch) and a new son Jack Jr. (Alexander Lester). Admiral Greer (James Earl Jones), Ryan's mentor is suddenly taken ill and appoints Ryan as his replacement as Deputy Director of National Security.Meanwhile, friends of President Bennett (Donald Moffat) have been murdered and connected to the drug lords of Columbia. The President's National Security Adviser, James Cutter (Harris Yulin) and his assistant Ritter (Henry Czerny) arrange to have a group of US Army snipers under the direction of agent John Clark (Willem Dafoe)infiltrate Columbian territory and disrupt the drug trade by destroying drug shipments.Drug lord Ernesto Escobedo (Miquel Sandoval) becomes alarmed and assigns his security chief Felix Cortez (Joaquim de Almeida) to find out who is responsible. Cortez gains the confidence of the secretary of the FBI Director, Moira Wolfson (Ann Magnuson) and learns that Director Jacobs (Tom Tammi) will been sent to Columbia on a secret mission by the President. Ryan already in Columbia, will join the party.Cortez, who has ambitions of his own, sees this as his chance to take over and attacks the convoy carrying the FBI Director and Ryan. Director Jacobs and Ryan's friend, FBI agent Dan Murray (Tim Grimm) are killed.Back in Washington, Ryan continues his investigation and begins to suspect Ritter and Cutter. Cortez having no further use for Moira, murders her the same day that her boss is killed, which alerts Ryan to his involvement.Ryan learns that Cortez plans to overthrow Escobedo and take over. Cutter and Ritter panic and close down Clark's operation trapping his men in the Columbian jungle. Ryan, realizing that he has been set up by the politicians, goes to Columbia once more and enlists Clark's help to rescue the survivors. As Ryan negotiates for their release things suddenly go wrong and...........................Director Philip Noyce gives us plenty of explosive action among the deceit and double crossing. Harrison Ford again turns in an excellent performance as Ryan, who at times seems to be a fish out of water in his new job. Czerny and Yulin make slimy villains and Moffat a believable President. Willem Dafoe as the abandoned Clark has some good moments as well. Anne Archer has little to do (pity) in this one but to be there for Jack.Watch for Benjamin Bratt as the chief of the commandos, Dean Jones as Ryan's boss and Hope Lange as Senator Mayo who grills Ryan on his budget proposal.Followed by The Sum of All Fears (2002) in which a much younger Ben Affleck takes over as Jack Ryan....go figure. "},{"Title":"Boring 'thriller'","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" By definition, a thriller is meant to thrill. This 'thriller' fails to do so. Reprising his role as CIA hotshot Jack Ryan, Harrison Ford looks disinterested as he becomes involved in an undercover war between the American government and some naughty Colombian drug barons. Whereas Patriot Games conveyed some excitement to the viewer, this sequel fails to match that modest achievement. I found myself counting down the minutes till the end. There are endless dull and 'meaningful' conversations in this film, all of which are of no interest to those who crave a bit of glamour and fun from a movie. This film could have been 90 minutes long, edited for action and injected with a little humour. The absence of any real humour actually harms the film the most. A Clint Eastwood or a Kiefer Sutherland would have portrayed Jack Ryan with a touch of class and the odd laugh, but Harrison Ford just bores the audience senseless. The cast is good and the plot could have been developed into something of interest, but I was left feeling empty from viewing this sorry rubbish. It takes itself too seriously. Despite it only being 12 years old, I felt this movie was incredibly dated, more so even that the older Patriot Games. I guess in recent years I have been spoilt by the excellent and always compelling 24. Things have clearly moved on. "},{"Title":"Your word is You","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Spoting a yacht sailing erratically in the choppy waters off Florida the US Coast Guard has the boat boarded. On board they find that it's owner was murdered together along with his wife and two children by the group of Columbian drug traffickers who sea-jacked the craft. The man who together with his family that was murdered happened to be businessman Peter Hardin the Presdent of the United States Pres. Bennett, Donald Moffat, best friend.Outraged at what happened to his friend Pres. Bennett sets into motion a plan to get those who ordered Hardin and his family's murder with his top two advisor's Cutter & Ritter, Harris Yulin & Henry Czerny. To cover his and his advisor's behinds puts the now new CIA Deputy Director Jack Ryan, Harrison Ford, is put officially in charge. Ryan working together with the CIA comes up with the startling findings that Hardin, the presidents best friend, was a major money launder for the Cali Drug Cartel. Hardin using his business and banking expertise was skimming off the profits, that his bosses in the cartel needed to continue their operations, and that was the reason for his and his family's murder.Getting retired US Special Forces officer John Clark,Willen Defoe, to get a 12 man strike force to hit the Cali Cartel where it hurts, in it's drug processing operations,Ritter is going against Dept. director's Ryan's sworn testimony to the US Congress. Ryan testified that no US military personnel will be used to fight the Columbian drug dealers putting the unsuspecting Ryan in danger, if the operation is ever found out, of being indited for perjury, in him lying to the US Congress.As all these undercover dealings are going on the head of the Cali Cartel Ernesto Escobedo, Miguel Sandoval, chief counselor and ex-Castro intelligence agent Col. Felix Cortez, Jaquim de Almeida,is planing to set up his boss by getting him knocked off by the CIA. Cortez is also setting up rest of the Cartel leaders to be whacked by arraigning a major hit on the US governments representatives in Columbia. Later there's a Cortez sponsored attack in Bogata killing 5 Secret Service Agents and the the FBI chief Jacobs,Tom Tammi, with Cortez pining the attack on the innocent drug dealers.Cortez has his lover and FBI director Jacobs private secretary Moira Wolfson, Ann Magnuson, unwittingly give him the information of Jacobs whereabouts. This helps Cortez in having Jacobs trapped in a motorcade in downtown Bogata where he was gunned down. Cortez then plans to make a deal with the US, after he had the Cali Cartel leaders knocked off, to take over the cartel's operations and cut the drug supply to the US in half. Making the US government's drug fighting agency DEA and the FBI, as well as President Bennett, look like their War on Drugs is a big success to the American people,It turns out that Cortez's master plan miss-fires when it's discovered after a massacre of most of the cartel leaders, with the exception of Escobedo, that it wasn't a car bomb that was first reported by the news that did them in! It was a laser-guided missile, that could have only been used by the USAF, that did the job. With the sh*t hitting the fan all over D.C and the members of Congress demanding to know why the US military was involved in this unauthorized hit two things are quickly put into motion by presidential advisor's Cutter & Ritter 1. the US troops sent into Columbia are sold out by giving up their positions to the cartel mercenaries in order to have them all killed so they'll never live to tell the truth about their mission and 2. Jack Ryan is saddled with the blame for the secret operation with him made, by Cutter & Ritter, to look like he authorized it which he didn't.Despite it's very complicated plot Clear and Present Danger is a top rate political thriller that never lets up, or lets you down, in it's nerve racking suspense. The movie ends with two great final sequences with Jack Ryan having it out in Columbia with Cortez and his hoods in order for him and Clark, the head of the sold-out US troops, to save the remaining US soldiers held captive. The ending just flipped me, as I assume everyone else who saw it, out with an incredible confrontation between Ryan and President Bennett right in the Oval Office that has to be seen to be believed! It's here more then anywhere else in  Clear and Present Danger where I hoped that for once, just this ONCE, that life would imitate art! "},{"Title":"Second best Jack Ryan film","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford reprises his role as Jack Ryan after the mediocre Patriot Games. Ford isn't as good as Alec Baldwin in the role, but he's adequate.This time, we see Ryan assigned to help fight a South American drug cartel.This movie is good, but could have been better. The first half reeks of war on drugs propaganda that makes it hard for us to enjoy the movie. The second half is much better, in which we realize the scope of what's going on, and with the requisite action.James Earl Jones returns as Admiral Greer, the comic relief. Anne Archer also returns as Ryan's beautiful wife, but Archer is again rather dull in the role. Willem Dafoe and Benjamin Bratt have small but impressive roles as soldiers in South America. But the real standout is Henry Czerny as the chilling, unscrupulous jerk Ritter.This isn't as good as The Hunt for Red October, but it's better than Patriot Games and The Sum of All Fears. "},{"Title":"Unclear is this Present Danger **1/2","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford in this disappointing film about the affects of a Colombian cartel group dealing with drugs.Ford gets a top job at the CIA when the director (James Earl Jones) develops a terminal illness.It seems that the President and his assistant are involved in a covert war in Colombia when they are denying this. Ford, their dupe, appears before Congress and is questioned by the late Hope Lange, who portrays a U.S. senator in one brief scene.The action really starts when an adviser goes to Colombia to negotiate getting back U.S. money. He is murdered there and his assistant, possibly his lover, is found dead the same day as he is killed.The film falls into other Tom Clancy books made into films. There is plenty of action but a lack of cohesiveness. "}{"Title":"Helicopters, Snipers, and Banal Presidents","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Be it as it is, the films adapted from Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series are really a good time to be had by sitting back and enjoying a bit of action and espionage. There really is not that much more to it.In this sequel to Patriot Games, Jack Ryan is caught up between the personal vendettas of the President of the United States and some Columbian drug lords. I have to give this movie a bit of credit for creating such a really banal President that seems atrocious even now that we've gotten used to Dubya and all that, and its enjoyable elements include a really neat sniper character, Willem Dafoe, and helicopters. It wouldn't be a Tom Clancy story without helicopters.Harrison Ford puts off his usual Good family guy forced into a fight he doesn't want to have in the first place, and this time his good-boy role is taken to a kind of different level wherein it actually becomes his own problem, but it's not like he really has to expand as an actor or anything to pull it off. Same with Willem Dafoe, really.Sit down and give it a whirl, it's great with friends and some good fattening snacks.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Standard but well made movie.","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a good and above average political thriller with action elements in it. Still the movie gets a bit too complicated at times and isn't always easy to follow. The movie is also long and some point of the movie are dragging on, even though the pace always remains good and high.It's hard to say in which genre this movie can be put. For an action movie it doesn't have enough action and for a thriller the story isn't good enough. It makes Clear and Present Danger a bit of a mixed movie that is far from perfect but still remains a perfectly watchable movie with some great actors and some memorable moments.Main problem I had with the movie is that it lacked a distinctive visual style. A problem all Phillip Noyce movies always have. That's why I'm not a too big fan of Phillip Noyce movies, with the exception of Dead Calm maybe, which simply had a very solid and tense story. Clear and Present Danger is a good made movie but it just is too simply and standard done all and it isn't really anything new.The cast is great and has some big names in it; Harrison Ford, James Earl Jones, Harris Yulin, Donald Moffat, Henry Czerny, Joaquim de Almeida, Miguel Sandoval, Benjamin Bratt, Willem Dafoe, Ted Raimi in a small role and a still very young Thora Birch.The music by James Honer is really good. Even though it's typical Horner stuff, like he always used in his '90's movies, it works really well for the movie and truly uplifts the movie at times.There are some good moments in the movie that are highly memorable such as the convoy ambush which has become a bit of a classic already perhaps. Yes, the movie is perfectly watchable but the story isn't always the best to follow and at times the storytelling is lacking. Still, a movie that I would recommend to you.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"One of the better Harrison Ford movies, but not his best","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not going to say that Harrison Ford is my most favorite actor, but I sure like to see him play. That's why I've already seen several of his movies and that's also the reason why I gave this movie a try. I'm normally not too much a fan of action movies, but with him in one of the leading roles, you can always expect something more and better than some simple spectacle.Clear and Present Danger is a movie based on a Tom Clancy novel that tells the story of Doctor Jack Ryan, a CIA analyst who finds himself in the middle of a power struggle within the Colombian drug cartel as well as some dirty political games in the highest ranks of the American political establishment. It all starts with the murder of a close friend and his family of the American president aboard their yacht in the Caribbean, apparently in retaliation for stealing money as part of a money laundering scheme for the cartel. When some of the president's men convince the president to conduct covert actions against the cartel, without telling the Congress of course, and the security chief of one of the cartel bosses tries to play both sides by informing his boss, but trying to organize a coup against the cartel leadership with the help of the CIA at the same time, Ryan soon gets in a very difficult position. When he finds out the entire truth, he sets himself the almost impossible task to save the men that were left behind in the jungle, while trying to save his own reputation and life...Whether everything shown in this movie is possible or not, I can not really say. But one thing is for sure and that is that we certainly will not know everything the president of the USA is involved in or has knowledge of. I'm convinced that everywhere in the world, the CIA does play some dirty tricks so now and then, as long as it is beneficial for them and / or the country. So in that perspective I must say that this entire movie feels quite believable. And even though this isn't the best movie I've ever seen Harrison Ford play in, I must say that he did a nice job in this movie. His character is still believable, because he never seems to use any weapons and certainly isn't some kind of superman who can escape from entire armies without getting a scratch (although it sometimes started to look like it). I don't think the average CIA office worker is used to carry a lot of guns, machine guns, hand grenades, bazooka's or I don't know what other weaponry you sometimes see them use in all those cheap action flicks, so it's a good thing that they didn't have Jack Ryan carry them either. But there is one thing I don't really believe I don't think that the CIA would ever send such a high ranking employee in the field. Nevertheless, Harrison Ford did a nice job with his role and the same can be said about Willem Dafoe, Anne Archer,... But in the end this is a bit too much an action movie to my taste, even though the action shots are certainly nice to watch. The story and the acting are OK and make that this movie is a lot better than the average action flick. That's why I give this movie a rating between 6.5/10 and 7/10. "},{"Title":"The war on drugs gets a Machiavellian make-over.","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In a Machiavellian storyline, Jack Ryan (played by Harrison Ford) is embroiled in a political agenda to cut off the Columbian Drug Lords and get revenge for the US president - whose friend was been murdered by drug tsar Ernesto Escobedo (played very well by Miguel Sandoval).The plot is very good and reminds viewers that even politicians can be the bad guys - but I think it overplayed the whole Ryan is good, perhaps Clancy was annoyed by the rhetoric of politicians and decided to write a novel about it.The action sequences are very well done too, but it tries too hard to be a suspenseful political action-adventure movie by incorporating ideas and themes from all the other Jack Ryan movies and putting them into one box.I don't mind the fact its not the book, I thought this was a very good film about political agendas and the war on drugs.During the film we see Escobedo and Ryan team up - but I thought this would be a novel thing to have in future films and novels - Ryan's contact in Columbia just happens to be the country's top drug lord....but it was not to be.Anyhow - I thought this was a good political action-adventure movie that perhaps tried a little too hard on the action.Overall 6/10. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, yet Laborious at times","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS     Clear and Present Danger is the third translation of Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan series to the screen, and the second one starring Harrison Ford as the thinking-man's James Bond.  Although a definite improvement over Patriot Games, and on par with The Hunt for Red October, the film contains serious points of lag.  The material in these drawn out sequences is interesting, but it molds the film into an average entry in either of two categories either as a tepid action film, or an underdeveloped drama.  Holes aside, the film is engaging enough to wet the appetites of fans of either genre, and is an entertaining experience overall.     Ford is the best Jack Ryan in my opinion, successfully conveying Ryan's intelligence as well as his vulnerability in dangerous situations.  Plus he is able to inject his trademark charm and snide humor into the role which gives the character a more down-to-earth character we can relate to.  Part of the problem with the movie is the lack of development of the rest of the characters.  Since the script is burdened with an array of important roles, their screen time is often marginalized.  For example, Willem Dafoe is given hardly any development prior to the climax of the film.  I respect Dafoe as an actor greatly, and found myself wishing that he would be involved in more of the film.  Anne Archer has the throwaway role as the wife of Jack Ryan, but James Earl Jones is able to shine as Admiral Greer, even though he's on the sidelines.  Some characters just don't fit, like the entire cabinet of political bigwigs who orchestrate the events of the movie.  Donald Moffat is ridiculous and an utter buffoon of a president, and Henry Czerny seems to be insidious for no reason.  Many of these holes in characters could have been remedied with another half hour of screen time.     However, my last comment would have shifted the context of the movie to a full blown drama.  As much as Clancy's work is engaging, the movie cannot stand on its own without the promise of action.  The action scenes are well done and gripping at times, but they are merely peppered throughout the film.  Philip Noyce is able to create scenes of tension without using weapons, such as the well-done scene involving a computer battle between Ford and Czerny.  Overall, the film gives off an odor stemming from a lack of sustained tension, and the plot visibly loses steam at points.     Ultimately, the main problem with Clear and Present Danger is the problem of defining what it clearly is as a movie.  But, if you're a fan of Clancy's work or are just looking for an entertaining movie, give this one a rent. "},{"Title":"As a reader and a watcher I have to compromise","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One reader said that he had only read one Clancy book (Rainbow 6) and that John Clark in Clear and Present Danger was exactly as he imagined him.  I usually overlook casting errors such as this due to human foibles. However, Clark featured in Clear and Present Danger and many other books as big (well over 6') and broad shouldered.  His large stature was a 'presence' which intimidated and was a factor in the story, so when Dafoe appeared in a relatively diminutive form, it deflated the image.  So the old story is, don't read the book before seeing the movie.  On the other hand, I have seen movies after reading the book where I see the actor and think, Yes, that is the character as I imagined!  You also have to allow some leeway here for the written word (in this instance Clancy's penchant for copious amounts) to be condensed to a couple of hours of viewing.  I love mindless entertainment like this movie so I don't care about continuity or mistakes, (Dafoe was OK if you didn't read the book) as long as I enjoy watching it.  I liked, seen it twice and I'll watch it again. "},{"Title":"Willem Dafoe steals this movie *SPOILERS*","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As the only Clancy book I've read SO FAR is Rainbow Six I can't say how well Ryan or anyone else is portrayed in this movie compared to the books, but I will say that both Willem Dafoe as John Clark and Raymond Cruz as Domingoe Ding Chavez are just as I pictured them. Willem Dafoe bacically steals any movie for me, and his performance as Clark was cold, blunt and ultra cool, just as it should be (Ryans dead, now get me back in contact with my team). and Raymond Cruz, in probably his largest role, is great as Chavez, a tough little souldier, who is Clarks future son-in-law. Other than that, I should probably sy that I like Harrison Ford best as Jake Ryan, although I haven't read a book with him in it yet.   "},{"Title":"Great book, rotten movie.","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every time I have seen Tom Clancy's novels adapted to screen, they have been atrocious.  Being a major fan of Clancy's novels, it seems as though whenever they are adapted to the big screen, the writers botch the whole process.  None of the novels that have been made into movies do the books any justice.   "},{"Title":"A good thriller.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clear and Present Danger is part of the continuing chronicles of the life of CIA analyst Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford).(spoilers) It follows how the government starts a war against the drug cartels in Colombia. The only catch is the Colombian government doesn't know about it. This movie is better than I've reviewed it and it has lots of action. Though don't expect a lot similarities between it and the book it has a lot but not all of them. 6 *'s out of 10 *'s. "},{"Title":"Fair portrayal of the book","Date":"26 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is, in my view, the closes so far of the film adaptations of the Tom Clancy novels. I write this having recently read a precis of the new movie based on The Sum of all Fears in which terrorists try to cause a nuclear war between the USA and Russia.In the new movie, two bombs are released, one in chechnya and another in Baltimore.  The book was overall a very technical affair which admitedly would be difficult to translate to the screen.But enough of that, excepting a number of missing sub-plots from the book, clear and present danger follows closely the war against drugs and an illegal invasion by the USA into Columbia.  It misses off the wonderful helicopter finale of the book, but does a good job of capturing the audience.The car ambush is a particular high point that you'll want to see again and again! "}{"Title":"William Dafoe steals the film...Ford is not at his best...","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford is rumored to have disliked playing Jack Ryan in 'Clear and Present Danger' (for whatever reasons, I don't know), so perhaps that's the reason William Dafoe (who obviously relishes his part as a deadly field operative) is able to steal the film. At any rate, it's a well-done action thriller, the kind that Tom Clancy does so well. And, yes, it matches the excitement of 'Patriot Games'. A standout is the ambush scene involving an FBI motorcade unexpectedly under crossfire in the crowded streets of Colombia. Not as convoluted a plotline as usual in these sort of stories, it still has some confusing bits of business involving the drug lords and shady Washington officials. Harrison Ford's fans may prefer him in his Indiana Jones guise, and here they have even more reason because his performance is sub-par. Although a bit too long with some slow moments in between the action, it's definitely worth your time. "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While not a excellent film by a long shot, it does what it sets out to do entertain and keep the viewer in suspense.  Full of political intrigue and interesting plot developments, you will not be bored.Harrison Ford does a good job as always as Jack Ryan, and James Earl Jones giving a solid performance in his minor role.  The movie loses a little bit of its effect after you have read the book; Tom Clancy does a masterful job of weaving numerous storylines to a powerful climax in what is probably his best novel.  The movie did a decent job of concentrating this complex storyline into a two-hour movie, but if you want the full effect, read the book. "},{"Title":"A so-so film that's worth watching.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Third installment of the Jack Ryan series takes place as Ryan (Harrison Ford) who takes over for his ailing mentor, Greer (James Earl Jones) and investigates the murders of a U.S. businessman (and his family) who was a friend of the current President (Donald Moffat) and had secret ties to a Colombian drug lord (Miguel Sandoval).  Ryan is aware that a fellow CIA employee, Cutter (Henry Czerny in a devilish performance) throws Ryan into the middle of a cover-up after a small band of U.S. soldiers and numerous innocent civilians have been killed.  Ford is okay here as Ryan, but Willem Dafoe (Shadow of the Vampire) manages to steal the show as John Clark, a clever and reliable field operative who originally thinks that Ryan found out about his small operation in Colombia and pulled the plug on it.  The film becomes fun to watch in the second half as Ryan, Clark, and Chavez (Raymond Cruz), a sniper bail out the remaining members of Clark's squad out of Bogota.  Overall, Clear and Present Danger is a so-so film that's worth watching.   "},{"Title":"Bad end action sequece....","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie was very entertaining and educational but to be a classic in it's genre,it should have had better action sequences towards the end of the movie.Particularly the scenes of the daring rescue of the special forces from the Colombians.The thrill was there but the action was not powerfull enough which fans of this movie subject will definitely demand.Ford may be getting old but he can still pull off better action sequences than what was shown in this movie.Even the scenes where in the US special forces were defeated by the mercenaries could have been way better.The scenes where the CIA guys were ambushed in their vans was very good.They should have continued with those kind of sequences in the other action scenes.It was a bad decition to tone down the violence too much becouse the seriousness of the movie demands realism to become a classic.Still a good try.I know Ford did not like the way it was done as well and that is why he is reluctant as of now to play Jack Ryan again.Ford knows movies well.I give this one an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good as a stand alone","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film would have been better had I never read the book.  It does fine on it's own, but there is so much more detail (as usual, I know) in the book that it makes it much more gripping than the film can be.  The twists and turns in the plot keep you turning pages, where there are only the basic plots twists in the film. "},{"Title":"Tense And Satisfying","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clear And Present Danger is a very well done action picture that has a constant build of suspense that receives a great climax. As always Harrison Ford is Perfect in this role, and the rest of the cast gives solid performances. Though this film looks like a convoluted political thriller it's not, it's very easy to follow and very satisfying. "},{"Title":"An interesting, but sometimes slow, sequence for Patriot Games...","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford plays again the agent Jack Ryan, in this good, but a little unsuccessful, sequence for Patriot Games. Directed by Philip Noyce, the same film maker who conducted the first one of the series and counting with an interesting supporting cast, Clear and Present Danger deserves to be seen, specially for a few excellent action moments (there is a particular impressive part, in which the CIA agents are caught between a shooting among the traffickers) and for the nice Harrison Ford's performance. If you didn't check the original, I recommend you to rent Patriot Games first, so you can understand the story.The bad points reside in the bad rhythm and in the confused direction by Noyce, who made a great work in Patriot Games, but here accomplishes a decent, but not memorable work.Harrison Ford is a good actor and he has presence, but his character doesn't seem tough and hard enough. "},{"Title":"Taut political thriller, but is something missing?","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I admire what Tom Clancy has written over the years, and can appreciate the close detail he puts into his works. He is in tune with American politico and international affairs, but how can he make it more applicable to mainstream audiences? The answer is Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan, one of my favorite starring actors, one who is always alert to the atmosphere around him, and always seems coolly affected by his environment. Clear and Present Danger, the third Jack Ryan movie to date, uses Ford's talents at times to great effect, but at other moments seems to ignore him altogether. It is only after two hours of the film has surpassed that we see Ford command the screen, taking charge of his opponents. He didn't somehow resemble the Jack Ryan from the previous film, Patriot Games, at all. I'm not used to seeing Harrison in the background as much or noticing him dance around situations like a weakling, so I was kind of caught off guard. I felt a mild tinge of excitement from the film's plot, that of a militant force in Colombia and its threatening power over American affairs. Also, I was quite interested in Willem Dafoe's character and his longing to get out of the field of war, but even he wasn't emphasized to a great extent. The President's intervention in the conspiracy was not clearly brought to perspective enough to matter. Clear and Present Danger does have its moments, its turns of excitement and action sequences, but they come few and far between. Harrison Ford delivers a good performance out of what he is given, but I do not think he was used to the fullest advantage. Somehow, there seems to be a great film underneath this web of international intrigue and drug cartels, but I was unable to receive a satisfactory show. Rating Two stars and a half. "},{"Title":"Not an action movie but a slick, tense thriller","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although Harrison Ford gets chased, punched and shot at in nearly every movie he's in, it's odd here because you're so used to him turning round and decking all the bad guys, and he doesn't here. Instead, he gets mixed up in a large bunch of political intrigue, involving terrorists, a last-gasp helicopter escape and of course loads of guns...it's an acceptable thriller, but with an immature 'even the President is corrupt' theme, and Ford is even more straight faced than ever.  "},{"Title":"Good movie - but also disappointing","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a typical case where being an avid fan of the author turns out to be a problem when seeing the movie.I have read - and reread - the books of Tom Clancy many times, and have always been intrigued by his use of details, without making them boring. I have read the book Clear and Present Danger many times, and will probably read it again at a later time, I have also seen the movie, and will probably not see it again.To put things right - it is a fabulous movie exciting and keeps you in suspense at all times, and, if I didn't know the books, I would rate it an 8 or 9. If you havn't read the Jack Ryan series, really - go see it and you won't be disappointed.Now unfortunately this is what comes from knowing the books.1. The characters in the movie are much too weak in comparison to the book2. The film ends in Impeachment of the President, in the books he throws the election in order to spare the country the scandal, also knowing that an impeachement will reveal that he has actually initiated an undeclared war with - and invaded - an ally, Columbia.3. Clark (and this is where I almost left the movie) is portrayed by Willem Dafoe, who does a credible job, given the material he has to work with. Willem Dafoe is completely wrong for the part. Clark is described in the books as 6'3, broad of shoulders, muscular and a former Navy Seal, a physical description that all will agree does NOT fit Willem Dafoe. Clark in the books is an active agent of the CIA operations directorate, he is not retired, and most of the time he is either in the States or Panama, overseeing the operation. He only sets foot in Columbia at the very end. In the movie he is portrayed as an ex mercenary with a grudge living in Bogota.One of the reasons I was awaiting this movie was that I couldn't wait to see how Clark would be portrayed, and never have I seen such a misrepresentation of character.My rating of this movie is a low 5, although I admit to being colored by my disappointment of the character representations "}{"Title":"Another Entertaining and Action Packed Jack Ryan Adventure,","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clear and Present Danger is a good movie with a very well developed storyline and a very talented cast.Harrison Ford returns as Jack Ryan for a second outing,and it's more intense and a lot more action than we saw in Patriot Games,Ford clearly still enjoyed playing Ryan and it shows in his performance.Anne Archer also returns as Jack Ryan's wife Cathy,and I find her as annoying as i did in Patriot Games,I haven't seen her in anything else and I know she's suppose to be a very good actress in other things,but I find her characters dialogue and just the way Archer delivers them very irritating and just unrealistic.Clear and Present Danger is action packed and very intense and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a great action or thriller. After a close friend of the president of the United States is murdered,Jack Ryan gets involved in a war against a powerful drug cartel. Best Performance Harrison Ford Worst Performance Anne Archer "},{"Title":"A look into the bit of the ugly civil war involving illegal drugs in Colombia","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, Harrison Ford (who plays character John Ryan) was a pretty good actor and was in a good spot to be in as Acting Director of Intelligence, this Washington job for him was going to be at a major challenge.It starts off early in the movie when Panamian boaters were smuggling a boat towards probably Columbia when the Coast Guard stopped them and forced them to a search.Then, the President of the United States (played by Donald Moffat) is informed about this and blames the Cali Cartel in Colombia for a growing threat of widespread drug-related violence that could spread to the United States, in his briefing.Then, even though there are verbal warnings about not allowing a guerrilla war involving any of the U.S. military to curb the threat of the Cail Cartel, the wheels of this secret small-scale war start to move in toward such an action. One sniper who is good is picked to join with a U.S. paramilitary army to go on what was supposed to be a secret mission to take some of the teeth out of the Colombia's Cali cartel. Then, someone from the outside goes on...the order is confirmed by Jim Greer (played by James Earl Jones), who has to stay on the outside, fighting a terminal stage of pancreatic cancer.The first part of the guerrilla war shows the paramilitary band being parachuted into Colombian territory, and then taking out a supply plane by explosives, and then, going deeper into the Columbian jungle to take out one of the Cali cartel's drug factories also by explosives. No casualties.But Miguel Sandoval (played by Ernesto Escobedo), a Cali leader, swears revenge for this. After a security convoy with John Ryan inside goes into the heart of Bogota to try to meet up with Ernesto, the convoy is greeted by Cali insurgents who fire gunshots and rocket propelled grenades at the convoy. They take out 2 convoy cars, and when American security personnel in the surviving convoy cars fire back, they do kill about 10 Cali insurgents but most of them are killed by the insurgents, and John Ryan, fortunately, survives the guerrilla attack.When John Ryan comes back to the states, a secret order is placed on the American guerrilla soldiers--to use a cellulose-encased laser guided bomb on one of the mansions who have ties to Escobedo. With spectacular special effects, the bomb does its work demolishing the house, but it was not a surgical strike--scores of people were killed even though the target was a yellow jeep parked in front of the mansion.And you think the movie ends just like that...but then, focus lies on Greer finally succumbing to death by cancer, and you see the funeral scene where he is given full military honors, and about the same time this was happening---the American guerrillas do abort a mission to take out 200 Colombian mercenaries and about to get out, they were still attacked by surprise by them. One dies, several of them are captured as POWs, and the sniper who was supposed to take the enemy out could not shoot any of them, and decides to hide in the bush.John Ryan realizes too late about the surprise attack, and decides to take a big risk to get them out. He goes overseas into the Colombian jungle himself, with help of a Colombian insider, and was able to find the lone sniper almost exactly where the surprise attack happened, and the sniper blames Ryan for causing the paramilitary fiasco, and quickly says to the sniper--It's my fault! Then, more wheels are turning as the mission goes into trying to find the POWs, but John Ryan faces several hurdles in trying to rescue them. He has to get through the dangerous Felix Cortez, which he does, with the help of Ernesto Escobedo. Then Ernesto was going to kill off John but was saved by the sniper. Then blaming Ryan for the killing of Ernesto, Felix orders the surviving armed bodyguards to search and kill John, but John and the insider, along with the sniper, was able to free the several prisoners (which were located at the Lindo Coffee Factory), and go up to the roof where an awaiting helicopter was going to move them to safety. All three make it up there even though Felix Cortez and his armed bodyguards were targeting them for death as they ran to the chopper, but the sniper and the insider was able to kill some of the armed gang members off. The sniper was even able to kill the most ruthless Cortez just before the helicopter moved away from danger.Then, back at home, John laments the botched paramilitary mission to the President at the Oval Office and is about to angrily rant at him for not knowing about the scores of American dead for a war that most people should not need to know. Then, with his rant frustrated and not allowed by the President, he decides to testify towards the Senate Oversight Committee about that lost paramilitary war to get back some redemption that he can earn--even though he cannot get all of it. "},{"Title":"Jack Ryan Is Back!","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford is back as Jack Ryan, the star of the famous Tom Clancy novels, in this new adventure, Clear and Present Danger. When compared to Hunt for Red October and Patriot Games, this is probably the worst film. But, it still is a pretty good, tense film with some crafty action scenes.Philip Noyce's film is about how Jack Ryan moves up in the world since his boss is very ill. His first mission as CIA acting deputy director, is too stop the trafficking of drugs in Colombia quick and quietly. But there already may be a team there.....Harrison Ford is good as always in his role as Jack Ryan. I noticed that unlike Patriot Games, he seems reluctant to carry a gun. James Earl Jones is also really good and his performance made me connect with my emotions.Overall, this is a solid thriller which displayed some good action scenes. The story is nothing new as many movies these days focus on drug cartels. But if done right, it can still be good. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Not even political fiction, just plain reality","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" At first it looks like a banal drug film with some CIA agents trying to find out who killed a couple of people and why, people who were personal friends of the President of the US. Just that makes things tricky, I mean the fact that the victims were friends of the President of the US. Be discreet Jack. But things are also trickier than they look and I don't want to tell you the film. I am just going to give a few ideas about politics first. A politician always lies, by definition and by principle. It sounds pessimistic and it is. Never believe a politician, no matter what side he is on and what side you are on. A politician will always do what the circumstances will make him do under pressure. If he is wise he will listen to his advisers and he will think then. If he is not wise he will run into the wall and push with his head. He may break through, but anyway afterwards he will tell you tall tales. The second element is that you have to serve politicians, no matter what and just try to cover your back and by back I mean under your lower back. You can serve them well it does not matter. If there is a problem you will be the fuse. If the problem was big, you may be the fuse, but the politicians will get it on their heads. But that will not give you what you deserve a medal and a premium for serving them well. The film brings up another line of reflection. Politicians do not give a damn about the life of the people who are defending the country or who are fighting just or unjust wars for their country. Politicians consider these fighters as pawns on their chessboard and if they die they are collateral victims of their own game. Too bad for them they were those who had to die. If they died with honor they might get some coverage and recognition, otherwise they might get buried under a pile of rocks in some jungle. Their families will be handed a casket full of stones. But beyond these fighters in uniform do not believe civilians are in any way considered in this matter. Civilians are not even collateral damage. They are just collateral garbage. And unluckily that's the fundamental point here. Who cares about children, women, and plain civilians. They should not have been here in the first place. Good riddance, next time they will not be dumb enough to be present on a future mass crime scene. That's how you get out of that film. And the last scene will not change anything. There is no justice in such a situation. You may see the politician who exploited you fall because his arrogance brings him down, but that will not be justice for you who will have footed the bill of that liar. So make up your mind and just accept to be used, over-used and abused by politicians that's their fundamental function and you are a sucker by definition since you are not in politics.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"The Clear and Present Danger for me was being put to sleep at times  with this movie.","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie was not all bad, but compared to the other two Clancy movies I have seen (Patriot Games/The Hunt for Red October) this one was by far the least entertaining and least interesting of the bunch. It is also not very memorable as I have a hard time recollecting much about it aside from William Defoe's rather good performance and Harrison Ford as a not quite as intense Jack Ryan as he was in the Patriot Games. Anne Archer is back as well, unfortunately she may as well not be in the movie at all as they have basically assigned her a cameo appearance in this one which is sad considering how much of a factor she was in the previous movie. Still, that is understandable as she may have not played all that an important of a role in the novel either. The action comes in small doses and there is a particularly good one featuring a bunch of cars being blocked in and a missile launcher, however the connection I felt with the characters in Patriot Games is lost so none of the action scenes really reel me in as they did in the previous two movies as the characters are not as interesting as say those in The Hunt for Red October. Still thanks to William Defoe and some good action here and there it is not a total loss in the least. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 90's","Date":"11 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Clear and present danger is a simply amazing combination of old school spy thriller and action movie rolled into one. The pace is simply intelligent and the film avoids clichés.We open with the Coast Guard tracking a boat that had strayed off course. After stopping, boarding, and arresting the pirates aboard the ship, they stumble upon a crime scene.The murder victim isn't just your average citizen, he is a friend of one of the most powerful men in the world, the president of the United States, played to a statesmen effect by Donald Moffett.Spurred by the need of revenge, the plot is planned by two white house staff members, James Cutter (played by legendary character actor Harris Yulin), and Robert Ritter (played by Henry Czerny, who plays the role with the perfect blend of ruthlessness and coldness) James Earl Jones reprises his role as Adm. Greer, and Harrison Ford the role of Jack Ryan, the straight edged hero who sees the world in right and wrong. Both are simply spectacular in the roles. The film also has a good amount of name actors in supporting roles, such as Benjamin Bratt, Ann Magnuson, Williem DeFoe, Thora Birch, Joaquim De Almeida (from Despardo fame), and the late Hope Lange.As the plot unfolds, Ryan is pulled into a world that he's not completely ready to handle. He seems completely shocked that such corruption can come from the White House.On the surface, you can somewhat identify with President Bennett's need for revenge. One his best friends, along with the man's wife, and young son and daughter, who brutally murdered and tossed overboard into the sea. However, the means to which he goes borderlines on the obsessive and dangerous. His actions may lead to the deaths of several drug dealers and their counterparts, but it also leads to the deaths of several women and young children. The underlining question becomes, does the person seeking revenge become just as evil as those they seek revenge on.As Ryan is pulled into this twisted world of revenge he finds himself pushed to his own boundaries. He's nearly killed in an assassination attempt. He's caught in the middle of a coupe between a drug lord and his underlings. And he soon learns that he is as much responsible for the deaths of US Troops as those who sent them on the mission. For once, his moral view of right and wrong has led to someone's death.I think the franchise dropped off without Harrison Ford in the role of Jack Ryan. He seemed to bring the most to the table. Simply put, he was more believable in the role then the other actors who've tackled the role. Of all the Jack Ryan films, I think Patriot Games and it's sequel, Clear and Present Danger remain the best in terms of storyline, character development, and overall direction. I think that some viewers will be left at the end, wondering what will happen to Ryan, as he's testifying at the end of the film about the activities that had taken place. FRom the open to the close, the movie pulls you in, and even at slightly over two hours, the film never overstays its welcome. 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Clear And Present Surprise!","Date":"16 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Plot (Harrison Ford) Returns as intrepid CIA agent Jack Ryan in this critically acclaimed box-office smash from the producers of Patriot Games. When his mentor Admiral James Greer (James Earl Jones) becomes gravely ill, Ryan is appointed acting CIA Deputy Director of Intelligence. His first assignment Investigate the murders of one of the president's friends, a prominent U.S. businessman with secret ties to Colombian drug cartels. Unbeknownst to Ryan, the CIA has already dispatched a deadly field operative (Willem Dafoe) to lead a paramilitary strike force against the Colombian drug lords. Caught in the crossfire, Ryan takes matters into his own hands, risking his career and life for the only cause he still believes in - the truth.My Spiel This is my favorite of the Tom Clancy style war books turned to movies. Granted I like Hunt for the Red October. But the style of this is something else. This in my eyes is a true classic, of a man getting caught in a situation way bigger then he can explain at first. In the styles of the Patriot Games. This has a major one up on that. When the strike force team move in to Colombian territories commanded by Willem Dafoe's character. Also to the character Jack Ryan getting thrown / Betrayed into a conspiracy to send troops to stop the drug trafficking and cartel, and then uncovers the truth, and wants nothing more then to get those troops out after they were sold out. This is a action packed movie from beginning to end with the assault on the Suburban scene and every scene with the paramilitary strike force team. Love the acting between Harrison Ford and Willem Dafoe truly something to be admired, favorite scene when Ford goes to get the helicopter for Dafoe.Clear and Present Danger (1994) Review 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not perfect, but clearly good.","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having read Tom Clancy's book, I noticed many differences with the movie (Cortez and Moira die in the movie, there is only one covert team in the movie instead of four in the book, Ritter is portrayed much more despicably in the movie, etc). I did not have a problem with most of these; the lone exception involved the death of Dan Murray in the movie. The only problem In Clancy's later works, he becomes FBI Director Murray. So, who will conduct the seance for the next movie? Also, a language problem occurs in the film. Before I get to that, now is a good time for me to point out the show-stealers of the film, the bad guys. Yes, Harrison Ford turns in a quality performance, but Joaquim de Almeida (Cortez) and Miguel Sandoval (Ernesto Escobedo, the drug lord) are 100% believable, Escobedo as a reckless, scared bully and Cortez as a smooth-talking double-crosser who will eliminate anyone in his way. Now, on to the language problem At the beginning of the movie, Cortez and Escobedo speak to each other in Spanish. Then, inexplicably, they resort to English for the rest of the movie. Even the guards at Escobedo's gate speak to each other in English when Ryan comes to see Escobedo. Cortez, when he yells to Escobedo's men that Ryan has killed Escobedo (it was Cortez's bodyguard), speaks to Escobedo's men in English. Message to the director There are subtitles. You used them at the beginning of the movie. You should have continued this usage. Overall, though, the film is well-done, and I watch it whenever I catch it on television. "},{"Title":"Decent political thriller","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have never read any of the Jack Ryan books by Tom Clancy so I don't know how faithful of an adaptation this production was. That said, director Phillip Noyce does a competent job here in blending the realistic-looking (to my untrained eye) action sequences with the dialogue scenes to create some genuine suspense and tension. To be honest though, I watched this only because Harrison Ford was starring. In 1994, he was still the quintessential action hero in cinema (some say he has been for 30 years). In fact, when Nicolas Cage started making action movies in the mid-nineties, he said he modeled much of his work on Ford's. That has to be one of the highest compliments one leading man can give to another! "},{"Title":"Totally wonderful movie","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford is the best.  He is one great actor and makes those Movies that he stars in unique and wonderful.  He puts so much of himself into his films that they could be nothing else.  Clear and Present Danger is full of action, good over evil and right prevailing.  The action is awesome, the storyline is up to date with current events and what is happening in the world today. Following up on The Hunt for Red October and going through to Patriot Games and The Sum of All Fears, the story of Jack and his uncommon belief in right vs wrong and that good should prevail is what makes this and the others such good movies. I own them all, I watch them over and over and never grow tired of them. "}{"Title":"Harrison Ford Returns To Play Jack Ryan","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford returns to play Jack Ryan in this mega-hit from the summer of 1994. In this follow-up to Patriot Games, Ford gets involved in a scandalous illegal drug war in Columbia orchestrated by top government officials. As with any film over 2 hours long, there are a few slow moments in the movie. However, for the most part, the film stays on course with alternating action, drama, and suspense scenes. Anne Archer and Thora Birch return in more forgettable roles as Ford's wife and daughter. Several other colorful characters are present, especially Joaquim de Almeida as a sinister cartel figure. Willem Dafoe plays a great role as a CIA contact, who supplies the illegal firepower to attack the cartels. His role should have been developed more; he's on screen all too briefly. James Earl Jones also returns for a farewell performance as Greer, Ryan's mentor. Henry Czerny, Harris Yulin, and Donald Moffat make up the oily triumvirate that Faces Ford. The film has terrific action and suspense sequences, especially the cartel's open attack on Ford's government convoy in the SUV's and the computer battle where Ford tries to run off illegal government doings. Ford's actions are consistent with his character, in that, he never saves the day via extraordinary means by himself, as can be customary in these type of films. One of the few false notes is the sanctimonious tendency of Ryan to self righteously bear the torch of truth, when we all know that being in the CIA can compromise that possibility. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Better than Patriot Games!","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"    If you've read my comment on Patriot Games(you can by clicking my name above), you'll read I was a bit dissapointed in the film. The book by Tom Clancy was great, but I thought the movie was a bit slow at times, and boring. However, I still like Patriot Games. Clear and Present Danger on the other hand, I thought was even better. It's a bit more interesting, and although it also has some slow times in the film, some great action sequences make up for it. And as always in all Clancy books and films, the climax has great action sequences. Rent this movie if you haven't seen it. Watch it back to back with Patriot Games, and decide for yourself which you like better. 3.5/5 stars(.5 more than I gave Patriot Games, so I BARELY like this more, but just enough).-MovieCritic2003 "},{"Title":"Only worth watching if you're bored.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mild spoilers.Terrible adaptation from the book.  Clark is nothing like the Clark that Clancy fans have come to know from the books. Harrison Ford, while an excellent actor, was very wrong for the part of Jack Ryan.  Alec Baldwin's Ryan (Hunt for Red October) is much truer to the Ryan in the books.Whoever wrote the screenplay for this movie didn't read the whole book. First off, they killed the wrong guy in the attack in Central America. Dan Murray did not get killed in the book. It was Emil Jacobs.  Why is this important?  Because in later books, which are great material for movies, Murray plays pivotal roles, including becoming the director of the FBI. This is just one example of the many gross departures from the book that the movie makes - - departures which make more Clancy movies difficult to make because they'd have to figure out how to correct for the departures in this movie, while still trying to maintain the story line of the new movies' book. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent film. Parts of it are slow but there is action in it. I really enjoyed this film you will probably to if you enjoyed Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games and Tom Clancy novels (netforce, executive orders) I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Gripping and surprisingly intelligent","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A vast improvement over Harrison Ford's first outing as Jack Ryan, Clear and Present Danger is a tightly plotted and tension-filled thriller that exceeds all expectations. Unlike Patriot Games, this film relies on intrigue more than action. Much of the action involves bureaucratic decision-making, which sounds dull but is in this film quite riveting. The action, when it does come, is very powerful. The ambush of the FBI motorcade in Colombia is a remarkable action scene - there are few action scenes that come to mind that are this tense and affecting. Harrison Ford is good as Ryan, though Willem Dafoe and Henry Czerny steal the film. Czerny plays a cold-hearted bureaucrat better than anyone who comes to mind, and he's terrific in this film. Much credit much go to director Philip Noyce for his work here. Unfortunately the film falls apart in the end, and the villainous advisor to the Colombian drug dealer is a fairly weak adversary. But this film is still very worthwhile and better than almost any other action film you're likely to see come down the Hollywood conveyor belt. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Slow start, but is a thriller so the action is thoughout not the whole time!!","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is from the book by Tom Clancy . It starts out a little slow as Jack Ryan, is looking into a death of a friend of the President. Meanwhile , the drug cartels in South America as looking for ways to make the U.S pay for capturing the drug cartels  henchmen. There is also a plot of war against the cartels that ryan knows nothing about. The movie is a thriller so the action sequences are worth every moment!!My favorite sequence is the ambush , but it still a great action movie!!Eventually Ryan must go down to south america and the white house to solve the nation's problems!!If you like Tom Clancy movies,(or novels), or Harrison Ford , you will like this movie!!it is one of my all time favorite movies!!! "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford miscast?  Who would have thought...?","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tom Clancy writes huge thousand-page novels that introduce many, many characters, explain every detail of their motivation, list every minute thought they might have, and describe every single action they take. There is violence in the novels, but the actual violence is a tiny part of the full narrative.  Clancy's novels are bestsellers.  Readers love the complexity and buy everything he writes.For a movie version to be faithful to the tone and spirit of the novel, it would have to be many, many hours long.  Probably a miniseries.  If this were done--if a filmmaker really wanted a faithful adaptation of a Clancy novel--Harrison Ford would be an excellent Jack Ryan (the protagonist of most Clancy novels, including A Clear and Present Danger.However, Hollywood simply doesn't make 16-hour movies for theaters.  So by necessity, a Clancy film grabs highlights of the book  some of the characters, the basic plot outline, etc.  Then the standard Hollywood conventions are applied.  It's gotta have chases and shootouts.  The head good guy's gotta punch out the head bad guy.  Characters are either good or evil.  Motivations are simple, and are determined by whether a character is good or evil.So the tough, pricipled desk jockey of the Clancy novels becomes the gunslingin', two-fisted James Bond wannabe of the big screen.  And Harrison Ford, at age 52, belongs in this role as much as Roger Moore, at age 52, belonged in Moonraker or any of the later Bond films.  You want to offer the poor guy some Geritol before his fight scenes.Mr. Ford slogs through the movie looking like an unmade bed.  With two fists, of course.  But there was nothing remotely interesting about his Jack Ryan here.  Perhaps Ryan was supposed to be serious.  Instead, you get the impression he was narcoleptic.The rest of the movie--plot, dialogue, acting, etc.--was about what you'd expect from a Hollywood techno-thriller, but the decision to cast Mr. Ford in the leading role dragged the rest of the movie down with it. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've ever seen","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is only for the experienced movie watcher, it takes all your skills to keep up with the plot.  Reading the book before hand will help the task.  Clear and Present Danger is a thrilling escape from reality when you imagine yourself as CIA intelligence officer Jack Ryan.  Through the jungles of Columbia to the streets of D. C. this is a Classic. "},{"Title":"Harrison Ford A hero for all seasons.","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Part 3 in the Jack Ryan series, Clear And Present Danger is a great film. It is a tad over long and a tad bit unbelievable, but it is never boring and is nicely acted by the reliable Ford.  This film is not as good as Patriot Games or The Hunt For Red October, but is still a must for all action fans. RATING = 8 of 10  "},{"Title":"An all-around good film","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford returns to play Jack Ryan in good form. Clear and Present Danger was a good film with a good plot and is a worthy sequel of the previous Jack Ryan films. It was good, but Patriot Games was extremely good, and a little better. My Vote 8 "}{"Title":"Yet another god awful adaptation","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was once told if you don't have anything nice to say don't say it at all. Unfortunately there's nothing nice i have to say about this movie, and must let you know about the bad... John Clark is portrayed in this movie as some sleezy CIA mercenary, which is entirely untrue. The novels, while much better than this terrible movie, does go more into depth, the movie could at least given Mr. Clark some class. While this movie did stick closer to the original story than Patriot games, it was still terribly far off the mark. While i understand that for a movie some things do need to be deleted, the most important thing they got rid of was the backstory. The event's that set this story in motion are totally missing from the movie, which is truly unacceptable. Don't waste your time on this worthless flop of a film. "},{"Title":"clear and present danger background and commentary","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the 1980s, the United States, as well as many of its neighboring Latin American nations, began to feel the affects of the Columbian drug trade. Columbia was home to the Medellín and Cali drug cartels, both of which were deeply involved in the production and distribution of cocaine. The nation profited from the drug trade, as the cartels made lucrative gains by means of its unofficial protection from the Columbian government. The United States was especially accessible to the Columbian drug trade, as both coasts could be reached with relative ease. While the United States infiltrated Central American nations in attempts to tinker with the regional politics, there is no documented evidence of American presidents authorizing covert entries and operations into Columbia The action film Clear and Present Danger, deals with the issue of the American war on drugs, however, a large portion of the plot action takes place in Columbia. The film begins aboard a large white yacht with the death of an American family. The paterfamilias of the deceased family happens to be a close friend of the President of the United States. At this point, viewers are introduced to the hero, CIA analyst and family man Jack Ryan (Harrison Ford), who has been promoted to the position of Deputy Director of Intelligence, a position he inherits from his Agency mentor, Admiral James Greer (James Earl Jones). The film then moves to the Presidents issuing of an order to assemble a team of elite Hispanic commandos to infiltrate Columbia and wage a silent war on drugs. Here the audience first meets John Clark (Willem Dafoe), a mysterious black ops veteran who will train and lead the team of soldiers in Columbia. His soldiers are later dropped into the Columbian jungle where they begin their campaign with Dafoe running as their control officer from the city, reporting back to Bob Ritter, CIA's Deputy Director of Operations.The plot twist comes in the form of a man named Felix Cortez, a Cuban intelligence officer turned mercenary who serves as the intelligence officer for the cartel in the film. After a cartel meeting is bombed by an American jet, Cortez travels to the United States, where he begins to extract information through an illicit affair with the head of the FBI's secretary, Moira Wolfe. While on a romantic weekend trip, he discovers that the United States bombed the meeting, thus ending his need for the woman. He kills her and proceeds to blackmail the National Security Adviser, James Cutter, into cutting communications with the American soldiers. Jack Ryan discovers the whole operation while at the CIA, confronts Ritter, and then goes to Columbia to save them. When he arrives, he meets up with John Clark, who, under the belief that Ryan discontinued the communications, ties him up and nearly kills him. The two men then embark on a journey to find the soldiers, and eventually find Ding Chavez, hiding alone near a jungle stream since his comrades have all been shot or captured. These three then storm Cortez' compound to rescue the other soldiers and make their subsequent escape.While Clear and Present Danger is an entertaining film, it wildly strays from the novel on which it is based. Tom Clancy's storyline is much more in depth then the plot line of the movie. Some stark differences between the two include the deaths of Dan Murray and Moira Wolfe. In the film, Dan Murray is killed on a trip to Columbia that nearly results in the death of Jack Ryan as well. Dan Murray, according to Clancy's novel, is simply an up-and-coming FBI agent and friend of Ryan's. The FBI personality murdered in Columbia in the novel is Emil Jacobs, Director of the FBI. In the movie, Moira Wolfe's apparent death violently betrays the novel, for not only does she live, the novel ends with Ms. Wolfe traveling to Guantanamo Bay to see her lover Cortez, being escorted into the prison gates and eventually handed over to Cuban authorities. "},{"Title":"Depleted Uranium","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers'Clear and Present Danger' takes the whole Tom Clancy series back to its unfortunate roots.  There is a jumble of plot with no real characterizations (Dafoe was wasted) and the whole excursion plays out like a wannabe 'Blackhawk Down'.  Unlike 'Patriot Games', 'Danger' is less concerned about advancement of story and more worried about being a brochure for military hardware.Each of the films in the Clancy series represent a different style.  'Red October' was the slick commercial film.  'Games' was a hard-edge personal film.  'Danger' is the giant political conspiracy.  'Fears' tried to mix all three together.  No success, it was the worst.What's the most amazing about 'Danger' is how fast everything degenerates into a makeshift 'Rambo' movie.  The finale is so in line with Stallone--complete with a swaggering lead--that one must wonder what Clancy thought.  'Rambo' is all about romanticist rescues and this movie is no exception, and the trademark double-cross is included.Since Clancy's work is all the same, good guys always triumph at the end, we can see this as entertainment of the lowest sort.  Only in 'Sum of All Fears' did Clancy really explore desperate scenarios (nuclear oblivion), but no director has caught on to that yet.  In that case, both are stupid.Overall, vapid film.  Pentagon workings are more detailed than this, reality is scrapped for story manipulation and shallow entertainment.  Even though 'Apocalypse Now' took a severe load more liberties than this, it had more competent scripting and directing to back it up.  2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Huh?","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen the movie Clear and Present Danger, that inspired me to read the book, by Tom Clancy.  And, if anyone out there can find the book this movie was based on, let me know.  Because it definitely wasn't the one by Tom Clancy.  I have never seen a more gross adaptation of a really good novel since I watched Stanley Kubrick's The Shining and was told that it was supposedly based on the Stephen King book.  In short, if you can't even remotely follow a story from a book.  Don't bother stealing it's characters and title to sell a movie that could do just fine on its own.  My judgement 4/10, just for bad adaptation. "},{"Title":"A truly American film.","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An excellent film, with the always outstanding Harrison Ford at the helm, Clear and Present Danger is the third of Tom Clancy's works to be adapted to the big screen and the second with Ford as Jack Ryan, the patriotic ex-marine turned politician.With the CIA director - played by the James Earl Jones - befallen by pancreatic cancer, Jack Ryan is 'promoted' to acting CIA director in his absence. Once there he becomes involved - unbeknownst to him - in a series of plots that answers the question of what would happen if the United States used some of its brawn to do what is morally right if not politically right, the covert eradication of drug producers in Columbia.Complete with a powerful and brutal scene where American policy makers are caught in an ambush in a run down section of Bogota that is sure to surprise and thrill you. Willem Dafoe does a terrific job of playing Joe Clark, who those of you familiar with Clancy's work will undoubtedly know. "},{"Title":"Good Harrison Ford movie, great action and superb surround sound.","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a review of the DVD with English 5.1 Dolby Digital and DTS version of Clear and Present Danger. The title comes from a statement the President makes, about a drug cartel posing a clear and present danger to the United States.Harrison Ford is Jack Ryan, CIA, who gets pressed into a lead role when his boss becomes ill. The movie begins with a scene where a US Coast Guard boat intercepts a yacht, and aboard they find that Colombians have killed and dumped the owner and his family. The man happens to be a good friend of the President's, and then in an unofficial request tells his right hand man to do something about it.So, the whole movie is about an unofficial band of highly trained commandos being dropped to blow up drug cartel planes and manufacturing operations, and hopefully take out the drug lord who was responsible for killing the President's friend, who incidentally was mixed up with them in a money laundering scheme. About $650Million is at issue.Willem Dafoe is good as John Clark, a retired agent who is enlisted to help the covert operation. As it turns out, Jack Ryan was completely in the dark, and that creates further complications.Anne Archer is competent as Jack's wife, Cathy Ryan. Joaquim de Almeida is good as Felix Cortez, the Latin Jack Ryan who is in covert operations with the drug lords.Overall a well-made and exciting movie.SPOILERS. Jack Ryan finally figures out the covert operation, after innocent people get killed. In the end he stares down the President in the Oval Office and vows to tell everything to the Senate |Oversight Committee, of the illegal operations that were done on the President's behalf. "},{"Title":"A masterful film","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Clear and Present Danger is genuinely suspenseful. Harrison Ford plays Jack Ryan who in the course of the movie learns that he has been lied to and so he sets out to fix everything. The movie moves at a good linear pace and the way the events are set up is great.Besides the suspense there is the action and this movie has one of the most exciting ambush scenes I have ever seen. This is one of Ford's best, no doubt. Willam Dafoe plays Clark to whom Ryan finds himself liable. What makes the heroism of the characters plausible is the strong integrity they possess. This is one movie no one should miss "},{"Title":"Terrible adaptation of a great novel","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had read the novel before, so I had high hopes on the film. I was so disappointed. The film not only botches the book quite badly, but has errors of its own *** Possible spoilers ****- The whole point of assembling a special ops team of soldiers from Latino origin, was to make them difficult to identify as US forces. However, they happily yell in clear English on all combat scenes. - Willem Dafoe as Clark is a TERRIBLE miscast. The character is always depicted as a tall, broad shouldered person. (Liev Schreiber is also a bad choice for the same role on Sum of All Fears).- Almost all roles on the book are changed beyond recognition  CIA Dep. Dir. Robert Ritter is not the bad guy depicted on the movie; FBI Dir. Jacobs and Agent Murray are both killed on the movie (they are important characters on next novels); on the novel, James Cutter kills himself by walking in front of a bus.- The soldiers persecution on the jungle seems like a bunch of scared kids running from a gang; the novel depiction of tactics and ambush scenes are FAR superior. - And of course, the inevitable final up-close-and-personal fight between Ryan and Cortez  guess what, never happened on the book, since Ryan never gets off the Blackhawk rescue helicopter (not the puny Bell from the movie), because he is busy manning a machine gun. It seems that Hollywood thinks that a movie is incomplete without a heroic fist fight (the same issue that completely botched the ending of Patriot Games). Originally, Cortez is left alive on the backyard of one of the surviving drug lords  THAT is a punishment!! In all, the movie not only presents a simplistic plot of bad guy-good guy, but ignores completely a much more complex conspiracy and anti-drug operation. This film had all the ingredients to be just great, but you get just cartoonist bad guys, a couple of good action scenes and a laughable ending. "},{"Title":"A rather good thriller but not on the same level as the first two films","Date":"8 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the 1989 novel of the same name by Tom Clancy, this is a rather good thriller but it's not on the same level as the first two films. Whereas The Hunt for Red October started slowly and became more exciting as it went on, the reverse was true of this film. I would be lying if I said that the Latin American drug trade is a topic in which I am particularly interested. However, it made for an excellent film in the case of Licence to Kill and it could have done so here with a better script. As it stands, the script by Donald E. Stewart, Steve Zallian and John Millius is quite good but it never reaches the level that it should. A major problem with the film is that it is badly paced and about half an hour too long at 2 hours and 15 minutes. Philip Noyce, an excellent action film director, does the best that he can with the material.The film stars Harrison Ford in his second and final appearance as Jack Ryan, making him the only actor to play the character in more than one film. Not only that but Ryan is the only character other than Han Solo and Indiana Jones that Ford has played in more than one film, though a Blade Runner sequel is on the way. On this occasion, Ryan moves up in the world as he is appointed Acting Deputy Director of the CIA after his close friend and mentor Admiral James Greer is diagnosed with terminal pancreatic cancer. He is charged with the investigation of the murder of Peter Hardin, a close friend and political associate of President Bennett, at the hands of a Colombian drug cartel. Unbeknownst to him, the National Security Adviser James Cutter and another CIA Deputy Director Bob Ritter have started a private little war in Colombia with the tacit approval of the President by sending in a Black Ops team to deal with the cartels. Ryan is a very strong, upright character and Ford does a very job at conveying his unimpeachable honour and morality. Since the action is mostly lacking compared to the first two films, Ford is at his best in these scenes.Fictional US Presidents tend to be one of two things incredibly virtuous to the point that lying to the American people upsets them greatly (which isn't very believable) or corrupt by virtue of being involved in illegal activities through either malfeasance or nonfeasance (which is). President Bennett, played very well by Donald Moffat, falls into the latter category. He often relies on patriotism - the last refuge of a scoundrel according to Samuel Johnson and the first according to Ambrose Bierce - in an attempt to justify his actions. However, Ryan is too intelligent to fall for that old trick and he decides to testify against Bennett in Congress because it is the right thing to do. I generally found the scenes dealing with political maneuvering to be more interesting than those dealing with the drug trade, I'm afraid.That said, my favourite new character was Colonel Félix Cortez, a former senior member of Castro's inner circle who seeks to become the top dog in Colombia as far as the drug trade is concerned. He is a very devious, compelling character who is wonderfully played with a sort of dangerous charm by Joaquim de Almeida, who reminded me very much of Ricardo Montalban. James Earl Jones makes his third and final appearance as the dying Admiral Greer and is wonderful in the role, playing it with a great deal of pathos and tenderness. Since they played such a big role in Patriot Games, I was very disappointed that Anne Archer and Thora Birch were relegated to little more than cameos. There are strong performances from Harris Yulin as Cutter, Miguel Sandoval as Ernesto Escobedo and Willem Dafoe as John Clark but Henry Czerny is dreadful as Ritter, failing to deliver a single line in a natural, believable manner.Overall, this is a somewhat disappointing conclusion to the 1990s Jack Ryan trilogy but I would have still loved a third film starring Harrison Ford. Alas, it was not to be. "},{"Title":"Not a good screenplay from book (contains spoilers)","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's no wonder why Tom Clancy was angered with the making of his books into movies after Patriot Games. Many characters from the book were changed from the start of the movie. The movie was confusing for most audience members because it left out many chapters and sub plots from the book. In the book Jack Ryan does not find out the connection to the drug cartel until after the covert operation began because he never had a briefing with the President because the President had already made a statement of Clear and Present Danger. Ryan never meets Clark until after Escobedo's was bombed from an aerial strike. The movie also left out Samuel Jackson's character(Robby) out of the movie when he was a major part in the book discovering about the Covert Operation in Columbia. Harrison Ford Anne Archer and James Earl Jones reprized their roles with finesse. If you are an avid reader of Tom Clancy this movie will disappoint you. "}{"Title":"The chicken is in the pot, over.","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Action from start to finish as the President (Donald Moffat) does battle with the drug cartels through his National Security Adviser (Harris Yulin) and a CIA Chief (Henry Czerny).Caught in the middle is Harrison Ford as Jack Ryan, sitting in at the CIA while Adm. James Greer (James Earl Jones) is being treated for cancer.The battle between the US and Ernesto Escobido (Miguel Sandoval) is exciting throughout. His intelligence officer (Joaquim de Almeida) is playing both ends against the middle, and that makes it more exciting.Willem Dafoe plays an expatriate doing work for the government in Columbia, and is outstanding.The action when the CIA convoy was attacked was some of the best I have seen.Ford was magnificent. "},{"Title":"Maybe the best of the original Clancy trilogy","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Far more cynical and sophisticated then its predecessor, Patriot Games, Clear and Present danger dares to suggest that the world isn't made up of good guys and bad guys, but just a whole lot of people out for their own conflicting and selfish interests.Jack Ryan is also more interesting in this movie. Although he does do a bit of action-hero stuff, most of the time he is shown using his head not his muscles.In this regard, it is both deeper and realer then the movie it sequels. Its a toss up which is the smarter this or Red October, but for its convoluted political and moral landscape, I give this one my vote as best of the original trilogy. "},{"Title":"Ryan, The Drug Cartels, And CIA Abuse","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The third installment in the cinematic series based on Tom Clancy's CIA analyst Jack Ryan, CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER is a long but engrossing political action thriller that once again puts Harrison Ford, the thinking man's action film actor, in the role of Ryan. This time around, Ford investigates the murder of a close friend of the President (Donald Moffatt) by Colombian drug cartel hit men. When his mentor (James Earl Jones) falls ill due to pancreatic cancer, Ford is suddenly put in charge as deputy director of the CIA. He continues his investigation of the murders and ties them in with one particular drug cartel leader (Miguel Sandoval) with whom the murdered man had a little issue with ill-gotten money,.... But what Ford doesn't know is that, on orders from the revenge-minded Moffatt, his second deputy (Henry Czerny) and the president's national security adviser (Harris Yulin) have ordered a rogue officer named Clark (Willem Dafoe) in with a covert military team to put a huge dent in the cartel's activities. Dafoe and his team are successful at what they do, but the cartels retaliate with deadly results on Ford's friends in the FBI during a visit to Bogota. And when Ford finds out about the operation, he finds himself going down to Colombia a second time to help spirit Dafoe and the covert team out of harm's way. Ably directed, once more, by Phillip Noyce (DEAD CALM; PATRIOT GAMES), CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER gives Ford another chance to prove his mettle in the action genre. The suspense and CIA intrigue are all laid out exceptionally well by Noyce and his first-rate cadre of screenwriters, Donald Stewart, Steven Zaillian, and John Milius. Jones is at his usual best as the now-dying Admiral Greer, and Anne Archer returns as Ford's wife. But a performance really worth noting here is Czerny's as the unconsciously corrupt CIA deputy director Robert Ritter. About as uncouth and conniving a heavy as there has ever been in the movies, his performance is absolutely chilling and believable. It makes the whole notion of our government going beyond reasonable bounds even more credible than it already is. Some will object to the film not pandering to Clancy's right-wing political points of view or his gung-ho pro-military stance, but that isn't necessarily what this movie is about. It does not condemn covert military action, but it does question the wisdom of sending men into a war zone where the risks are extreme, the reasons for such actions are vague at best, and there is no clear exit strategy. Such points are made extremely well in this film's action format; and for those reasons, it gets the highest marks. "},{"Title":"Good thriller","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this is the best of the four Jack Ryan films. After seeing Clear and Present Danger, it is clear and present to me that director Phillip Noyce learned from his few mistakes in Patriot Games. This movie is faster, stronger, and more interesting. Harrison Ford gives another solid performance. There is less of a character to Ryan in this screenplay, but he also strikes me as more heroic. We end up rooting for him rather than just watching him. So far we have seen Ryan take on the Soviet Navy and the IRA, this time he gets involved with a Columbian drug lord.There is one potential problem with Clear and Present Danger. The movie requires just as much from the audience as it gives them. There is entertainment to be had here, but only if you pay close attention. The plot is complex, and fairly easy to get lost in. I personally don't see what is so hard about paying attention to a film, but with the action genre, I think people prefer to be entertained in a mindless eye candy kind of way rather than a thought provoking-thriller kind of way (but that's just my bias).Clear and Present Danger is still a good movie. Whether you are into the Jack Ryan novels or not, I'd recommend it. "},{"Title":"Best of the Jack Ryan films!","Date":"23 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Harrison Ford proved in Patriot Games and this film that he's the best Jack Ryan. Sadly, this was his last turn as Jack. This film topped the others in intensity, scope and story. Involving Jack and the Government with Colombian drug cartels. Kudos also to Tom Clancy, director Phillip Noyce, James Horner's fine music score and the fine cast. Veteran actors made up a terrific supporting cast James Earl Jones as Greer in a sad scene, Willem Dafoe, Benjamin Bratt and Raymond Cruz as the U.S. military mercenaries, a quartet of despicable villains Henry Czerny, Harris Yulin, Joaquim de Almeida, Miguel Sandoval and Donald Moffat as the President and Anne Archer as Jack's loving, understandable and supportive wife. It will be difficult to match the quality of this production in future Jack Ryan films. "},{"Title":"Enemies Within And Without","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Someone once said that absolute power corrupts absolutely. That saying is the theme at the heart of Clear And Present Danger, the third film in the Jack Ryan film series. With a near perfect combination of acting, action, music and script it is also a thriller of the highest quality.Harrison Ford takes his performance of Jack Ryan up to a new level with this film. His performance as the principled Ryan stays int eh front seat at all times as Ryan confronts those in the film, especially in the final scenes of the film. Ford is also at the top of his game in the action sequences of the film as well proving yet again that Ford is both a fine actor and a fine action hero as well.The rest of the cast is good as well. Willem Dafoe makes a welcomed good guy appearance as Clark, the mysterious CIA operative leading the secret war. Anne Archer makes a welcomed return as Cathy Ryan though she is underused sadly. There's also Henry Czerny and Harris Yulin as the me leading the war of behalf of their President (played expertly by Donald Moffat) plus there's Joaquin De Almeida, Miguel Sandoval, Raymond Cruz, Tim Grimm and of course James Earl Jones. In truth the whole cast is good enough to mention if there was enough space.Of course there's the action sequences of the film. Of special mention is the signature ambush sequence that easily belongs amongst the best action sequences ever dedicated on a frame of film. While that sequence alone is excellent one can't forget about the many other (and smaller) sequences in the film that are no less impressive. Overall though it is unfair to call this an action film by any means.If anything can this describe this film it is the words thriller of the highest quality. The screenwriters took Tom Clancy's superb novel, trimmed down to film length, but kept many of the novel's key points. The result is, when put together with Phillip Noyce's direction and the superb score of James Hormer, an intelligent thrill ride where the corruption of absolute power leads to a secret war with lives and the reputations of nations at stakes where enemies are both within and without with only one man capable of unraveling it all.Clear And Present Danger is a thriller of the most unusual kind. It is a thriller that (in the words of Jack Ryan) sees the world not in black and white but as right and wrong. With its tale of a secret war and hidden agendas, the film is all the better for it. It may even be the best of the Jack Ryan films made so far but don't take my word for it. Go see the film for your self. "},{"Title":"The Old Potomac Two-Step","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was Harrison Ford's second outing as Jack Ryan following Patriot Games from two years earlier. (The character was also played by Alec Baldwin in The Hunt for Red October and Ben Affleck in The Sum of all Fears, neither of which I have seen). The plot concerns a covert war being waged by American troops against drug traffickers in Colombia authorised by the President and his aides without the approval of Congress. Ryan, who has been promoted to Deputy Director of the CIA following the death of his mentor Admiral Greer, has to try and uncover the truth, which puts him into danger as the bad guys try to cover their tracks.Clear and Present Danger is in many ways a different film from Patriot Games, and both have their strengths and weaknesses. Patriot Games was a more straightforward film. Although the villains were Irish terrorists there was no serious attempt to analyse, or make a statement about, the Northern Ireland situation; Irish terrorism was simply used as the basis for an exciting action thriller. Clear and Present Danger is a longer film than Patriot Games- at nearly two and a half hours it probably exceeds the optimum length for a thriller- and with more talk and less action, although there are some good action sequences. Those that stand out are the computer duel between Ryan and Ritter and the scenes where Ryan travels to Colombia to try and rescue the American soldiers who have been abandoned by the President in an attempt to try and prevent the truth coming out.It is a more political film about corruption in high places and the misuse of authority, reminiscent of Watergate and possibly also the Iran/Contra affair. There has been some debate on this board about whether President Bennett is a villain, although to me it seems quite clear that the film-makers intended to portray him as one. His decision to send troops into Colombia is motivated less by a desire to combat the international drugs trade than by a desire to avenge a personal friend who has been murdered on the orders of Ernesto Escobedo, a powerful drug lord from whom he had stolen money. (The surname Escobedo suggests that this character was based upon the real-life drug baron Pablo Escobar). He orders soldiers into action and then abandons them to their fate out of political expediency. There is also the question of the legality of his actions. The film takes the view that they are clearly illegal because they violate the War Powers Act 1973. The constitutionality of this Act, in fact, has been denied- not least by every President since its passage- but none of those Presidents have ever attempted to challenge it in the Supreme Court.Harrison Ford is once again very good as Ryan, perhaps even better than he was in Patriot Games. Ford is not as versatile as some actors, but he does have his strengths, and playing solid, decent and reliable heroes is one of them, displayed not only in his Jack Ryan films but also in films like Witness, The Fugitive, K-19 The Widowmaker and the Indiana Jones series. Ryan's function in this film is not only as its action hero but also as its moral anchor. He is the man who can be relied upon to stand up for honour and decency, the man who, unlike officials from the President downwards, refuses to dance the Old Potomac Two-Step of concealment and corruption. (The phrase is taken from a key scene at the end of the film, when he refuses the President's blandishments to cover up the scandal). Political conspiracy thrillers have becomes something of a Hollywood cliché ever since Watergate, but this is one of the better ones. "},{"Title":"This movie is superficial, biased and deceitful.","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Oh my god. This movie is just another proof of how some people don't give a damn about making stories that respect people and at least show a little truth about other countries and cultures. This movie's representation of Colombia is just like Americans like to see people that they consider inferior, and criminal, thus, subject to be humiliated by means of a pathetic motion picture.This movie shows American, or Hollywood's, total ignorance about Colombia and the whole drug trafficking problem. I know is just a movie, but people around the world, naive or stupid people, believe in what movies show like if it was God's truth. Sure, this is just another action movie with predictable characters and plot, nothing to be studied further. Nonetheless, it hurts to see movies that only promote hatred and discrimination against Colombians.This picture shows the way Hollywood works you can sell people crap, and make them eat it "},{"Title":"imperfect but highly watchable","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When his mentor and close friend Admiral Greer becomes fatally ill, dedicated and scrupulously honest CIA analyst Jack Ryan is appointed deputy director of operations. He finds himself in over his head when he uncovers an unlawful political strike against a Colombian drug cartel, and is determined to stay true to his duty even if it means betraying his colleagues and prominent White House officials who appear to be implicated in the scheme. Follow-up to Patriot Games doesn't have the same level of intensity or suspense, but it has an intriguing story, good performances, and impressive action set pieces. Doesn't always hold your attention during the more dramatic or plot-heavy moments, but it's well-crafted and well-made. **½ "},{"Title":"John Clark and John Clark","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved the movie. I've watched it many times. However, last night I noticed something strange. In Clear and Present Danger, Greer tells Jack Ryan to look up Clark when he gets to Bogota. Of course, Jack Ryan does meet John Clark. Supposedly, Jack Ryan has been with the CIA for some time now, considering the position he holds. Acutually, Ryan should know who Clark is. In the Sum of All Fears, another great movie, which is supposedly a prequel, young Jack Ryan goes on a mission with John Clark. Therefore, in Clear and Present Danger, Jack Ryan already knows who John Clark is. Am I mistaken on this? Also, the Sum of All Fears is not shown as much as Clear and Present Danger. "}{"Title":"Jack Ryan returns against a new enemy, but an old plot...","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford returns as Jack Ryan, a CIA operative who's boss becomes hospitalized at a time when the President of the United States has declared war on the Columbian drug cartels (again?)I saw this movie for the first time the other day.  I have seen The Hunt For Red October and The Sum of All Fears before, so I was familiar with Jack Ryan, but Ryan has moved up the ladder a little bit in this film and he finds himself in a twist to the plot people are behind some of the illegal tactics while fighting the war against drugs that lead him to a place where he, for obvious reasons, reluctantly treads.This is a very good movie!  Willem Dafoe was his co-hort in the drug war and they find themselves together against the common enemy, but the trust is not felt between the two of them and the tension created is felt throughout the whole film!  Way to go, Tom Clancy! "},{"Title":"Role made for Ford","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The gung-ho, heroic CIA intellignece offer Jack Ryan is a role made for Harrison Ford.Involved in a conspiracy within the US government that goes right to the top, he does overplay the righteous hero a bit much, but an enjoyable triller all the same. "},{"Title":"Driven a Ford lately?","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER (1994) *** Harrison Ford, Willem Dafoe, Anne Archer, James Earl Jones, Joquim DeAlmeida, Ann Magnuson, Henry Czerny, Donald Moffat, Harris Yulin, Miguel Sandoval.  Superb adaptation of Tom Clancy's high-tech thriller with CIA analyst extraordinairre Jack Ryan (Ford reprising his role from Patriot Games) up to his neck in a double-crossing cat and mouse set-up involving South American drug cartels and political machinations.  Intelligent script and some true edge-of-your seat moments. "},{"Title":"Great action film, but does require you to think a bit","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a well done Harrison Ford action movie. It was very well crafted and acted. I will warn you that it's not anything likeAir Force One, which was just a simple ,easy to follow action thriller,Clear and Present Danger requires a lot of thinking, and will probubly take multiple viewings to understand every little detail. Lots of great action scenes, plenty of things being blown up!!If you like Harrison Ford movie's you should definately add this one to your collection. "},{"Title":"A Major Turn Around in the Jack Ryan Series!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first two Jack Ryan pictures failed to capture my interests in a spy flick but this movie didn't. While the plot really isn't out of this world. It is still a good plot which contains a lot of action sequences and with Harrison Ford on board there is a sense of adventure. I still haven't seen 'The Sum of all Fears' but this is the best and perhaps the only movie in the Jack Ryan series that I like so far. 3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Another Winner Based on a Tom Clancy Novel.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Another intense winner from novelist Tom Clancy that is intelligent, complicated and well-made. Once again Jack Ryan returns (Harrison Ford) and this time he must take on a Colombian drug cartel that has murdered a close friend of the U.S. president (Donald Moffat). The president then sends a task force into Colombia to fight the cartel without the knowledge of Congress. This is of course an illegal act which will lead to problems at home and abroad. The task force, led by Willem Dafoe, fails and it is up to Harrison Ford to make all things right again. The film is smart, but truly confusing at times. Ford once again shines and he gets ample support from a strong cast. The direction is focused and the film ends up being another interesting action-thriller. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Ryan is the best Ford Character ever","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wow i'm vote no 5000 a lot of people must love this movie too. Harrison Ford has played some great characters over the last 25 years but Jack Ryan rocks. As far as Tom Clancy stories go the Jack Ryan ones are the greatest. I just hope that more Ryan movies are made, they deserve to be... I rated this as a 10/10 movie only because the chart does not have any higher scores.  "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I fully understand that people who read the book don't appreciate this movie, I believe it's true for 90 % of book adaptations.Anyway, it's the sort of movie I like, clean, all scenes are meaningful, Harisson plays the cool fish, but he's the extreme of the heroism played by Dafoe.Fun part of this movie is how the computer kid solved the password in 5 seconds during the first part of the movie, while he was given all the personal paper data on the people involved and then was challenged with a serious job at the end. The voice recognition session made me laugh too.Why don't we have these sort of programs at home? Anyway, good action, entertainment, swift changes, it's never dull. Open a bottle of Muscadet, nicely cooled, sit back and enjoy. "},{"Title":"book <-> film","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you have read the book and then look the film, you think that it isn´t the same. I think the book is better, but you can´t realize all things in the book. In the book Ritter is a nice guy and not so bad as in the film. "},{"Title":"great adventure","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i love the movie. lots of action & adventure. congratulations to whole team for creating this epic "}{"Title":"This time... it's personal. Well, not as much as before, but, uh, still... nevermind","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Special Collector's Edition review. I haven't read the novel. The first Ford attempt came off as more his movie than a properly done one based on a book by a solid writer. This gets closer to a healthy mix of the two. There is still action, and it's well-done, but it doesn't feel like it's struggling with the political thriller aspects for the spotlight(not only because of the considerably lesser amount). The pacing is pretty good, this is never boring. The plot is interesting, and I'd say the Clancy feel is a stronger presence in this than in its immediate predecessor(hey, you can go elsewhere for a straight Harrison flick, no?). The acting is relatively solid all the way. The characters are well-written and credible, for the most part. The editing and cinematography tend to be nice in this. The special effects leave little to be desired. The dialog has memorable lines, like the first in the series. The language does have some harsh words, but fewer(not to be confused with milder) than in the previous effort. The DVD holds a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to fans of the franchise, Tom Clancy and/or Harrison Ford. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Does not work for me!","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The third installment in the cinematic incarnation of Tom Clancy's CIA analyst Jack Ryan and the second starring Harrison Ford, this follow-up to Patriot Games is a more complex, rewarding, and bolder film than its predecessor. Ford returns as Ryan, this time embroiled in a failed White House bid to wipe out a Colombian drug cartel and cover up the mess. The script, by Clancy and John Milius (Red Dawn), has an air of true adventure about it as Ryan places himself in harm's way to extract covert soldiers abandoned in a Latin American jungle. There are a couple of remarkable set pieces expertly handled by Patriot Games director Phillip Noyce, especially a shocking scene involving an ambush on Ryan's car in an alley. The supporting cast is superb, including Willem Dafoe as the soldiers' leader, Henry Czerny as Ryan's enemy at the CIA, Joaquim De Almeida as a smooth-talking villain, Ann Magnuson as an unwitting confederate in international crime, and James Earl Jones as Ryan's dying boss. The DVD release has a widescreen presentation, theatrical trailer, closed captioning, optional French soundtrack, and optional Spanish subtitles. "},{"Title":"Truth needs a what?????????","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Harrison Ford was a bad selection for this film, as many here have correctly pointed out. Equally revolting were the pretentious, often self-righteous references to Jack Ryan's honesty. Example 1 truth needs a soldier, the film's tagline. Or how about Jack, you see things in black and white.---Not black and white, right and wrong!!!! (groan). Or my personal favorite That Ryan is such a boy scout. We get it, Jack doesn't lie, everyone else in Washington does. Now the combat scenes captured a bit more interest, but contained plenty of errors. The laser guided bomb dropped from a Navy fighter jet appeared way too fake (even though I didn't expect them to actually film a plane releasing munitions) and surely could have been improved. Also, wouldn't one expect the director of the FBI to have just a bit more security in a foreign country, particularly one as dangerous as Colombia, than three chevy trucks and two paltry motorbikes??? I won't go into the whole give me maps of their locations, cut off their communications bit, but even fiction has to recognize some boundaries of credibility. Two stars out of 4. "},{"Title":"Read the book, don't watch the movie","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's not hard to see why Tom Clancy doesn't give his approval to the movie that are based on his books. There isn't a single plot line in the book that the movie doesn't butcher.The cast is good, and if the movie had actually followed the book, the movie could have been great.  I hate to criticize Harrison Ford movies, but this one disappointed me. "},{"Title":"An atrocity to a fine novel; Clancy should sue!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The book was great.  I realize that rarely does a movie cover a book well, but this was absolutely ridiculous!  Half the scenes in the movie were completely fabricated from the screenwriter's imagination, and bore no resemblance to the events portrayed in the book.  Furthermore, the casting was awful.  Willem DaFoe as Clark?  Give me a break!  DaFoe is a great actor, but horribly miscast here.  All in all, it was disgraceful.  Even as a stand-alone movie, it stunk. "},{"Title":"Clearly the inferior chapter in the series","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sadly, this film most likely brought  about the idea of retooling the series.  Jack Ryan, while embodied well by  Harrison Ford, seemed weak and sad  throughout the course of the this film.  He didn't have the inner strength which  made him such an everyday presence,   and this perceived character flaw turned  this film into a rather unsatisfying  experience. Maybe Ford was showing  his age or no passion was put into this  project. Nonetheless, this eventually led  to the next incarnation of Jack Ryan, which  is one we did not need to witness. "},{"Title":"Clear and Present Danger","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ford returns as CIA Jack Ryan who now combats Colombian drug  cartels in this entertaining film version of the Tom Clancy novel. While entertaining, Ford is beginning to show his age with these roles.  "},{"Title":"Blah","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why, but this movie failed to hold my interest. I like all of the cast members, the photography and direction seemed OK, and the book it was based on was great. It just didn't seem to come together. Willem Defoe did well in his role, although I agree that he was miscast, from the perspective of the book. True, you can't film a whole Clancy novel without making a 40 hour movie, but Hunt for Red October made a very good film. I haven't seen Patriot Games so I cannot comment on that. Grade D "},{"Title":"Dullest of the series.","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jack Ryan III confirms why he can't be a James Bond for the nineties - he's just too boring, although Ford does try his hardest. "},{"Title":"Without Remorse Would Make A Good Movie","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First of all it takes place in the 60s The soundtrack could be made of all parts of music from that era (e.g. the doors, Jefferson airplane, the Beatles, etc.)Second The beginning part was one of the best parts of any Tom Clancy book i've read, save rainbow 6, it could account for the drama, romance section of the bookThird The middle to ending could be like a strategic Platoon when Clark is doing operations in Vietnam.Who to play Clark? Dafoe is too old and even make-up can't hide that, maybe some rugged young actor, can't think of any "}{"Title":"A Colombian's point of view","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ---THIS MAY CONTAIN SMALL SPOILERS, READ AT YOUR OWN RISK--This movie is quite believable. The plot I mean. The bad guys are there too, and the drug cartels life is in some way accurate. But it has a lot of disappointing details. Small details, like - The president of the U.S. being emotional and taking a personal vendetta? - Isn't it naive to pretend to win a war against drugs with a commando force and taking down some drug lords? - Hollywood's ability to investigate and simulate real locations is frankly embarrassing. The have an ability to make fool of themselves for erratic representations and show their big ignorance with the way they show life in underdeveloped places. Bogota is characterized as a dusty, hot and poor city. Bogota is not dusty, not ugly and is cold. I've never seen places even close to the ones showed in the movie. They shoot in places in Mexico, but guys Not everything below the great river looks like Mexico. Not every Colombian is a drug dealer, as I guess not every American is a junkie or an ignorant, neither stupid. But if we take what Hollywood shows looks that way. They might shoot the Bogota scenes in Mexico City, it is a lot more similar to the real Bogota. -You can see soldiers everywhere you go to. They show Bogota as a place where you can get killed by a sniper in any minute. Far away from the real thing, taking off the credibility of the movie, and also creating a false and erratic image of a whole country. - This lack of investigation from people involved in the representation of tropical countries is not new, and not over. The fockers is even more embarrassing, show a even bigger ignorance of how a country really is. For a production costing several millions of dollars, they might take the hassle to investigate a little more (at least investigate) and not to make fool of themselves. -A high rank CIA officer going to the jungle to rescue some soldiers and fist-figthing drug lords? Come on!And for the record paramilitaries, guerrillas and Colombian soldiers use nice uniforms, in some way very similar to the U.S. soldier's ones. After all, those uniforms are made here too.. ;). And drug lords don't use bodyguards with cheap formal suits. They dress casual and classy too. Military Police uniforms were accurate, at least something good. Like it was said in the first part of the movie as long as there are consumers, the will be someone providing you drugs, no matter where they come from. That's why I liked the movie, it is a realistic story. Not very well represented (at least the Colombian part), but I've seen worst. "},{"Title":"The worst installment of a bad series","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Film adaptations of Tom Clancy's bestselling novels have never really measured up to the success of the books and this third film outing of Clancy's most popular character, CIA agent Jack Ryan, ranks as the worst adaptation of all. The book of the same name was the bestselling novel of the 1980's but probably one of the worst films of the 1990's. Harrison Ford reprises his Patriot Games role as Ryan. This time out, Ryan works to uncover and expose a working connection between a South American drug ring and an advisor for the U.S. President. Long before this dull film was over, it didn't really matter to me anymore how it was going to turn out. Most other viewers may feel the same way here. Stick with the novels because the film adaptations are just not as engrossing for some odd reason.   "},{"Title":"Politics Put On Your Hip Waders!","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadMy favorite Clancy based movie. It has such depth to it and also works on many levels. As a pure adventure movie, it is excellent. Yet, I adore the movie for a wonderful trip into the excremental world of politics. Even people from other countries, believe me, it has relevance to you. Politicians are just like this wherever on earth you go. My favorite line is Moffat's president, caught with his pants down, killing civilians in an illegal drug war, leaving his own soldiers out for target practice,Jack, you won't do that, you got yourself a chip in the big game now. You're going to save that for when your own ass in on the line and I'm going to cash that in for you. A well written movie that adumbrates the whole Iran / Contra drug store the White House was running with that great patriot who lived on the 5th amendment and the world's worst memory. You will pick up who Clancy is speaking about here's a big hint, listen for Ritter saying,There you go again, ring any bells? Notice what's on the president's desk that lovely jar of jelly beans? Beyond the thinly veiled look into the wonderful way to fund a clandestine army with cocaine, the movie is such an exciting, well written, suspenseful piece of work.With Dafoe and Earl Jones in support, you really get some great acting. Even if my analysis bores or you disagree with, it is worth owning. I like Patriot Games, except for the ending, but this towers over it. It stays with me because of the trip into the world of politics which Clancy's narrative has such a feel for authenticity about it. Even non philosophers have an innate sense of truth, I think that is why this was such a big hit. Czerny's Ritter is my favorite character what a great depiction of an amoral, ladder climbing, take no prisoners low life. This is the core of why the movie works so well, even during what should be slow parts at the White House. The movie moves very well, the politics are quite few and far in between. There are some great action set pieces; the attack on the Motorcade, the jet missile attack on the drug lords and the final rescue of the prisoners. Do not be fooled by my review, the politics take a back seat to the action filled story.Why you should watch it is for the depths. Be sure to put on your hip waders because you are going to be around politicians, hold your nose. The slime cannot be exaggerated; as scathing a delineation as this movie is, I still think it is even worse than this. It won't make you want to race out and vote. Ryan barely escapes with his skin when those government servants, who put the Mafia to shame, paint a giant bulls-eye on his backside. The showdown scene between Ryan and The President is worth owning the movie for. I loved all of them but the Ben Affleck one but this one is forty stories above the rest for what I would call Into The World Of Politics Get Those Hepatitis Shots First. A Good Movie. "}]