[{"Title":"On the verge of classic","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was the first movie done by Spike Lee that I have ever seen, and I saw this movie by accident.  Out of all of his films, why is this one of the least known?  It is worth seeing, because so many things work.  It's definitely one of the most thematic movies I have ever seen, and I can definitely relate to many of Spike Lee's memories.  It is sad, but it is also hopeful.  Alfre Woodard was awesome, and I definitely think that she is one of the best unrecognized actresses in the US today.  Delroy Lindo played his character well too.  The relationship between Troy and her brothers was especially memorable and so universal!  The best scenes in the movie showcase the children in front of the television.  This movie was on the verge of greatness but it didn't capture it just because some parts of the movie were melodramatic and drawn out.  The movie itself was about 15 minutes too long.   "},{"Title":"Underrated gem from Spike Lee","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" CROOKLYN isn't Spike Lee's greatest, but it comes very close. Parts of the film hit so close to home with me - the sense of community so vividly depicted, and the 70s soul music (which is nearly ubiquitous through CROOKLYN) makes this film something much like a musical, with the grit and intimacy of Lee's visual realism constantly balanced against the idealism and romanticism of the music. As slice-of-life Americana, this is about as good as it gets. I disliked the scenes with the Aunt & Uncle - I felt that they were being ridiculed mercilessly, for no good reason (they are the living embodiment of the idealism contained in at least some of the music heard at other times in the film, whether they know it or not), and I wished those scenes were handled with more subtlety - Lee, like his NYC bretheren Martin Scorsese and Woody Allen has major issues with suburban types (this hits a peak in Lee's later BAMBOOZLED - an almost brilliant, but also almost cruel expression of rage at the excesses of the entertainment industry that also aimed merciless fury at uncritical audiences - audiences of any and every race and class).But this scene aside, the remainder of CROOKLYN is so strong, and very well-made - I'd still offer a recommendation. "},{"Title":"one of Lee's best","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crooklyn is an engaging film that stands out in Spike Lee's filmography, not only for Lee's seamless storying of everyday life in 70's Brooklyn, but also because of his interesting and innovative cinematic imagery. The cinematography Lee employs in Crooklyn helps to create fantastic -sometimes even cartoon-like- environments in which his characters spring to life and thrive. His dollying techniques (placing actors on dollies), lens choice, and manipulation of color conspire to add special characteristics to this film. This is a great film to watch not only for Lee's ability to highlight the beauty of the quotidian in his storytelling, but also for the aesthetic qualities that Lee produces with his rich filmic vocabulary. "},{"Title":"Personal, Endearing, Comical","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a very personal, heartwarming and funny movie that also touched on very real social issues.  It deals with the complications involved in family life like love, break up, sibling rivalry and making ends meet while also trying to lead a happy fulfilling life.  It deals with the pains of loss and of struggle, the issues facing urban communities....self-perceptions and growing.  Spike does all of this while giving a light and loving perspective to some hard issues.  It is comical and endearing as you see all of these situations played out through the eyes of a young girl, trying to grow up.  The odd struggle and perceptions of reality that we all face coming up...the embarrassment of a family, the neighborhood bully, etc....all gets played out in this summer classic.--Not to mention the cinematography is wonderful and interesting. "},{"Title":"A Tresure","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing an interview with Neil Simon once who saidthat he remebers that during the run of his play Brightom BeachMemiors, a black usher would crack up at every performance. When Simon asked him why he laughed at every performance, theusher told him That's my family.Crooklyn had the same effect on me.  Just as a black ushersfamily must have been light years away from a pre war Jewishfamily in Brightom Beach, I can assure you that my childhood waslightyears away from the Charmichles.  True, I grew up in Brooklyn,but I grew up in a upper middle class white neighborhood in theearly eighties.  This world was light years away from the world ofLee's film, but certain aspects of childhood ring true wether yourfrom Sachrimento or Siagon.I think this is Spike's best film after Do The Right Thing.  In someways even better.  It's one of the best films ever made aboutchildhood.  You have the joy of staying up late and watching ThePartidge Family.  The pain of losing your Mom and having yourDad thrown out of the house.  The humor, as when one of the boyshits a girl with a cat.  This is a magical movie in all respects. "},{"Title":"A tree grows in Crooklyn","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ahhh who can forget the good Ol' days of Spike Lee films that had heart as well as insight? Who can forget this gem? Crooklyn is loosely based on Spike Lee's life growing up. Its mostly a story that mostly details the struggles of a family growing up in Brooklyn as seen through the eyes of Troy(played by Zelda Harris). There are beautiful performances to be seen here. Alfre Woodard's presence is felt as the stern but loving mother of four kids and Delroy Lindo's is great as the father who is also dealing with pressure as a struggling musician and trying to pay the rent on time. They go through the normal strife that any black family has to go through in poor areas but they still find a way to maintain. I remember as a kid that the last scene with the mom passing on had me choked up. Troy and her brother holding hands at the reception for the funeral was a touching scene too. They drove each other crazy but it was still love in the end. Crooklyn has brief moments of awareness like one scene in particular Troy's aunt comparing troy's hair to her adopted child's hair saying that the adopted child's hair was good hair and that Troy's hair was rough was a subtle form of self-hatred but most people wouldn't pick up on that. Of course Spike Lee has to make an appearance in the movie. He plays a junkie who chases kids around trying to steal money from them. In short Crooklyn stands out as one the best dramas of all time and one of Spike Lee's best work. The characters are ones that you care about, their struggles are real and anybody who has been there can also relate. Two thumbs up for Spike Lee's work of art on film. "},{"Title":"Crooklyn is one of my favorite Spike Lee movies","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Growing up as a teen in today's age ( I'm 18 ) I love watching movies that take place in the 60's and 70's that showcase what it was like growing up in those days.Now and Then Cooley High and Dazed and Confused ring a bell when it comes to this genre . Crooklyn has to be one of my favorites out of this group of movies because of the bittersweet story of an interesting enjoyable lead character Troy (Zelda Harris). This young lady bought something special to the movie along with Alfre Woodard and Delroy Lindo.The movie starts off to be a fun loving look in the eyes of Troy. While she goes through dealing with her annoying brothers, her parents marital issues, and just being a kid in Brooklyn. The entire movie had me laughing from the beginning to when Troy stays with her southern family members. Even though the distorted camera work is annoying, those were my favorite scenes in the movie. The movie takes a change of pace when Troy returns to NYC to find out her mother is sick with cancer. The lightheartedness of the movie is replaced by sadness when her mother dies. The scene at the funeral when Troy's older brother sits next to her and holds her hand was one of the most touching scenes in the movie. Despite the death of her mother (which was very sad) the ending wasn't exactly displeasing because in the end Troy had a father who truly loved her and her brothers. I kinda felt that in the long run Troy and her family would make it through in life with their mother's memories and what they learned from her. This movie will continue to be one of my favorite movies ever. The characters, comedy, and charm of this movie will make it a good one for viewing pleasure.  "},{"Title":"Uneven Joint","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although I wouldn't say this is a great Lee film, it is still very solid. There isn't a story as such, instead it is a love letter to childhood and family life in Brooklyn. Imagine Radio Days, including the sentimental streak.The actors are great and this movie only goes to prove that Delroy Lindo is one of the best actors around. Zelda Harris as the young girl, Troy, is also brilliant. Alfre Woodard is the pivot of the film, around which most of the film revolves around - even if she has less than Troy.Tonally the film doesn't quite click. Sometimes the original music is quite sour and does not fit with the images. Some scenes seem forced.But the amazing soundtrack helps put things right.Even though the film isn't perfect, it has a great soundtrack and a very unique take on things. "},{"Title":"Loving It","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. It reminded me of when I was a young girl growing up in the 70's. We should have more movies like this one. Good work Spike. I watch this movie with my two children who was born in the early part of the 80's and they enjoyed it as well, asking me all kinds of questions,Brought a smile to my face as I told them about me and my siblings growing up in the 70's. You can actually see how times has change, making up your own games and finding some positive things to do with your time.Like playing jump rope.what about marbles or Jacks. Do they even make them anymore? Then I really love the part when Mom came home and woke up everyone in the house.Now that was a blast from the past. "},{"Title":"SO sad and funny","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I always had a thing for this movie; it's just all-aroundentertaining and fun and hilarious, then heartrendingly sad...all of that in this cooler-than-cool atmosphere of '75 Brooklyn.Any movie that will make you laugh and cry as hard this one is a perfect film experience to me.It is at times uneven and glaringly annoying, but that's easily overrided by so many great qualities like those kids and the acting by everyone. I'm seventeen but I wish I lived in 1975 Brooklyn 'cuz it looked like the richness of life! "}{"Title":"a pleasantly buoyant and personal Spike Lee film that only feels disconnected in the last act","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Crooklyn has that subjective texture by someone of the New York independent school of film-making (which means it's a cool school more often than not), where personal expression through the medium leads directly into, or out of, the creator's own life experiences. It's a direct approach to call it autobiography, which I would imagine it is for not just Spike Lee (who could be seen, more or less, as the one Carmichael kid who wears big glasses and is obsessed with the Knicks), but Joie (the lead Troy perhaps ?) and Cinque (one of the younger kids I'd suppose as the youngest Lee sibling), who all wrote the script. It's about a family getting by and going through the struggles of the small kind (change the channel, turn off the TV, don't bother your sister/brother, did you steal that from him, etc) to the larger issues (parents arguing over money) that many families in urban sections of the cities have to go through every day. Only here the family is sassy, rude, cool, a little square, a little hip, and very identifiable in one aspect or another in just how siblings relate, how the neighbors get on nerves (in this case with a slight racial edge, it is a Spike Lee movie after all), and yet deep down lots of love all around.The Lee's inject a good deal of humor and warmth for a good 2/3 of the film, even when Spike moves the scene down south where Troy (Zelda Harris) has to stay with relatives for a little while, and Lee takes off the widescreen anamorphic process in order to make it a consistently distorted image. This is actually quite a cool move, if at first a little uneasy, as it goes in and out sometimes of looking like its distorted and then it will look like the characters and set pieces are skinny and such (the fate of the relative's dog, by the way, is one of the biggest, if cruelest, laughs in the whole film). At Crooklyn's best, there's a whole feeling to the proceedings, much like Do the Right Thing- and going back as well to the early work of Scorsese- where just a small section of New York city opens up to the viewer as being as vivid and true as possible that the lack of a usual plot doesn't matter much. Sometimes a scene might not work quite as much as another, or one of the many songs Lee lays on (and there are many, as it's one of the best soundtracks he's presented) overrides what could do without in the scene. But in general these are small quibbles.The biggest problem that the film has- and it's not without truth to Lee's real life- is the death of mother Carolyn. It happens as soon as Troy comes back from the south that she's in the hospital, and two scenes later she's gone. It's a sudden shift in the story that doesn't really feel as true as it could, almost as if Lee and his sibling writers don't know where to go once Troy gets back except to go towards sentimentality. It's still well-acted, particularly by Delroy Lindo, who overall gives one of his best performances to date as the struggling father of the family, but it's an odd jolt that doesn't rightly click (especially with a bit where a funeral scene is interrupted by what looks like a dream scene involving Spike himself, sporting a big afro, as a target of Troy's). And yet, I wouldn't stop anyone from seeing the Crooklyn, if they want to get to see some of the less politically charged and more personal and bittersweet side of Lee, and for those who have fond memories of New York (and TV or the Knicks) in the 70s. "},{"Title":"Spike's most sweet-natured film","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Another reviewer referred to Crooklyn as Spike's most underrated joint, and I heartily agree. This film is a wonderful achievement and much more mature and sure-handed than a lot of the films Spike has made since. It's not quite Do the Right Thing (but that film feels, quite simply, like a blessed and untouchable project), but it holds up better than Malcolm X or Jungle Fever or Clockers or He Got Game--all very good films as well.Why do I like this film so much? It's sweet-natured. In many ways, it reminds me of a film like Millions, which I also adored. There are too many nasty movies (don't get me wrong, I enjoy nastiness from time to time) and too few nice ones. Or rather too few nice ones that don't drop into cliché and cloying sappiness. Delroy Lindo and Alfre Woodard are excellent as always, but the kids here really steal the show (the same was true of Millions--maybe I just like movies with realistic, precocious kids). The film has a bright palette similar to Do the Right Thing and the early scenes in Malcolm X that works perfectly. The story too is something to behold. It doesn't follow a typical path and, as a result, feels more like the realistic life and times of a black family in New York in the 1970s. The film is really touching and, perhaps, that's because Crooklyn feels more personal than many other Spike Lee films. All in all, this is a great and underrated film. If you think you understand Spike, you're wrong until you've seen Crooklyn. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of my all time favorites. Once a year me and my sister watch this movie. After the movie we sit and reminisce about all of the characters that we grew up with. It takes us back to the days when we played kick ball, red light green light, catch a girl get a girl, dodge ball, smear the qu%$r (known today as rugby)...all of which I'm sure are banned today.This movie is nostalgia in its purest form. If you grew up in the concrete jungle you will laugh to tears. The acting is outstanding and the cinematography is brilliant. Big ups to the Lee family for helping all of us to remember the good IL days. "},{"Title":"Anyone who grew up in NYC 1970's will love this film","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having grown up in Queens in the 1970's, everything in this film hits home. I am sure anyone that grew up in any of the 5 boro's can appreciate it.The music is what we listened to on AM radio, the TV shows, children's street games, sitting on the stoop steps, kids teasing their friends and neighbors are all something we did at that time. The Carmichael kids in front of the TV singing along to the Partridge Family I Woke up in Love this Morning, Walt Frazier being IT when it came to basketball. How many of us sat doing the same things? The kids fighting with each other are brother sister typical things.But the film also shows the problems a family endures when financial strains hit. The father is a musician who wants to write and play classical music to audiences who can appreciate it. This becomes a burden when his wife is the one working as a teacher paying the bills. Domestic issues put a strain on their relationship as they get into who used to pay the bills and who's paying them now.Mom getting the kids up in the middle of the night for not cleaning up, you can understand her frustration being the breadwinner, mom and everything else. When she complains later on that she is tired, you will have to watch the film to see why.Sit back and enjoy a trip back in time when life was a lot simpler. Even Spike and his friend dabbling in glue sniffing isn't so bad compared to what is going on now. "},{"Title":"The film was just ... too clean","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie described as vibrant .. I guess it was in a way. But I really don't know if that was a good thing for this film. I started watching this film knowing nothing about it. The kid on the bed did remind me of Spike Lee, and I thought to myself yeah this is a Spike Lee kinda thing but not something he'd do. I'm surprised to see it is a Spike Lee film.It's too clean, too fairytale, too ... contrived.That needs explaining. All the poor, rough kids stealing candy and beatingeach other up in the street .. including the glue-heads and the gangsters ... they are all wearing shiny brand new clothes, they're clean shaved, their makeup is immaculate, teeths sparking white (what is that fixation about!).... All of them!!!The paint on the railing is new .. all of it!, even the garbage and the dirty building frontage is immaculately clean ... it looks designed, not natural.That's all I saw through the entire film. In fact the props, costumes, and sets we're so unnatural, that several times I found I had been distracted from the story ... I lost the plot so to speak ...The filming was great ... beautiful shots ... nicely cut .... technically great. But everything got in the way of the story, so it failed in the single thing you make a movie to do. "},{"Title":"VIEWS ON FILM review of Crooklyn","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The closing credits of Spike Lee's 1994 film Crooklyn state that what we saw as an audience was a work of fiction. They also state that Crooklyn had more than one writer and those writers (Lee and his real life brother and sister) drew some of their inspiration from their own lives growing up in a low rent Brooklyn neighborhood. If this is the case and the film is not exactly a true story, then after a recent viewing, I started to wonder why and for what reason, it was made. Now granted, Spike Lee always has good intentions. And most of the time he gets energetic performances from his cast. However, in Crooklyn's case, the material he is saddled with (the story and the monotonous, yet accurate script) is entirely lightweight, and it doesn't have the strength to fill a 2 hour-plus exercise. Whatever conflicts that occur between the characters (characters that fade in and out of the proceedings) are never fully realized and resolved, the one event or tragedy that occurs toward the film's conclusion does not fully beef up any dramatic momentum, and most of the scenes involving the main family depicted (the Carmichael family) feel tedious and in serious need of editing. In essence, Crooklyn would have more effective as a side plot of Lee's family childhood included in a T.V. special/documentary about his life as a director. What came out in 1994 though, is an authentic, yet unnecessary portrayal of a family of 5 kids (four boys, 1 girl) living in Brooklyn, NY in the summer of 1973.Using many unknown child actors and casting himself as a neighborhood glue sniffing junkie, Lee shoots a film that follows the lives of the fictional family, the Carmichaels. They consists of a hard working school teacher (always tough as nails Alfre Woodard), her calming, hard- up musician husband (with this film and Lee's Clockers, Delroy Lindo is now one of my true acting heroes), and their five children (the film slowly begins to put its main focus on the only daughter in group being Troy, played with confidence by Zelda Harris). Although they are the main tenants of the building they are living in, they are struggling to make ends meet (they fail to pay the electric bill for everybody else and the building loses power) and Carolyn Carmichael (Woodard) being the sole provider, puts a strain on the family dynamic. She and Woody Carmichael (Lindo) fight and argue because he is not able to make any money playing his music (he's a piano player and composer). Crooklyn also in the smallest detail takes a look at some of the other people that live on the same block as the Carmichaels. They are side characters that don't get a lot of screen time to establish themselves, let alone add to the workings of the plot (a plot with a very thin skin). As I stated a couple sentences ago, watching this exercise, you begin to realize that the young Troy becomes the focal point of the movie in general. It's not entirely known upfront. But by the last twenty minutes or so, you understand why. By then it's too late because too much running time is passed and not enough has happened. If the whole entire film focused on this little girl, I think it might have worked. I stress the words might have.When it's all said and done, this is a harmless motion picture that seemed close to Lee's heart. I don't think it's a bad film by any means. I just feel that the subject matter wasn't deep enough or potent enough to engage an audience seeking entertainment value or for lack of a better word, excitement. Yes, the period detail is pretty solid with the soundtrack being composed of some 70's classics and a few rap tunes. The opening credit sequence is excellent, depicting a normal routine of childhood antics (double dutch jump rope, tag, street races, etc.) on a hot summer day in NYC. And the closing credits are a delight leading with an intro by Soul Train creator Don Cornelius followed by a dance sequence on said T.V. show. But, in between, the movie glides by without really saying anything or provoking any deep meaning. So my high end analysis is this instead of watching people's lives on screen, the only way to really embrace this film, is by being in that place and time, and actually inhabiting some form of their existence. If you lived in Brooklyn's Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood back in 1973, this flick might be your cup of tea. If you didn't, decide to take in a viewing, and wanted to immerse yourself in the world of Crooklyn, (you know its characters and its story) by hook or crook, you'll ultimately feel cheated at what you just saw. "},{"Title":"Broken Diva","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Semi-autobiographical, Spike Lee's Crooklyn stars Alfre Woodard and Delroy Lindo as an African American couple struggling to raise a band of rowdy kids in 1970s Brooklyn. The film's comprised of a series of vignettes, some of which are powerful, most of which are overly loud and busy.Though initially shapeless, Crooklyn eventually reveals itself to be told from the point of view of Troy (Zelda Harris), a young girl who watches as her mother slides unexpectedly into sickness and then death. With mommy's passing comes Troy's new-found respect for the strength and struggles of African American women; throughout all the film's commotion, Mommy has been the raft keeping this family unit afloat.Like most of Lee's films, Crooklyn exudes nostalgia for New York's promenades, stoops and brownstones. The film isn't conventionally sentimental, though, and instead adopts a tone of aggression. Things happen hard, fast, and our little family seems always under siege.Those familiar with Lee's background will perhaps find Crooklyn more touching than those who aren't; similar to the mother in the film, Lee's own mother died of cancer. Lee's father, like Delroy Lindo's character, was also a struggling jazz musician (and clandestine drug addict). A Knicks obsessed kid called Clinton also becomes a stand in for a pre-teen Lee, who himself appears in the film as a hilarious glue-sniffer.I Woke Up In Love This Morning, a gang of black kids sing in one of the film's best moments. They're mimicking the ultra-white Partridge Family, an image they slowly reject when their family moves out to white-worshipping Maryland to visit relatives. From here on, white artifacts give way to Afros, Soul Trains, Jackson Fives, disco and black consciousness. Final shot? Little Troy leaning outside her house like her departed mother, quietly dignified, but old beyond her years.7.5/10 &#x96; Not a great work, but a milestone of black cinema nonetheless. Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"Spike Lee's Crooklyn is a nice look back at '70s Brooklyn","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just watched this Spike Lee Joint on YouTube. It's largely about a family in Brooklyn during the early '70s based on Spike's siblings and parents during that part when he was growing up there. The mother Carolyn (Alfre Woodard) is the breadwinner as a teacher who constantly gets upset whenever her kids-Clinton (Carlton Williams) who is based on Spike himself, Wendell (Sharif Rashed), Nate (Chris Knowings), and Joseph (Tse-Mach Washington) disobey her orders. The same goes to her musician husband Woody (Delroy Lindo) who no longer is willing to compromise himself for his autonomy. Only her daughter Troy (Zelda Harris) seems to mostly escape her wrath. She's based on Spike's real-life sis Joie Susannah Lee who plays Aunt Maxine here and helped write the screenplay with Spike and other sibling Cinque. There's plenty of drama and some laughs like when Troy goes down South to visit her Aunt Song (Frances Foster), Uncle Clem (Norman Matlock), and cousin Viola (Patriece Nelson) especially when Aunt Song inadvertently offends Troy in commenting on her hair. That scene is shot in a distorted way that is pretty alienating though whenever it's on Troy and Viola, there's still some joy to be had especially when The Jackson 5's ABC is playing. In fact, several of the songs from that period evoke such a nostalgia on my part that when the YouTube upload went silent because of some copyright infringement on the part of Warner Music Group because of some song that they own, the subtitles took care of what was playing and I was at least able to imagine how the scene played with the music. Anyway, I liked this movie despite some of what I cited and recommend it highly. P.S. Lee himself appears as Snuffy and familiar faces like RuPaul, Isaiah Washington, and Vondie Curtis-Hall as Uncle Brown are also fun to look for. And I dedicate this review in memory of the late Don Cornelius whose Soul Train plays as part of the ending. "},{"Title":"natural, well-acted, unwieldy","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the cast was perfect. they seemed natural and almost documentary like. Troy was magnificent. the movie captures 70s culture, the games, the shows, the streetlife, the music with humor without becoming precious. the sense of family is remarkable strong and a little sadistic. i felt like i was that little girl living in the middle of all of those brothers. i would like delroy lindo to be my father. the flow of the narrative was a bit unwieldy, bu the music carried me through. if you want a nice neat plot, this isn't the flick to see. it was gentle. "},{"Title":"Spike's Best Film","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Call me crazy, but I believe this is Spike Lee's greatest film, or will eventually be seen as such. All the rest are either dated political missives, or they attempt something like this film but fail miserably (Summer of Sam). This is an utterly perfect film, carved from life knowledge but shaped into a highly entertaining, objective and pragmatically truthful docu-drama. Like Fellini Roma, this film is nearly experimental in plot, structure, style and technique. Yet it's the kind of story that comes right out of the bones of poetry and personal experience, and can be appreciated universally for that reason. Hard to believe that the same person made Bamboozled; a sloppy, culturally-late attempt at satire that wrong-headedly breaks every rule of the genre. It's one of the most self-important, didactic films I've ever seen. Guess Spike had his one moment of clarity. "}{"Title":"Family is Family","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is just something about Spike Lee's films that has such an intensity and a natural beginning-to-end flow to its jabs at the heart. They're not sentimental nor are they necessarily depressing or mournful; they simply send you head first into the action of the characters, making you literally feel as if you are actually there with them. At least for me, he succeeds in doing this almost magical thing with every single one of his films, from She's Gotta Have It to Inside Man. Even with the films of his that aren't very good, like Girl 6 and She Hate Me, I'm still completely enthralled in the story. Crooklyn has a story with no main focus. Its characters just exist, and life just happens to them, sometimes nudging them like a begging dog and sometimes splashing in their faces like a bucket of soap. I feel cleansed while and after watching it.Anyone who's clicked on my name and has read through other comments of mine on other films may not find it surprising that I'm appalled at the scene where the dog pops out of the couch when the bed is being pulled out. There is really no need for this scene at all. Why kill the dog? Like it's some joke to get back on the woman for being annoying? However, miraculously, as it's very hard for me to forgive a movie when an inexplicable animal death or scene or cruelty towards any animal occurs, I still love this film. The single bias I have that can nearly always ruin a movie for me otherwise is hesitantly but irresistibly dismissed. Spike Lee's films are things we should put in time capsules if global warming dooms the world. When some civilization discovers the ruins of our ravaged existence, they are some of the things that should be found. And of course a projector or a TV or something to play the movies on, otherwise there's no point.Crooklyn is one of the great family films and also one of the great slice of life movies, because it does what the majority of movies don't do but are supposed to do, which is send you through the emotions that the characters are feeling and become immersed in their world. The music, its placement, the clear and forceful and even sometimes jolting cinematography, the strong performances by Alfre Woodard, Delroy Lindo, and virtually all of the children, and the intense and inspiring reality and freshness of the writing making Crooklyn very much worth a look. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great movie, has everything that a good movie could have. You can feel the emotions of the family from start to finish, especially from the daughter Troy. This movie is a good with the character development of her especially when she grows to become the woman of the house. Perfectly captures the childhood of Troy and what growing up that time was like. Being raised as the only girl of a family . Subjected to violence(being chased down the street by dope heads, sees family friend arrested for assaulting neighbor) and poverty (scenes where she is embarrassed to use food stamps, family is split up when they can no longer pay bills) she but she still manages to have a good childhood. Such a good movie, a masterpiece, Spike Lee's best work in my opinion. "},{"Title":"loved this movie growing up","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i grew up on this movie, its really funny. i love the Crooklyns. its funny,joyful, and a family movie to watch. its about family and growing up. singing and dancing fighting with your family. its a great movie and i love it. I HOPE THE COME UP WITH A NUMBER TWO AND ADD ME. THEY NEED A NUMBER TWO TO BETTER THE FILM.i grew up on this movie, its really funny. i love the Crooklyns. its funny,joyful, and a family movie to watch. its about family and growing up. singing and dancing fighting with your family. its a great movie and i love it. I HOPE THE COME UP WITH A NUMBER TWO AND ADD ME. THEY NEED A NUMBER TWO TO BETTER THE FILM. "},{"Title":"70's Brooklyn","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a 17 year old guy who has been living in Brooklyn all his life so I know what Brooklyn is like. I say that this film was good because it shows how Brooklyn used to be back in the days before i was even born.It was actually smart to make the girl in the family the main character in the film. I say this because she was the only girl out of four boys in the family. This movie was very kinda sad to because when.....spoiler alert... the mom died in the film the girl basically took over the mother's life. But the film actually reminds me of when I was little when she used to yell at me and stuff. The mother raised her kids with respect.The would have the kids wake up at certain times and sleep at certain times, thats a good mother in my book. But anyways good film that reminded me of real life. "},{"Title":"A cool wave of nostalgic heat in Spike Lee's universe ...","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Following a brilliant streak of socio-politically charged movies such as Do the Right Thing, Jungle Fever and Malcolm X, Crooklyn comes as a Spike Lee joint in the same vein than Mo' Better Blues, a lighthearted slice of African-American life in New-York neighborhood centering on a protagonist coming to terms with his personal demons and in the same time, inspiring us in our own real-life situations&#x85; another gem that makes me believe that, directing-wise, Lee's gotta have it.And Spike Lee movies never imitate one another and Crooklyn works on its own level, a N that evokes both Nostalgia and Neighborhood, Brooklyn where Spike Lee grew up in the 60's and 70's, a Brooklyn misled by that pun in the title, for there's no crook in this Brooklyn, the closest characters to criminals spend time sniffing glue, the closest moments to confrontations are family arguments and the closest to an act of violence is an accidental punch in the face of a noisy neighbor. I don't think I'm spoiling the film by inviting you to lower your guard and stop being afraid, this is a nostalgic film, a coming-of-age story whose heroine is 10-year old Troy (Zelda Harris).It seems like a decade starts to induce nostalgia when it's 20 years old, and like Dazed and Confused one year earlier, the 70's started to tickle the mind of nostalgic film-makers, Crooklyn is set in 1973 according to some researches, a time where soul music, TV sitcoms, in fact TV and candies defined the most of childhood culture. In one strike of film-making simple genius, the opening credits feature all the games kids were playing at that time and the trivia says that none of the child actors knew how to play these games anymore &#x85; these are the devastating effects of the video game generation, to which I belong. But being born in the early 80's, I remembered some of these games and I don't think I got interested in video-games that early, there is more to explain their sinking into oblivion.And the reason has to do with my preconceived ideas about the film, being a Spike Lee movie set in a African-American neighborhood, I expected scenes of violence to punctuate the film, I expected seeing one of the children being confronted to drugs or the use of a gun, I thought that Troy shoplifting and lying to her mother would ultimately lead her to a dangerous descent into crime, I thought the father would be an abusive alcoholic man who'd abuse his wife, and if one thing, it was Alfre Woodward, as the mother, who got on my nerves more than the cool and surprisingly sweet and tender Woody, played by a great Delroy Lindo. No disrespect to Alfre, she just reminded me of my own mother, you have fun with your Dad but not moms and apparently this was still true in Lee's years.Once again, Spike Lee comes with a surprise and shows his capability to be warm and tender, funny and sweet, conveying the real feelings of childhood, but it's not the kind of magic resuscitated through childhood memories, Spike Lee was a teenager in the 70's and didn't sugarcoat his memories or those of his sister Joyce who co-wrote he film, those were really innocent times where kids could be left near the home without fearing getting a stray bullet or something else, kids could play outside, could dance, their only homemade distraction were eating and watching TV, which left plenty of room for imagination. Times have changed, and video-games and violence-oriented TV programs say more about the changes of mentalities and environment that confined kids in the TV room.A film like Crooklyn can appeal to any kid who's grown up in any neighborhood, basically, all of us, because it simply tells the story from a grown-up's perspective of how great were these years, when family made one, when our parents were young, where each year featured a new step forward into life. I remembered when I was a kid, each birthday, each number had something special 7, 8, 9, 10 etc. etc. Now, I'm 32 and I couldn't care less &#x85; I guess childhood is the magical part of our lives because we can't be nostalgic as kids, we don't have any references from the past, and the future is like in light-years, like stuck forever in childhood, we cherish the present and embrace life with all the fun and all the greatness. And this is what Troy' story is about.Troy is a little girl who tries to make her place in a family full of boys, she's bullied but she always has a comeback, she's sweet and curious, and through her journey, we turn the pages of all inner childhood diary, remembering these days where adults were untouchables or when we had to spend time in a stranger's house. The film features a chapter set in the South where Troy spends some vacation I her Uncle's family, we take a cool breath of fresh air with a cute friendship with a girl. Spike Lee would shoot the scene in a panoramic views but I agree that was unnecessary for the film didn't need these stylistic tricks, it was a novelty on its own. Anyway, after that vacation, you'd expect things to change for Toy, it will but not as you expect, and again, Spike Lee knows how to surprise you.The film is served by a wonderful casting, a great soundtrack reviving all the classics of the 70's, some nice supporting performance, from David Patrick Kelly as the constantly bullied neighbor weirdo to Isaiah Washington and a scene-stealing Aunt Queenie &#x85;I still have a soft spot for the performance of Delroy Lindo as a sweet and caring father. "},{"Title":"GREAT except for Distortion effect","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The distortion doesn't complement anything...and certainly doesn't communicate the blatant literal attempt it tries to. It just takes away from the wonderfully acted and designed set that captures living in the midwest 1970s so well...that now the distortion takes away from it.The distortion is a really bad idea because your audience is immediately distracted by the first thought as to 'What is wrong with the projectionist? Next thought is you are now well aware you are in a theatre watching a possible technically error. Thanks for reminding me I'm in a movie...watching a movie....because that's the goal of all filmmakers. At that point, your train of thought has taken you away from the action happening in wonderful detail in the actors expression and set design you fail to miss this blatant literal attempt to tell your audience that they can't possibly understand this change in the character's environment so now I'm going to help you because you are too stupid by the 40 minutes of Brooklyn living to see the difference between the two environments! Either Spike felt his actors were so bad or his audience to stupid to get it. Sorry Spike...most of us were exposed to slumber parties in other households as children where the culture and environment was vastly different from our own. We didn't need distortion glasses then to know our environment changed...trust me..your audience get's it and would've better appreciated your art departments, wardrobe's work and the actors performance better without the distortion. Do you really need to be that literal? Are Brooklynites that stupid to get and you put it in there for them? Or do you think people in the suburbs would be too stupid to get it? Really? Any chance of releasing a Fixed Crooklyn version so that every time I see that scene....I don't feel like I'm being spoon-fed a narrow viewpoint of a Brooklynite that never got out of their house for a slumber party in the 70s or couldn't fathom other lifestyles? I'm sorry..I don't know about the Brooklyn school system but we had geography and social studies in Middle School. We were taught about other cultures way back in the 70s. I would have expected you would've known about the other world outside your neighborhood by the time you made this movie.The distortion effect is an epic fail on really one of your best family drama films. It's like a turd in the middle of this great Brooklyn experience of a story.Other than that...it's a great movie with a lot of replay value. If you ever watch Soul Train back in the 70s or been to a slumber party.....this movie captures the period in a very realistic way! Too bad the distortion takes away from the reality of the suburb scene. I wonder why he didn't distort any of the reality of the Brooklyn scenes? I would think someone coming to Brooklyn from the burbs would expect to see all their movies shot in Brooklyn to have a distorted effect in their local theatres. Hmmm...call me stupid!!! "},{"Title":"Charmingly fitting patchwork","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Thrust back to the past in a Spike Lee joint with an unwinking essence of 1970s, Crooklyn is a semi-autobiographical coming-of-age story, which goes nowhere, but nonetheless vividly portrays a certain mystic detachment of youthful bliss. Focused on the Carmicheal family, where Carolyn (Alfre Woodard) carries the household working as a teacher, while her husband Woody (Delroy Lindo), a jazz musician, attempts to find livelihood off a solo career. In the midst of all this jazz is their family of five, where are eyes into the world is the only girl of the rat-pack - Troy (a remarkable Zelda Harris). Spike Lee's younger self of sorts is an unmistakeably geekishly freakish four-eyes Clinton (Carlton Williams), the eldest brother and antagonist of tomboy Troy.Constructed more on tidbits of memories and recollections Crooklyn reminds a patchwork of visions, occurrences and situations, which irrelevant by themselves create a striking personal picture of the family (and ergo Lee's youthful days). Chaotic and lively, simultaneously packed with intimacy, Spike Lee manages to deliver a movie lacking his overwhelming preachiness, which despite being somewhat laid back packs a strong emotional punch. Fronted by a charismatic Zelda Harris and packed with bootie-tastic pop music hits it has a unmissable lure and light aura, that makes this possible Spike Lee's easiest and undoubtedly his most family-friendly feature, which steers far clear of mawkish dramaturgy, instead coming from the heart with a subtle triumph. "},{"Title":"Relate,maybe","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Released in 1994 and running a little long at 115 minutes.My favorite hard ass director goes soft trying to be edgy in this whimsical story of growing up in Brooklyn back in the day.I loved it but not as a Spike picture,rather as remembering what a neighborhood was all about and family and kids and just because they are all black there is a lot I remember like it.About as edgy as it gets is Spike in a small role as Snuffy,gets hit in the head by Zelda Harris as Troy,the real star of this film and gezz I wonder where she went?? Alfre Woodard as Carolyn Carmichael and Delroy Lindo as Woody Carmichael are great as the parents who are trying to raise their 5 kids in Crooklyn but it's hard and there are tragic things that happen and at the end young Troy is now the anchor of the family and it's future is not certain.The soundtrack is wonderful representing music from the 70's,the acting is first rate as Spike always finds talent and the story, while soft by Spike standards ,is still very strong by white standards and sad in many ways besides being hopeful.I'm white and was raised in Brooklyn and I thought I had it easy after seeing this film. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites of all times","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a long-time Spike Lee fan and I saw Crooklyn when it first came out. I just watched it again. Seventeen years later, my love for this movie hasn't waned. This is a simple movie about regular human beings living ordinary lives in a specific time and place fondly remembered by Spike Lee (and those of us who grew up in large urban centers in the 70s). It's not in your face, it doesn't preach, it doesn't alienate. It just is-and it's something everyone can relate to who has been a sister/brother/child/parent/close relative/kid enjoying his or her summer. Because of that, I believe this movie is Spike Lee's crowning achievement. Indeed, I think it's a movie that could be envied by other film makers who attempt slice of life movies. "},{"Title":"Crooklyn-Stereotyping At Its Best ***","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You wonder how N.Y.C. teachers can put up with what they have to after viewing this 1994 film. After all, Alfre Woodard plays a teacher herself who heads a dysfunctional family. She and Delroy Lindo give credible performances as parents trying to cope in urban society with 5 children.The children act like too many of our children act today. Rude, loud, boisterous, fighting and again I heard the familiar expression-Get off of me when I taught as well.There are 4 boys and 1 girl. When the girl goes stay with family in Virginia during the summer, we find a beautiful home but there is that constant bickering again this time between the uncle and aunt with an adopted teenage daughter.It only takes for a family tragedy for the children to come together.Sad, but unfortunately true, there is tremendous stereotyping here of the African American family. This is not the Cosby show. "}{"Title":"Sike Lee's most underrated film","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How come I missed this movie the first time around?I was very surprised at how much I enjoyed this movie,due to the lack of acclaim and press.Well acted on everyone part.Great soundtrack and directing.This is Spike's most underrated achievement!  "},{"Title":"Spike's wonderful memories.","Date":"12 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spike got together with his brother and sister to jot down their childhood memories and came up with Brooklyn summertime, early 70's. What evolves is a humorous and heartfelt look at family life with the usual clever touches from Spike. I only managed to see the 109min version, not the 132min!   "},{"Title":"Lee's trip down memory","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Crookyln involes Spike Lee's trip down memory lane and it's a memorable one. The cinematography and script are all excellent as always and the soundtrack represents the seventies very well. The film's only down point is that it's a bit long but still a great heartwarming film. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!!","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I may be very young but, I love this movie. It's funny, I understand it, and it has a bit of drama and attitude which I love. I've seen it a million times and it never gets old. It's one of my most favorite movies. How could anyone not like it? I don't know much about spike lee, but he did a great job. I could really relate to the movie. Anyone who thinks differently is DEAD WRONG! You didn't hear it from me. Any comments about my opinion, e-mail me @ angil1994@yahoo.com. Because I want to hear exactly what you have to say. Right now, I'm watching Crooklyn actually. And like I said, it never gets old. No matter how long it's been out. I'll still love it. Like I said, e-mail me(angil1994@yahoo.com) "},{"Title":"One of my favorite Lee movies","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoy this movie because it leaves me feeling good about my background which is similar to the background of the main characters.  This movie also has one of the funniest sequences in it that being the sequences involving the Aunt and Uncle who live in the south.  The movie seems to suffer from poor editing which is why I rated it so low, but it is still one of my favorite Spike Lee movies. "},{"Title":"A wonderful, sentimental, and bittersweet film","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you're wondering which Spike Lee film to watch first, if you're a little worried that you won't like his work, Crooklyn is a good one to start with. I certainly don't want to express disdain for his more polemic works, which represent some of the best work the cinema has to offer, but it might intimidate some people. Crooklyn, written by Lee, his sister, and his brother, seems to be a representation of their childhood in Brooklyn, mostly told from the sister's point of view, named Troy in this film. It's mostly a great film about childhood, among the best ever made. It's a marvelous experience.However, Lee trips a lot in the scenes which take place when Troy is living with her aunt in the South. First off, the scenes are filmed with a wider aspect ratio than the rest of the film and then are pulled to fit the original aspect ratio. The result is that everything is pulled out of proportion. I'm assuming that Lee did this to represent a distorion, a world out of whack or something of the sort. Well, it doesn't work. Every minute of those scenes are annoying for that reason. To boot, the characters in the South are underdeveloped, as well as the situation in general, and everything is treated like with smarmy humor, the religious aunt and the little dog and so forth. Luckily those scenes are short. It feels almost as if Lee aborted this section of the film. The rest of the film is simply wonderful. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"This is a good movie","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't really like Spike Lee's movies....except for this one.It's funny and sad. I didn't grow up in Brooklyn,but on the south side of Chicago in the 70's and 80's...the characters definitely ring true.Spike really captured the time. If you're looking for a Saturday afternoon rental,I'd recommend this) "},{"Title":"Well acted piece of shameless self-indulgence.","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The life and times of a large black family growing up in Brooklyn circa 1970.I am told that Spike Lee got together with his sister and made a list of the things they remember about their youth. They then tuned this list in to a film script -- with the disclaimer that it is not really autobiographical.I won't name the actors in this piece by name, but I would congratulate them on acting out a giant piece of nothing. It also follows the formula that is popular the world over - children are cheeky, men are feckless dreamers and only women can get their act together and stop life falling apart totally.(Maybe this is true - discuss this among yourselves.) There is no real drama here. No hero's and villains. There is bits of soap opera and kitchen table politics, but hardly anything that you couldn't see 7 days a week on TV.I am not really fascinated by working class life in a black neighbourhood anyway - but I did watch and gave the movie a chance to get me involved. Sadly it failed, although it is not objectionable in any way.Crooklyn proves that all great movies are actually about something and if you open your mouth it is best to have something to say. This is just a giant treading-water exercise for Spike Lee who, while not being very good or very polished, gets by because there isn't any competition for him. "},{"Title":"Not much comedy in this comedy-drama.","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although it's been hailed as a comedy-drama I found Crooklyn to be mostly depressing. It's hard to imagine how Spike Lee could look back affectionately on so much chaos, petty cruelty, irresponsibility and mean-spiritedness.  "}]