[{"Title":"Charles Gitonga Maina makes this movie worth watching","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  What makes this movie above all is the delightful acting of the Africans, especially Mr. Charles Gitongo Maina. I read that he went on actually to play basketball at a US college, but his acting in this film was what made it believable. Kevin Bacon was fun to watch playing at a typecast basketball coach, although his physical presence belied the role. Without the physical presence of Maina, this film would have fallen apart, but his warmth and verisimilitude as an teenager torn between sworn duty and aspiration made this viewer a believer. Suspension of disbelief is a basic prerequisite to the enjoyment of this kind of moral tale, and Charles Gitonga Maina made it seem real. The film uses cliché throughout, but it is the acting of all the cast of characters which brings this small film alive. It is a film of bits and pieces but well acted bits make them endearing. It is not a great work of art, but it is filled with a genuineness which transcends itself, including some truly beautiful scenes and scenery and music. The style, grace and dignity of the African actors make the whole film a delight to watch. Speaking of its bits and pieces, the one truly discordant note in the whole story was the misuse of the quotes from Quran which really had no point or place or meaning in the story. It just perplexed me. It sticks out with a pointlessness in an otherwise heart warming story. The Bismillah was beautiful but out of another time and culture and milieu, and still leaves me wondering (?)  "},{"Title":"Lightweight Fare Is Just That Fair (as in mediocre)","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Kevin Bacon totally dominates this film. In fact, he's the only name actor in it. You won't recognize anybody else in here.The story is lightweight entertainment with the most notable aspect being the African music, which is very good and a small tour of Kenya, which is interesting, both with beauty and poverty.Bacon plays as basketball assistant coach, an ex-point guard, who goes to Africa to recruit this great player Saleh (Charles Gitangra Marina) for his team back in the States. The adventures of the trip pretty much are the story.One negative another irreverent slam to get a few cheap laughs at the Catholic church. A nun in here uses profanity and gives Bacon a big kiss on the lips. It's one more example of trying to make clerical people appear worldly like the rest of us. "},{"Title":"Hoop dreams","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Paul Michael Glasser's The Air up There is a fun film to watch, knowing full well what to expect. It doesn't break new barriers, or brings anything new to this type of film, but it is a totally harmless time in front of the television. Not having seen it in its commercial run, we had a chance to enjoy it the other night when it turned up on cable.The best thing, as usual, going for this film is Kevin Bacon. Mr. Bacon makes anything he plays in an enjoyable experience. No matter what he does, he is totally believable, as is the case with his role as this coach, Jimmy Dolan, who will go to any extreme in order to get a good basket ball player for his team at Saint Joseph's.His African journey gives Jimmy Dolan a first eye view of the poverty and hardship the young men in the remote village have to endure. He realizes the potential, especially in Saleh, the young man he wants to bring back to America.Both Mr. Bacon and Charles Gitonga Maina, who plays Saleh, have an easy time together bonding in a hostile environment. Their inter action makes the film enjoyable. Also, the mostly unknown supporting cast compliment the movie.Granted, this is a film to watch only for entertainment and to enjoy Kevin Bacon at his most charming self. "},{"Title":"oh c'mon, it's fun","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  I just watched this movie again, and I still love it from when I was a kid. (I know everyone loves some stinkers when they're kids, but bear with me.) This movie was as entertaining now as it was back then.I know the plot can be predicted almost to the detail, but if that doesn't immediately and absolutely put you off it, it's a real treat. The acting and script are sincere, but even more so, the whole movie just has an innocent sincerity to it that's actually a rare find (even in a kids' movie). If this movie were a romance, it wouldn't hold up at all with this kind of sentimentality, but in a fun movie that's (technically) a sports drama, it really lends something to the whole affair that can put you in a good mood every time you watch it. I'm sure part of this is Maina's performance, which is so sweet you can't help but like it -- this is coming from a usually-cynical moviegoer who dislikes sappy movies.All in all, it's a charmer. "},{"Title":"Formulaic sports movie but quite entertaining","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  When college basketball coach Jimmy Dolan loses the hottest new recruit by beating him in a game of one on one and damaging his pride he loses his job and looks for a way to get back.  He sees a brilliant African player on a home movie and travels to Kenya to recruit him.  However Saleh is the Chief's son and has his own problems as a mining company is trying to get control of the tribe's land.Bacon is not really a lead actor but someone who can give a good performance in co-lead or support.  Here he has a film to carry on his own and struggles with it.  Mainly it's due to the formulaic nature of the plot &#150; lets be honest, even from the plot outline above I bet you could guess how's it going to end.  However that doesn't mean it's not enjoyable &#150; just not very good.  It has plenty of nice laughs and the basketball action is fun and will directed if not realistic.Despite the formula the cast mainly do quite well, but really it never manages to get above the sort of formulaic sports comedy that we see so often.  However it is entertaining and I did enjoy just switching off my brain and letting it go in one ear and out the other.Instantly forgettable and very by the numbers but some good laughs, good locations and good basketball action make it an entertaining enough film to just veg out in front of.  Not great but passable. "},{"Title":"OK but hardly memorable","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Kevin Bacon stars in The Air Up There, a family comedy that is nothing more than a few familiar faces and half-hearted laughs. It's another feel-good underdog story of which is not particularly memorable.Kudos to Bacon for turning a pretty routine script into a watchable, even amusing movie with some OK moments and likable characters. Not as good as Cool Runnings, but still worth catching if it's on Sunday afternoon or something.3/5Not great, but good. "},{"Title":"This movie Shakes and Bakes!","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" So, without delving too deeply into the annals of worst-to-first sports movies, or counting off the multitude of cultures in contact stories, let me simply say this about the movie, The Air Up There it succeeds, quite well in the mind of this critic, at what it sets out to accomplish. It is thematic, formulaic, and a tad predictable in parts, but none of that degrades its overall quality as a film. In fact, despite this movie getting lost somewhere in the recent history of film (and being overshadowed by similar movies such as The Mighty Ducks), I genuinely believe it to be the best movie of that genre, maybe ever, but certainly of this era.Now, I'm aware some of you might raise eyebrows at that statement, but let me elaborate; Not only is the scenery absolutely breathtaking, but all of the artistic design, costume styling, and cinematography is beautiful. On top of that, the story is engaging, regardless of one's ability to forecast the ending at any point. Additionally, the mere fact that themes such as maturation, redemption, independence, loyalty, progress, and family all play central roles in this film, should qualify it is a deeper work of art than countless (sports) movies of today. Most significantly, this film contains something else that is occasionally lost in similar movies DECENT ACTING. Say what you will about Kevin Bacon, or even this movie, but without a doubt, Kevin gives a wonderful, believable performance. He excellently displays the passion that is a prerequisite to be an athlete or coach in highly competitive sports such as College Athletics. Furthermore, the character Jimmy Dolan exhibits a wide gamut of emotions over the course of the story, and Mr. Bacon plays this perfectly. Interestingly, the best performance of the movie (and there are plenty of good ones 'Kid' Sithole as Nyaga, Wilson Ntshona as Urudu, and Dikembe Mutombo's brother, Ilo, as Mifundo) comes not from Bacon, but from Charles Gitonga Maina, who inexplicably, has only appeared in one episode of SeaQuest DSV since this movie was made. He is immensely likable, charming, and completely believable as a star basketball player (after all, he was a world class sprinter in real life!) from a humble village. Truly, his performance is absolutely spectacular, even when placed within the context of the other stellar performances in the movie.Is this movie perfect, devoid of all stereotypes and patronizing cinematic techniques? No. And yet, nothing is lost because of that fact. As it was over a decade ago, it remains a wonderful, adventurous, heart-warming movie, one that deserves a far more solid place in cinematic history than it has been relegated to. I, for one, love this movie, and usually watch it a couple times a year, enjoying it every bit as much with each successive viewing (in fact, I feel the truth of the matter is, I enjoy this film MORE with each successive watching, as I continue to find noteworthy facets every time).In summation, I implore you to do yourself a favor the next time you're feeling depressed, inadequate, or entirely stressed, rent or buy this movie, and watch it. I guarantee, you won't be able to make it to the end without a smile finding it's way onto your face.... D "},{"Title":"A humorous look at NCAA recruiting","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" College coaches are known for going to great lengths to woo their recruits. They meet the family, the athlete, and try to present themselves as being just like them, with similar views and values. They kiss up to the parents while singing the praises of the fine institution which pays them. In Jimmy Dolan's (Kevin Bacon) case, his limits are tested when he finds a star player, Saleh (Charles Gitonga Maina) in a documentary video of an African school sponsored by an American. Once he sees Saleh, it's off to Kenya.In Kenya, Dolan meets with the predictable culture shock and skepticism/hostility from the locals, who wonder why a white guy from America would travel all the way to their land. He befriends the local nun/missionary, Sister Susan (Yolanda Vasquez), who advises him of the futility of trying to recruit the firstborn son of the tribe leader, who is duty-bound to his people. Enter an evil mining-company owner from a neighboring tribe who is trying to steal the Winabe tribe's lane, however, and the next thing we know, Dolan has joined the Winabe tribe (a swipe at American coaches who no doubt have bonded with their recruits in similar ways), and is their player-coach for the big game, a game where the Winabe land and Saleh's promise to play at St. Joe's if they win are on the line.Bacon captures Dolan's essence very well, as an unsympathetic character placed into a very sympathetic situation. The movie is his coming-of-age tale, as we watch him mature from self-centered assistant coach to full-fledged mentor. "},{"Title":"way up","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" As someone who's never really been into sports, The Air Up There hardly seems like the sort of movie that I would like, but I did. When basketball talent scout Jimmy Dolan (Kevin Bacon) goes to Kenya to recruit a new player, he ends up finding Saleh, a chief's son whose skills exceed what anyone could have imagined. But before he moves to the states, there are some things that both sides are going to have to deal with.This movie is interesting mainly for two reasons it's good to see a sports movie that's not all about machismo, and a movie that looks at Kenyan culture (not one that we usually get to see). The movie isn't really any kind of masterpiece, but it never pretends to be one. There are some scenes that look like they were thrown in for comic relief (namely the goat milk). Pretty interesting. "},{"Title":"Light and really entertaining","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Kenya -1990s. St Joe's basketball team is famous but runs into a double crisis. For one, the acclaimed coach is going to retire and must name his successor. Moreover, the team is in dire need of a hoop star. Jimmy Dolan, ex-player and deputy coach, has therefore no choice but to find the star his career is at stake. On a short video of a mission in Winabi (Kenya), he sees the star he needs. How to get there, to identify the player and to convince him to go back to the USA with him will however be quite a challenge! The spectator should not expect anything remotely intellectual or an even slightly probable description of Africa. But Kevin Bacon is good and the movie hilarious at times. A very entertaining, light movie, which beyond the classical story of friendship between two young men of different cultures (for once not too patronizing), shows quite interesting scenes of beautiful basketball and demonstrates a bit the incredible cult Americans make of sports in the environment of what is supposed to be tertiary education. "}{"Title":"A sports film that misses several times","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Kevin Bacon is a good actor. He has shown that he has gained considerable experience over time and has picked various films to be in that people always remember him from. But like many other actors, they choose to be in films that are somehow odd concoctions that are questionable to how they were even given a green light. This is one of those strange films. It has plot, but its direction is intriguingly out of place at times. Also for a movie starring Kevin Bacon, it really doesn't showcase him. There's a lot to at look at for what worked and what could've been improved over its flaws.Viewers are introduced to Jimmy Dolan (Kevin Bacon), a selfish, cocky headed recruiter to St. Joe's basketball team. He's been working for several years and feels that when his boss retires, his seat is already set for him. Turns out though, according to his boss, he still doesn't have what it takes to lead. Then, out of the blue Jimmy finds what looks like could be a potential recruit for the team, but is quickly shot down from his superior. So being the rebel that he is, he decides to find this recruit anywho on his own. Surprisingly, later on his superior has no problem with what he did. He disobeyed a direct order, which means punishment not reversal of the expected reaction. That's very cliché and unrealistic.The recruit that Jimmy is looking for is an African, specifically in Kenya named Saleh (Charles Gitonga Maina) who has quite a bit of length to his height. Seriously, this guy is TALL. Saleh is apart of a Kenyan tribe called the Winabe and Jimmy hopes to earn their trust. And how better to do that than take part in their traditions and culture. Another cliché aspect to the plot's writing. This is not the first time this kind of experience has been shown, especially with African tribes. Why is it always with the African tribes? Apparently a number of these scenes were supposed to be funny when in fact they come off either unfunny or uncalled for. This movie is rated PG and yet people are cursing, blurting out sexual slang and even a scene with blood involving a knife. How is that acceptable? Who rated this movie?This also demonstrates the incompetence of the director and writer. The writer Max Apple, who only worked on two other productions in his life, didn't make a screenplay with much cleverness or distinguished traits. Most, if not all of it is generic and out of place. Worser so, is that Paul Michael Glaser has flimsy directional skills; especially for accepting Apple's screenplay without even suggesting more rewrites. A big chunk of the story's first two acts focus on Jimmy trying to earn the tribes trust which is out of his own selfish motivations. Who cares, there are other things that could've been looked upon, than it taking up the majority of the running time. Musically speaking, David Newman's score was appropriate to the setting and tried to make it as up beat as possible but it had nothing memorable. The camera work by Dick Pope was acceptable too. A number of shots contained a lot of African terrain and helped at least give the film some scope.Possibly the only character with enough true saving grace to the film is Charles Maina as the Winabe basketball recruit. Saleh as an individual has more charm than any other character in the entire running time. With his selfless personality and genuine smile, it is difficult not to enjoy him when he's on screen. It's shocking actually because again, Kevin Bacon stars in it too, yet he comes off just as generic and boring as the rest of the cast accept Charles Maina. Even weirder is that Maina didn't go on to be anything bigger. How come? The man acted respectively, why shouldn't he be given another chance? It's not a terrible film, but there's nothing that hasn't been presented before. See it for Charles Maina's performance.Even with Kevin Bacon on board, this sports comedy isn't all that funny or entertaining. The only actor to stand out is Charles Maina. The rest of the cast (including Bacon) are average at best with a weak script and misguided direction. "},{"Title":"simply wonderful","Date":"1 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" This deserved a lot higher rating than the average ratings.... I watched this out of curiosity and I simply loved it.... It is actually one of those movies that will enhance your life after you watch... I am not certain of how accurate it is in capturing the African culture... but still quite a treat to watch.... watch it you will not be disappointed ... The plot was good... The acting was excellent... it is a family night classic. Kevin Bacon is an excellent actor. Everything just came together in a nice way. This a movie I would buy the DVD for just to have it in my collection. I maybe carrying on about this a lot. But there are guidelines to write this review and I want to inform the public so they will try and see this movie. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Spin on a Great Theme","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" I loved this movie and watch it over and over. A real classic with reluctant heroes, bad guys, comic relief and very pertinent underlying morals. No sex, vulgarity or graphic violence. Just a great plot, good acting, great directing and gorgeous scenery. It contains all the elements I love in a movie that run you through the gamut of laughter, anger, sadness and joy. Paul Michael Glaser did a tremendous job in capturing the essence of Kenya and it's people. We visited Kenya last year and now I even enjoy the movie more, if that's possible. I don't think it's meant to be a side splitting comedy. Kevin Bacon's performance was great. You really believed he was an arrogant basketball coach with a superior attitude. It's wonderful what going back to the cradle of civilization will do towards humbling even the most haughty. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants a taste of a good quality flick. "},{"Title":"great movie!","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" I loved this movie. It is one of my favorite movies of all time. Charle Gitonga Maina (Saleh) is absolutely gorgeous! My favorite line is Are you very sad Jimmy Dolan? I say this to my husband whose name is Jimmy also, whenever he is upset or mad at me. It always makes us laugh. I have watched this movie at least 25 times although my husband swears it is 125! The little kid that is looking through the window in the clinic is so darn cute, too I loved it all!The man that runs the town is someone you would love to hate and I am glad when Saleh's brother leaves him. The pawn shop part of the movie is very good. I also liked Saleh's father.It is an excellent family movie, I encouraged my grand kids to watch it. Kevin Bacon is a good sport in this movie, it made me like him. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  I don't know why, but when I am asked about bad movies I have seen, I often think of The Air Up There. I know that technically, lots of movies are horrible compared to it, and I have seen worse acting. it's just that it's so bland, so predictable. In a word mediocre. "},{"Title":"Watchable film with a phenomenal Kevin Bacon as a basketball coach","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" The movie talks upon an assistant basketball trainer called Jimmy Dolan(Kevin Bacon)who seeing a documentary observes an b-ball African player.Then he heads toward Africa hoping to recruit him in the biggest US team.He's a giant and talented called Saleh but doesn't want to leave the tribe because is the throne's heir.The tribe is constituted by a natives type Massai.Then they make a wager playing one team against another.Besides the protagonist will must surpass hardships proofs with purport of converting in warrior and can to play in tribe's team. The picture is an amused sports comedy with agreeable and likable interpretation of its principal starring.Argument sometimes is a little ridiculous and absurd and utilizes tired stereotypical however the film is entertained and funny.Besides there are a slight exposition about habits and customs of the tribe,where is seen as the cows are essential in their life and particulars ceremonies,rites,dances and marriage ceremony. Plus has an exciting and moving final tournament that is truly exciting ,being the end climatic game the highlight film. Jolly and lively music with African sound by David Newman. Glimmer and colorfully cinematography is by Dick Pope(Mike Leigh's photographer)as is reflected in spectacular African outdoors. The motion picture is accurately directed by Paul Michael Glaser(Starsky and Hutch).The flick will like to basketball interested. Rating Average but bemused. "},{"Title":"Yawn..","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Wow, what a snoozer.  Definately one of bacon's worst films. The bad acting coupled with a formulatic, if not incredulous, script make me yearn for time I wasted on viewing this on cable television back.  Not really much I can say about it, a basketball scout gets too attached to the person he's recruiting, who happens to belong to a tribe that happens to be on the verge of war which happens to be decided by (spoiler) a basketball game. Grade F+ "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  The efforts of an assistant coach; not working by the rules, to get a basketball player somewhere in a remote part of Africa, arebest portrayed in this movie. The astonishing length to  whichhe is prepared to go with a knee out of order are really touching. The plot is quite emotional at some points especially when Jimmy decides to go in the play with the risk of losing the knee permanently. "},{"Title":"Warm, Heartfelt and Charming","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" I do so hate sports. I despise sports. My eyes glaze over when a sports game or show comes on. I don't talk about sports.This should give you an idea of my expectations of this movie. However, it was early morning, I was up with little to do, so I settled back, half in the hope it would send me to sleep.How wrong I was! I enjoy Kevin Bacon when he chooses good roles - and this isn't often the case. Not expecting much from its bland beginning, I was beginning to nod off when Kevin's character, Jimmy Dolan, arrived in Kenya in search of a young African man he spied on a documentary. Jimmy is an assistant coach for a university, and in order to save his job, needs to find the next basketball star.If you're a sports fan, there might be enough action in this to hold your attention. But if you're someone who enjoys heart, warmth, character and some of the most beautiful land ever caught on film, this movie will come to mean more to you.For me, the country of Kenya played a lead role. The depth and color of the culture made this film a rich, living tapestry of tradition butting heads with progress.Charles Gitanga Maina, as Saleh the prospective ball star, is breathtakingly handsome with a winsome sweetness that blasts from the screen.While this film was meant to be about Jimmy Dolan and his growth as a man and human being, it's also about remembering humanity's history and respecting it for itself. It's also about bowing to progress with dignity and respecting the rewards that it, too, can offer.Paul Michael Glaser proves - once more - that he can find the heart of a film and unwrap all its petals to reveal the core. He is a wonderful director.He must be, for I watched the challenge basketball game with my breath caught, my heart pounding and feeling all the joy of the people of the Winabi tribe. And I hate sports. "},{"Title":"Unique location; cute; but formulaic.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  Basketball in Kenya makes it look unique.  If  you're looking to veg-out with a cute flick, it's OK. It uses a formulaic approach.   And the ending is predictable. "}{"Title":"Two Movies","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":" Your standard fish out of water story...except...It is constructed out of movie notions. This is unexpected from Glaser, who ranks among the hammiest of actors, and is known for seeing things in character based/TV realities.Bacon needs to score a recruiting coup (Glaser needs a hit movie). He is inspired by a 'movie', to undertake the quest, which is the movie. Along the way, he takes on a personal movie task of his own, which dovetails the two 'movies' together (he 'makes the cut' and joins the tribe). Clever stuff.I suspect that the producers seriously whittled this down, so the movie ideas would fit through what they perceived as half-open minds...it's a shame that young people can't be allowed to figure out the narratives for themselves. Glaser acknowledges this, by defending the tribe from the white missionary/elites, who are compelled to 'save the savages' from a hoodwinking.The natives out in the bush are noble, and the town natives are ignoble, guilty of the worst kind of frontier crime cattle rustling, an old, old movie theme. "},{"Title":"The only thing mediocre is everyone else's reviews.","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  I admit it, THE AIR UP THERE is actually a tough nut to critique, and I had to look up other reviews, USER COMMENTS, etc, to look for what I call The Right Words. Well no one had it! Everybody's comments were as cardboard as some of some of my earlier work and the local paper reviews (who actually get paid to do this kind of stuff). So how on earth did this movie stump this USER COMMENT?The coach of a college basketball team is retiring and the assistant, Jimmy Dolan, wants the job. During a drunken binge his career ticket seems to give him a calling via a reel when he sees a potential star in Wanabi, Kenya.The movie has many different plot flaws, particularly playing on the part that Dolan's knee is blown out on certain occasions when the movie will let him. Saleh's real basketball qualities are debatable compared to his fellow village comrades. But as what 'www.dictionary.com' describes as A connected cinematic narrative, there is nothing wrong with THE AIR UP THERE! The movie plays directly on sentimentality and it works! The film is even cute! It is hard to not like the villain, who rarely shows bad guy characteristics! It gets above average scores, but to finish it, THE AIR UP THERE is predictable smarm. Do not expect much at all. After all, we are talking the mid-nineties here when such classics as CELTIC PRIDE and MAGIC IN THE WATER were released. "},{"Title":"Cool film but not great.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Sport","Review":"  I liked this film a lot.Not Kevin Bacon's best work (in fact he's rather poor in this film) but the supporting cast are great. The locations are brilliant, the action (mostly basketball) is fine.I would definitely recommend this film to a friend!  "}]