[{"Title":"A successfully gilded lily","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"49 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This classic ultra-stylized and (in the words of the NYFF blurb) insanely gorgeous 1994 martial arts or 'wuxia' film based on the Louis Cha novel 'The Eagle-Shooting Horses' needs no introduction to film fans now, though before Tarantino's release of 'Chungking Exrpess' Americans had to go to Chinatown theaters or rent pirated videotapes to see it; I saw it in Chinatown in a double bill with 'As Tears Go By' (1988). A cinematic icon today, Wong Kar-wai didn't get international recognition till 1997 at Cannes (for 'Happy Together'), and the majority of US art-house viewers didn't notice him till 'In the Mood for Love' (2000). Now ironically since the huge blowout and exhaustion of Wong's epic '2046' (2004), a summing-up of his 60's nostalgia themes and characters, he seems to have reached a point of exhaustion, and his English-language romance 'Blueberry Nights' (2007) was a critical failure. Re-editing 'Ashes of Time' looks like another example of treading water, but it's still great to have it; many have still not seen it, and any films as visually magnificent as Wong's are best seen in theaters. It's also fortunate that all his films can be seen on decent DVD's now with readable subtitles for English speakers, instead of the weird earlier Hong Kong prints with flickering titles in Chinese and peculiar English that disappeared before you could read them. 'Ashes of Time Redux' has the best English subtitles yet both visually and linguistically.According to Wong, 'Ashes of Time' negatives weren't in very good shape, and a search of various versions led him to a huge warehouse somewhere near San Francisco's Chinatown that contained the entire history of Hong Kong movies. He and his team put together various versions, adding a bit to what we already know, digitally cleaning up the images and enhancing some of the color and doing things with the sound, adding a new score and re-arrangement by Wu Tong including cello solos by Yo Yo Ma.Experts will have to comb over all this to explain the differences. The cinematographer Christopher Doyle, who was present at the press screening of the film at the NYFF, doesn't like the enhancing of the color and neither do I. A lot of yellows and oranges are heightened, greenish-turquoise touches are set in, and many of the desert sand landscapes seem to have lost their surface detail. This seems unnecessary and even obtrusive, but it's not enough to spoil the experience. Other images simply look more pristine and clear. Wong wouldn't say what specific changes were made in the editing. He preferred to talk about how he adapted Louis Cha's novel and how this film relates to his oeuvre. Both for him and for Doyle it was an essential milestone. The cast features the late Leslie Cheung, both Tony Leungs (Chiu Wai and Ka Fai) and Jacky Cheung, and has Maggie Cheung as The Woman and martial arts film great Brigitte Lin as Murong Yin and Murong Yang, the sister and brother. Lin, now retired, was responsible for the revival of the genre and is central to this film, though Maggie Cheung is its diva, its dream lover.Cha's novel is a complicated 4-volume wuxia genre epic, very popular but little known or appreciated in the West. Wong studied it carefully (and made a parody of it called 'Eagle-Shooting Heroes') but then though he says this film unlike all his others had a fixed plan (and thus made for a story full of fatalism), he threw away the story and just took a couple of the main characters and made up another simpler story imagining what the characters' lives were like when they were young. A simpler story. Well. The story has always seemed completely incomprehensible to me but after re-watching 'Redux' it obviously is nonetheless a coherent narrative; it's just intricate and, above all, cyclical. It ends as it begins, with the narrator looking into the camera and repeating the opening lines.'Ashes of Time' was shot in the desert. Doyle had never done that. The film was long delayed and the shoot was difficult. Doyle knew nothing about martial arts or 'Jianghu,' the parallel universe of martial arts fiction. He was under extreme constraints, having very little artificial light. Nonetheless he produced some of the most beautiful sequences in modern film, because he's a great cinematographer, perhaps the greatest of recent decades, as Wong Kar-Wai is one of the defining contemporary cinematic geniuses.Wong is notable for his meditative and arresting voice-overs. Here is a sample People say that if a sword cuts fast enough, the blood spurting out will emit a sound like a sigh. Who would have guessed that the first time I heard that sound it would be my own blood? You gained an egg, but lost a finger. Was it worth it? There are aphorisms or bits of advice Fooling a woman is never as easy as you think. The film is anchored and structured by the Chinese calendar the Chinese almanac is divided into 24 solar terms and the narrative moves forward selectively through these terms, which contain weather descriptions (naturally) and advice as to what is propitious or unlucky and in what regions and directions. There is also a great deal about oblivion and forgetfulness (which are linked with wine, including a magic wine that eliminates memory). The desert and drinking are visual touchstones throughout as are pairs, opposites, and contrasts; and there is cross-dressing and perhaps bisexual love. The images are full of flickering light. The sword fights, which do not begin until more than half way into the film, are without the acrobatic feats actually performed or digitally faked as in current martial arts films, though they are elaborately staged by the action choreographer Sammo Hung. They are a symphony of fast cutting, closeups, blurs, and slow motion (which Wong intended particularly to express the fatigue of the Blind Swordsman in the film). "},{"Title":"my favorite Kar Wai Wong movie","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" As a Chinese, I had chance to watch Kar Wai Wong's movies in my childhood. One of them is Dung che sai duk. But at that time, I couldn't even understand any of the actor's lines. Didn't understand why they people fight or cry. Then I fell asleep.But after many years, when I went to university, when the girl I deep in love with left me to another country. I saw DVD of this film again, alone. And this time I cannot help enjoying it. Every actor's line touched me very very much.What's behind the mountain? May be another mountain, and another. How wonderful it'd be to forget the past. Everyday would be a new beginning. Isn't that great? What's love? Maybe love is to leave the one you love, to win the one then finally find you have lost everything including yourself.Now I have my job and new life. Many things have been past for a long time. And this movie, I cannot remember some of the scenes. But sometimes I still recall lots of words they say. When I am alone, when I feel gloomy or a little bit sad, the words will come to my mind with beautiful music and the scene of huge desert.In this world, something's gonna change, something's not. If you cannot have someone, the only thing you can do is not to forget.I will never forget. "},{"Title":"Slow, beautiful and intense... best viewed if you are alone","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"35 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  Although I enjoy them, I seldom re-watch slow and introspective movies. Ashes of Time is the exception to the rule, as it haunts me so much that I have already given it three viewings! It may be because of the wonderful pictures, the essential yet poignant dialogues or the grave & epic music, nevertheless Ashes of Time is a fascinating movie! Set in a tavern in the middle of the desert, it tells us stories of different swordsmen and deals with the theme of unrequited love. All the people, in fact, had to face a rejection.. and now strive to find a way to overcome the delusion and go on with their life. Swordsmanship is mostly viewed as an outlet to bring out the inner passions and frustrations.The protagonist, Ouyang Feng Leslie Cheung is one of those swordsmen, who left his lady Maggie Cheung and his village to pursue fame and glory, convinced that she would have waited for him to return. Now instead he faces loneliness and the fact that she has married his elder brother.The most peculiar aspect of the movie is the pictures, so beautifully shot that each still can make a wonderful portrait. Even the battles, rather than being filmed continuously, are rendered as a sequence of separate shots, thus remaining more indelibly impressed in our head. Indeed, the movie also focuses about memory (whom the movie title probably refers to) and its power to keep alive moments of the past, that otherwise would perish in the flow of time. Highly recommended! 9/10 "},{"Title":"A haunting postmodern genre revision...","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Loosely based on the Chinese heroic literature classic, The Eagle-Shooting Heroes by prolific Wuxia author Louis Cha, ASHES OF TIME is conspicuous for the unusual and postmodern approach it takes to a genre so firmly entrenched in Hong Kong cinema.The story consists interactions between various characters as they weave in and out of each other's lives, with a small village in a bleak desert wasteland as the crossroads. These vignettes are not always sequential, and we must gradually piece together the relationships and backgrounds of the protagonists, some of which contribute to a larger story, while others do not. The all-star cast portrays a varied palette of characters, perfectly flawed incarnations of fantastical beings, with performances teetering on the line between disarming humanity and iconic romanticism. One thing to love about this movie is the way that director Wong Kar-Wai takes the reflective internal monologues and quirky, alienated losers from his other films and transposes them to the world of Chinese heroic fantasy. It's an interesting idea that both ennobles and deconstructs the genre. Martial-arts superheroes who can literally shear mountainsides with a wave of the sword, mired in their own personal conflicts and bouts with inadequacy, in the points of time that occur between the legend-worthy events. This unusual treatment lends these mythic characters a familiar dimension that is both poetic and banal. The cast and the desert are wrenchingly beautiful in the same starkly desolate way. The music consists of odd synth dirges, like a moody clash of Ennio Morricone and Vangelis (particularly the 1492 soundtrack), but it is nonetheless hauntingly atmospheric. ASHES OF TIME is a truly beautiful movie. The cinematography is a lush blend of stunningly arid vistas, iconic posturing, minute sensual gestures, grainy documentary-style camera-work, and stylish, impressionistic fight sequences. A visual metaphor for textiles and tapestry persists, with the various interwoven plots echoed in the camera's almost tactile attention to fabric and texture throughout... sometimes tightly bound like an inescapable net, others fraying apart like elusive memories. That said, this movie is not going to appeal to everyone. The disjointed dreamlike narrative can be confusing initially, with so many characters behaving in obscure ways, backwards and forwards in time. Still, in the end, if you take some time to retrace your steps, it all does fit together remarkably well. The puzzle pieces really do form a coherent picture, but for most people it will probably take a second viewing to see it all. Also, those looking for the action sequences Hong Kong movies are famous for, will find the emphasis is on the characters and their meandering thoughts. When the (nonetheless exciting and very cool) action scenes do take place, they are blurred hyperkinetic washes of motion. While Hong Kong action films have some of the greatest choreography captured on film, ASHES OF TIME attempts to capture an impressionistic, psychological aspect as well, sometimes obscuring the action as much as displaying it. This movie takes many of its cues from Sergio Leone's revisionist westerns. The stylized desert environment is the wastes of New Mexico revisited through Chinese legend, complete with tormented superhumanly-skilled anti-hero swordsmen/gunslingers, lost, deromanticized ideals, melodramatic showdowns, and roving hundreds-strong gangs of horse thieves. Still, Ashes of Time manages to be its own beast, a technical, artistic, visual, sentimental masterpiece, that gives a new twist on old conventions, while simultaneously managing to belong very much to Wong Kar-Wai's thematic oeuvre. A movie you won't easily forget. "},{"Title":"Life-stoppingly rich,  soul-penetratingly haunting","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"32 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Without a doubt, Ashes of Time is the most special film I have ever seen. It is also the most artistic, which naturally means it is more challenging than entertaining. Indeed, I was not comfortable watching it for the first time, but I was so mesmerized that now it has become the movie I have revisited the most. Nevertheless, Ashes is still a very difficult piece to sit through in its entirety. In my opinion, due to its disjointed storytelling, it is a film where parts are better than the whole, and those parts simply take my breath away.Interestingly enough, the most breathtaking and spellbinding film to me is not one I so much like or enjoy, but is one that I cherish for its evocative artistry. This majestic collection of disjointed heartbreaking tales is complemented to perfection by unrivaled and unforgettable imagery, music, and performances that penetrate the soul. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Elegy to Love's Memory","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" On the surface of things we are faced with a martial arts film, a typical HK wuxia piece. But knowing Wong Kar-Wai, did you really expect a regular martial arts movie? 'cos that's not what you'll get...Best known for his In the Mood for Love and 2046, this stylish director has established his reputation among Asians and Westerners alike through his dreamy, poetic romances and metaphysical dramas. Here, in Ashes of Time, an earlier film remade, the director's teamwork with cinematographer Christopher Doyle is already in full bloom. The film offers the same colour palette and style that we find in their more recent collaborative works. This film is beautiful to look at, a mystery to behold and a genre-breaking ode to love and loss. Clearly, it looks and feels like a 21st century movie, but its origins go back some years.Based on a film originally released back in 1994, Ashes of Time Redux is a retelling a story that most of us missed the first time around. The redux is more than a remastered version of the original. Apparently it features significant alterations to the basic structure of the narrative as well a new musical score. More than that, it stands as the definite version of the movie, a true director's cut. It's almost a kind of second birth, because finally the movie can become known for what it truly is. Even though I have not seen the original, I will take the director's word for it and trust his judgment.And it is very easy to trust his judgment when the result is as strong as this relatively short (93 min) film. It feels like a labour of love. There must be heaps and heaps of discarded film on the editing floor, because it is clear that all the little details and cuts were hand-crafted to perfection. My main problem with the film is that it is unforgiving to its audiences, even careless about how they might feel about being bombarded with constant, overloaded verbiage. The result, full of symbolic links and razor-thin internal connections, may feel over-stylized and over-worked, but this kind of approach to film-making is admirable because it is so rare. Films that demand a lot also reward the viewer for paying attention. But don't get me wrong this is not a puzzle or a mystery like some Lynch film; nor is it surrealistic dream logic like some Buñuel. No, it conveys a surprisingly simple poetic truth, encompassing love, manhood, relationships, struggle, perseverance, betrayal, fantasy, hate, jealousy, remembrance, forgetfulness, loss and loneliness. It is a movie about forgetting, and about the forgetting of having forgotten in the first place. It portrays characters as duplicates, mirages and psychic phantoms. Identities are mixed up. Friendships are won and lost, mainly lost. Love is first fleeting, then impossible and finally a memory.Memory, and time, and the passing of time these are the central themes of this tale divided up into (non-linear) seasons. Nature is cyclical, and so is human life and especially human memory, which is always obsessed about some recurring dream or fantasy. Memory is not a time-line of events but a force of inertia, a dead weight and a curse. Time is the archnemesis of happiness, and love is proved impossible by the accidents of nature. Love that once was is no more. Nor was there any love to get around to begin with, if memory serves me correctly. Have another sip of wine, it'll help you remember/forget...The performances are through and through superb. Both the male characters and the elusive female characters are perfectly cast, and the fact that it's an all-star cast does not make it feel any less authentic. Especially female charms (and the ambivalent androgyny of one of them) are given such full force that we are left with a sea of emotions, an ocean of desire. The wailing soundtrack reaches melodramatic heights even when you expect nothing but calm and quiet; this signals that the characters are still haunted by their past. There IS no quietude, only the passing of time and the lingering-on of memory.The sword-fights are stylish (thanks to Sammo) but peripheral. Action is more often than not a piercing flash of violence that only deepens the emotional wounds carried in the hearts of the protagonists. The physical dagger in the heart of man is nothing compared to the deep soul wound inflicted in love. In death, some lucky ones lose their anxiety, while others lose nothing but their chance for redemption. Still others are driven to death by precisely this impossibility of redeeming themselves. Living and death become equally mortifying.These themes, such as the passion of unrequited love, and the wounding of lonely hearts, will be familiar from films like Mood and 2046. In fact, the director is as obsessed about these themes as are the characters in his movies. The setting does not matter human heart is always the same - desiring, hurt and lonely. But it is not pure darkness that we encounter, there are also a few authentic flashes of pure passion and empathy (although less in Ashes than in many of his other films). To call Wong Kar-Wai a pessimist is to call outer space cold it is rather to miss the point, to understate the case. He is not a pessimist but an explorer of love's tragic journey in life, from conception to annihilation. He takes us, as it were, beyond the here into the yonder, and gives us intimations of love's afterlife.The film is not perfect. It is oftentimes too self-absorbed. The audience will be split. I know I was. I didn't especially enjoy the movie-going experience, but I learnt a lot from it, and remembered something I thought I had forgotten... In this honest and heart-wrenching mood piece, love's memory, on the big screen, is burnt into ashes of time. "},{"Title":"All Along the Watchtower","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Kar-Wai is one of the three best directors working today. Many feel this is his best work. Surely it is the greatest leap since his previous, but I find the Mood-2046 pair more important, even lifealtering.If you come into this expecting a story that unfolds in good order and makes sense, you will be disappointed. The overlapping of layers, the folding of narrative, the merging of images is what we're in for.There are two famous stories about this. The first is that at some point he quit work, then quickly went off to make Chunking Express, during which he found himself ...The other story has to do with Pulp Fiction. Tarantino is a huge borrower of ideas. Having already written a couple raw movies that people admire, he stumbled upon Kar-Wai in the midst of making this &#151; a long affair. All the clever bits in the structure of Pulp are from this, just as surely as all the clever bits in Star Wars are from Kurosawa.What are those bits? Multiple persons in one body. Multiple bodies for one person. Circular storytelling where any part is the beginning. Nested narrative where one story tells another. Characters that imagine and forget each other, bringing them into our world and out.Death, love, yearning, accident, encounter.All of this at the beginning of a luscious partnership between Kar-Wai and Christopher Doyle. They are today what Greenaway and Sacha Vierny were dangerous adventures in cinematic imagination coupled with mastery of cinematic expression.This takes a few too many chances and you can see precisely where Kar-Wai abandoned it to search for sense. (He always shoots in order of what you see.) But if you are ready for the transcendental thrills of his later work, you might want to start here.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Seasons Come Anjd Time Will Go","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I saw this at the New York Film Festival in which Bridgette Lin, who was in the first segment of the film, was there. She still looks beautiful. This film is not a remake, it is a redone version of the film, a 1992 drama set and shot in the Chinese desert in which Ouyang Feng (the late Leslie Cheung) plays a person for hire, mostly to kill others. Through the film, you see various people enter his life, and their stories are told in the passing of the seasons. This absolutely stellar casts includes Maggie Cheung, both Tony Leungs, Carina Lau and Jacky Cheung, along with Bridgette Lin and Leslie Cheung. The film chronicles tales of love, lust, betrayal, vengeance, pain and yearning admirably. There is also excellent swordplay in this film, but the real brilliance of this film is the cinematography by Christopher Doyle. The desert is punctuated with wind & sandstorms, and many images are purposely blurred. Really, if you are a film buff of any kind, this film is essential viewing for the cinematography alone. The film is more dramatic than violent and you are filled with a sense of foreboding throughout, wondering what will happen next. I never saw the film in its original incarnation, so I can't compare, but if you did see the film and liked it you have to see this. If you're a fan of director Wong Kar Wai, this is also essential viewing. Do yourself a favor and try to catch this film in a theater, where you can enjoy the overall majesty of it. Not a perfect ten only because at times it is a bit hard to follow, but stay with it and you'll be rewarded with a great cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Memories Cut Deeper Than Swords...","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Ashes of Time Redux is Wong Kar Wai's venture into the martial arts genre. However, energetic action and narrative clarity take a backseat to the visual poetry that contemplates wounded hearts, loneliness and the memories of lost love that cut deeper than any sword. Best appreciated as a sensory experience, Ashes of Time Redux unfolds as a series of beautiful yet melancholic images like the soft brush strokes of a Chinese landscape painting. Even the sword fights are shot as swirling, hallucinatory dreamscapes. The haunting desert landscape gorgeously captured in saturated colors by cinematographer Christopher Doyle, a brooding cello score by Yo-Yo Ma and the beauty of the actors (an all-star Hong Kong cast) contribute to a movie experience that both pleases the senses and engages the heart. "},{"Title":"Haunting, beautiful and rather wonderful - one of Wong Kar-Wei's very best films","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" 'Ashes of Time' is the rarest of Wong Kar Wei's films and best remembered as the one that so confounded him that he went off and made 'Chungking Express' to clear his mind before finishing it. Actually, it's worth remembering in its own right, as he brings his uniquely romantic take on the world to the fantasy swordplay genre with the expected unexpected results. There are sword fights, most of them pretty good, but the fantasy is kept to the bare minimum with the focus on the emotional cost of being a professional killer. Love is lost and so are memories, vengeance is sought and denied, characters meet but fail to connect, secrets are kept and regrets shared, all filtered through Leslie Cheung's inn on the edge of the desert where he acts as agent for killers for hire. The interest here isn't in action but reasons, and in the emotional cost of pursuing a life of violence, all captured via his usual dreamlike imagery and poetic confessional narration. Part Hong Kong, part European, part Leone (acknowledged/plagiarised at times in the score), not everything works, but the parts that do are quite magnificent, whether it's a woman tracing her hand over the sleeping body of a man who is not her lover or the curiously memorable shots of the horse thieves waiting their turn in a battle.It can get confusing &#150; not only do the characters sometimes blur into each other but he even hires both Tony Leungs for key roles in the same film while Brigitte Lin plays dual roles and, just to add to the clarity, the film's chronology is very misleading &#150; but it's worth bearing with. A film I'll definitely be returning to, and I suspect more than just the once. "}{"Title":"Memories mightier than the Sword","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" (May contain spoilers) This film is definitely no typical martial arts film. Dealing more with a warrior's psyche rather than physical prowess (although there are plenty of interesting action scenes for those interested). The beautiful desert scenery made me think of an hour glass where the sand is time. The characters in the film all symbolically slip through Leslie Cheung's fingers like sand because they all fail to connect with one another and isolation and loneliness prevail.The film shows how memories can be used as weapons, to manipulate, empower or weaken. Great camera work and performances, (Tony Leung Chiu Wai at his most tortured as a blind swordsman, Brigitte Lin gives a powerful voice to all our inner duels with our Yin and Yangs) Wong KAr Wai-as always, has produced a real work of art. The themes of memory and loss can also been seen in (the amazing) Chungking Express, which KAr Wai shot and completed while editing Ashes of Time.The many story lines may be hard to follow, however Ashes of Time is still definitely well worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Beautiful but incoherent and boring","Date":"18 February 2010","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Recap A lone swordsman, living in the desert and acting as an agent to other swordsmen, recollects how his life turned out to be as it is. It started with that the woman he loved chose to marry his brother instead, causing him to leave his home town. One of the swordsmen is Huang who is himself in the middle of a complicated love story, where a woman wants to have him killed for having ran away from a promise to marry her younger sister. But the sister wants to hire a swordsman to have Huang protected, and everything is put to an edge when the woman and her sister is really the same person.Comments I've seen the Redux version released in 2008 of the original that was released in 1994. How the two versions differ I can't say, but the Redux is very heavily stylized in the way of Chinese Wuxia action. That is unfortunate as that style to me seems to have forgotten one of the most important elements of a successful and entertaining movie. A comprehensible story. But true to its style scenery and visual elements seem much more important and much more in focus of writer and director Kar Wai Wong. Therefore there are lots of colorful, very beautiful scenes, that are completely unrelated to the story.The editing and timeline of the story is also mishandled. Much is left out in the scenes, the time line is broken and rearranged in a confusing way. Very slow and calm scenes are suddenly relieved by surprisingly brutal and seemingly unmotivated fights, only to themselves being relieved by something else and unrelated. The result is a confusing and very uninteresting movie.Thanks to these brutal but very few fights, the movie is put into the action genre. The poster and photographs also imply this but could almost be regarded as false marketing. Only a few minutes out of the 90 could be considered as anything like action, the other couldn't be farther away from it. The movie in its entirety is very slow, dull and hence very boring. Not even the rare action filled scenes help since they are so disconnected from the rest of the movie.I might say that I'm not a fan of this Chinese style, since they often seem to be afflicted of these same problems, most importantly that the visual is more important than the story, but Ashes of Time Redux is perhaps the worst example I've seen.3/10 "},{"Title":"WKW's underrated best film","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie. I was REALLY confused. I still loved it though, but after a few viewings of this film I've grown to love it even more. This is undoubtably Wong Kar-wai's best work. Alot of people however hate this, but there is a good few who love this film, so it's a love it or hate it film.The performances are all good. Leslie Cheung was brilliant as the cynical and bitter Ouyeng Feng. Tony Leung Chiu-wai was also great as The Blind Swordsman. Maggie Cheung's ten minutes torward the end is the most jaw-droppingly beautiful, yet haunting and sad scene ever. It is the best scene ever in a film, the film is worth it for that scene alone. Maggie Cheung is an actress you'll never forget, once you see this movie and the scene that she is in. The best performance is by Bridget Lin as Yin and Yang, who are really one person in one. I REALLY thought those were two different actresses playing those characters, amazing work by her.The directing and cinematoaghy is off the hook. The images you see on screen are truely amazing and unforgetable. Wong Kar-wai does a brilliant job of putting this film together. This is one of my top ten favorite films.10/10  "},{"Title":"When Audacity becomes Pretension...","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Ashes of Time was an audacious project but ended up being a pretentious movie. This film is a good example of how to tell a simple story in a complex manner. The plot of Ashes of Time is fairly simple and comes down to two words love triangle. Because of those love triangles crossing stories, jealousy, hate and love are the main dynamics displayed by the characters. The narrative part is seen through Ou-yang Feng's eyes (Leslie Cheung). Ou-yang Feng lives in the desert, where he acts as middleman to various swordsmen and becomes the tool of Destiny through which vengeance is achieved. Unfortunately Ashes of Time fails in telling these simple stories of love and hate. Wong Kar-wai lost himself driven by a desire to make each frame of the film a painting and an aesthetic experience. In fact beside the casting of beautiful actors (men and women) everything else is a failure in this movie. Dialogs are minimalists and not original at all. Picture's quality is very much unequal, the editing is one of the worst ever seen (at least by me) in the swordplay genre and finally the filming of the rare sword fight is very confusing and unappealing. Even the attempt of building artistic scenes is not always achieved the so call erotic women on a horse scene is ridiculous, not erotic and useless. Wong Kar-wai wanted to deliver 100 minutes of pure aesthetic experience and forgot that a film is first about how a plot is told. By forgetting that he delivers an awkward movie that doesn't even fulfill its artistic objective. "},{"Title":"Strange martial arts film","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" This review is of the original cutMartial Arts film as spaghetti western.Wong Kar-Wai makes a martial arts film that is a visual wonder-though its mostly close ups-and a bit hard to decipher because the story is told in what could be generously said to be a fragmented style (and has a great number of close ups). Its has something to do with two friends who meet every year to drink, wine that makes you forget your past, revenge, another swordsman and some other things that I didn't quite pick up. I'm not sure what to make of the film. The dialog is really great, but at the same time walks that knowing sort of edge that makes me wonder what Kar-Wai was up to. Apparently breaking down since in the middle of making this he wandered off to clear his head by making Chungking Express. I liked it as pieces because I can get my hands around the pieces but as a whole I'm not to sure of the plot-if its good-if it means anything.Kar-Wai has cut the film once more which from reports seems to be close to the original cuts with a few changed shots, some image manipulation and a slight alteration in music. I have no idea if this will improve or detract from the film which some people see as a a masterpiece. Some things I've read have tried to put the film into a context based upon Wong Kar-Wai's other films, implying that if you've seen other films by the same director this film will be easier to digest. Maybe, but I'm not too sure since it plays differently than any of his other films (and I've seen most of them).I don't know. I'm going to have to ponder this. "},{"Title":"His style is back","Date":"12 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" It is a must-see for Kar-wai Wong's fans. I guarantee that you will not be disappointed as you might have felt towards My Blueberry Nights, which is not bad but just missing something that makes the movie a bit shy of the director's usual style &#150; the lingering melancholy and subtle poignancy. Surely it is not easy for non-Chinese viewers to be convinced by wuxia stories, which is usually quasi-historical and surrealistic. But, I hope westerners will not be deterred by the genre because what is more important is the characters' thoughts and feelings. Those in wuxia stories are just as real as any other dramas. There are seven characters and the relationships among them seem a bit complicated. Judging from the Chinese title of the movie, one can tell that the story between Ouyang Feng and Huang Yaoshi is the main plot and others are just the subplots. Huang Yaoshi is deeply in love with The Woman (Maggie Cheung), but she never loves him. Her love is Ouyang Feng who disappointed her however by allegedly taking her love for granted. So she married to his older brother. Ouyang Feng then moved to the desert and lived in solitude. To give himself an excuse for seeing The Woman, Huang Yaoshi befriended with Ouyang Feng and visited him every year. He collected stories about Ouyang Feng and reported back to The Woman. The interesting things are how much did Ouyang Feng know about the friendship between Huang Yaoshi and The Woman? Could he guess the intention of the annual visit? Did he always know that the (so-called memory erasing) Magic Wine is from his sister-in-law when it was first brought to him by Huang Yaoshi? Did he refuse to try it simply because he does not believe in magic? Or, because he did not want to forget The Woman even she caused so much pain? He however drank it after finding out that The Woman had died. Does it mean that he was secretly hoping for a chance to see her again and so willing to bear the pain associated with his memory? Huang Yaoshi claimed himself to be the loser (in love) at the very beginning because he never got the love from The Woman and probably also because he did not even dare to express his love to her. He is a good seducer, but he could only acts as a gentleman confidant in front of The Woman. His bitterness is evidenced by his withdrawal to live as a hermit after her death. Ouyang Feng says Huang Yaoshi wanted to know how it feels when being loved and that is why he would make women like him. It is sad to Huang Yaoshi because he totally missed the point. He does not need to know how it feels when being liked. He just needs to know how it feels when being liked by a woman he cares. Maggie Cheung stole the show with her performance at the scene where she confessed that she lost to herself as well as Ouyang Feng in their relationship. For her, her love was not appreciated and the only way she could earn her pride back was to shun him altogether. No wonder she was drawn to Ouyang Feng because he is just egoistic as her. For him, he avoids rejection by rejecting others first. But, were they manipulating each other? No, they were just protecting themselves. Sadly they did not know that acting against their own true feelings was actually hurting themselves and each other. Again, no wonder only Ouyang Feng (not Huang Yaoshi) can see through the meaning of the Magic Wine &#150; to know what you have forgot, you have to remember what to forget.The subplot of Murong Yan/Yin is really confusing. And, personally, I am hardly sympathized with her. As to the purpose of the subplot, towards the end, as Ouyang Feng said that it is not difficult to say You are the one I love the most &#150; if you are not speaking for yourself. This remark foretells that he is incapable of expressing his love. The subplot also brings in the main plot when Ouyang Feng was imagining his sister-in-law was touching him. The bird cage is a funny prop in the movie. It seems to be suggesting that the characters are just like the birds &#150; trapped.The Blind Swordsman is the most interesting figure outside the main plot. Like Ouyang Feng, he ran away from home after heartbreak. What is different is that his wife, Peach Blossom still loves him and waiting for him. But, he could not forgive her betrayal. He wants to kill Huang Yaoshi (whom his wife falls for) but failed. When the swordsman found Huang Yaoshi, he could not see due to night blindness. After that, he started to work for Ouyang Feng as a contract killer. (It is unclear whether he knew about the relationship between Ouyang Feng and Huang Yaoshi.) Apparently, he just took it as a job, but how much did he do it for money; how much was it of self-destruction and how much did he do it for helping The Girl revenge her brother? Hong Qi is the only character who is not troubled by women. The subplot about him is to show the unreachable ideal of Ouyang Feng, that is, to be true to oneself and do what the heart tells. It is Hong Qi's attitude to life in jianghu as well as to his woman. Desert is the best choice for the setting of the story. The harshness and scarcity of lives in desert parallel the emptiness of the characters' souls; the climatic extremity corresponds to the contradicted feelings harbored in each of their minds. Last but not least, the music is marvelous. It trembles your emotions. As to the cinematography, did Christopher Doyle ever disappoint you? Just fantastic as always! "},{"Title":"A slow dance of color and regret","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Without a doubt, Ashes of Time is a beautiful, deeply felt movie. The acting and cinematography are outstanding. The color and camera angles are poetic. But the DVD quality is barely acceptable and the plot, what there is of it, is very confusing. The movie is less a journey from point A to point B than it is a dream-like dance around a central theme regret for the way we treat those we love.For those who would watch the movie for the martial arts-- the main characters are mostly swordsmen and martial artists-- the movie is less than satisfying. The fight scenes are highly stylized, employing fast cuts, blurs of motion, and disorienting lighting and camera angles. The fight scenes are more about camera technique than martial arts technique.Ashes of Time is not a movie that can be absorbed in one viewing. For many viewers, though, it will be worth a second or even third. "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece in exploring the human condition","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The cinematography and art direction like all Wong Kar Wai films is simply magnificent. The desolate landscape reflects the loneliness and isolation that permeates through the entire movie; a sense of lost and despair, a basic mood of pessimism that lasts till the very near end of movie where we got a glimpse of a future that holds promise through the actions and thoughts of Ouyang and of course a flash foreword, that shows the future of the characters. The action scenes are in a word, WOW. Wow in the sense that I have never seen it done like that before. All the actions scenes I have seen all involves the action being seen properly. Every punch, kick, slashes and chop are seen and most of the time emphasised through slow motion. However, in Ashes of Time except for one scene all the fight scenes are shot in trademark Wong Kar Wai style strobing effect where everything is just a blur. That really blew me away as I felt like I was actually in the fight with everything going at breakneck speed with hardly anytime to react. The story or rather what the film conveys is very thought invoking, like a typical Wong Kar Wai film every time you see the film you discover something new. You would discover another piece of the jigsaw puzzle that is a Wong Kar Wai movie and only through multiple viewings would you be able to piece together the whole story. Like all his films the movie is more about the form, the film itself rather then the story, the story at times seems to be an afterthought a side dish to the main course of the visual feast of cinematography, art direction and sound to provide the audience with a lingering sense of mood, of feeling. It makes you reflect on your own views on life and love and for me the similar sense of disenchantment that I share with the characters. Things like the best way to avoid rejection is to reject others first, or if you have to lose something, the best way is to keep it in your memories. It also makes you realise and reflect upon the fact that the consequences of any action you take do not affect only yourself but the people around you as well. The part on Hong Qi and his actions strikes me a lot and that happened only at the last of my numerous viewings and that is his courage. Would you have the courage to be yourself, to go after your own dreams even if the cost is great? It is this ability to involve the audience to make them think way after they have seen the film and to make go see the film again and again which makes this film great. The sense of familiarity, that makes people go I feel the same way or I know someone who is like that. it just sorts of brings the movie closer to you to make you feel involved like the characters are acting out your life in a weird way. It is the entire package, cinematography, art direction, sound and a philosophical story close to my heart that make me love this film so much. To date it is still my all time favourite non-American film. "},{"Title":"The Ballads Within The Ballad Of Ou-yang Feng","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" 'Dung Che Sai Duk' (aka 'Ashes of Time') is a beautiful visual tapestry. It is another fine example of poetry on canvas. The story does not follow a linear structure but at the same time the dazzling visuals grip the viewer and involve us in the characters' life. The first time I watched 'Dung Che Sai Duk' I was engaged throughout the entire duration but by the end I was left a little confused. This is because I overlooked the layers and some of the important details. It also didn't help that the subtitles were poor. After second viewing, this time with better subtitles, it became a lot more clearer and my appreciation has increased much more.Almost the entire film is set in the desert. There are plenty of swordfights to enjoy but this is secondary to the story which is mainly about unrequited love and how the fights are a projection of their anger and way of dealing with rejection. The fight scenes are well choreographed. However, I felt slow motion was overused. The editing is good but I was disappointed that so many sequences were cut from the Redux version. The dialogues are marvelously poetic. The tricky cinematography is conducted through various angles and so astonishingly effective. The soundtrack is superb and atmospheric. The cast boasts of top talented names like, Leslie Cheung, Maggie Cheung, Brigitte Lin, Tony Leung Chiu Wai, Jacky Cheung and Carina Lau all of whom do full justice to their roles with subtle performances.Kar Wai Wong is known for experimenting with different themes and here he does that with unrequited love. Although the treatment of the story is slightly different when compared to his other works, the same essence remains within the characters. It is a movie that stays with you and invites you to revisit. "},{"Title":"Poetic Meditation on Wuxia Motifs - Not Your Typical Martial Arts Epic!","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" ASHES OF TIME, whether in its original 1994 version or the restored 2008 one known as Redux, is not a conventional martial arts (wuxia pian) film. Neither is it an adaptation of Louis Cha's popular novel Dōng xié xi dú. Nor is there an actual narrative as such. Rather, it's a collection of meditations on characters from Cha's novel, captured through some of the most astonishingly original and breathtaking images in film history. Please be aware of this before you approach ASHES OF TIME (REDUX) - otherwise you might be disappointed.The plot, if you can call it that, concerns Ouyang Feng (Leslie Cheung), who runs a dingy little pension in some unidentified Chinese desert. He recruits hapless swordsmen on the move to act as hit men on his behalf; his customers include the brother/sister duo Murong Ying / Murong Yang (played by Brigitte Lin Ching-Hsia in her final appearance on screen), who essentially want to do away with the other respective twin (There's a twist), but also the farmers from a nearby village who are tired of losing their hard-earned dough to a marauding band of thieves, or a young woman (Charlie Yeung) who wants to avenge her brother's death but has no money to hire a killer. Swordsmen we encounter include a melancholy, nearly blind fella (played by Wong's favorite actor, Tony Leung Chiu-Wai), his former best bud Huang Yaoshi (the other Tony Leung, Leung Ka-Fai) and the young, impulsive Hong Qigong (Jackie Cheung). All four men are also romantically involved with girls they left behind (Maggie Cheung, Carina Lau Kar-Wing, etc), all of these relationships being unhappy ones. Naturally.Now if that sounds like a lot of plot, don't be fooled. Most of this is conveyed through the narration of the Leslie Cheung character, or via dialog. Except, there is no real dialog, but rather people being at cross-purposes. The failure to communicate meaningfully is one of the themes of ASHES OF TIME. In between, there are several brief, highly stylized (with slow motion, color filters, lens flare, etc) fight scenes, choreographed by Sammo Hung - though you'd never know it. They're quite violent, too, but a world apart from your normal wuxia pian fight scenes.The concentration on just a few characters and just a few situations/confrontations adds to the substance and stature of ASHES OF TIME. The characters are better-developed than in most regular, overpopulated HK martial arts epics. And the actors of course are magnificent, especially Leslie Cheung, the different modes of expression on his face alone being worth the price of admission. Brigitte Lin has the most screen time/dialog second to Cheung, and she terrifically conveys steely resolve and vulnerability at the same time.All of this is captured in the most stunning color images you'll ever see. The BR release of the REDUX version finally restores the high-contrast pictures, over-saturated and almost surreal colors that Wong Kar-Wai and his Australian cinematographer Christopher Doyle (who won all the important HK best cinematography awards that year) intended. Previous home video releases, notably the original, official HK laser disc and DVD by Mei Ah, suffered from washed-out colors and low-contrast mastering which made ASHES OF TIME look like a spaghetti western. It was almost like the negative had been drowned in Worcester sauce. Here, we finally have a release that does this masterpiece proud.The differences between ASHES OF TIME 1994 and REDUX are as multiple as they are marginal. If you're looking for a detailed, minute-by-minute chronology of the different/cut scenes and set-ups, there's one on the Wong Kar-Wai board. Because the negative at the time Wong decided to restore the film was in such a bad shape (because of improper storage in a damp warehouse), some material could not be saved. This is why the REDUX version is shorter by a few minutes than the 1994 cut. Wong also inserted five captions to indicate the change of the seasons in the story. None of that matters much. What DOES matter is the wonderful restoration of the images and the new sound mix, which required parts of the film to be re-scored.If you know what you are getting into, ASHES OF TIME REDUX is a feast for the eyes as well as a challenge for the mind. Your typical wu xia pian it is not! "}{"Title":"Ashes of Time","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Wong Kar-Wai takes a stab at the wuxia genre, with typically Wong-ish results. Stunningly gorgeous photography (and actors) by Chris Doyle, lots of slo-mo and atmospheric ambiance, and plenty of introspective voice-over. The fight scenes are brief, which is just as well since they're easily the worst parts of the film. Messy and confusing, one can imagine that Wong -- perhaps rightfully so -- didn't really care if the audience could follow the action. The plot is a bit confusing as well, with jumps in time and actors in dual roles, but I never felt too lost. The philosophical musings are also a bit too much like something from a fortune cookie... they sound good, but aren't really imparting any great wisdom. Like a lot of Wong, it traffics in a weightiness that its depth doesn't merit, but is so effective at establishing mood and tantalizing the senses that it feels like something special. Vaguely unsatisfying, yet entrancing. "},{"Title":"Moody","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I had the same issues with Wang Kar Wai's other movie 2046. Whats this all about? Mortality, love, existence. It's somehow about all of this. In other movies these themes are dealt with in the background of a plausible or implausible story. Here they are dealt with head-on, in what feels like a long hypnotic dream poem that is more symbol than story. There is the deep Camus-like narrator voice in the background saying stuff like She waited frozen under deep unrelenting waves and the smell of eucalyptus (not a line from the movie, but it could be). Maybe there is a lot that isn't easily translated. So it's confusing both intentionally and unintentionally. At the same time there is some kind of majestic beauty to it. It is mostly quiet and moody but erupts occasionally with little bouts of violence. To be honest I hardly understood any of this movie (full credit to whoever wrote the IMDb synopsis) but I was left with an impression - a feeling, a mood, an emotional state - which may have been the whole point. "},{"Title":"I want to see the two together","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" My own memory is scattered in the ashes of time, and I really need to re-view the original to see if my memory holds, but here is my impression. I'd give the original a 10. This one rates an 8. The two together are probably a 12.I personally didn't like the amped up color. I gather that one of the things that happened when the filmmaker rediscovered a warehouse full of bootlegs was that there were some terrible copies that distorted the color, and he liked and played with that. This version also seemed more static than I remember--a lot of shots seem to have been done with still or very short segments of film. I have to see the original again to see if that's really the case, or if it is just my memory that there were more frames of action in the original. This often felt like it was cut from snippets. For example, the shifting sands under the title was a pair of superimposed images moving in different directions. Was that the case originally as well?I loved the original but also could never quite follow the plot. Redux slices and dices (or-rather-unslices) so that each story is parceled together and the blurring that is going on in the interactions on-screen (for example, the Yin/Yang sibs) does not spill over quite as much into the interaction between viewer and screen. Redux shakes out the story lines so you can parse them. I miss the mystification, and don't think it's a net gain. I also think something else may be going on here... If you remember the original (or have a copy to view), tell me what you think of this reading The point of view of the story seems to have shifted from Huang Yaoshi to Ouyang Feng--although because of how the movie mixes action, memory and stories it is hard to tell. In the original, we followed the wandering Huang as his memory unspooled. Part of the difficulty for a viewer in understanding was the difficulty that his point of view had, because he was moving through a world of consequences without his memory to root understanding. The story flowed in pieces which might have been his splintered memories-ashes of time- or might have been others'. Things that he is told by unreliable narrators are accepted at face value until experience tells him otherwise. Events are repeated in variation as his understanding of them waxes and wanes.In this version, the narrator (Huang Yaoshi) is fixed and the world comes to him. Things enacted in the first movie (for example, the encounter between Huang and Murong) with all the attendant ambiguity of living sequence, are instead recounted, with the flattening filters of narrator and listener. Unlike Huang, Ouyang accepts nothing at face value. So each event is more clearly arranged in a narrative, but all the narratives are filtered in the same way by a mind that rejects nuances that it can't fit to its particular ego. It is only at the end that Ouyang gains an insight that he may have missed things as important as his life's love as a result of his fear and pride.The story consists of interlocking circles,organized around male-female pairs. Ouyang and his true love are separated because of mutual pride and unwillingness to be the first to declare love; Huang plays messenger between them, never telling the woman his own love for her. This story of two men and a woman is mirrored in a minor key in another triangle which engages Huang. In this one, passion was realized with unhappy consequences for all. Huang seduced his best friend's bride. At the time of the story, the blind husband encounters the memoryless Huang. Just as the moment to tell love had gone by for the lovers in the first triangle, the moment to enact revenge has slipped past the rivals. The subsidiary stories also have evenly balanced male and female parts. The balance of male and female is concentrated to a point in Murong, who manifests that experience as a spinning latticed cage, sexual identity as a trap. Hong Qi, the natural, is steadfastly pursued by his wife, who ignores his rejection and simply acts to do what she thinks is right. The girl who wants revenge for her brother mirrors Ouyang. Each believes they have only one thing to sell, and each expects to be able to withhold the self from the exchange. For each, it takes another person's wound to break the trance of transactions. Whatever is going on Wong Kar Wai and Christopher Doyle are gods. "},{"Title":"Deep","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The movie is a wuxia movie with a twist. That twist is what makes Wong Kar Wai the celebrated director/filmmaker that he is. Wong Kar Wai sticks to genre and then takes it to the next level by doing what he does best, breaks it down - and uses his highly idiosyncratic style of cinematography. The movie is very loosely (and I mean very loosely) based on Jin Yong's The Eagle Shooting Heroes. So loose in fact that one could argue that this movie is neither a wuxia movie or based on the book. Ouyang Feng (Leslie Cheung) is a disillusioned swordsman for hire. He left White Camel Mountain to run an inn in the desert. Ouyang Feng's real business is to serve as a middle-man between mercenaries and those who need them. He is all business. Among those who come into his space are Huang Yaoshi (Tony Leung Ka Fai) - who is involved with Feng's former love interest, Murong Yin/Murong Yang (Brigitte Lin) - being one and the same, she both loves and hates Huang Yaoshi. Others include a blind swordsman (Tony Leung Chiu Wai) who wishes to see his love and home before he finally loses his site. The couple, of sorts, that defy explanation is the combination of the blind woman played by Charlie Yeung and the character Hong Qi (Jacky Cheung), a swordsman who comes to her aid. To top that off, we should not forget the moving performances of Carina Lau and Maggie Cheung - without whom this picture would not be complete.Stephen Teo argues that it is Kar Wai's characters that make his movies. In a move that follows Days of Being Wild, it is the characters that show up for the smallest amount of time that leave a lasting impression. In the case of Days of Being Wild, the last minute appearance by Tony Leung is arguably his best. In Ashes of Time, Maggie Cheung shows up for only for a few minutes but she impacts all of Leslie Cheung's character. Carina Lau's character (and hands) is stunning - enough said.Ashes of Time is a wild movie about love, desperation, and forgetting. Wong Kar Wai is better known as a director of art house films such as Days of Being Wild (available on Amazon.com) and a later movie - and my personal favorite - In the Mood for Love (also available on Amazon.com). His trademark style of seemingly freeform story telling and inventive imagery are deftly combined with Christopher Doyle's cinematography to produce this masterpiece. Ashes of Time is Wong's only wuxia movie to date. In it we find, I argue, his most developed characters and sense of experimentation. Certainly recommend it to those wuxia fans out there... but don't expect the clean story lines of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon or House of Flying Daggers... this one is messy and that makes all the difference.Miguel Llora "},{"Title":"fabulous film","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Ou-yang Feng (Leslie Cheung) lives in the middle of a desert, where he acts as a middle man to various swordsmen in ancient China. One of those swordsmen is Huang Yao-shi (Tony Leung), who has found some magic wine that causes one to forget the past. At another time, Huang met Mu-rong Yin (Brigette Lin) and under the influence of drink, promised to marry Mu-rong's sister Mu-rong Yang. Huang jilts her, and Mu-rong Yin hires Ou-yang to kill Huang. But then Mu-rong Yang hires Ou-yang to protect Huang. This is awkward, because Mu-rong Yang and Mu-rong Yin are in reality the same person. Other unrelated plot lines careen about. Among them is Ou-yang's continuing efforts to destroy a band of horse thieves. Oy-yang recruits another swordsman (Tony Leung, but the other one), a man who is going blind and wants to get home to see his wife before his sight goes completely. The swordsman is killed. Ou-yang then meets another swordsman (Jackie Cheung) who doesn't like wearing shoes. Oy-yang sends this man after the horse thieves, with better results. We then find out what a man must give up to follow the martial path "},{"Title":"Non-Linear story of Isolation and Lost Love among Swordsman","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" A strange production with a strange history. Based on a famous story, Eagle Shooting Heros and apparently part of the film crew shot the equally strange comedy film called, Eagle Shooting Heros during one of the lengthy lulls in shooting this film. And the director created his much more famous Chungking Express during another production lull.A jigsaw puzzle story recounts the thoughts and turning-points in the lives of three swordsman and the man who hires them for his assassin service. At least that's how I could fathom it. Plus there are five women who are involved with the four men in some way. The story unfolds like you are taking apart a particularly complex origami sculpture, it takes awhile before you get a square piece of paper again. And then the paper seems distinctly unsquare anyway. Slow, oblique, confusing, this one is work to watch. Possibly rewarding work but it's work. I am still trying to place two scenes into the context of the story.Beautiful photography and sense of space. The music is very good but occasionally annoying. The martial arts are reduced to blur fu so don't expect much in the action department. In the context of the film the blur works.The person I saw it with walked out but I enjoyed it enough. An experiment which you should see only if ready. "},{"Title":"A  Timeless and Unique  Masterpiece !!!  Be Warned !!","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I have my message headed with a WARNING because I don't want any readers to be misled and go rushing for this movie thinking it's like anyone of those Chinese Wuxia movies. This is not an action based movie, it only has sword fighting world as a background. This is what always made WKW's films different from any others'. This film has probably the least action scenes compared to any other sword fighting films made within the last 15 years.I called it Timeless because seen again today, you don't find it outdated like some others' films. This is among the only 4 Chinese films that I will enjoy watching again every 2 or 3 years and I think this is the most timeless among the 4.(The other 3 are Love Eterne(Li Han Hsiang), A Touch of Zen(King Hu) and Days of Being Wild(WKW))This is the kind of film that you know it's great even if you don't understand it. You don't need to understand its story in order to enjoy it. It's message is simply about memories and regrets. It said something like Regrets is the most painful feeling and regrets and unhappiness because of memories.It's the most complicated among WKW's 7 or 8 films(till 2046 and Eros). I don't fully understand it during the first viewing but I was totally surprised and mesmerized. I am the type that will consider a film good only if after watching, surprised me and felt that i could not thought of such a film. If I can expect or imagine a film's outcome, I will not call it great. Even after 4 viewings now, I am not totally sure I have figured out all its sequences yet but it doesn't matter. Some of the scenes and editions are paced so fast that you may not recall seeing it. Just like his recent 2046. This is the work of a brilliant director,because you need more than 1 viewing to fully get it so you must buy a copy for future viewing. Heard that even the Venice Filmfest Jury has to give it a prize although they don't understand what's it about.Those who don't know how to appreciate a good film may not understand a WKW film as he seldom stick to a particular genre, his films' genre is simply WKW and it's all about sights and sound in WKW-style. Original, stylish and trend setting. After his Ashes of Time and Fallen Angels swept all the major awards during the HK Film Awards in the same year, 2 most prominent HK directors changed style and tried to follow WKW-style but both failed(Tsui Hark in Dao(Blade) and Stanley Kwan in Hold Me Tight.WKW has mentioned that movies, to him is most is sights and sound and we see it clearly in this film. The music and the cinematography is the best.Those who don't like WKW films may criticize that he don't has a script or don't know what he wants until the final edition. I totally disagree. I think WKW always know what he wants and completed the film just the way he wants it, otherwise how could all his films are being so well received by critics ?. As for the viewers, what we want is the finished work. We don't care the original idea or the casts. We only care for the outcome. I mentioned it because this film took 2 years to complete and along the way, plot and actors have changed. Leslie Cheung - nominated for best acting here but I find him better in 2 other WKW films, Days of Being Wild and Happy Together(WKW won best director at Cannes). Brigitte Lin is superb in a dual character role/s. Tony Leung and Carina Lau are always good(usually and only) in WKW films. Maggie Cheung(unbilled) has her best 2 single take shots(her fans must keep this.) Even pop idol Michelle Yeung who never act well appeared like she acted.I strongly recommend this film to any film student or critics. Those who like 2046 or Tsui Hark's The Blade will like it. This is not WKW's best but I consider it his most UNIQUE. Like any other WKW movies, it's a collectors' item and a future classic, if not already one. "},{"Title":"Solitary soul(s) on a quest for redemption","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" ''Ashes of Time'' is a unique art film which is loosely bound upon Jin Yong's wuxia novel ''The Legend of the Condor Heroes''. Despite two blurry action choreographies, this movie can't be considered as a martial arts movie at all. Due to its philosophical content, its numerous metaphors and examples of symbolism and its calm episodic script, this movie could best be categorized as an art-house drama. The movie is separated into five fragments according to the four seasons with the spring season representing both introduction and coda of this piece of art. The director doesn't offer any conclusion to its vague story and challenges the audience to make sense of this film on its own. The only guiding lines of the movie are the changes of season, the transformation of colourful landscapes and the topic of unrequited love and how to deal with this depressing fate. Each character has faced, currently faces or will face a desperate love relationship and everyone of them tries to find a different solution one of them simply tries to forget the past, another one seeks refuge in isolation and another one wants to assassinate the one who causes all the emotional and mental suffering. In the end, none of the characters can find a satisfying answer on their quest for redemption. Despite the depressing tone, the beginning of the movie can be interpreted as the origin of a quest for redemption while the coda might be seen as an optimistic attempt at renaissance.This film can be interpreted in at least two ways. One possibility is that the main location in form of a bare cabin in the desert is a meeting point for solitary souls who feel outcast from society and who are absorbed by their mental problems. The main character listens to their different stories and often manages to find solutions for them but he is still unable to solve his own problems. Another possibility is that this movie is only about the main character and that the side characters only exist on his confused mind and represent different sides of his shattered soul looking for salvation.Despite its colourful journey, inspiring philosophical content and revolutionary visual component, this courageous piece of art is not appropriate for mainstream audiences and might even be hard to digest for passionate cineasts. The movie's pace is extremely slow and it contains several noticeable lengths towards the middle. While the few fight choreographies could have spiced things up a little bit, they happen to be rather redundant, slow and unspectacular.In the end, you should absolutely watch this if you have an open mind for philosophical art-house experiments that request your intellectual participation in the movie. You should avoid it if you are expecting a vivid wuxia movie or a tense martial arts film because your expectations won't be met and you will end up being disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not for me!","Date":"21 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" ASHES OF TIME REDUX is one of those films that I just don't see eye to eye with. I'm no fan of arty farty, insubstantial, abstract movies full of posturing, hidden layers and complex character machinations, and this is one of those films. It's supposed to be an ultra-stylish martial arts historical film, but I just found it an ultra bore.We're saddled with Leslie Cheung's boring philosophiser for much of the running time, while more interesting characters &#x96; like Tony Leung's myopic swordsman &#x96; come and go in the blink of an eye. Although billed as an action film, there are only around two fight sequences in this one, each filmed in a wooshy-wooshy fluid slow-motion style so that it's difficult to see what's going on. You get the idea that the director looks down on 'action' films and is going out to his way to make an obtuse, audience-unfriendly motion picture. It's an art film where I just don't see the art; as a result, I found this a worthless waste of time. "},{"Title":"Classical-ism VS Modern Civilization","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" First of all, I would like to say that this movie is not easy to understand and it takes more than just one watch to get the idea of it. The director, Kar Wai Wong, is known as a very famous director with unique technique of shooting movies. It is always hard to understand his movie and he likes to use monologue as a special touch. I would like to review this movie from two perspectives my understanding of the movie from the characters and the techniques the director used to achieve it. The story in the movie happened in a desert which represents city that has been devitalized by modern civilization. As a desert is lack of water, modern city is lack of spiritual pursuing. Every character in the movie is a representation of lack of spiritual aspiration. Modern civilization makes people pursue material possessions more than spiritual and makes people lack of communication and emotionally unstable and complicated. The movie has used a lot of monologue to express modernist's sadness and loss of the decline of classical-ism. Hong Qi's character in the movie is a represent of the peak of modern civilization. He is a simple and honest man that has to become an assassin to live; however, he still kept an honest heart to not kill for an egg (quote from the movie). Here the director is trying to say that even modern civilization is at a peak for modernists to chase, classical-ism is still fighting back. All characters in the movie represent a type of loneliness not because of being alone but emotionally shortage. Everyone is lost at some stage to the modern civilization. Take Mu Rongyan as an example, his/her loneliness drives him/her a split personality. She/he is too lost so that she/he becomes one another and started to talk to himself and becomes more alone. A lot of the monologues in the movie are from Ou Yangfeng's (Xi Du)'s view. His complicated love and hate for his brother and sister in law made him a perfect character on the contrary of classical-ism. Kar Wai Wong used Xi Du's character to represent modern civilization, a cold type full of hatred. The movie used a lot of cool tone to express the depression of classical-ism and the characters' loneliness. There are a lot of monologue used in the movie. We can hardly find any conversation between two characters. More than 100 minutes movie is too short to make an expression, so monologue becomes a good approach. This depression and loneliness we feel all the time from the movie by the monologues represent the complicated emotion of characters. Scenes and music used in the movie have perfectly expressed the loneliness and lose of modernists. Kar Wai Wong designed to shoot the movie from several different angels and edited carefully with music and scenes. Montage has been used very well in the movie. Ashes of time, differs from the traditional type of Kongfu movies. There are no really action scenes but a slow motion of a physical communication between the characters. Kar Wai Wong likes to use the scene of weather change of the desert and lights to be a contrary of modernist's lack of communication. It looks like that the movie shot 6 individual stories vertically; however, the 6 stories are all related. The characters of the stories are somehow overlapped. Even though people may have been hurt and live only in memory and feel vulnerable, it is not right to just escape because the alcohol that said to make people forget about everything is a symbol and it never really existed. Kar Wai Wong has created his own style and art of shooting movies. He is very sensitive about the age and place he lives. In the transition from classical-ism to modern civilization, he sensed this lost that people experience and the affects they get. He is from a unique era from a unique place, Hong Kong, a city that represents several types of cultures which has obviously advantages and disadvantages. The society get developed and lost at the same time. People are lost and lack of communication and unstable to survive. Kar Wai Wong has always been trying to express the loss of classical-ism in his movies. Kar Wai Wong shot a Kongfu movie that was not as a traditional one and tried to reflect the emotion world of modernists. He is very successful on achieving his goal on this particular movie. "}{"Title":"Beautiful and mesmerizing...","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Ashes of Time is a definitive movie in this particular genre that should be on the shelves of any movie collector - especially those who are interested in Asian movies.The movie, though it is labeled as a martial arts epic, is driven more by the storyline, the acting and the dialogue, than it is by the actual swordsplay and martial arts. And this was a risk on director Wong Kar Wai's part - but a risk that was well worth it in many ways. Because the end result is a heavier movie that punches harder and leaves a lasting impression.Not only is the movie driven by an appealing story that is riveting and captivating, but the movie also has a good amount of iconic Hong Kong actors and actresses on the cast list; Leslie Cheung (playing Ou-yang Feng), Tony Leung Chiu Wai (playing the blind swordsman), Bridgette Lin (playing Mu-rong Yin/Mu-rong Yang), Tony Leung Ka Fai (playing Huang Yao-shi) and of course Maggie Cheung (playing the woman). It is indeed a grand ensemble of acting talents put together in one movie. And especially the performance of Leslie Cheung - whose death was a hard blow to Hong Kong cinema - really put on a marvelous performance in Ashes of Time.The dialogue is good and fluently, keeping the movie well up in pace. And the dialogue is a great core of the movie, so it is an important aspect of the movie, an aspect that just has to work out. And it did!Ashes of Time is also a visually spectacular movie, filmed on location in the harsh deserts of western China, near Mongolia. And the scenery tells a thousand tales in this movie, and it is in itself a major center piece for the movie.If you haven't seen Ashes of Time by now, I can only encourage you to get to it, because this is a very important and defining movie in Hong Kong cinema. This movie is breathtakingly exceptional in many ways. "},{"Title":"Ashes of Time Redux","Date":"18 October 2010","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Near the end, the proprietor of an inn perched on the windy edge of a sandy desert that stretches to the horizon has an epiphany; he has never before actually stopped to observe the desert, not as a transition, but as destination, as something that you don't calculate how to cross, but observe as a place you have crossed to reach. I have written the almost exact same idea (different setting) in one of my screenplays. This is the personal connection with a favourite film I value so much. Film becomes more than film, I see film as dream, a consciousness briefly shared then forgotten. It's that feeling of dreaming the same dream with a great artist that makes me tingle.This is a film like the best of novels, a web woven of fragmented image and word, drives and desires, rendered cinematically alive when the two coalesce to reveal yawning chasms of human experience, the one common shared human experience we all know. The film's opening serves as present tense and WKW builds fascinating removes from it to the point where the final story of the film climaxes in the past with shocking reverberations that make me rush through the entire film, clawing my way back to the present and previous past occurrences, to change my perspective.At the beginning of the film, a master swordsman arrives at an inn to offer the inn keeper a gulp from a wine that makes you forget the past. The inn keeper refuses. Throughout the film we happen upon characters, or characters happen upon the film as it passes time in that wind-torn inn by the desert, fixed in position by memory, by their inability or willinglessness to let go a human passion or folly, revenge or love however distant and impossible. We all need something to live for the inn keeper muses, and we know sometime we'll cling to the uglier most obsessive aspects of our nature to get us through the night. But this is all we have, not something to separate us from animals because even a dog will come to know the hand that strikes it, but all we have as humans to distinguish us from creation, being able to cling to that sad bitter memory of unfulfillment for years and make our unvanquished madness dear to us.This is all a bit of a game, life is through the remove of storytelling, it becomes myth and fabrication, but what wouldn't we give to go back and play it again. In the end we discover that the wine that makes you forget the past is regular wine and a character is only set free when he finds out his love, love he had and denied until he realized how precious it was to him and came back to find it gone, has died. But that was already two years ago and he's stood in place for those two years, allowing himself to be released from his selfimposed exile when a piece of paper reaches his hands, as though even absolution from guilt or shame or obligation can only properly come to pass in an official manner.WKW gives us swordplaying spectacle to go with this but he doesn't focus on it. Swords strike and fighters leap into the air in blurry shapes of color and motion yet the eye doesn't rest on the details of the fight but rather centers on facial expressions and the maddening ferocity of it all, like it's all a dance and we're dancing right in the middle of it. To say this is a wuxia is to set different expectations for it. Here poetry is not a poetry of appearances. As with his previous films, WKW tells us marvellous things about obsession and release, the yearning to remember and forget, and about letting ourselves go into new beginnings. "},{"Title":"interesting to compare with Eagle Shooting Heroes (1994)","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure of the details of the production of these films but both Ashes of Time and Eagle Shooting Heroes share so much in terms of story, cast and crew that it's interesting that they are such COMPLETELY different films.  Both are based on the story by Louis Cha Eagle Shooting Heroes, as I understand it, Ashes of Time is a prequel to the novel and the film Eagle Shooting Heroes.  The cast for both films are nearly identical and Wong Kar-Wai executive produced the second film, yet they couldn't be more different.  This film is a thoughtful and introspective drama that, while complicated, makes sense ultimately whithin it's complex tragic relationships.  Eagle Shooting Heroes (1994) on the other hand is a broad farce with a wild chaotic storyline that isn't very thought provoking but is a whole lot of fun.  I recommend seeing it if you like ape costumes, genital humor, and centipede-fu.  (I do.)  "},{"Title":"this is Art... with capital A","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  I watched it yesterday (...again...) because I was so sad Leslie Cheung did such an extreme thing... I think he was one the best actor and I especially like him in this picture... This is one of my fav movies. Great cast, intricate plot and wonderful shots. A must have. "},{"Title":"Who Needs a Plot?","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" A broken-hearted hit man moves to the desert where he finds skilled swordsmen to carry out his contract killings.Roger Ebert wrote, If Wong Kar-Wai were a painter, he might sometimes create bold, bright swirls on his canvas, with something figurative swimming into view. Further, I watched attentively, I was dazzled by the beauty of the palate and the fluidity of the camera. He does have a grievance, though. The plot  is somewhat confusing. Well, yes, no one seems to know the plot. Which is weird, considering this version (the so-called redux) is supposed to be an improvement from the original. How can it be improved if no one knows what is going on? Answer plot is not important, just look at all the vibrant colors! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, poetical, but not one of Wong Kar Wai's best","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I am a Wong Kar Wai fan for years, and it took me a long time to finally get my hands on this movie. It's a beautiful and poetical movie. Yet, I didn't like it as much as the other Wong Kar Wai movies I have seen. Actors and characters are amazing, so is also the atmosphere and music. (Even though the music was not perfectly fitting in a few scenes.) The music often uses cheap synthesizer keyboard sounds. I personally like it, I can imagine though, that others dislike it.The thing that put me off the most have been the cuts. So many cuts have been plain bad. I don't actually get how this can happen to such a great director. The action scenes sucked almost every time. Often there have been several cuts in one second. But even in non-action scenes, stuff sometimes was cut too suddenly, and one scene didn't seem to fit to the other.Another problem for me has been the story. To me it seemed, that Wong had great and amazing ideas. Ideas that could have made a perfect movie. But he couldn't pull it off completely. This movie is full of great approaches, but somehow lacks the final cut. The characters motivations couldn't convince me, and I found the episodic stories not perfectly connected to each others. Usually Wongs movies impress and move me totally. This time I have been quite entertained, but rarely impressed and moved. Some other movies of his I'd rate with 10 points. This one is not able to go above the 8 point mark. "},{"Title":"Unrequited passion...","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" There are movies that, by dint of their measured mood alone, can draw the viewer in and hold the attention. VAMPYR comes to mind, as does RASHOMON; SEVEN SAMURAI; STRAY DOG; HIGH AND LOW; THE WINDOW; REAR WINDOW; CLOSELY WATCHED TRAINS; ERASERHEAD; THE BLACK STALLION; TROUBLE IN MIND; others. Add to that select list ASHES OF TIME. Like CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON after it, ASHES OF TIME comes across as a profound meditation on Love Lost, of opportunity missed. The performances are all of the highest caliber- as is the direction. The cinematography by Christopher Doyle is jaw-droppingly beautiful. The music wrings the heart. (And, lest one forget the fight choreography by Sammo Hung is absolutely spectacular.) I read somewhere, once, that it's not the Love we've lost that's important what's important is the fact that we Love at all. I think that's about right. It sure feels right. "},{"Title":"Wong Kar-Wei's Best Oeuvre","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I watched the Ashes of Time when I was in high school nearly a decade ago. At that time, director Wong Kar-Wei's In the Mood for Love, a film featuring 28 sets of cheong-sam, got wide recognition in mainland China and Wong Kar-Wei was deemed to be a stylish director with distinguished talent and personality, whose oeuvres became an absolute must to those who consider themselves a tasteful film-fan. To be honest, I did not find out anything substantial in the well-recognized In the Mood for Love though I like his earlier impressionable tragedy-Days of Being Wild, which was permeated by many Hong Kong-made elements from cinematographic point of view. As to the director's blockbuster-2046, I deem it as the best interpretation of exhaustion of genius and power. But when I heard that Ashes of Time was redone, I was still interested because it's Wong Kar-Wei's best oeuvre in my opinion. It seems that loneliness is the director's favorite theme, and the imaginative story of three characters &#x96; Dong Xie (odd man in east) Xi Du (vicious man in west) and Bei Gai (beggar leader in north) was fantastic. I watched the redone version in cinema, the visual effect is much better,also it looks like that I was taking a nostalgia lesson. "},{"Title":"The swordplay movie that gave a second wind to Hong Kong cinema.","Date":"12 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  (****) With Ashes of Time, world-famous post-modern director Wong Kar-Wai indulges a new found interest in heroic, tradition-based fantasy. In this film, however, heroism is given a tragic edge as the swordsmen's world is a lonely and wretched one. Because of its technical excellence (Wong is again assisted by the talented director of photography Crhistopher Doyle), and the second wind it gave Hong Kong cinema upon its release, Ashes of Time has a profound impact on the current state of the colony's film world. Not only this is the most expensive film in Hong Kong's history, this is also the first swords epic that focus more on its characters'psychology than the fightscenes. If you've never read the cult-saga The eagle shooting heroes from which this film borrows its characters, you will probably get confused. But it doesn't matter, all you have to do is to stop trying to make sense, instead simply enjoy the intense beauty of each individual moment as it passes. A friend of mine was right when he said that the fight scenes were the worst part of the movie (for the most part,the match between the Blind swordsman and the samurai is incredible - the typical kind of terrific sword-play you only see in Hong Kong movies). Buoyed by exceptional performances, this film deservedly won most of 1994 HK Film Awards. The best CINEMATOGRAPHY and the best FILM MUSIC I've ever experienced.  - DQuang. "},{"Title":"Weak film  by Wong Kar Wai's standards","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" I watched Eagle Shooting Heroes a few months before this movie, and enjoyed every farcical HK in-joke and cliché that was shovelled into it. The cast seemed to be enjoying every minute of it, and the fight scenes were well up to HK standards. Unfortunately, Wong Kar Wai, while he is an excellent director of modern themes, completely missed the point with Ashes of Time. It tries to be a philosophical martial arts movie, but lacks the adrenal rush of even the most basic Tsui Hark Wu Xia movies. Brigitte Lin reprises a role that martial arts fans would have seen a great many times previously, and the exploding cliffs and erupting lake are by no means original. Swordsman 2 and East is Red both played the supernatural card to the hilt, with the added benefit of some fantastic fight scenes. Much as I admire Doyle's camera-work in Fallen Angels, Chungking Express, In the Mood For Love, Away With Words, and Last Life in the Universe, I feel that martial arts action cinematography is sufficiently specialised as to be a little beyond his reach. It's not that difficult to see why the shooting schedule went out of the window, or why the cast rushed off to make Eagle Shooting Heroes during the hiatus. The freezeframe action sequences just look weak in comparison to 99% of HK action sequences, and rather than driving the narrative, they almost drag it to a standstill. I can only assume that there was either no action director on the set, or that the person doing that job was seriously inept, and the jerky style was used to cover the weakness of the fight scenes. A shame really, because Eagle Shooting Heroes shows that the cast were very capable of performing complicated fight scenes with their eyes shut. They weren't exactly novices at the genre, and with a competent action director, they are far more convincing as fighters.And therein lies the problem with this movie. None of the fighters are convincing, because we never really see them fight. We see some blurry slow-mo, and greyed out freezeframes, but never get a real sense of what makes them so fearsome. And because of that, the grand sentiments expressed by the leads are rendered almost meaningless.I like some of Wong Kar Wai's films, but not all of them, and I certainly don't place him on a pedestal where criticism is not permitted. He makes great original films, but his attempts to cover well worn traditional HK genres (Heroic bloodshed in As Tears Go By, and martial arts in Ashes of Time) have resulted in his weakest movies. Action films require as many, if not more, thought processes as more artistic character-driven movies, and also demand a certain quality threshold in the action scenes, which an auteur might mistakenly assume comes naturally. It doesn't. "}{"Title":"The root of man's problems is memory.","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Most viewers of this film will know the back story. Kar Wai Wong (2046) collected pieces of his 1994 film Ashes of Time and remastered them to make this film.The first thing you notice is the magnificent cast Maggie Cheung (2046, Hero), Tony Leung Chiu Wai (Lust, Caution, Hero, Infernal Affairs III), and Tony Leung Ka Fai (Zhou Yu's Train). A hint of excellence to come.Christopher Doyle's cinematography is the next thing to capture your attention. While the area is in the midst of a drought and it is desert, it is painted in a way that draws you into the scene. It is simply a visually stunning film from the opening to the end.The swordplay was a dance of magic and added to the film, but was not the central focus. It was love, lust, betrayal, vengeance, pain and yearning that was displayed beautifully by the magnificent actors to a soft and stirring soundtrack.We want to remember; we want to forget. The seasons come and go as does our lives. "},{"Title":"A 95 Minute Smokescreen","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Disclaimer During my ventures into foreign cinema, I have taken a liking to a wide variety of movies that span different genres that include horror, action, drama, comedy, and romance, to name a few. Thus, I have enjoyed the thoughtful, serious tone of dramas as well as the mindless, popcorn fun of action films. With a wide array of Chinese, Japanese, and Korean movies under my belt, I am confident in my ability to recognize bright spots in movies to appreciate and complement. Unfortunately, Ashes of Time has nothing to recognize. It is one of the worst Chinese movies I have ever seen.To start off, this overrated swordplay epic showcases the infamous slideshow action sequence throughout, which is nothing more than an ultra-cheap and pathetic form of action choreography. One simply needs to show a series of close-up pictures of grimising faces, swords, legs and/or arms, and then a dead body. Bravissimo! You now have an action sequence for Ashes of Time. The problem lies not only in its poor quality but also in the fact that the scenes are so chaotic and disjointed that the viewer has no idea what the hell is going on.The dramatic element of this film is nonexistent, as it relies on the characters telling the viewer that they love someone or hate someone instead of actually developing and showing such elements on screen, which renders all characters generic and colorless, leaving the viewer completely indifferent to their actions. In fact, the storyline itself is an absolute disaster, introducing way too many characters way too quickly with way too many plot devices. Plot complexities in films can be used very advantageously (i.e., A Tale of Two Sisters), but Ashes of Time becomes exploitative trash when it does nothing more than convolute a very simple plot for no apparently good reason.In fact, this entire movie acts like a series of smokescreens to cover up its deficiencies. Horrible action choreography is covered up by slideshow tricks and chaotic camera movements. Non-existent character development is covered up by the characters overtly saying how they feel. And a thoughtless storyline is covered up by confusing the viewer with convolution.As if this weren't bad enough, this movie was extremely boring, seeming more like 150 minutes instead of the actual 95.Rating = A rarely given 0/5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Difficult film experience","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"18 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" Your ability to enjoy The Ashes of Time may depend on our expectations before stepping into the theater. Even its most strident supporters seem to agree that audiences can be split right up the middle in their appreciation of this unique film.Unlike most HK actioners, the battle scenes are curiously kept at a distance. When they do happen, they're rendered in a jerky style in which it's difficult to make out exactly what's occurring on screen. The dramatic scenes can be extravagantly beautiful, with the of Maggie Cheung, Brigitte Lin, and a roll-call of HK's top acting talent chewing up the scenery. As with some of Wong Kar-wai's early work, the dialog could be more precise. In short, The Ashes of Time requires a forgiving attitude. Released around the same time as Wong Kar-wai's spectacularly successful Chungking Express, it's clear that the director isn't as confident working with the elements of the martial arts film. Anyone looking for tense action is likely to be disappointed. But those intrigued by the director's aesthetic will likely find this a unique experience at the very least. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I liked this","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":" The director's lowlife movies, I find unwatchable--artsy, trite, student-filmish, and needlessly obscure. This non-lowlife, high-flown mystical movie is all those things and then some, yet I enjoyed it, anyway. Maybe it's because I have a weakness for bittersweet chocolate, and that's what this amounts to isolated figures in yellow desertscapes lamenting the long-lost past to the accompaniment of New Age flute music.That I enjoyed it doesn't mean it wasn't irritating. The swordfights are all in slow motion or freeze frame, and this becomes tiresome; many of the scenes are cut awkwardly and seemingly arbitrarily (how it can have taken the director endless months to finish the movie is not apparent). Unlike some reviewers, I found the chronology easy enough to follow, where it mattered, once I had sorted out the characters; but the sorting-out required a second viewing, with frequent resort to reverse and fast-forward, because the usual aids to identification were lacking. I do like the film; it has stayed with me, and I'm glad I saw it. But in the end, its story, which is very simple, would probably have been better told simply. "},{"Title":"Bad movie...Believe it!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama","Review":"  The direction by Wong is perhaps the all time worst in film history I've ever seen.  This film makes my all time worst film of 2000, Dungeons and Dragons by Courtney Soloman looked like an Oscar winner.  The flaws in this movie is beyond explanation.  The biggest one is the lack of depth.  Every scene does not develop fully as if the editing room doesn't know how to do their job correctly.  Its a shame that with such an all-star cast of talents and a famous popular traditional story can be destroyed by this lack of vision.I am so disgusted and hope that some great director like John Woo or Ang Lee, decide to remake this film and do some justice.  I'm not even sure if I can rate 0/10?? "}]