[{"Title":"It wasn't terrible","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...but it wasn't great, either.  An okay, light-hearted, feel-good comedy. Had a little too much TV-sitcomishness about it, and the main character lady was a little too neurotic, and her husband was a little too suspicious in a TV sitcom sort of way.  But all of that was just a little and overall it was fun to watch.  Mind you -- we caught it on cable -- I wouldn't have wanted to rent it!I give it a B- "},{"Title":"Cool, funny comedy","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When a woman suddenly begins to believe her life hasn't been everything she thinks it should have been she wants to go back and rekindle an old flame. This starts a chain of events involving a mystery pregnancy, a jealous boyfriend and hubby, sexy fantasies, hurt feelings, oddball characters, and loads of laughs. Different, offbeat romantic comedy....loved it. "},{"Title":"Formerly forbidden fruit on which I fondly remember feasting","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I remember when I was around the age of 14, this movie used to be on once in a while... on basic cable! Every time it was on, I always watched and enjoyed every single minute. To this day, I still do.This movie was the reason I wanted to learn how to play the harmonica... not to mention why I got into wearing flannel.Let's face it I'm a born romantic and I was hooked from the first watch.I have it on VHS (which by the way, was a very difficult find) and I refuse to lose it.I give this underrated great a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Actually shallow - here's why I still give it 9!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So how can I? The movie is rather shallow and all the scenes involving the kids are annoying, but you don't have to care about it. I remember having watched it several times always laughing and loving it. The main character is played by Harley Jane Kozak, who is really hilarious. Her character is almost neurotic but really very funny. Elizabeth McGovern is not really good, but you can still enjoy the pair. Bill Pullman is wonderful at his own very special terms, as he always is (or at least was before he starred in ID4) and Brad Pitt is also wonderful in this comedy. It was shot before he became this world-wide sex symbol or whatever and his role is the one of a pitiable, sensitive and slightly intellectual boy who has to bear quite a lot - of the gags. He's really likeable and laughable. I don't say that I didn't like him in other movies, but - check this out, OK?!Though there is much cliche in the movie, the tone of most jokes is really different from common jokes. They all seem new and unique, so again very good laughs.And as I already mentioned, most of them are due to Kozak. Her crazy character offers so many opportunities for nice gags and the movie allows itself to exploit these opportunities. For example in dream sequences, both weird and lovable... in a way they're a class of their own.Maybe it's a question of one's personal inclinations, but I can't see why one should not at least altogether enjoy The Favor. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Early Brad Pitt Movie","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" They say you can't miss what you never had, but one woman wants to put that idea to the test in this romantic comedy entitled,The Favor.It stars Harley Jane Kozak,Elizabeth McGovern,Bill Pullman and Brad Pitt.The movie was written by Sara Parriott and Josann McGibbon, and directed by Donald Petrie.Kathy has seemingly been happily married to Peter, but their relationship has grown routine. She cannot help but wonder what would happen if she ever got together with her high school sweetheart, Tom, who she had never slept with. Being married prevents her from acting on that, so she asks her friend, Emily, to look Tom up when she goes to Denver, and to sleep with him, then tell Kathy what it was like. Emily does this, but when she tells Kathy that Tom is awesome and they had sex all night, their friendship suffers, as does Kathy's marriage. Things become even more complicated when Emily learns she is pregnant, and is uncertain if Tom or her boyfriend, Elliot is the father.This is a poorly made movie.It started at first as smart and intriguing.Suddenly,it made a U-turn and turned into a screwball comedy.The only redeeming thing about it is it features Brad Pitt in his early work before he became a superstar. "},{"Title":"An amusing bit of fluff","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" An amusing bit of fluff for a chick flick. Guys, this is a good date movie! Enough Brad Pitt and silly love crap for them, but amusing enough for us. No gratuitous nudity but HEY, you can't have everything. An unknown actress named Harley Jane Kozak is the star of this film, portraying every man's dream wife - sexy, intelligent, feisty and funny (all in a charmingly unpredictable package) - while at the same time being a great mother. It is sad that Kozak soon gave up acting for good to raise her own family. Watching this film makes me believe she deserved better than obscurity. As usual, Brad Pitt displays the talent that would soon make him a superstar, and Bill Pullman also gives a decent performance. The least talented of the four major players is Elizabeth McGovern. She doesn't necessarily give a bad performance, but rather fails to make the role her own. She could have easily been replaced by any other competent actress without altering the chemistry between the characters. Perhaps another actress would have turned in a more memorable performance. McGovern is one of those actresses of whom most people have heard, and yet few can name anything she has ever been in. As usual with movies aimed toward a female audience, the plot is silly and at times nonsensical. As always, at least one man has to be portrayed as a manipulative scumbag with one thing on his mind while all the female characters are decent and loving and emotionally complex. Thankfully though, this film doesn't take itself too seriously. All in all, despite being a chick flick, this movie is worth watching - perhaps even twice. "},{"Title":"Cute little movie, Bill Pulman and Elizabeth McGovern make it worth watching.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  CAUTION - ALL SPOILERS FOLLOW -- (Note Milt Oberman, Sabmaggot, has a small part, almost says one word during scene on childbirth preparation.)Her friend asks McGovern's character to look up an old boyfriend in Denver during a routine business trip. She does, has a one-night stand, and this messes up her friend's (Harley Jane Kozak)mind. Meanwhile McGovern is dating Brad Pitt, an artist, and they are having trouble commiting. Bill Pullman is the harmonica-playing nerd of a college professor married to Kozak, and begins to follow his wife around, thinking she is having an affair.Everyting comes to a head in Denver, the old boyfreind is just a playboy, Pitt and McGovern decide to stay together with their child on the way. Pullman and Kozak re-affirm their love.It is a very pleasant film, and actually has a good message - those in our past are seldom what we fantasize, and don't take your mate for granted. "},{"Title":"It is a comedy of errors!","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An adorable romantic comedy directed by  Donald Petrie (Mystic Pizza, Grumpy Old Men). Great Music with a lot of blues and Ray Charles! Bill Pullman (While you Were Sleeping, Zero Effect) is Peter who is happily married to gorgeous Kathy Whiting,  Harley Jane Kozak (When Harry Met Sally) has a Cinderella Complex.  Although she is happily married, she has fantasies about an old boy friend whom she had a  relationship with. There was no final closure, and hopes that one day he will show up in his plaid shirt, and they will gallivant off on his white horse into the horizon. She is always day dreaming about this guy.   Emily,  Elizabeth McGovern (Ordinary People, The Misadventures of Margaret) is Kathy best friend. Kathy asks Emily to look up her old boyfriend. Emily is an alter ego of Kathy, who is living through her. Painter Elliott Brad Pitt (A River Runs Through It, Legends of the Fall) is Emily &#145;s boy-friend, who is ten years younger than her. This is a situation comedy where the one is thinking one thing and expecting something to happen but something completely different happens. That is what makes this movie funny! It is a comedy of errors!Favorite QuotesI was kind of happy, in a miserable kind of way. Is that worse than being miserable in a happy kind of way? ;  I like sleeping, it makes the years go by faster.; You are like a disease you invade someone's life and attack yourself. Favorite scenes  Peter playing the harmonica, Kathy in her red dress and high heels getting stuck in the cracks, Elliot getting punched twice in the face for no reason at all. This is just a fun, hilarious unpretentious comedy!  I have the tape and enjoy watching it! Just plain fun.  "},{"Title":"Mostly funny","Date":"3 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kathy is a bookkeeper in Portland, Oregon who has two children, Gina and Hannah, with her science professor husband Peter. Her 15-year high school reunion is coming up, and she can't help but wonder what life would be like with her old boyfriend Tom. Kathy's best friend Emily agrees to go to Denver, where Tom lives, and investigate what he is like. Emily comes home from Denver claiming to have had wild sex with Tom. Meanwhile, Emily's younger artist boyfriend Elliot is nice but he and Emily break up over his lack of interest in boring stuff.Miscommunication results in a lot of laughs later. And it just happens that Elliot is going to Denver for his job. This sets up some wild situations.This is pretty good most of the time. Some of the jokes didn't work for me. In particular, I didn't care for the women's obsession with Brad Pitt's body. I get that if it were the other way around, I would understand. But this just wasn't part of the appeal for me.I've always like Harley Jane Kozak, from the time she was a college professor on The Guiding Light. She always has such a pleasant personality and she's attractive, though not beautiful. She does well here.Pitt does a good job too and is mostly pleasant.Some of the best comedy comes during Kathy's fantasies or nightmares. Though in one case, Kathy is having neither a nightmare nor a fantasy. She is actually wearing a smoking hot dress that a hooker might wear, with a wild hairstyle. I don't really think of Kozak as sexy, and while I got the joke when her husband didn't notice when she put on a sexy nightie and behaved in an alluring way, this is just a standard joke with married couples and I was able to appreciate it without being turned on by Kozak.There is one particularly funny scene where Kathy takes a drug not intended for her. Even though there are kids, and a kids' birthday party, kids that age shouldn't watch this. Some of the sexual humor is quite potent. I had a good time, mostly. "},{"Title":"sorry its awful","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" sorry I have to give a bad score for this movie. although this movie was starring with world class actors/actress, but the acting looks not so good in this movie.first is a man married a woman who became pregnant because she slept with another guy?and he still loves her very much? come on. What moral message to be conveyed? as if to give justification for such action.secondly wife meet her former lover and kissing and the husband can take it for granted just like that? sorry I have to give the value of awful. "}{"Title":"An underrated original sex farce/romcomedy","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a combination of sex farce and romantic comedy in which a married woman with children starts dreaming about her ex from high school and just can't stop thinking about what if. To end this she asks her friend to look him up, sleep with him and tell her how it was.This is a pretty original idea which gives this movie some fresh air. It was pretty fun to watch and while it all ends in the best way possible one can't predict every step of it.The characters are not too deep but pretty entertaining. The acting is on the right level. It was pretty fun to see Brad Pitt in one of his earlier movie roles and oh my is he hot in it! Since not all main characters are well known I looked up Harley Jane Kozak and it was pretty interesting to see that she was one of the main characters in Santa Barbara and is a pretty successful mystery writer now.The character Emily is pretty cool considering that she is a very independent woman with a pretty fun life. And Bill Pullman shows a different level to his sweet husband character.I guess there is not enough sex for a sex farce which makes the dream sequences seem like a bit too many. If I am not mistaken it is an R rated movie which is a bit surprising as it is pretty mild. The ending is pretty simple and in a happy ending way but it brings a lot of laughs before that. "},{"Title":"More suited to sitcom than film","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kathy (Harley Jane Kozak) is married to Peter (Pullman) with two kids. However she fantasizes over a college boyfriend. As a favour her friend Emily (Elizabeth McGovern) looks him up on a trip to Denver and comes back with tales of this powerful, beautiful man. This immediately causes a rift between them which is resolved when Emily falls pregnant to steady lover Elliot (Brad Pitt). At this point the plot of college boyfriends takes a sideline to the plot of Emily's pregnancy.This starts off as a curiosity with it being funny to see stars like Brad Pitt and Bill Pullman in a less than starry production. However it is quite amusing for the most. The main problem with this is that it doesn't seem to want to settle on one plot - there's the Kathy fantasy, the Emily pregnancy, the Emily/Tom affair, the Kathy/Peter marriage, the Peter/Joe suspecting affair piece. There's so much going on that it gets a little disjoined and it's difficult to follow one cohesive story. Sure there's links between them all but it still makes for a film with no clear direction.The story is the main weakness, as everything else is pretty good. The performances are all touched with a sense of fun that adds to the comic atmosphere of the film. However once all the storylines come in it's difficult to keep that element, especially near the end where the stories begin to come together and a lot of the resolutions begin to come together due to coincidence as much as anything else.It's also difficult to believe that Emily wouldn't jump at the chance of being with Brad Pitt, or that Pullman would get so confused over the situation, never mind the fact that Kathy's dream lover looks like Billy Ray Cyrus - who would fall of that?!What starts as an inoffensive comedy becomes overly complicated and relies on the type of solutions that would be more at home in a TV sitcom rather than a film. It's a shame because the rest is not as bad as you could have been. Oh - and it's spelt with an 'U' by the way.  "},{"Title":"I thought it was adorable!","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved it, watched it twice last week and hope it comes on again! I had never heard of it before and it just came on, soon as it started I knew I would like it.  Bill Pullman is wonderful in everything I've seen him in, and Brad Pitt, what can you say he's gorgeous and a wonderful actor. "},{"Title":"Twist of things...","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Lemme just say right of the bat that this movie was so cuteo)  And quite unpredictable.  Seeing Brad Pitt was definitely a sight for sore eyes though, lol.  A gal loves her husband, but thinks of her ex boyfriend from high school, who slept with her friend after she asked her to, who has a boyfriend (sort of) who she ends up having a baby with... yeah, that's called CONFUSION, lol.  But I like where you have to remember and think and take a step back and realize certain things... Definitely deserve a least a star of two more on IMDB. Great movie, see ito) "},{"Title":"How entertaining? very..","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie was actually good. I don't personally know anyone who saw it before I turned them onto it. Elizabeth McGovern was great in this one. She did great job of being the woman most women would love to be like (I.e...Remember when we said we'd stop when it wasn't fun anymore? Well, it's not fun anymore). Bill Pullman was very good as the silly husband with his cute little harmonica. Harley Kozak is good in this too(Good enough for me to be surprised that I haven't seen her in anything else). The only character that didn't impress me was Brad Pitt. It's a comedy about a married woman who wonders what her old high school boyfriend is up to now. Haven't we all wondered something along that line ? ) "},{"Title":"Worst acting I've seen in a long time","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  O my God. This is so bad it's nearly funny. Yes, nearly. The twists and all the cliché's are in here. I just saw the movie with a friend (because we had breakfast and put the TV on) and just kept shaking are heads.Harley Jane Kozak is so overacting it's just pathetic. And why Bill Pullman is playing in ANY film is beyond me. The guy has ONE look. The i lost my glasses and now i have to squeeze my eyes to see anything look.Brad Pitt just wasn't convincing. He's done far more better jobs than this.This film is just BAD. No surprise from a director who gave us 'gems' as 'Mystic Pizza'  and 'my favorite martian'.Sorry, i hate to be all negative about a film but this one gave me no choice.  "},{"Title":"Cuteness doesn't cut it...","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is shown too often on cable; I thought it was made in the 1980's; but, no, it was circa 1994.If it WAS the '80's, I could excuse its superfluousness. As other reviewers have described the age-old plot; I need not get into it. Bill Pullman is usually in good projects, so this is a sincere disappointment.Harley Kozak (who??) plays the bleached blonde wife; Elizabeth McGovern the öther woman. Beyond this, there is no plot, you may well turn on Äs the World Turns and see the same show tomorrow.The one hit wonder Billy Ray Cyrus is also a bit player; I really don't know who the target demographic for this movie is...maybe housewives in Arkansas with a net worth of $10,000.00 or less. This movie is a complete insult to the audience; rent The Accused with Bill Pullman, instead, at least he gets to act in it. "}]