[{"Title":"Eddie Murphy's unsatisfying turning point","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think Beverly Hills cop III was an extremely regrettable turning point in the nice career of one of the most talented and funniest black comedians Hollywood has ever seen - Mr. Eddie Murphy. Before it he used to be funny or at least much funnier. He appeared in the rather enjoyable flicks like 48 Hrs., Coming to America, Another 48 Hrs., The Distinguished gentleman, Boomerang and of course Beverly Hills cop I & II - two beloved movies that'll always be his very best works.Then someone decided to add part three in the so far terrific Beverly Hills cop saga. This time Axel Foley was on the mission of revenge and the comedy was unfortunately replaced by action. Who forgot that most of the glamour behind these movies came directly from the humor? Even though John Landis - the man behind hit comedies like The Blues Brothers and Three Amigos! - sat in the director's chair the end result just wasn't that funny anymore or at least it was funny very rarely and that's a bad thing if we compare part three to its absolutely hilarious precursors. ...and as it happened, after Beverly Hills cop III Eddie Murphy got roles from the movies like Vampire in Brooklyn (with only couple of excellent scenes), Metro (that apparently wasn't supposed to be funny in the first place), Doctor Dolittle (cute little film for kiddies who love furry animals that talk), Holy man (interesting but more confusing than amusing) and Nutty Professor II The Klumps (definitely one of his worst movies, waste of his undisputed talents and a model example of a comedy that doesn't make you laugh).Lately I saw Life and surprisingly it was pretty brilliant and alongside with fairly good Bowfinger it's the only completely clear exception in this course. What I'm saying is, Beverly Hills cop III started it all. Was it all just a coincidence or was it meant to be that Eddie Murphy's best years were in the 80's and early 90's? I can't tell. This is just the way I see things. "},{"Title":"Pretty weak","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Watched this for the first time last night, and was pretty disappointed (was on a triple bill with BHC 1 & 2 on Bravo, great way to ring in the New Year!).Not overly funny, the villains were pretty weak, which is odd as John Saxon is usually pretty good as a bad guy, and Tim Carhart was great as Eddie Willows on CSI. Seemed very forced at times, and definitely lacked the Foley-Rosewood-Taggart chemistry that made the first two films so successful. Hector Elizondo is no replacement for John Ashton. The return of Bronson Pinchot as Serge was painful to watch.5 out of 10, based more on Eddie Murphy's performance than anything else. "},{"Title":"Inferior  third part  of the trilogy about  Axel Foley-Eddy Murphy as freelance cop","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Action pace and comedy by a magnificent Eddie Murphy who is back with his classic character Axel Foley , he is a foul-mouth,street-smart and freewheeling Detroit police agent . When his chief is murdered ,he heads to L.A. to investigate. He arrives to resolve the responsible of death his chief , there finds the old friend Billy(Judge Reinhold) .The clues lead a private law enforcement named Ellis(Timothy Carthart)and henchmen,suspects of killing , they are running a counterfeit money ring at a theme park called Wonder World. He's helped by a pair of sympathetics L.A. detectives(Hector Helizondo,Judge Reinhold) causing wreck havoc on the way as happens at a security guard congress where Ellis is appointed as Name of the Year.This silly third entry is packed with action,thriller, shootouts,fast pace, and tongue in cheek with lots of humor. It's a recital Eddie Murphy accompanied by two sympathetic partners, Reinhold and Helizondo substituting to John Ashton now retired , creating an authentic buddy movie , being developed in agility and movement.The picture contains spectacular scenes,stopped action as is usual in the Don Simpson-Jerry Brukheimer productions. ¨Fish out of water¨ formula is seen in several movies , being here pretty entertaining , it originates enough laughter to satisfy the viewer ,for that reason is bemusing. The picture provides fast and furious amusement with spectaculars scenes and action-packed .Relief comic in charge of Eddie Murphy because of his foul and fast talking creates most big smiles and causing wreak havoc on the way. Besides his various jokes with the sidekicks steal enormous laughters.For that reason the picture is a ¨Buddy movie¨ although are a trio the protagonist Murphy-Reinhold-Helizondo.Eddie Murphy as street-smart detective is top notch, as Axel Foley is his greatest smash hit and converted him into a top international star reaffirming his status with continuous success.Friends's couple,Judge Reinhold and Hector Helizondo, as good policemen, are fine and likable. Director John Landis enhances stunningly the hilarious comic relief of Eddie Murphy for his fast talking and jokes with the buddies that cause most big laughs and the abundant gags subordinated to action.This vehicle for Eddie Murphy as amiable police is terrific,it's his greatest success and became him in a world star confirming his position as number one in the box-office. Cameos by numerous cinema directors as George Lucas, Martha Coolidge, Barget Schroeder, Rick Avery, John Singleton,Ray Harryhausen, George Schaeffer, Joe Dante, among them. Catching music with again the international hit smash by Harol Faltermeyer.Glimmer and colorful cinematography by Marc Alhberg.The motion picture is regularly directed by John Landis because it contains some flaws and gaps. The picture will appeal to unstopped action buffs and Eddie Murphy fans. Rating  Average though amusing. "},{"Title":"Good but pales in comparison to its predecessors","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy's third outing as Detroit police detective Axel Foley who seems to have made more of a crime fighting contribution to Beverly Hills still generates some power in the series but the first two films are naturally the better ones. The film inexplicably removes the John Taggart (John Ashton) and Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox) characters from the series and adds a shallow new character named John Flint (Hector Elizondo). Fortunately, Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) is still around and he still manages to be a perfect foil for Foley. Foley's third case in Beverly Hills is a little improbable but the action scenes help to make up for the plot which has to do with Foley matching wits with a corrupt head of security (Timothy Carhart) at a popular Beverly Hills amusement park called WonderWorld (a creation of Paramount Parks). The park character costumes and designs are nice and colorful and Theresa Randle helps to pick things up as a potential love interest for Foley but the film doesn't give Murphy very many funny lines and that is a disappointment if one wants to label this film as a comedy. The action is as usual great but Murphy is reknowned as a comedy star and the lack of laughs here prevent this from being a perfect series. Still, it's a very good series.  "},{"Title":"Where's Jerry Bruckhimer when you need him?","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has to be the worst of the series!! THE WORST!!! The action   sequences are a complete joke, as if it were a parody of itself.With   Beverly Hills Cop 3, it's like the director forgot this wasn't a music   video or a B-Grade horror flick, but an action-comedy....the key word   here is action, which means realistic gun battles. See, the first   two films had cleverly placed comedy relief where it was needed, and it   had a very serious gritty side. As far as the dialogue is concerned,   PLEASE DON'T ASK!!!! The only element that was pleasing and resembles   (not quite,though)the hilarity of the first two movies is when Axel and   Rosewood enter a Gun Expo a gaze upon a urban assault weapon with a   CD-player and a microwave and the moment when Axel disrupts a speech by   Ellis DeWald (the bad guy who killed his boss). THAT'S IT! Of all the   people in Hollywood with professional experience to direct a decent   action film, and BHC III picks John Landis. Why? And what in the bloody   blue hell was he on while he was directing this insult to modern   cinema. At least the Batman franchise was good through the third   movie! What's the deal with this movie being a goddamn amusement park.   If it is in Disneyland-type park then make it a Die Hard/Lethal   Weapon-type of fare at least.    Almost everything and I mean EVERYTHING is a discouraging mockery to   the series even the car chase at the beginning was complete and total   joke. Why couldn't the producers and director stick to terrorists and   political assassins and have it end in the classic all-American,   white-knuckle, sweaty-armpit inducing style of shootout/bloodbath in   the amusement park. Hey Landis! Stick to directing cheesy-ass videos   for billion-dollar diva musicians!! Sadly, I hate myself for saying   this, but as absurd as most of Jerry Bruckhiemer's movies are, this is   the only franchise where his sensationalist fantasy is needed the most. "},{"Title":"Not enough Murphy wisecracks and only dull action scenes","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" How could they make one more than two films in this series? The Beverly Hills Cop movies is a sign to moviegoers everywhere that putting a big star in whatever familiar thing he has done to death already, and way better by the way, is a total lack of originality. If they had only made the darn thing funny at least but John Landis, who is usually pretty dependable as a comedy director, seems more interested in putting cameos by directors in every scene, so it will at least be something that you can kill the time spotting.Every character is dull, and the reprise of Rosewood and Serge's characters only generate mild interest because we have seen them before.The villain, played by Timothy Carhart, is totally expendable and it's a wonder why they couldn't at least have brought in a stereotype police captain like in the first two parts. That would have generated some mild chuckles at least.Murphy would go on playing cops in two more movies to date, but here the general idea of having the outsider cop solve everything has completely lost it's warranty and try making sense of the rather trite closing showdown between the cop and the villain in the amusement park. It's amazing that rival Warner Bros. could make a movie series where the sequels where ten times more entertaining than the two sequels of BHC but maybe it was because they were all made by the same team of Donner and Silver. Three directors have been assigned to a Beverly Hills Cop movie and I think if there is a fourth on the way a new director is hemline that one too. "},{"Title":"The worst in a once promosing series","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"24 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop III is the worst in what was a promosing action comedy franchise. Murphy was in a carrer slump and I guess he made this film to help out his carrer but it didn't help just sunk it deeper. The film is full of mistakes such as the loss of Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckhiemer a weak script and a lack of action. John Landos who worked with Murphy before and made good films fails here. The film needed a good action director like Renny Harlin or Dwight H. Little or even Karthyn Bigelow. Skip this one even if you're a die hard Murphy fan.  "},{"Title":"This is the REAL sequel.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  BHC 2 was a disappointment, I was far happier with #3. In the third Cop installment Eddie Murphy brings the character back and manages to make everything fresh again (not an easy thing to do after 2 previous movies as this character). The plot about stolen mint paper was interesting and the return of Serge was a delight. All in all, this is the sequel that people need to see. "},{"Title":"a great movie, not a high quality movie, but quality time watching it","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although it it not a very good movie according to critics, which I totally understand, it is a great movie because of the fact that you do not have to think about it. I could just sit back and enjoy the movie. Eddy Murphy is again very funny. That Bogomil and Taggart from the first two parts were not in this movie was a pity, but with Judge Reinhold it was still the same feeling as with the first two parts. The theme park where most of the movie takes place looks very realistic, and also the damage that is done to it is huge. In short this film is not a high quality movie, but a very nice film to sit back, relax and enjoy the humor and action. Only pity is that the dutch rental DVD is missing out a scene. I remember once seen the movie on TV that there was a scene on the balcony, after Axel joined Ellis De Wald on the stage where he got his price for man of the year. There was a fight, before Axel was arrested, but this scene was not on the DVD. For the rest there is only an interview with the actors on the DVD, but this is very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Axel, you on a coffee break? Go get that sonofabitch.","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You would think that anyone who could do the hilarious Amazon Women on the Moon would be a good director. Sorry, Mr Landis, but you blew it on this one.Maybe it was just one sequel too many, but it fell short of the previous two and is just something to watch if there is absolutely nothing else on TV.Only Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) and Inspector Todd (Gilbert R. Hill) are back with Axel Foley in this one. Billy is great with Axel, but this film just doesn't have the action of the other two.Theresa Randle provides the eye candy. "}{"Title":"Why does everyone consider this movie to be so bad?","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I would just like to say that this is a VERY VERY good movie along with the other 2 Beverley hills cop movies.  The 1st 2 are definately far superior to Beverley Hills Cop 3, but never the less this movie is still very good.The return of Serge is a god move as it brings back plenty of laughs and the use of a theme park is also a very good move as not many films use a hideout which is family orientated.This film is hilarious and if anyone disagrees then please e-mail me. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't see why everyone bashes this movie, it is a great 3rd Installment to the series, and I don't think it could be better, unless they found a way to include the 3 missing characters from the other two. If you enjoyed the other 2,by all means watch this one. Eddie Murphy makes this movie,like all others he is in, a bundle of laughs and more. This time Axel Foley (Murphy) finds a clue connecting a vicious crime to WonderWorld, an amusement park with a few secrets. Billy Rosewood returns, so don't think Murphy is the only continuing actor of the series, and Axel's boss (The foul-mouthed one) has a part in the movie...MY RATINGS 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"Better Than People Say","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the TV guide this movie was given Don't bother but I thought I would watch it anyway.That was the first time I did watch it and I enjoyed it heaps. It had action in it and also humor. But I think this one is the worst Beverly Hills Cop out of the three. I have this one on tape off the TV and it is bad because they cut out the swearing.(Which would have added to the humor) This Movie is not the worst film but not the best. I hope Number 4 is going to be a big hit,if they make it. On a scale from 1 to 10 I would give this Movie a 5. It was I guess only OK though it could have been better however I hope this movie hasn't stopped any chances of a number 4 coming out. "},{"Title":"Weakest of the three","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The third installment in the Beverley Hills Cop trilogy is by far the weakest of the three. The first problem is that there isn't even s starting theme tune. The whole feel of the movie is much more slapstick than the first two and ads a result it feels very superficial. With the first there was a feeling that this could possibly happen in real life, but this film is just too silly. Practically none of the regulars are there Todd's there but he is killed in the first five minutes, there is no sign of Bogomil, Taggart is briefly mentioned as having retired and Jeffrey's not there either. There is much more killing here, which is another unbelievable element. Have said all that it does have a few funny moments, especially from Serge. It's not the worst film ever made, but it's nowhere near as good as the first two in the series and indeed doesn't even feel like a Beverley Hill Cop movie. "},{"Title":"Better Than Given Credit For","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy), while investigating a car theft ring, comes across something much bigger than that the same men who shot his boss are running a counterfeit money ring out of a theme park in Los Angeles.This film generally gets a bad rap, being accused of being the worst in the series. Even director John Landis has distanced himself, saying that Murphy was going through a rough time in his life and was not giving it everything he had. These may be fair comments, but the film is still better than given credit for.Maybe not as funny as the first two, and maybe Murphy is more toned down, but there is still plenty of fun here from Bronson Pichot and others... not to mention an overall decent script. Even just trying to identify the director cameos is a fun game. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy isn't as Energetic this Time Around,but it's Still a Lot of Fun,","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop 3 is an enjoyable movie with a decent storyline and a good comedic cast.Its certainly not better than the first two Beverly Hills Cop but it's still has good comedy and action.My main problem is that Eddie Murphy just didn't seem as inspired this time around,he made Axel in to a much more serious character,I'm not sure if that's how the script was written but I think it was just his acting,definitely one of Murphy's most dull performances,he is usually much more lively.However there still are scenes where Axel Foley had me laughing out loud and Murphy was really in character,particularly the scene where he accidentally ends up in stage and starts dancing with the costumed characters.I really enjoy the Beverly Hills Cop movies and hope a fourth one is someday made,Murphy's age will not be a problem because he still looks great and still plays very lively characters in his movies.Fans of the first two will without a doubt be disappointed,but should definitely watch it because the characters and story is still good. Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) returns to Beverly Hills to find the men who killed his boss,and finds out the case is much more difficult when it leads him to a theme park where the same men are making counterfeit money within the park. "},{"Title":"Good film!","Date":"14 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Many people think it's a bad movie. I don't think so. But this film has a different style than the first two movies. Those movies were 65% comedies and 35% action films. This movie 70% action and only 30% comedy (in my opinion). I think it happened because movie industry changed in early 90s. In my opinion 1992 was the last year of the era of really good old movies. Buddy cop movies such as 48Hrs, Red Heat, Lethal Weapon and the Last Boyscout weren't popular anymore. And the first two Beverly Hills Cops were somewhat in that style (but maybe more a comedy). It seems to me that producers wanted to continue Axel Foley's adventures but weren't sure what direction to choose. So they decided to make a more action and dynamic film than the first two. And don't forget screenplay was written by Steven E. de Souza (Commando, The Running Man, Die Hard I, II, 48 Hrs.) So it was going to be an action film since the beginning. And in this film we find humour not in dialogues (like in comedies) but in action sequences what is natural for films with De Souza's script. So please don't abuse this film. It's quite good but it has a different style than the first two and was shot in wrong time for such movies. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"26 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought Beverly Hills Cop III was a good film and Murphy gave a good performance as Axel Foley in it but I was rather disappointment with the absent of John Taggert. Hector Elizondo gave a good performance as Detective Flint but his character just didn't seem to fit up there with Taggert. Alan Young I thought gave a good performance as Uncle Dave the park owner and I loved the cameo by Robert B. Sherman in the bar but I think the film would of been better and liked by more people if Taggert came back and maybe they had more cop comedy in it They kinda turned this movie into a kid comedy like film than a cop film. All in all a good movie and great action I give Beverly Hills Cop III an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good but not great for extreme action fan!","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In my opinion, Beverly Hills Cop III (I will abbreviate the name as BHC III for the rest of my comments) tried to soften the tone of this movie from the extreme action to be more comedy, so it may be make many movies fan, especially, BHC fans disappointed with BHC III.I think many BHC fans at that time (1994 when the movie was released) hoped BHC III could make more fun due to its great action and comedy skit. However, BHC III made this movie more comedy than its precedent, even the first 10 minutes of the movie could show the feeling of action but it was not competent.The death of Insp.Douglas Todd is too easy and no origin. BHC III didn't told any connection about Axel Foley and Todd even everyone could know later that Todd was Foley's boss. But this movie could made confusion to the viewer because Douglas Todd didn't has any role before and he appeared only 5 minutes of the movie.For my comments, I didn't say this movie is bad. The movie has some quite fun scene such as the first time of Axel Foley in Wonderworld. And also this movie has a good plot. However, the climax of the movie made many one disappointed. The death of Ellis De Wald is too silly. Did the BHC III's crew try to make fun on how Foley killed him? If the crew wants to do that, De Wald should be killed by stabbing a quill tohis eye! God Sake! It didn't mean the main villain should died in an extreme situation every time but the fight in the climax should be more interest. Foley and De Wald had a little fight before it became the end of De Waldwhich many one unsatisfied with it. Why the way of the climax didn'tsame as BHC I or BHC II? For the summary, I think this movie is funny at the one point. It's good for comedy but not great for extreme action. I believe many movie fans wish the BHC IV which will be occurred in 2010 should be better than BHC III but if you didn't care about how the comedy was over than action, BHC III could be your one's choice. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first two but not entirely bad","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly hills cop III is the third film in the Beverly Hills Cop series.The fourth one is set to come out in 2009 or 2010.The bald cop from the first two films is gone but Eddie and Judge return.There are a few funny scenes and is overall pretty entertaining.It is just not as good as the first two Beverly Hills Cop movies.Axel's partner gets killed during an investigation.So Axel tracks the villain to a theme park, where he causes havoc and tries to find a way to bring the man to justice.The film also stars John Saxon(Enter The Dragon, Nightmare On Elm Street).Beverly Hills Cop III is a good enough sequel, just not as good as the others) "}{"Title":"Still fun and exciting.","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" By critics' reviews, Part III may have been the worst off of the three Beverly Hills Cop movies by far; however, I thought it was still fun to watch and great entertainment. Part III deals with Detroit Cop Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) stumbling upon a counterfeit ring, operating from a Beverly Hills theme park by a corrupt community leader Ellis De Wald (Timothy Carhart). Foley witnessed the same man that gunned down his boss when he was investigating a car theft ring in Detroit earlier. As a result, it's back to Beverly Hills for Axel and another mission of exact revenge and clashing with the Beverly Hills Police Department.Although comedies, the first two films had a sensitive and no-nonsense touch to it, dealing with high-profiled police cases. This film, by contrast, has a more light-hearted touch as a large part of the movie is set in a Disneyland-style theme park called Wonderland. I didn't mind this, actually. The movie was still action-packed and Murphy still had his humorous and witty-style while portraying Foley. De Wald, the main villain, is probably the most ruthless of all the bad guys in the three movies - very devious and trigger-happy.Theresa Randle was great as park employee Janice, and she had good on-screen chemistry with Murphy. And, Judge Reinhold returned and gave another memorable performance as the calm and cool Billy Rosewood. I didn't care for the Jon Flint character very much (Hector Elizondo); I thought he served no real purpose in the movie other than trying to intervene with Foley's unsuspecting police moves. I would have preferred the the filmmakers putting Sgt. Taggert's character (John Ashton) back in the movie rather than retiring him off.Rounding up the cast was a bunch of nice cameos by screenwriters, composers and directors, including George Lucus and Richard and Robert Sherman, and a co-star role by Alan Young as Walt Disney-like character Uncle Dave. He gave a memorable and touching role and I wished the filmmakers could have made Young appear in more scenes.Overall, not the best of the Beverly Hills movies, but not a distant third either.Grade B "},{"Title":"Back again in Beverly Hills on a roller coaster ride","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy returns again as the always lovable Axel Foley who returns to Beverly Hills on a roller coaster ride of thrills at Wonderworld amusement park.The casting of this film in some ways isn't as strong as the previous two but in some ways just as good.Either way,I found this movie to be the funniest of the Beverly Hills Cop trilogy.Another main reason why I thought this was the funniest of the three was because Judge Reinhold is in perfect form as Axel's best friend,Detective Billy Rosewood.The rest of the cast was also well placed and I thought the directing by John Landis was good for a movie like this.I am hoping that if they make a fourth one that it can live up to the likes of the previous three including this one. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Good Movie....","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK Now BHC III doesn't live up to the first 2, but in my opinion is still very underrated. It still has a lot of action in it a lot of shooting a good story and is also funny because of Murphy. The only thing I did not like about this movie was Cox, and Ashton were not in this one. They were a big part of the first two. But in conclusion this was a very good movie and I enjoyed all 3 very very much and I'm a Big Eddie Murphy fan now because of these movies. I can honestly say that I was not a fan of him at all until I saw these movies. I own all 3 of these movies, and if the 4th one does end up being made hopefully it will be like the first 3 and still be a rated R movie with a lot of action and comedy like these 3. I really really hope they don't bring down the rating and make this a family movie or ruin this at all. AXEL RULES!!!! Thank You MR4 "},{"Title":"Axel Foley In The 90's","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Come on, lets face it, It may not be the best Beverly Hills Cop movie in the series but they tried their best to make it good. This movie was made 7 years after the second movie was made. Eddie Murphy returns as the wonderful Axel Foley, this time he is trying to find the killer of his boss Insp Todd which who was gunned down on Axel's last assignment. With the help of his friend Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) they go on a roller-coaster ride to Wonderworld to find the killer. This movie is a mixture of action and comedy with some of the best one-liners that Axel has said. Yep this movie is full of swearing like the first two but it has more violence, but hey that's life.Steven E DeSouza wrote this story with the help of Eddie Murphy making rewrites and overall this made a pretty good story. The new producers on the film Robert Rehme and Mace Neufeld take over from Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer and the new director the great and funny John Landis takes the helm. Sadly a few actors are missing from this movie there's no John Ashton and Ronny Cox. The movie starts a bit different to the other two movies, there's no starting credits, the movie just starts. But along from that the movie is very funny and is a good part in series. John Landis has put a lot of director cameo's in this movie they are George Lucas, Martha Coolidge, Joe Dante, Peter Medak, Arthur Hiller, Barbet Schroeder and John Singleton. All of the cameo's from the director's are very funny and makes you wonder if they really do this sort of stuff in real life when they aren't making movies. It might have been panned by critics and people, but overall its very funny and a great movie. "},{"Title":"Actually quite good","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I recently saw this film on cable a few days ago and realized that it wasn't as bad as I originally thought. Whereas the first two films in the Beverly Hills Cop series were more dramatic and serious, this was pokes fun at itself and is a comedy. If you can take this turn towards the comedic in stride, then you will enjoy Beverly Hills Cop III. For example, there is the running joke that Axel goes to Wally World and when he calls Billy and tells him he's going to Wally World after he has an arrest warrant, Billy is at first Axel, you have to turn yourself in with policemen looking on in his police office - then - No! Wait for me! like he's going to be left out! It's lines and situations like these that make this part III so funny. And Serge's cameo is a hoot! Recommended! "},{"Title":"It deserves some credit","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film deserves more credit then it receives! This film wasn't as good as the first 2 i agree but it was still entertaining on some levels, Murphy was VERY funny in sections of the film, as he always is, and the rest of the cast did pull there weight. The plot is all so extremely interesting, better then the second, But there is one thing that this film lacks....and that is the character trio of Axel rosewood and taggert...there were comedy geniuses at work in the first too. You may call me bias for being a Eddie Murphy fan but this is one of my favourite films in the Beverley hills cop series.....even if it isn't as good.... i like it for the plot, as many of you should, Birkett "},{"Title":"Great action movie, great  Eddie Murphy movie, but not a great Beverly Hills Cop movie.","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One thing that separates this from the 1st 2 is the action. The 1st 2 were comedy based with little action, part 3 is action based with little comedy. The comedy still here just not as consistent as the 1st 2. Sadly neither Bogomil, Jenny Summers, Geoffrey or Taggert appear in this film. Tagert is briefly mentioned. Billy Rosewood, Inspector Todd and Serge from part 1 do reprise their roles.The plot has Axel in Beverly Hills tracking Inspector Todds killer around a theme park. This is my favorite of the trilogy but for the majority its a good action and Eddie Murphy movie but not a good Beverly hills Cop movie. "},{"Title":"Landis does it again (unfortunately)","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not rating this movie because I only saw the last half. I was flipping through channels on a Sunday afternoon and saw Eddy Murphy in a big blue furry animal costume and decided it might be worth a look. I'd seen the first two Beverly Hills Cop movies, thought they were okay, and it didn't take long to realize this was a sequel. Not a very good sequel, though. And I began to recognize a certain trademark style. The editing was sloppy, the action kept switching from comedy to drama within any given scene, nothing really seemed to work the way is was supposed to, and there was a sort of anything for a laugh mentality that threw plausibility out the window while still expecting you to take the movie seriously. The pointless appearance of Ray Harryhausen as a bar patron clinched it. Wait a second, I said to myself, this must be a John Landis film! Sure enough the end titles rolled and there was Big John's name on the screen. I used to have high hopes for Landis. I thought American WEREWOLF IN London, up until the ridiculous denouement, was a terrific movie. Now I think he's the most talentless of all the major directors, and ironically his forte seems to be mega-budget comedy, which is probably the genre he has the least talent for. Still, as long as people keep paying to see them Hollywood will keep hiring him to make them. God bless America! "},{"Title":"more comedy, but still good","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The thing I like about the BEVERLY HILLS COP movies is that each one is a little different. The first has a nice balance between comedy and seriousness, the second is a little more darker, and the third is a bit more on the lighter side. I've always wanted to see an action movie make good use of an amusement park. Not just a one-scene visit or something, but a film that actually shows us the inside story of one, exploring the control rooms and the underground workings. BEVERLY HILLS COP 3 did just that. The opening sequence in Detroit gets the film off to a good start with a shocking and unexpected moment, which prompts Axel to return once again to the land of Beverly Hills. Once things get going, it's clear to see that this is a different film from the others in terms of how much comedy there is.Bronson Pinchot's Serge returns in a funny scene, but John Ashton (and Ronny Cox) are absent this time around, Det. Taggart having retired. Judge Reinhold is back, and Hector Elizondo is on board. Not quite as good as Ashton, but he does the job. Timothy Carhart makes the perfect slimeball criminal, and Alan Young (Scrooge McDuck himself) is a pleasure as Uncle Dave, the owner of the Wonderworld amusement park. My favorite sequence involves Axel rescuing two kids from a malfunctioning ride. Man, where did they find that crazy stuntman? Just watch the scene and you'll see what I mean when I say that was one crazy guy. It would have been nice had Disney allowed them to use Disneyland as the park, but (since they didn't want their park to be associated with an R-rated movie) Paramount had to find another place, and what better to use than a park you already own? Paramount's Great America, located in Santa Clara, California, was a terrific stand-in for Wonderworld. Local residents who have been there countless times (like myself) will have fun pointing at things and saying, That's not there.And don't forget to keep an eye out for all those cameos. That's special effects wizard Ray Harryhausen at the bar, director Joe Dante as a jail cop, and George Lucas himself as the angry park visitor Axel cuts in front of. Still not as good as the first one, a little more enjoyable than the second, but still a fun movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was working on my list of worst movies ever made and a friend mentioned this movie.  I had actually blocked out watching it because it was so bad. The first movie is pretty strong, the second is OK.  This one is one ranks down there with Batman & Robin and Gozilla as the worst of Hollywood big budget drivel. "}{"Title":"Passable, mildly enjoyable.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Passable action comedy, certainly not as bad as its reputation suggests. The emphasis is on the action, with some good stuntwork, but there a few mildly funny comic bits as well. Although he works with recycled material here, Eddie Murphy comes through with a likable performance, and the direction is less loud and aggressive, more well-balanced and cool than Tony Scott's work in BHC II.  (**) "},{"Title":"a great movie!!!!!!!!","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i don't know why every1 voted this movie bad coz i think it's a brilliant comedy. it's funny as well having Serge back in. I mean this is definitely my favourite one out of the hills cop trilogy coz it's da funniest well it's your decision but take it from me, its GGGRRREEEAAATTT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"As Bad As It Gets","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have only been on this website for a few short days, and this is only the second review I have done.  So why did I choose this movie to review and not more natural choices?  Because this movie sticks out as one of, if not the worst film, I have ever seen.I loved the first movie - Eddie Murphy was outstanding.  The second film was more entertaining than funny - but it was still good and the characters were strong.That's what made this movie so disappointing.  The pieces were in place. John Landis was back.What they made was a movie so horribly unfunny that five years after seeing it, I still use it as a measuring stick for movie futility.I may have seen worse movies in my life.  But after Beverly Hills Cop III, I can't remember them. "},{"Title":"The heat is not on the street this time... or anywhere else.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy called the original Beverly Hills Cop his best movie after 48 Hrs., and with good reason; the first sequel wasn't as good but it certainly had its moments. But for Beverly Hills Cop III... well, I never thought I'd say this, but where are Simpson and Bruckheimer when you need them? Not to mention Ronny Cox, John Ashton and John Landis when he was good? (In 1996 Landis had the unfortunate task of having to come to Britain to promote his movie The Stupids - unfortunate because it opened here the same day as Independence Day, with predictably horrific consequences. I felt very sorry for how he was reduced to stuff like that... and this.)When an operation to take out a chop-shop goes wrong and leads to his boss being shot and killed, the trail leads our hero from Detroit to Beverly Hills again (to paraphrase the words of Bruce Willis, How can the same s*** happen to the same guy three times?) and in particular to a Disneyland-type theme park. But unlike the other two movies, which had a good mix of action and comedy, Beverly Hills Cop III is alarmingly short on actual humour and way too violent; Steven E. deSouza's script has by the numbers stamped all over it, and hardly anyone seems to have his or her heart in it, including the usually dependable Murphy. (Hector Elizondo, Judge Reinhold and John Saxon are welcome, but underused.) Just as Licence To Kill didn't really feel like a Bond movie, so this doesn't feel like it belongs with the other two; even the return of Bronson Pinchot as Serge feels arbitrary.Add a scene with an amusement ride in peril that's ruined by effects that would be easier to forgive if this movie had been made in 1974 rather than '94, throw in a poor score by Nile Rodgers that leans heavily on Harold Faltermeyer's Axel F (not that fans of song soundtracks have anything to cherish here either), and you have a real life-sappening loser - almost as bad as Boomerang, which at least had Halle Berry. Joe Dante, Arthur Hiller, Martha Coolidge and Barbet Schroeder are among the cameos in this one; you almost wish they had directed.Another reason why I don't like parks... "},{"Title":"A terrible let-down","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a terrible, terrible film.The first two in the series were fairly simple, fun films, relying mainly on Eddie Murphy's performances but nevertheless with strong backup from the rest of the cast (particularly in the first one), and a certain eighties 'cool' factor that, while obviously dated, still charms.In this one though, it Eddie Murphy wears a bit thin, and the plot reads like a McBain (of Simpsons fame) film, with its horrific cliches and awful script. Even the music was redone so that only once in the films do we here it in its classic version.And what was going on with Judge Reinhold?I guess Axel Foley just doesn't belong in the 90's. "},{"Title":"Implausible mediocrity.","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How Landis, Lucas, and even Murphy lent themselves to this debacle is beyond me.  Maybe it wouldn't have been so bad if the many implausibilities didn't make it such a departure from the first movie, which I thought was very good.The one armed rescue from the ferris wheel?  Come on!  No one has that kind of strength.  And how did he escape burning his hand on the rope?  How come all the bad guys, who were supposedly from the best security firm in California, couldn't hit the side of a barn with their uzis yet Axel and Co. hit dead center with virtually all of their shots?  How did Axel produce counterfeit money with his image on it in like 10 seconds?  How come the security guards gave Axel so much hassle when he first tried to enter the park, yet when he enters the corporate center , he is unfettered?  The list goes on and on.Now, I know what you are saying.  It's a movie!  It's not supposed to be real.  But you see, the first episode of the series was quite plausible, and in contrast, made the this third  film highly suspect and therefore subject to ridicule.Suffice it to say, we won't be seeing BHC IV any time soon.  Thank God! "},{"Title":"Insanely bad B movie","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 1. Terrible scripting. Choppy editing (I could do better with a VHS MACHINE). This made the acting seem 2-dimensional and uninspired. That said, the script and screenplay were a mess, with stilted dialogue and humor-intended situations where they all but used a laugh track on punchline. It was NOT funny. Really- not funny at all. Not believable. For example, if a cop SEES someone murder a person, and the murderer later even openly confesses to that cop - why would the cop then have to prove it? What's left to prove?? THE COP IS AN EYEWITNESS. AN EYEWITNESS!! (2) machine guns are useless in this movie; WHO COULD MISS WITH A MACHINE GUN?!? Yet everyone does- CONSTANTLY. People do things in this movie that defy logic, reality, or both. Bad guys shoot people in public (in the open) but they use a suppressor, so nobody notices (SERIOUSLY?!?). A cop is attacked, it's filmed; but when they play it back its been terribly edited and minutes removed; yet still this proves nobody attacked him ? A guy turns a carnival ride off and on, which sends it into meltdown, cables break, and it falls apart. Ummm. No. I loved Bev Cop I (I rated it 9/10). This was not just disappointing, it was pathetic. Not worth the electricity to watch it free on TV. (Oh, and it was not funny.). "},{"Title":"Not as bad as advertised.","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Is Beverly Hills Cop III better than part 1 or 2? No. Does that make it a bad film. Of course not. There are some good qualities to this film that makes it enjoyable. First the villain was much better than part 2. Using an amusement park as the base location of Axel Foley's investigation gave it a unique feel instead of running all over Beverly Hills again. That we have seen 2 times. Eddie Murphy was his usual Axel Foley self while Judge Reinhold returns as the goofy Billy Rosewood. The biggest problem was audiences were not ready for another Beverly Hills Cop movie and to live up to the previous two was impossible with not having the full cast from the previous films. Overall I have watched this numerous times. Plenty of action and laughs make this an entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Third time's the charm","Date":"22 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although it was panned on release and much hated by fans of the earlier films, I think BEVERLY HILLS COP III is a pretty decent conclusion to the trilogy. It sees Eddie Murphy on typically energetic form as renegade cop Axel Foley, this time investigating a gang of counterfeiters whose base is beneath a popular theme park.The theme park setting allows for plenty of fun moments, including a high-stakes piece of drama that wouldn't be out of place in a Jackie Chan film like MY LUCKY STARS (Murphy's stuntman is made of strong stuff, that's for sure). The plot is just complex enough to sustain the running time, and another feather in the cap is the presence of director John Landis, who knows a thing or do about shooting an entertaining movie.Landis fills his movie with various cameos which keep the viewer entertained amid all the laughs and action chaos. BEVERLY HILLS COP III is no masterpiece but it's considerably more fun than pretty much all the comedies (Murphy's and otherwise) that followed. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Comedy Hijinks","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Probably the absolute best of all the Beverly Hills Cops films, this one is simply brilliant. It certainly shows Eddie Murphy to his utmost advantage and he is electric when on screen. There is no denying his overwhelming comedy turn, the stunning timing, and improvisational cunning in this particular film. It amounts to Eddie Murphy run wild, with no restraints, and little interference or participation by the director. Eddie is this movie. Even though much of the original cast members did not participate in these delightful shenanigans, Murphy has no problem at all carrying the proceedings without their distraction. There superior aspects of this film are too numerous to enumerate here but let be said that if you only see one Beverly Hills Cop, let your choice be that of Beverly Hills Cop III. "}{"Title":"Amusement park really stupid but Eddie Murphy still charming","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axle Foley (Eddie Murphy) is in charge of a car theft ring take down but doesn't call in SWAT. They confront some heavily armed killers who just massacred the crew. His beloved boss Inspector Todd (Gilbert R. Hill) is killed. Secret service agent Steve Fulbright (Stephen McHattie) stops him from catching the bad guy. Some evidences point to Wonder World in LA owned by Uncle Dave Thornton (Alan Young). Axel goes out to California to reunite with Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) who has a new partner in Jon Flint (Héctor Elizondo). Axel gets into a shootout at Wonder World and even rescues a couple of kids. Ellis De Wald (Timothy Carhart) is the head of park security who Axle immediately recognizes as the man who killed Todd. Flint is a fan of De Wald and doesn't believe Axel. Uncle Dave tells Axel about some suspicious things and Janice (Theresa Randle) tries to help him.The story is pretty stupid and the amusement park setting is really silly. I guess it's suppose to be subversive somehow. Instead, it just diminishes the movie's edginess and realism. It makes everything look cheesy especially with George Lucas making a cameo. Bronson Pinchot's Serge makes one of the strangest career change ever and it adds even more to the cheese factor. Eddie Murphy is still the same charismatic guy and it's nice to have Judge Reinhold back. However this one misses John Ashton and Ronny Cox. It also misses some sense of realistic action. "},{"Title":"A Good Follow-Up That's Missing a Few Things","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Once again, Axel's back in Beverly Hills, a place that he may as well just move to since he's always doing his job there instead of where he actually should be. And again, he's there to investigate a fatal attack on a friend of his. Taggert and Bogomil are nowhere to be seen, which is a shame because those two characters were great, and the only actors to reprise their roles for this installment were Eddie Murphy himself as Axel, Gil Hill as the always angry, always loud-but-somehow-not- obnoxious Inspector G. Douglas Todd, and Judge Reinhold as Rosewood.Despite these absences, the movie works surprisingly well on its own, though even at its best, it's the worst in the trilogy. But that's not to say this movie isn't fun, because it is. It's understandable why fans would hate this movie, and honestly I'd expected to hate it too, but I wasn't disappointed at all.Axel is in Beverly Hills, once again against orders from the cops in Detroit AND Beverly Hills, to investigate the murderer of his now-dead superior officer, which leads him to Wonder World. Wonder World is like a discount Disneyland that serves as a cover for a counterfeiting operation.It's the most generic and flawed of the three, and it stays true to the formula the first two followed without being bold enough to try something different, but for what it is, it's still enjoyable and doesn't deserve as much hate as people have thrown at it since its release.Give it a shot. It's a love it or hate it thing, I guess. I liked it. "},{"Title":"Mostly pointless cash-in","Date":"27 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" (46%) The first was a good fun action comedy, the second was more hard edged and stylish; very 1980's, this though isn't really anything. The very kid friendly theme park setting doesn't go with the R-rated script because the makers didn't (or couldn't) do anything with it that's really all that inventive or smart to get past the issue. It's also very much a movie that ticks boxes as it goes along. Shoot outs, tick, wise ass Eddie, tick, generic bad guy, tick, it's all just a little tired and worn. That said it's not awful, as it passes the time decently, but overall it's still a lazy sequel made entirely to cash grab from past success. "},{"Title":"I don't care, I wear suits.....","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy was in desperate need of a hit after a string of decidedly dodgy movie (Boomerang was but a blip in an ever descending slide for Murphy) so what else could he do, but go back to his career defining role?While it wasn't the hit he or the studio wanted it to be, it's still an entertaining piece of fluff, and the best thing he'd done since Coming to America.Inspector Todd gets killed by a smarmy bloke, and Foley ends up in B.H yet again, to exact revenge on the man who killed his Boss, by arresting him for some dastardly crime.So it's an excuse for Murphy to swear, and get into scrapes and to have lots of famous directors have cameos for some very bizarre reason.It's not a brilliant movie by any means, but it tries hard not to look like a blatant cash in of one of the most iconic movies of the eighties. Murphy is as good as ever, and its nice to see familiar faces yet again, even though it feels somewhat forced.Set pieces are good, but way over the top, and are lacking in the Simpson/Bruckheimer sheen that made the other movies stand out so much.All in all, its a cash in, no other way to put it, but at least it entertains, even if it does have a really bizarre theme park rescue in it, and George Lucas wearing a cool jumper. "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Spider-Cop!","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What made me want to see this one in the theater I have no recollection. I did go see it, however, and that one time I saw it at the movie theater when it first came out was the only time I saw the film. That means I have some memory of it, but it is fleeting at best as this film was not particularly good or memorable. It certainly was not as good to me as the second Beverly Hills Cop film, which was my favorite. I did not even like this as much as the first film which I was not all that crazy for. This one has Axel going back to Beverly Hills to find those responsible for the murder of his chief, and of course it is a rather flimsy reason. Well he goes back to the Hills and an amusement park seems to be at the center of things here and you get this scene where Axel jumps with ease on a moving Ferris Wheel type ride making people in the movie theater wonder aloud if he were Spider-man. Along the way of finding his chief's killers and catching the bad guys he runs into his old friend played by Bronson Pinchot who is a bit funny, but you have seen the character once and there really is not much more you can do with him to make him any funnier and fresh. So all in all a rather dull ride of a movie, this film came at a period where Eddie was in a horrid slump and he probably thought this was the film that could break that slump. He thought incorrectly and I am afraid if he makes part four it will be for the same reason, to break an even more horrible slump and again I am afraid he will be mistaken. "},{"Title":"The Least Inspired Beverly Hills Cop sequel!!!","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This uninspired sequel about a counterfeit ring operating in a Walt Disney look-alike amusement park qualifies as the least entertaining entry in the Beverly Hills Cop franchise. After producing Beverly Hills Cop and Beverly Hills Cop 2, Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer had nothing to do with this pathetic Paramount release that unimaginatively drags Detroit Detective Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy of 48 HRS) back to California for the third time. You can tell when a franchise has run out of momentum because it starts knocking off its own characters. Further, neither Taggart (John Ashton of the first two Beverly Hills Cop movies) nor Capt. Bogamill (Ronny Cox of the first two Beverly Hills Cop movies) return. Nothing is ever said about Bogamill's absence, but we're told that Taggart has retired. Indeed, nobody replaces Bogamill, but franchise newcomer Hector Elizondo appears to be John Ashton's replacement. Let's not forget Paul Reiser's character Det. Jeffrey Friedman who is conspicuous by his absence. Not even witty Bronson Pinchot can rekindle the magic with his English-language challenged foreigner, Serge, who no longer works at an art gallery, has concocted what he refers to as a firearms boutique. Sadly, this is one sequel that shouldn't have been made. Although the stunt work is exemplary in the Spider Ride park scene, the recurring firefights between our hero and the trigger-happy villains conjure up neither suspense nor tension. Beverly Hills Cop 3 recycles one of the most deplorable movie clichés. Specifically, the well-armed villains cannot hit the side of a barn with their machine guns. Axel's one-liners and the dialogue are both forgettable. Murphy doesn't field many laughs and looks idiotic wandering around in an elephant costume.Animal House helmer John Landis doesn't let the derivative action bog down in complications, but the contrived Steven E. de Souza screenplay yields few surprises. Axel doesn't suffer any setbacks on the scale that he did in the first two outings. Simply said, Landis and Souza develop few things that haven't done before with greater polish. The only exciting scene occurs early in the action when the bad guys riddle the sports car that Axel appropriates when he chases them through the streets. The multitude of bullets that the ruffians pour into Axel's car wind up dismantling it piecemeal until it falls apart. Director John Bonito would borrow this gag for his 2006 thriller The Marine with wrestling sensation John Cena. Worse, Axel seems to have lost his ability to clown around with everybody as he did in the first two. Murphy grins a lot and nothing he does boasts a glimmer of spontaneity. Meanwhile, this abysmal second sequel looks like hack work, and Innocent Blood lenser Mac Ahlberg doesn't make the shoot'em up scenes look cool like they were in the original and the first sequel. Despite the profane language, this ignominious R-rated crime thriller qualifies as a by-the-numbers, cookie cutter actioneer. Clearly, the franchise had lost its agility by this time and nothing Murphy does resuscitates it. While he is investigating the chief villain, Ellis De Wald (Timothy Carhart of Thelma & Louise), Axel flirts with Janice (Theresa Randle of Junge Fever) who works for everybody's favorite uncle, Uncle Dave Thornton (Alan Young of TV's Mr. Ed) who cannot figure out what is happening in his theme park. Beverly Hills Cop 3 resembles the original only in the narrative respect that our protagonist leaves Detroit and heads back to Beverly Hills to arrest the scumbag that shot his boss, Inspector Douglas Todd (Gilbert R. Hill of Beverly Hills Cop), during a Tuesday morning raid on an auto chop-shop in the Motor City. The complication here is that Axel goes into the operation with the idea that mechanics won't be wielding machine guns, so he doesn't summon S.W.A.T. for back-up. While Axel is telling Todd that there is no reason to bring S.W.A.T. in, De Wald and his machine gun wielding gunmen shoot up the garage, killing all the chop shop personnel so De Wald can get a delivery van filled with U.S. Government stamped boxes. This opening gambit replicates the one in the original when Axel's friend is murdered. Once Axel enters Wonder World, the film degenerates into claustrophobic mediocrity. The scene when Axel brandishes the Annihilator 2000 gun is one of the worst. Of course, our hero cannot get the elaborate firearm with a CD-player and other gadgets work correctly when he faces down a couple of villains with machine guns. Timothy Carhart makes a smug villain, but he never really poses a threat to Axel. Incidentally, Landis indulges himself by inserting Hollywood directors in cameos throughout his movies. If you look closely, you will spot George Lucas, John Singleton, Joe Dante, Barbet Schroeder, Peter Medak, Arthur Hiller, George Schaefer and Martha Coolidge in some of the scenes. Sadly, the third time is not the charm for either the Beverly Hills Cop franchise or Landis and Murphy who teamed up again after Trading Places and Coming to America.Skip Beverly Hills Cop 3. "},{"Title":"BH III Barely Makes A 3 Rating","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As sequels go, they rarely live up to the first, but for Eddie to allow himself to be so...poorly directed by such a usually great director is baffling to me. It's almost as if, throughout the entire movie, the whole cast is simply rehearsing to make sure when they actually do shoot the real flick, it's done well. From the gags to the fights to the disarming of the bad guys, everything seems to be stilted, over the top, and obviously phony.I have liked just about everything Eddie has done in his career and watch many of his movies time and time again. Beverly Hills Cop III is one that will definitely not be getting a second viewing. "},{"Title":"In for the ride of his life","Date":"19 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have always loved the films of John Landis. The first Landis movie I saw was 'An American Werewolf in London' and it remains one of my favourites. I know I am in the minority but I also enjoyed 'Blues Brothers 2000'. An unnecessary sequel, though, and the late John Belushi was irreplaceable in the role of 'Joliet' Jake Blues.'Beverly Hills Cop III' is a worthy sequel and Landis should be praised for doing something different rather than just rehashing the first two films. Most of the action in the third installment takes place at an amusement park named Wonderworld which, Detective Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) discovers, is the headquarters for a counterfeit money operation.The film opens with a bang as Axel and a bunch of fellow cops bust an illegal 'chop shop' handling stolen cars. A shootout ensues in which Foley's boss, Inspector Douglas Todd (Gilbert R. Hill, credited as Gil Hill) is shot and killed. Axel's subsequent investigation leads him once again to ritzy Beverly Hills and the less-than-legal goings-on at the Wonderworld theme park, masterminded by the smooth and deadly Ellis De Wald (Timothy Carhart). Foley is reunited with Detective Sergeant William 'Billy' Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) who is now the head of a clumsily named crime prevention department. He tells Axel that their mutual friend Detective Sergeant John Taggart (John Ashton) has retired. It is unfortunate that Ashton does not return for the sequel; it would have made for a nice sense of continuity. He is very believable as a grouchy cop in the first two films.The highlight of 'Beverly Hills Cop III' is a sensational action sequence in which Foley rescues two young children from a malfunctioning Spider ride. It is extremely well-executed and shot, and will really have you on the edge of your seat.Bronson Pinchot, very funny as flamboyant art gallery salesperson Serge in the first movie, reprises his role in 'Beverly Hills Cop III'. This time he is demonstrating and selling a ridiculous home security device which Foley later utilises against his enemies at Wonderworld.Once again, there is a nice balance of action and comedy. Perhaps the biggest problem with 'Beverly Hills Cop III' is that it is anticlimactic. The film peaks early with the breathtaking Spider scene, and the action denouement at the film's end is, by comparison, rather disappointing. Despite this, 'Beverly Hills Cop III' is a ride worth taking. "},{"Title":"Funny Ah Ah very loud and noisy","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" That's a comedy, as you know and expect, and any occasion is good to make something funny, or heroic, but that heroic act is at once turned into some fun. Take fun being a hero. The centre of the whole action is a theme park in Los Angeles with as many rides as you can imagine, but the entrance fee is rather high, thirty five dollars, especially for year 1994. And don't think it is a travesty of Disneyland or Disneyworld or even Wonderland, the mainland of Alice. It is just Wonderworld, with dinosaurs and other monsters and a few criminals dressed up as security guards perambulating among the crowd.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"Truly Awful","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was so disappointed with this film, I loved the original and not only that but the Director, John Landis, made my favourite ever film An American Werewolf in London.It is un-cinematic, the actors are not engaged, the script is woeful and the pace pedestrian. Every one seemed to just show up for the pay cheque.It's not the worst film ever made but it's a real franchise killer and sticks out as real waste of pedigree considering what came before it and the people involved.O out of 10 for effort, every one concerned should be very, very ashamed. "}{"Title":"Not awful, but incredibly misconceived...","Date":"7 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's amazing how the BHC franchise is seen as something of an emergency button marked career resuscitate. Sure, there was an obvious sense of inevitability about a first sequel, and it pretty much followed straight afterwards, just restoring Murphy's stock after one less than stellar box office feature (The Golden Child).After that there'd been the classic Murphy of Coming To America, another huge hit, followed by a string of adequate - and probably better than their reputation - movies in Harlem Nights, Another 48 Hrs. and Boomerang. This then saw Murphy's stock drop again with the underrated but underachieving The Distinguished Gentleman... which is where Beverley Hills Cop III comes in.Though two or three years in the planning, it was the one designed to bring him back. Deservedly it was his biggest flop to that date, as it was, perhaps non coincidentally, also his worst movie at that point. A fat, bloated string of nonsensical set pieces that sees such indulgent turns as acting roles for all of Landis's director friends, it lurches from one meaningless sequence to the next. The behind the scenes documentary alledges that the writer didn't even know what the criminals would be using an amusement park for until very near the end of the project's genesis. That pretty much says it all... what WOULD a criminal gang be using a Disney-style amusement park for? The fact that the film was location first, plot second points at everything that's wrong with Beverley Hills Cop III.It's surprising that the movie misfires as much as it does, considering that Landis was behind two of Murphy's best pictures - Trading Places and the aforementioned Coming To America. That said, the absence of previous stars - Hector Elizondo stuck playing an obvious John Ashton clone in Ashton's scheduling absence - does hurt the picture, along with Murphy's phoned-in performance. That said, the move away from comedy and into action also doesn't help, Murphy getting his final huh huh huh huh after seeing himself and his friends shot and bleeding to death. Yet to compensate for the lack of a Ronny Cox or a Paul Reiser, they bring back Serge from the first film. While it's always amusing to see Bronson Pinchot attempting to make Eddie Murphy corpse on camera, the fact that a homosexual coffee house owner has now become an arms dealer shows how events frequently serve the plot rather than any form of logistical sense.All this said, Beverley Hills Cop III isn't a BAD film as such, and it's always watchable, if not terribly good. All of the edge that was there previously has gone, and the ludicrousness of the situations fail to engage the viewer. After this it was a flop vampire movie (made for less than Murphy's entire fee for Beverley Hills Cop III) before Nutty Professor was the one to bring him back. After that, Murphy went into a spate of successful child movies and a series of decreasing returns playing multiple characters using fat suits, culminating in reputedly his biggest-ever flop, Meet Dave. Cue Beverley Hills Cop IV.... "},{"Title":"Better the last few movies he made!","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In these times, stars will do some good movies, then they'll be doing some real cheesy ones. Beverly Hills Cop III is a small, yet acceptable come back for Eddie Murphy. This time, Foley goes to a them park in Los Angeles after his boss in Detroit is gunned down, in the theme park, he uncovers a counterfeit scheme. I guess the car theft ring could wait for him. Now Foley always avenges someone he's close to, somehow, counterfeiting really gets him heated up. When the bad guys cover up their plans, Foley is on them like fleas on a rat. Of course when the main culprit is turned on against by his own boss, the heat is really on. His two West Coast comrade's Taggert and Rosewood(John Ashton & Judge Reinhold) are always on his side, and they won't rest until Foley solves the crime. All three of them get shot, no surprise, they still rely on Foley's expertise to find the culprits at any costs. The return of Bronson Pinchot really helped the movie a little, somehow the reviews kinda give it the shaft. I say that this movie is one of Murphy's better roles compared to the other flops he did in the 90's. Some times it's one person's year, and sometimes it's not. Don't put down Eddie Murphy because this movie didn't do well. I liked it! Rating 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Weakest of the series, but still decent","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I really enjoyed the first two BEVERLY HILLS COP movies so I assumed this one would be just as good.  It has some good action scene's, particularly the opening shootout/car chase, as well as several very funny moments, like the part where Axel has to dress up as an elephant.  There were a few things I did'nt really like about this movie.  There were a lot of gags in this movie, many of them that do not fit in to a movie like this.  The BEVERLY HILLS COP series is supposed to be a pretty serious film series, and director John Landis put several sight gags in this film, ones that dont really belong in a film like this.  I think they should've got an action director for this movie, like they did the first two.  Aside from that this is a decent action-comedy and its worth a look. 3/5 "},{"Title":"There's a new cop in town...once again","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop 3 is about the funny and famous detective Axel Foley who tries to stop a bunch of thugs who are stealing cars.  This time, he ends up going to a Southern California theme park to nab them.  Does this series ever stop being action-packed or what?  Eddie Murphy resorts to his old tricks the 3rd time around.  This has been yet another thrill ride.  Keep up the good work Eddie.  ****stars.  (Paramount) "},{"Title":"This may be the worst in the series, but that doesn't mean it's bad","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop III opens up with Axel Foley(Eddie Murphy) and several other officers at a Detroit chop shop.  Axel and the other cops are there on a bust.  Soon, Axel's boss, Sergeant Todd(Gilbert R. Hill) shows up and asks him why S.W.A.T. has not showed up yet.  Axel tells him that he canceled the S.W.A.T. team.  Soon afterwards, several other cars show up.  The men in the cars, lead by Ellis De Wald(Timothy Carhart), kill the guys in the chop shop.  Axel and the other officers move in.  A shoot-out ensues.  Axel's boss, Todd is killed by De Wald.  Axel, swearing revenge, heads out to Beverly Hills to pursue his investigation.  Once there, Axel meets up with his old buddy, Billy Rosewood(Judge Reinhold).  Taggart(who was played by John Ashton) has retired and now spends his days lost in the woods looking for his golf balls.  His spot is now taken by Jon Flint(Hector Elizondo).  Axel soon begins his investigation into his boss' murder and it's Beverly Hills Cop I all over again. All right, I'll go ahead and admit that Beverly Hills Cop III is basically a repeat of the first Beverly Hills Cop.  The acting here, with the exceptions of Eddie Murphy, Hector Elizondo, Judge Reinhold, Theresa Randle, and Timothy Carhart, basically sucks.  The story sucks too.  Just because there are a lot of faults with this movie, that is not a reason to hate it.  I mean, Eddie Murphy is funny as usual, but some of the jokes are a little thin.  Had John Landis not directed this film, this probably would have been a complete waste of time.7/10     "},{"Title":"A Big Disappointment","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is definitely a let down from the previous two.  Both I and II were serious cops and robbers action movies into which Eddie Murphy added his style of comedy.  The comedy added to the action but the movie was still about the good guys vs. bad guys.  This movie tries to be all comedy and as a result falls flat, looking for the knockout joke with every scene.  The cops look like idiots, the bad guys are caricatures.  As a whole the movie is a let down. "},{"Title":"YUCK!","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you are a fan of the first two Beverly Hills Cop movies, DO NOT watch this one.  It was so bad that it made me like the first two less.  The first two movies were comedic action movies.  This one tries to be funnier but comes off as the sort of film Disney would make if Michael Eisner became a fan of action movies.  Awful, awful film.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Cop III a good movie despite all","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before I read other people's comments I thought that this movie was the best one of the series and the last good film of Eddy Murphy because I think that Eddy's 90's films isn't good because they isn't so brilliant as th 80's.So i think that many people criticize this movie because they remark the fact that in this there isn't the last two films characters but, If someone see this film not thinking this, can find it amusing and better then the other ones because of the presence of amazing scenes like the one of the ferris wheel.So i think this movie isn't so bad as many people think despite its disappoint proceeds in the 1994. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  At one time John Landis made great films, Animal House, An American Werewolve in London, Trading Places etc, at one time Eddie Murphy made great films, Beverly Hills Cop, 48 Hrs, Trading Places and Coming to America, sadly they also made this, a travesty and an insult to the brilliant original. I don't blame Eddie, but he has nothing to work with here, the script is lame, the story is pathetic and it just doesn't FEEL or LOOK like a Beverly Hills Cop film. A lot of the key personnel from the first two wisely chose to miss out on this one, 7 years after Beverly Hills Cop II and this is the best they could come up with, thats mind boggling ***3/10*** "},{"Title":"BY FAR THE BEST ONE","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie and let me tell you that this one was by far the best.  It started out with a crack down on a chop shop but when they got there the cops found that they were not the first to arrive.  Through this they go to wonderworld to catch a bad guy and this is where the movie really starts to get good, from laughs to deaths this is by far the best cop movie yet.... "}{"Title":"It's a Beverly HIlls Flop","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The early 90s were not kind to Eddie Murphy. Paramount butchered Another 48 Hours in the editing room, audiences turned their noses up at Boomerang, and almost nobody even bothered with The Distinguished Gentleman. Eddie had lost his pulling power and decided to go back to the role that made him a superstar. But 1994 just wasn't the right moment as most of the cast and crew were busy, leaving very little in the way of continuity. Several scripts came and went, and what we finally got was a lame 'Die Hard in a Theme Park' story.There is a huge list of reasons why BHC3 stinksNo Taggart. No Bogomil. No Jeffrey. No Harold Faltermeyer. No Bruckheimer/Simpson. No opening title. No wisecracking.Don't get me wrong, I like Hector Elizondo, but he's no substitute for John Ashton (who's absence is explained with a single, flippant line of dialogue). I can't help but think if the above list was shorter then the movie wouldn't have been such a failure. Where on earth did the $70 million budget go? John Landis' action scenes are flat and static, with no real spark or energy.All three Beverly Hills Cop movies have had horrible scripts, huge plot holes, and hammy villains, so I guess in a way it IS in keeping with the tradition. Eddie Murphy gives a very lazy, disinterested performance as Axel Foley, which reminds me a lot of Seagal's effort in Under Siege 2. Neither of them wanted to be there and were phoning it in long distance. This is NOT the Axel you know and love here.It's saved from the gutter by Judge Reinhold's gung-ho as usual Rosewood, and the last minute addition of Axel Fox, a nice touch and the most three-dimensional character in the movie. "},{"Title":"They should have stopped at number II","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  **Starring Eddie Murphy, Joey Travolta, and Jon Tenney.When Axel Foley's boss is shot and killed, all the fingers point to a theme park owner.  The theme park owner is also the owner of a car theft and counterfeiting ring.  It's up to Axel Foley to put a stop to all of this and catch his boss's murderer.It doesn't have hardly any laughs (though it may slightly entertain you), but I do give it credit for having an interesting plot. "},{"Title":"Part III is running on fumes","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" According to John Landis, Murphy was very depressed during filming and his $15 million paycheck certainly didn't cheer him up, as he's pretty catatonic with the occasional smirk and animated laugh he does so well. The script has all the problems of budget cutbacks and pencil stabs from middling executives and producers. The screenplay is written around one lame location, which just speaks volumes on how bereft of ideas and lazy this film is. Once Axel arrives at the theme park, we are introduced to evil security guards, who I hope get a bit more than minimum wage for their commitment to being extra evil - especially when they cause a ferris wheel to go out of control, which becomes a boring story detour for a few minutes to flatly film Murphy's stunt double jumping around the ferris wheel to save some kids. After years of misbehaving on film sets and staring in one bomb after another, Judge Reinhold left Hollywood with his tail between his legs, only to resurface in this stinker. After apologizing for his arrogance to the industry that spit him out, Judge seems like the only cast member excited to be in the film - and awake for that matter. The story plays out like a sitcom and even though there is profanity, this feels like kids stuff. If you catch this edited on network TV, you would mistake it for a family film. The villain is as lame as a generic baddie can get and his motivation even more cartoonish. The congratulatory end, complete with applause, confetti and a freeze frame is the nadir of the franchise. "},{"Title":"You want to shake your head and demand a rewrite","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop III is littered with a lack of inspiration and excitement when, considering its genre, it should be overflowing with those attributes. It's so uninspired and redundant that it actually makes me recall its unremarkable but not wholly irredeemable predecessor with a certain fondness. Its predecessor suffered from a lack of interest in trying anything new with its material, but at least it featured a strong performance by Eddie Murphy and some engaging direction by Tony Scott. This film can barely muster up the energy to make you want to watch it until the end credits.The film, once again, concerns Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy), the wise-cracking street cop who was ejected from the streets of Detroit, where every bad neighborhood was dealt with the hard knocks way to Beverly Hills, where affluence and extravagance takes place. But even in the wealthy area comes crime, as we learn about a band of counterfeiters who are rampantly printing money and are also responsible for the murder of Foley's boss. With his best friend and partner Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) by his side at all times, Axel begins scoping out a local theme park by the name of Wonder World, which is the likely source for this criminal activity. The problem is that the theme park is patrolled around-the-clock by corrupt security officials and guards, aware of the illegal activity at hand, but uninterested in reporting it, and making Foley look like a delusional, mentally unstable man for thinking so (not hard, when you run around wailing a gun and shouting).The first film in the Beverly Hills Cop franchise was a big winner in my book, bearing frequent laughs due to Eddie Murphy's constant, zealous comic ability and delivery combined with Martin Brest's terrific direction, which blended the action and comedy together fittingly and excitingly. The sequel, on the other hand, had some considerable charm, given Murphy was still on top of his game and changing directors from Brest to Tony Scott wasn't a bad move, given Scott's incredible ability at action setpieces, however, the film had a frustrating inertness when it came to wanting to try something new and different.With the third film, all energy and hope is lost, starting with a criminal move by writer Steven E. de Souza to undermine Murphy's comedic talent, giving him a more traditionalist, interchangeable cop persona rather than one that has ability to excite or provide substantial comedy. Murphy looks tired and ferociously unamused with the film, as if de Souza wrote the Beverly Hills Cop III in a vindictive manner, not giving any thought to what made the first two films click so well to even warrant the creation of a third film. In addition, the action just isn't there from a directorial standpoint, which is shocking considering John Landis was the man behind the camera, the same man who made The Blues Brothers such a powerhouse flick in terms of its action setpieces.It's as if you took Hollywood's two most promising names at the time and made them do something they would normally do in such a lackadaisical manner. In addition, the time period doesn't feel right either. Shot ten years after the first film kickstarted this franchise in 1984, Beverly Hills Cop III feels stuck in the wrong era, as the famous theme song Axel F begins to take on aggravating, repetitive heights after blending so well with the cheesy, eighties aesthetic in the first two films. Not to mention, cheesy eighties cop films were a staple, where most nineties films of the same genre feel like cloying ripoffs or inferior distractions from the abundance of capable ones we once witnessed.There's one great scene in Beverly Hills Cop III, which takes place in Wonder World after a gigantic, complex roller-coaster ride stopped working due to park/security incompetence. Foley has to resort to saving two young children, stuck on the ride, about to fall to their deaths by almost cheating death, climbing all over the ride in every which way. The scene is suspenseful and works, so much so, that I would've rather seen Murphy rescue the other ten, eleven, or twelve people on the ride for the remaining hour or so than endure what mediocrity Beverly Hills Cop III threw at me.Starring Eddie Murphy and Judge Reinhold. Directed by John Landis. "},{"Title":"File this one under Should Not Have Been Green-Lit","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A sequel to Beverly Hills Cop is tricky. Our hero is always 2,000 miles away from the title setting, and it takes a suspicious death to get him out to the coast. And they were pushing it with the second movie. But here's a movie with a completely different (and awkward) tone from the first two films. III feels surprisingly more family-friendly (despite the F-bombs) with Eddie Murphy running amok in a faux- Disneyland theme park. There's lots of shooting and profanity, but none of the edge this series is known for. Not only that, but Murphy (despite getting to play superhero while saving some kids from a park ride) seems oddly listless this time around. It's hard not to laugh at least once during an Eddie movie, but I don't think I did once, here. It's an array of jokes that fall flat. It's not just that Beverly Hills Cop III is lifeless, but it's a bad Eddie Murphy movie, a bad John Landis movie, and everything that's supposed to be funny . . . isn't.4/10 "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing Comparing To Previous Ones !","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I hoped that this would be also like the two previous films action , comedy with a few words another hit in generally. I was very disappointing seeing this  1.First of All - It has a few jokes and very less comedy 2.The movie was like a Disneyland Creation 3.The most weak performance by Murphy in Beverly Hills Cop Series 4.The real action that can be called is in the beginning the other actions that were absolutely ridiculous 5.There were a few moments and a few stuff that made it a little bit more to watch but it's maybe the worst film that Eddie made . Really disappointed by Eddie I give this movie 5.9 out of 10 and just because Axel Foley was in it D "},{"Title":"Wonder World, Wonder World. Where a disappointing sequel is the theme","Date":"28 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley's boss gets shot in the middle of a car theft ring. Gunning for revenge, Axel finds out the same man that killed his boss is running an illegal operation with fake money out of an infamous theme park in L.A. Axel has Flint (Elizondo) and his longtime pal, Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) to help him. I love the first movie, and the sequel is highly entertaining. This one, however? It's the definition of disappointment. I'll start off with my biggest gripe about this movie. Why would you have this take place at an amusement park? Who in their right mind thought this was an amusing idea?! It does have some OK action sequences. It has a pretty decent rescue sequence involving a couple of children at the theme park, with a few really memorable stunts. I also didn't like how some of the characters were written. Judge Reinhold was hilarious in the first two movies, but his role seems pointless and contrived here. Taggart (Who is absent because he has retired in Phoenix, according to this movie) is replaced by Hector Elizondo (who is actually quite good) but I just didn't feel the magic anymore. The whole movie feels so artificial, that I had trouble enjoying myself. The finale is especially ludicrous with it's implausibility. It's very reminiscent of the one in Bird on A Wire with Mel Gibson & Goldie Hawn. Eddie Murphy runs out of tricks in this one. He's as watchable as ever, but the script lets him down. Stephen McHattie steals a few scenes he is in as the straight faced agent. John Saxon has a thankless role as an accomplice to the main villain, whilst Timothy Carhart makes for a very bland bad guy as Ellis De Wald. Final Thoughts I didn't hate this movie, but I was sorely disappointed in it. I was unimpressed the first time I saw it years ago, and my opinion remains the same, after viewing it a second time. I'd only give it a look if nothing else is on. Stick with the first two movies5.2/10 "},{"Title":"Back Again!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy and Judge Reinhold return again in this sequel, as Axel Foley follows the suspects of a car theft ring to(of course!) Beverly Hills, California, though also Los Angeles, where a counterfeiting ring seems to be operating within the confines of a famous amusement park. There are some stunts involving various rides, in this John Landis directed installment.Nothing new here, except it feels watered down and innocuous, perhaps in response to criticism that Part II was too cold hearted? Either way, this is a silly, lightweight trifle, with actors coasting along without much enthusiasm. Change of setting is different, but this amusement park satire idea was better handled in the first Vacation film. "},{"Title":"Only slightly better than part II","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nine and-a-half years after first going there, Detroit cop Murphy returns to BH, this time, after his captain is killed in a shootout in a Detroit chop-shop.Film is pointlessly titled, as it takes place in a fun park, not Beverly Hills (and its title doesn't even appear on-screen at the start, only during the end credits) Screenplay tried desperately hard to be funny, even going as far as bringing back Bronson Pinchot's character for another cameo, as an ex-gallery worker turned gun salesman(?) and recycling the original film's music score, to no avail. It comes off as being a carbon copy sequel in some scenes, while its climactic scenes look like merely an excuse to show us Universal Studios' rides and rollercoasters to climax its repetitive, and thin, plot.Film makes the same mistake part II did, with having one character (Walt Disney clone Uncle Dave) shot and on his deathbed shortly before Murphy and Reinhold are shot as well, but minutes later, Dave has recovered fully while Murphy and Reinhold are still in casts and wheelchairs at the final scene.Don't get me started on the asinine Spider ride rescue. "},{"Title":"cop 3","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" well first of without John Ashton the film lacks a lot of laughs, it's seems whoever wrote and produced this didn't give Eddie Murphy near enough good one liners,, like the first two films,, plus the Detroit Police Chief character is gone,, so when they put in new characters,, plus a new villain , then decided to set the main action in an amusement park , i just was like hey wait a minute,, this movie lacked the laughs, and hard bite that the first two had. i really can 't think of that many good things to say about this particular movie,, i hear there is a bhc 4 coming out,, i hope it isn't like 3 at all or i won't even bother with it . there 's some action and some of it is funny not totally unwatchable if it stood alone but compared to 1st two,, i would say that you would have to be crazy to like this one. "}{"Title":"The beginning of Murphy's downfall.","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This wasn't as bad as some people make it out to be, but it still isn't very good. The first movie was the funniest out of all of them and the second one was OK and provided a few good laughs, but this is the weakest. My main problem is that it barely feels like a Beverly Hills Cop movie. It feels like it's a movie about Eddie Murphy hanging out at an amusement park. Some of the jokes are just mildly funny, but the one that stood out the most in my opinion was the counterfeit money with Axel Foley's face. So far this is the only John Landis movie I do not care for which is a shame since he is a good director. This isn't his worst movie, (So far it's The Haunted Mansion.) but it was the beginning of Eddie Murphy's downfall. He tried to redeem himself with Tower Heist, but some idiot made A Thousand Words and now he's back to square one again. I hope he starts acting in good movies again because I don't want him remembered by today's generation as the Daddy Daycare guy. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As The First 2 Films!","Date":"16 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold, Hector Elizondo, Timothy Carhart, Theresa Randle, Alan Young, Gil Hill, Bronson Pinchot and John Saxon star in this 1994 action-comedy sequel. This installment begins in Detroit, Michigan where cop, Axel Foley (Murphy) is on a stakeout. Soon, his boss, Inspector Douglas Todd (Hill) is killed in the crossfire by crooked businessman, Ellis De Wald (Carhart). Axel is determined to avenge Todd and tracks De Wald to Beverly Hills, California where he runs an amusement park, Wonderworld. He also reunites with cop friend, Billy Rosewood (Reinhold) and meets his co-worker, Jon Flynt (Elizondo). Axel gets himself in some snags when he tries to confront De Wald and learns of his counterfeiting scheme. Randle (Spawn) plays Janice, a woman who works for De Wald and gets close with Axel, Young (Mister Ed) plays Wonderworld owner, Uncle Dave Thornton, Saxon (A Nightmare on Elm Street) plays De Wald's associate Orrin Sanderson and Pinchot (Perfect Strangers) appears briefly reprising his role as Serge. There's also cameos by directors, Joe Dante and George Lucas. This sequel isn't bad, but not as good as the first 2 films. I missed John Ashton as John Taggart and it seemed like Elizondo's character, Flynt was kind of a substitute. I'm glad Reinhold came back and sort of like the way they play Harold Faltermeyer's classic theme. I still recommend this for Murphy fans. "},{"Title":"Way Too Uneven to Work","Date":"27 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Beverly Hills Cop III (1994) ** (out of 4) Incredibly disappointing third entry in the series has Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) running an operation on a car theft ring but soon he realizes it's much more than just this. After his boss is murdered he heads back out West to try and find the killers as well as uncover what's really going on. There's really no getting around the fact that this film is a major dud and it's really a shame considering what director John Landis and star Murphy had done together previously. I think it's easy to say this is a very big black spot on both of their careers. The majority of the blame has to go to the screenplay, which offers up a rather silly story full of silly situations, bad characters and some pretty lifeless comedy. It also doesn't help that Landis tries to put his stamp all over the picture, which not only takes it away from what the series was, it also adds some really boring and drawn out moments that should have been left on the cutting room floor. A perfect example happens right at the start when two of the bad guys are singing and dancing around for no real reason to the story. I'm really not sure what Landis was going for here but it's just downright silly. Even worse are some of the characters who are flat out boring including Judge Reinhold who just seems downright out of place. He's basically given nothing to do except stand around and make dumb faces as well as say some really bad dialogue. Even Murphy is pretty forgettable here. I'm not sure if he just wasn't into the film or perhaps he knew he didn't have much to work with. Hector Elizondo adds nothing in his role and the same is true for Timothy Carhart as the bad guy. The film is also incredibly uneven in its style and I'd say that there must have been some real creative control issues going on behind the scenes. "},{"Title":"Crap on a stick","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This thing has NOTHING in common with the original idea. It was more like a cheap-arse cash grab attempt but then falling $10 million short of break even. The problem is that they got it all wrong Close to no humorous moments, no slapstick, no multiple layers of plot or parallelism, a half hour wasted on a pointless rescue-scene shot with CGI (even Eddie Murphy acted bored doing this), stupid time-wasters such as the gramma oki doki pushed me scene, wheeling out the Serge figure for five minutes of gay-talk. No suspense, a complete lack of care or passion. Bad writing and sad directing and last but not least fake-landscape-scenery that looked entirely shot in a studio, at a low budget. The music adaptation of Faltermeyer's theme score is inept. In the E/R movie review books this thing would have to be a fat turkey - at best. I was seriously, seriously (did I say SERIOUSLY) let down by this piece of §hit. BO-RING. "},{"Title":"All good things must end... but they shouldn't end THIS badly.","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" In 1994 Eddie apparently needed the cash bad enough for Beverly Hills Cop 3 to be greenlit, his last great movie and critical success being Coming to America in 1988, directed by John Landis.So in a sign that reeks of desperation, one John Landis was brought in to direct this flaccid piece of crap. Just imagine everything that made the first two films memorable, remove them, and insert a couple of tired Blues Brothers rip-offs and some try hard 'jokes'.Eddie is of course Axel Foley, the Detroit cop who is yet again dragged to Beverly Hills to investigate a crime on one of the more tenuous links in history &#x96; explain to me why the US mint printing plates were in a truck in Detroit again? &#x96; in any case they were, and in a raid that coincidentally took place during the ill-fated handover Axel and his colleagues are surprised to find that they come under unexpected automatic weapons fire, during which Inspector Todd is unfortunately killed.So with Todd gone and a couple of threadbare links to California, off Axel goes yet again. Bogomil is not even mentioned and Taggart is written off as 'retired' (you would have thought a great mate like Axel would have known this), so we are left with Sergeant Billy Rosewood as the one remaining Californian connection.Within minutes of arriving at the theme park in question Axel meets a woman named Janice (Theresa Randle) who is in so many scenes that she apparently runs the entire park and must work 24/7.Axel also immediately runs into the bad guy who offed Todd &#x96; so much for suspense and build up.Knowing full well whodunit and where he is, the remainder of the film sees Axel show up again and again, run into Janice, get shot at or captured, and be repeatedly bailed out by Billy Rosewood, Taggert's replacement John Flint (Hector Elizondo), who I might add he met for 60 seconds and apparently immediately became fast friends, or an extraneous FBI agent who shows up periodically to provide unnecessary confusion and/or intrigue, depending on how caught up you are in this dross.Landis squeezes every ounce out of the theme park setting, therefore we have Axel wearing the big character suit, an escape in an automated ride area, and a rescue from the ferris wheel. He also shamelessly steals two notable sequences from The Blues Brothers, the first being a car chase which results in the car literally falling apart around the driver at the end of the scene, the second being the overuse of police, military and Baywatch (you read it right) personnel in what should be a routine operation &#x96; complete with the 'hut-hut-hut' dialogue.The problem with BHC 3 is that the love-hate relationship between Axel and Rosewood/Taggert/Bogomil is no longer, with Taggert and Bogomil gone and Rosewood fully on Axel's d*ck all news about Axel's shenanigans are met with an eye-rolling 'That's our Axel', instead of incredulous expressions. They attempt to compensate for the lack of tension by making the bad guy especially heinous ('He killed Inspector Todd! How could he?') but this falls flat too.Everything about BHC is watered down and uninspired, it asked for leaps of logic that left me incredulous, and had action and comedy sequences that lacked both action and comedy, this left me sad.Even the soundtrack is simply terrible, instead of decent songs that fitted the film they had one totally forgettable track and then repeated the memorable Axel F theme ad nauseam using different bands and tempos.As we know watering down a classic is unforgivable. Now in this case I am referring to not only the immortal theme music, but also the series.Final Rating &#x96; 4.5 / 10. A lazily written, sloppily directed ending to a solid action-comedy trilogy. Another case of a series being allowed to go to the well one time too many. "},{"Title":"What were they THINKING?","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is where Eddie Murphy's career ended and why actors should never just cash a paycheck. This is honestly one of those What the hell were they thinking movies where everyone involved should have KNOWN was a disaster from the beginning. I would have understood this more if Murphy did this AFTER the Foxy Brown scandal, but he still had a chance to revive his career after his flops like Harlem Nights, Distinguished Gentleman, etc. But this just drove him down more into the abyss that was Nutty Professor and Daddy Day Care.Where to start? Well, how about the awful musical/dance number at the chop shop? Horrible forced humor that wasn't funny. Or Axel Foley trying to figure out how to operate Serge's superweapon. More unfunny forced humor.And since when is Axel Foley some sort of superhero cop? Jumping from car to car on the ferris wheel? Give me a break. Why do movies feel the need to turn ordinary people into superheros? (I'm looking at you, Live Free or Die Hard with John McClane's helicopter stunt.) And I haven't even gotten into the ending where Uncle Dave...a man in his mid-70s...is shot in the stomach and expected to die, yet apparently makes a full recovery before a man in his early 30s (Axel) is still recovering from a superficial gunshot wound, and Flint is also still in bad shape despite a simply shoulder wound.It seems fitting that George Lucas would do a cameo in this movie. He was the king of destroying great movies in the 90s. "},{"Title":"Lets try and flog as much out of a good concept","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The third in the Beverly Hills Cop series and in my opinion, still quite worth it. Many sequels usually fall far short of their predecessors, but I think Beverly Hills Cop III still has the charm of the previous two movies. Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) is a fast talking, law bending, Detroit police officer who always seems to land up in Beverly Hills on some case. The fact that he is never supposed to be in California doesn't really matter because he never listens to anybody anyway. He is in some ways typical of the Hollywood cop, but also in a lot of ways unique. In this movie, he the fast talking side of Axel Foley seems to disappear. He is still a jolly character but the traits that set him apart in this movie and somewhat absent. In Detroit, a bust on a chop shop (a place where stolen cars are stripped) goes horribly wrong, winding up in a fast and furious machinegun fight and an interesting car chase, and Foley's boss is murdered. Foley is quite upset about this (which is an understatement) and goes off on a blood feud in search of the killer. The trail leads him to, guess where? California. In Beverly Hills we find that things has changed. His friend Detective Taggart has retired while his other friend (played by Judge Reinhold) has been promoted to the chief of the green lines. He also finds out that the man that his is after is a very powerful and well respected individual. The bad guy in this movie is extremely well played. The more one sees him the more one hates him. We, the viewers, know that this guy is crooked and that Foley is right, but he shows a side to everybody else that is impeccable. Fortunately, there are two people, one being a very influential amusement park owner, who suspect the truth. This case is not an easy one for Foley for things quickly turn sour and he finds the entire city of Los Angeles against him. Beverly Hills Cop III is an enjoyable movie. I like Murphy in some of his roles, especially as Detective Axel Foley (it is my favourite) but some parts of this movie to fall down. The exotic weapons dealer Serge is an interesting character except that his French accent appear really constrained. The scene with him raving about clean gums was also a little drawn out. The action is fast but on top of that there is a bit of tension as Foley gets into places where he is not supposed to and gets even tighter as we see his reputation become more and more blacker. Beverly Hills Cop III is great and a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Out of tune with the predecessors","Date":"21 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie is totally out of tune with the first and second ones, which respectively were fantastic and good. From the brutal approach to movie action of the former ones (thanks to Bruckheimer), this one has scratched most of this off (no more social realism of the first and no more really bad guys of the second) and replaced it with superficial layer of humor and Murphy's funny faces, which really aren't funny when you've seen them before in his stand up comedy shows or The Nutty Professor.The old actors (Rosewood and Serge) are embarrassing parodies of their earlier roles, and I do mean embarrassing. The rest of the cast acts in the way I've come to describe as polished but poor.This movie tries to be a family movie, and it doesn't work at all. Plus, it gives the series a bad legacy in the process.I'm sorry i watched it. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Is the third time a charm? Not exactly","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am a big fan of the Beverly Hills Cop trilogy ever since I first saw the first one on TV and bought the box set. I have posters, Cd's, etc. but anyways lets get to the point. The first BHC was a hit in the early-mid 80's, its a classic without a doubt. The second one, my personal favorite, did fairly well, not as good as the first but fans caught on. The third one however was disappointing. When you watch the first two BHCs, you get a sense of weird funny from Eddie Murphy and how he tries to cover up a lot of stories or the goofy Billy Rosewood or the serious Taggard. Well in this one, Taggard isn't even in it, instead we get Flint which is a pointless character. Eddie Murphy doesn't seem as funny in this movie and it doesn't even feel like a Beverly Hills Cop movie. The only thing I really liked about this movie is that it is still in Beverly Hills, at least they didn't screw that up.Well since I'm a big fan of the trilogy, I like this movie without a doubt but it's definitely the worst of the three. The only way I would recommend this movie is if your a fan of the BHC trilogy or if you are going to get the BHC box-set. Enjoy this movie but don't expect too much out of it. "},{"Title":"The best of the 3 films","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If it weren't for the amusement park story, this would probably be just another dull entry in the BHC series. Part II was a slight disappointment (at least when it came to anything other than action scenes), but this one is even better than the first movie and a big improvement over part 2. Unlike Part 2, the villains are mean enough (and seen more often), and Murphy doesn't do his comedy as much, which helps. My only quibble is Bronson Pinchot, who I think, didn't really need to be in the movie. His character is completely unnecessary. In fact, I think his appearance in the first movie was also unnecessary. His role is basically comic relief. That's what Murphy is for. It's as if Pinchot is playing a less funny version of Balki from Perfect Strangers, only he doesn't Larry to annoy.***1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"HMMM, COULD BE BETTER...","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...or should be better. Eddie is back for the third time. This time in nineties. Is it still the same classic than in 80's. Sadly, no. Where's the problem. Eddie is funny as in former two parts, but everything else is changed. The story is missing a lot of laughs and in some places it looked like it was meant for kids. Well, i could go on and on, but why bother, read the critics before mine and you'll see what I mean. All in all, the third part still provides some entertainment, but sadly that doesn't satisfy the fans of these series.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Terrible, terrible sequel","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Being an avid fan of the first two Beverly Hills cop movies, you can imagine my disappointment on seeing this appalling edition. Gone is the witty and fast dialogue of the first two movies, seeing the ratings slip from R to this almost G rated film. Gone is a partially believable storyline. But most of all, gone are the established friendships of the first two movies. Not one mention of Andrew Bogomil and Axel makes out he has not heard from Taggart in quite a few years. Between the first and second movies we saw a great friendship circuit established between Axel, Taggart, Bogomil and Rosewood. We know this because there is talk of fishing trips and photos of the four together. The storyline starts out well with Axel's boss being gunned down... Thats about where it ends. Once again, predictably, Axel is brought back to Beverly Hills. There is no mention of Jeffrey (Paul Reiser) from the first two films and a money counterfeit operation being run out of an Amusement Park is a little far-fetched. Why Eddie Murphy had to ruin the greatest two movies of his career with this abysmal add-on is beyond me, and his brain for bad choices has perhaps explained the quality of films he has recently been making.  I award this film no stars and consign it to the 'Worst sequel' dustbin along with 6 Star Trek films, The Godfather part 3 and the Phantom Menace. "},{"Title":"Best Of The Three","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills cop three was a great end to a mildly funny trilogy, The Beverly Hills Series got Funnier over the years, and Eddy Murphy (The Nutty Professor) Is  great as Axel Foley. Its About Axel visiting a theme park to investigate a fake money bust. But  soon he's framed to look like he shot the manager Uncle Dave. It's full of Comedy, Action and Suspense. My Favourite bit is when he has to rescue the children from a hanging cage on a ride. A Must See!! "},{"Title":"Why I think this is an excellent movie...","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Wow! What a great film.Anyway, lets talk about an absolutely amazing film. Eddie Murphy, Hector Elizondo and Judge Reinhold make up what I would consider an all star cast. They performed incredibly well in a film where Murphy sets out to execute a cop killer heading the production of counterfeit money, based at a theme park called Wonderworld.I particularly liked the idea of the theme park. It worked well in providing thrills and some good action scenes and I disagree with most people in saying that this was the worst in the series. The first two merely produced in some dull encounters in stark contrast to this excellent example of what a film should be.I ask you all a question - What is a movie? My definition is a motion picture designed for the purpose of entertainment. Simple really. They are not works of art as many of you seem to think. Its probably the reason why in the top 250, stuff like Star Wars, Big Fish, Lord of the Rings, American Beauty, Goodfellas, Incredibles appear zzzzzzz. I could go on but i could fall asleep.Open your eyes to this spectacular film. It certainly fulfils the task of entertaining. You don't really need to have watched the first two previous to this. It will still make a load of sense.ONE OF THOSE MOVIES THAT DOESN'T GET ENOUGH CREDIT. WELL I'LL CERTAINLY GIVE IT PLENTY OF THAT. "},{"Title":"What happened to this trilogy?","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first Beverly Hills Cop was well done, and very funny. The second Beverly Hills Cop was not as good as one, but it was still enjoyable, and very funny. Beverly Hills Cop 3 is the weakest film of the three. There was nothing that was exciting or very funny about it. Eddie Murphy didn't crack me up like he did in the first two movies. Here he looks older, and very tired like he doesn't want to be in this movie. His other friend in this movie is wasted also, and Theresa Randle picked the wrong movie to be in to establish herself. John Landis was the wrong man to set loose in Eddie's world, because he can't direct for crap. Blues Brothers was good because of the music and the two leads who were very funny together. "},{"Title":"The third and worst in the Trilogy!","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In John Landis and Eddie Murphy's third and so far final collaboration they work together on this project. The film is the third in the Beverly Hills cop trilogy and the worst as well! The film like the second doesn't have the magic of the first or the popcorn value of the second. It basically falls short!2(**)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"I don't care how many cameos it has &#150; it's just not very good!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While investigating a Detroit chop-shop, Axel sees his boss killed by a well dressed man.  Axel traces the gang back to a theme park called WonderWorld and recognises the main head of security, De Wald as the killer and must set out to prove it to a police force that very much doubt in &#150; including his old friend Billy Rosewood.  Axel begins to undercover a counterfeiting ring that goes high within WonderWorld.The third (and final nail) in the series lacks any of the spark that the first had.  The second was an inferior copy but this is a bad movie no matter what you comapre it to.  The plot is basic but that never matters too much if it is well used to provide action and comedy in this type of film.  However here the action is limited to one or two good scenes (the ferris wheel bit I like!) and too many silly shoot outs &#150; certainly there's nothing that will make you gasp or have you on the edge of your seat.The comedy also takes a dive &#150; you can see it in the scene where Axel's car is `hilariously' shot to pieces during a chase.  Murphy is not as good as before and it lacks all spark.  You know you're in the s*** when the character Serge is the comedy highlight!  Landis tries to add some life by having big name cameos from Harryhausen, Lucas, Joe Dante and Al Green don't make up for the lack of real entertainment here.Overall it isn't terrible but it's  a very tired retread of a film that really could have done without one lackluster sequel never mind two!  The action is average and the comedy lacks spark.  After watching this, I'm very glad that Murphy has moved on to other films (although he'll probably spoil them all by doing unnecessary sequels!). "},{"Title":"Shockingly bad","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is a shame that a film of the calibre of BHC 1 should be followed up by this.  2 had its moments and carried on some fun themes from the 1st.BHC3 is however a cynical, greedy and utterly unimaginative cash-in on a dying franchise.  Sensibly Simpson and Bruckheimer played no part - and must have winced at the awfulness of it (even though they did 1 or 2 horrors themselves - remember Days of Thunder?).I stumbled upon this film by mistake tonight - definitely so bad it was funny...John Landis must be trying to forget this one - the guy who made Trading Places, Blues Brothers at al must have been real short of dough to take on this one - an empty, pointless and uninteresting script encompassing an awful plot, worse characterisation and total absence of tension, meaning or message.The whole film is utterly inane and implausible to anyone over the age of 10.This was quite big budget - it doesn't show; together with awful music, it looks like a TV Movie, and the way it jerks along from one contrived and tedious set-piece to another confirms this.Two knights of Hollywood - George Lucas and Ray Harryhausen (the modellist of films like Clash of the Titans and the Sinbad movies) also make irrelevant cameo appearances.  Hey guys - do anything to stay busy, work for charity, make awful sequels yourselves ;-) (by the way, that Serge idiot in this is disturbingly like Jar Jar Binks I fear - annoying, loud, and deeply irritating), anything, but do not get involved in embarassing rubbish like this. . must have somehwat regretted being a cameo in this.A distressingly bad film. "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Cop III","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first film is of course the best, the second film was a reasonable enough sequel, it was seven years before this third film came along, and I was keen to see what it would be like, despite the critics review, from Razzie nominated director John Landis (The Blues Brothers, An American Werewolf in London). Basically on a night when he is on the job trying to catch some criminals, Det. Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) witnesses a well dressed man shooting and killing his boss Insp. Douglas Todd (Gilbert R. Hill), and his last words before dying are to get the man who did it. He gets some help from his old buddy Det. Sgt. William 'Billy' Rosewood (Judge Reinhold), now deputy director of operations for joint systems interdepartmental operational command (DDO-JSIOC), and his new partner Jon Flint (Hector Elizondo), old partner John Taggart has retired and living in Arizona. They help Axel find the car that the shooter was driving, it is at theme park Wonder World in Beverly Hills, California, owner by the famous Uncle Dave Thornton (Alan Young), so he goes to the park to look around. After saving the lives of two children from a faulty ride he is taken to see the park security, and he instantly recognises head of security Ellis De Wald (Timothy Carhart) as his boss's killer, and Flint who shows up doesn't believe him, as he is a friend. Axel knows that not only is he the shooter, but he also realises there may be something going on inside the park hidden out of sight, a counterfeiting ring hidden somewhere, so he tries to find it. With the help of park worker and new love interest Janice (Theresa Randle), he finds the room making thousands of fake dollar bills in a popular and for weeks closed ride, but he is put in danger again before he can find someone to prove it. Worse comes when De Wald's gang get Uncle Dave shot, and Axel is blamed for the crime, with no evidence of the counterfeit money in sight, so he has to take drastic measures to prove his innocence and get the villain caught for the crime of murder as well. In the end, De Wald is killed and proved as the mastermind of the crimes of murder and counterfeiting, and Axel, Billy and Flint are praised as heroes for saving the park, particularly Axel who has a new theme park character named after him, Axel Fox. Also starring Bronson Pinchot as Serge, Joey Travolta as Giolito, Stephen McHattie as Steve Fulbright, John Saxon as Orrin Sanderson, George Lucas as Disappointed Man, Joe Dante as Jailer, Ray Harryhausen as Bar Patron and John Singleton as Fireman. Murphy is still a reasonable cop who gets thing done on his own terms, but he is less motor mouthed and trash talking like before, the story is reasonably interesting enough, and the action in the theme park, including where I recognised the use of the ride Earthquake from Universal Studios, is alright, I don't fully agree with the two stars out of five rating, it is not a terrible action comedy. It was nominated the Razzie for Worst Remake or Sequel, but I didn't think it was that bad. Okay! "},{"Title":"Has its moments but it is a disappointment","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" While I was disappointed with this movie overall, it does have its moments. Hector Elizondo adds some genuine quirkiness, the car chase set-piece is impressive, there is the odd fun visual joke and the production values are pretty good. However, there are a lot of things that make this film for me the weakest of the three. The story is very unoriginal and predictable, the script is pretty poor, John Landis gives one of his weaker directorial jobs, the film isn't as assuredly paced and neither Eddie Murphy or Judge Reinhold come across as likable this time around. Overall, I wouldn't say it was a complete disaster but it is a big disappointment compared to the wonderful original.(the second was disappointing too but watchable) 4/10 Bethany Cox "}{"Title":"Thank God for Judge Reinhold","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" All I have to say is one thing about this movie thank God for Judge Reinhold. If it weren't for him, the movie would be total garbage. He has a good amount of funny moments in the weakest of the Beverly Hills Cop trilogy. However, his screen time is pretty limited and it's all about Eddie Murphy. It would be okay, if Eddie Murphy hadn't taken himself too seriously in the movie. I would've thunk BHC 3 would've had some funny moments from Murphy's fast-talking Axel Foley. But there were hardly any. With that, there was no Jerry Bruckheimer or Don Simpson in sight, Hector Elizondo made a pretty weak replacement for Taggart, and they totally destroyed Harold Faltermeyer's beloved theme song. The only other bright moment in the movie was Bronson Pinchot as the lovably flamboyant Serge. His brief moments on screen were, without a doubt, hilarious. But, like Judge Reinhold, his screen time is also pretty limited. It was all about Eddie Murphy, Eddie Murphy, and more unfunny Eddie Murphy. Of all the characters of the series, I'm glad that Judge Reinhold came back as the somewhat naive Rosewood. I'm sure he was the only one that wanted to work with a washed-up and all-too-serious Eddie Murphy. Just a small reminder to John Landis it's cool to work with Eddie Murphy, like you did in Coming to America and Trading Places, probably the funniest Eddie Murphy comedy besides the first Beverly Hills Cop movie, but don't direct a Beverly Hills Cop movie, or a sequel for that matter. You obviously forgot that the charm of the series came from the humor. "},{"Title":"a disappointingly mild follow-up","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Axel Foley is on a personal mission; a crime has just occurred that hit a little too close to home and he heads out to Beverly Hills to try and take down an elusive counterfeiting ring and their reprehensible ringleader. His investigation lands him at a local amusement park where several of the employees appear to be up to no good. Extraordinarily dull sequel throws out noisy action scenes every now and again to add some life to the proceedings, but the story and characters evoke little interest, the lines are rarely funny, and the film as a whole has no momentum. The usually reliable Murphy seems subdued and without zest here, but the weak script gives him little to work with as is. ** "},{"Title":"loses  lot's of the touches of the first two films, but is still watchable","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  this was a fun  final installment to the  sequels. it marks for the end of gil hill's performance as todd who is shot dead  by a criminal who is the owner of amusement park wonderland, witch was filmed  in  paramounts great america. but, in the story is supposed to be in la. i thought there was some humor, but more of an action thriller to me. i thought timothy carhart's performance as ellis dewald was cheesy. i liked the idea better for the first 2 films they had european criminals.  and john saxon is also in it, (enter the dragon) and george  lucas makes a cameo. theresa randle, who is axels new love  interest in this film.  first time for him to be in love. john landis directs this movie, from the first two directors martin brest and tony scott. but, for this final movie, it was still pretty fun and funny.  bronson pinchots serge returns. who was in  the first.  and, when he is  hiding in an elephant named okey dokey was very funny.  "},{"Title":"Wildly Uneven","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop III is wildly uneven for the most part with mixing humor and action.  Although the action is packed and fast paced, comedy tends be lazy and uninspired and the presence of pure action seems greater as the film progress.  The action itself manages to pull out some moments that have suspense(along with some mildly amusing gags here and there) but on there's also a considerably large sense of being able to expect what's going to happen next.  In spite of the fact that Beverly Hills Cop III carries a fairly original premise, certain elements and gags seem to be recycled for the first film.  E.g. a small gag an apartment that concerns a case of mistaken identity, the appearance of a truck in the early scenes, a particular substance that's hidden whether it's coffee hiding cocaine inside of a box or a theme park's own money hiding counterfeit dollar bills, etc.  "},{"Title":"A God-awful mess.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the most disappointing films I've ever seen and another victim of sequel-itis. You'd be better off doing your laundry and listening to old re-runs of Eddie's Saturday Night Live days without actually sitting down to watch them. Stay far, far away. I give it a 3 out of 10, mostly because the cameo with Serge made me smile. Watch how ridiculous the ferris wheel scene is and then tell me I'm wrong. At one point Eddie throws someone into a glass table and his stand-in is about twice his size and has muscles and a think moustache. Nice edit! Luckily Eddie came back with The Nutty Professor to resurrect his career, otherwise this would've been another nail in his coffin. 3 out of 10. An F. "},{"Title":"Beverly Hills Flop.","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Eddie Murphy goes back to Beverly Hills for another below par adventure, this time to investigate corruption at a popular theme park called Wonderworld.  This third installment has many things that just don't work, including the annoying Wonderworld theme song and the absence of John Ashton.  The filmmakers even went as far as providing a love interest for Murphy, but that falls flat as well.  Even with John Landis behind the camera, the humor isn't there.  The only thing that makes the film worth watching is the return of Bronson Pinchot from the original COP movie.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever Made","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As my summary states, this is the WORST MOVIE EVER MADE.  I checked the Worst 250 list here on IMDB and was SHOCKED to find that it wasn't even on the list.  For SHAME, people!There are no laughs, nothing clever, no Taggart, and too much Rosewood. If this film had a monkey in it, it would still suck.Ten thumbs down.  WAY down. "},{"Title":"The Worst Film Ever Made","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm not kidding, either.  When you consider the talent (?) involved with this film, the final result is all but mind-boggling.  This movie is SO bad that it's laugh-out-loud funny.  John Landis should never be allowed behind a camera again.  The original BHC cast members that agreed to appear in this monstrosity should have their SAG cards revoked.  (Yes, I mean YOU, Eddie Murphy!)Where to begin?  Three scenes come to mind.  In the first scene of the film, a group of car chop-shop workers spontaneously burst into song, which is something all criminals do while working, apparently.  Then they're all murdered.  Bang bang.  Nice.The next howler involves Eddie Murphy saving two kids on a ride at an amusement park.  The first problem with this scene is that the kids are only in danger because one of the bad guy's henchmen, while chasing Murphy, starts punching all the buttons on the ride's control panel.  Again, nice. But what really sets this scene apart from countless other ridiculous scenes is the utter lack of effort put into the special effects.  Just atrocious. You'll have to see it to understand.Finally, we're subjected to the age-old gun battle sequence where the bad guys, with their superior firepower, STOP SHOOTING while the hero figures out how to use his weapon.  That's right, the bad guys have DOZENS of clear shots at Murphy with their uzis, but instead, stand by idly while he figures out his new-fangled super-weapon (supplied by Bronson Pinchot in a career-ending performance).  That this super-weapon also plays music is supposed to be funny too.  All this ignores the fact that the uzis' bullets can't penetrate an amusement park bench.  Sigh.  So bad it's funny. "},{"Title":"The worst in a promosing series","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Beverly Hills Cop III is the worst in what was a promosing action comedy franchise. Murphy was in a carrer slump and I guess he made this film to help out his carrer but it didn't help just sunk it deeper. The film is full of mistakes such as the loss of Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckhiemer a waek script and a lack of action. John Landos who worked with Murphy before and made good films fails here. The film needed a good action director like Renny Harlin or Dwight H. Little or even Karthyn Bigelow. Skip this one even if you're a die hard Murphy fan. "},{"Title":"More action less comedy equals bad movie............","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie from my public library along with Beverly Hills cop 1 and 2.The first two were really great and when I was about to put it in I had a thought of 'how bad could it be'.Well the first 10 minutes were good but then all the comedy and good acting got taken away.I only became excited once when they had George Lucas has a cameo so thats not really saying much. My suggestion is see the first two movies and dont ruin them by renting this god awful one. The bottom line is that it had a very bad plot,very bad acting,not enough comedy my rating 2/10. "}{"Title":"Why was this film made????","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is a shame that after a brilliant first two films, full of cameraderie and a great comedy element as well as a plausible plot, this one just ruins it all.  There will not be a sequal to this botch up, which sees a greying Eddie Murphy running around a theme park with little support from 'Taggart' or 'Rosewood'.  I don't think Eddie will put this on his C.V. "},{"Title":"Funny stuff, but this was unrealistic silliness","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You know what? Standing alone as a comedy, it had some really good moments, but as an action movie, this was beyond unbelievable and incredibly clichéd. I'm going to start with the good parts, see, Eddie Murphy is still great as Axel and is always very funny. He has some really great moments, but for me in this sequel, it was Judge Reinhold that stole the show as Billy. He was just such a lovable goof, which was semi-sad since he was a cop in the film, but I got past that part pretty much since he has been a goof from the first Beverly Hills Cop movie.Axel is back in business, in Detroit he gets into a once in a lifetime for a cop normally, type of shoot out with dirty business men, one who is an extremely super duper bad dude, who just won't stop killing people or stealing, why do you ask? Because he's a super duper bad dude! Well, he leads Axel to Wonderworld in Beverly Hills, California, where he finds out that that's where they do business. He gets his favorite buddy Billy back in the game and together they try to find a way to reveal the super duper bad dude's true identity to the crowd.Now the complaints, there are a huge list of them first off, for security guards, most of them had pretty crappy shooting techniques and couldn't hit a barn. Secondly, Axel saved these children from a ride in Wonderworld, with one arm?! Third, a shootout like they had in this film in reality is a one in a million chance for a real life, but somehow Axel just seems to keep getting them like their a dime in a dozen. And fourth, the super duper bad dude, did the badness a little too much, to the point where it was just obnoxious. But who am I to judge, you try it.4/10 "},{"Title":"What was wrong with this movie?","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Let's face it. Beverly Hills Cop III has many problems to it's failure to the audiences. First off, John Ashton, Ronny Cox, and even Paul Reiser are not involved and these guys help make the last 2 hits. Second, no Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer involved. If they were, this film would not have such a bad director and screenplay. Last, no Harold Faltermeyer. Some of Nile Rogers's score was good...at least when he wasn't doing that bad orgestra stuff.  "},{"Title":"Bad one","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Third time is not quite the charm for Eddie Murphy's Axel Foley when he heads for L.A. once again to avenge a friend's murder. This time he's off to the Disneyesque WonderWorld, apparently the most hazardous theme park in America despite an army of shady security agents. John Landis directed Murphy in his first film hit, Trading Places, and would seem a good match for this mix of action and comedy, but his sense of fun only emerges in a few scenes (chubby mechanics do a gymnastic Blues Brothers number to a Diana Ross tune) and his action direction is sloppy and shockingly violent. It seems wrong for the comic tone, and Murphy should have his foul mouth washed out with soap. On the plus side, Bronson Pinchot returns as Serge and all but upstages Murphy in two brief but hilarious scenes. "},{"Title":"Shame it had to end this way","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Eddie is back in the film that had created the comedy genius.The plot follows the death of Police Chief Hubbard (Stephen Elliott) after a raid he had done with Det. Axel Foley (Eddie Murphy) and other fellow Detroit Detectives. This is a sad moment for Axel Foley and at Hubbards funeral he get's a lead from his fellow Detectives about a a theme park in Beverly Hills called Wonder World where the killers of Hubbard may be from. So once again Axel Foley sets out to Beverly Hills to track down the murders ot Wonder World where the film is practically entirely set. Once again Axel teams up with William Billy Rosewood (Judge Reinhold) who now works as head security for the whole of Beverly Hills. But very sadly Det.Sgt.John Taggart (John AShton) decided not to be in this film along with Chief Andrew Bogomil (Ronny Cox). Instead they stupidly try to replace Taggart with another character Jon Flint (Hector Elizondo) and follows Axel and Rosewood around the place.This film is a terrible prequel and should of not been released i would not suggest buying it on DVD but rumours say a fourth is on the way and that just may revive the saga that is Beverly HilLs COP "},{"Title":"the weakest link","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to imagine this movie was in anyway related to the orignal beverly hills cop movie. The original was fun and classic, and arguably one of the best comedies of all time. (no, its not a true hollywood classic like some like it hot, but still is no doubt entertaining on every level.) not only was the orignal a great movie, up until a few years ago, beverly hills cop was the top grossing rated r movie of all time.Fast-forward almost 10 years later. The hilarious Eddie Murphy has a few succesful films, but he fails to capture an audience and follow his greatness after beverly hills cop. He already made a sequel, so what was left? Ah, yes, a third movie in the franchise. anyone who watches the first two, then this, can easily tell it was thrown together and not produced with the care the first one, and even the second were. Every thing that made the first and second one enjoyable were missing. Characters like Taggert and Boghamil were gone, and the unfunny Judge Reinhold is left with the NYPD BLUE guy and an almost embarassing Broson Pinchot. Those faults would be bad enough. But no, they weren't the only ones in this trash. A weak and formulaic storyline, cheezy, campy violence filled this movie. Not to mention the classic Axel F theme song was remixed into a terrible, terrible new sound.Why watch this movie? I have no idea. It lacks the stability to be considered a good film even when you don't compare it to its predecessors. The only thing I enjoyed about this movie was the fact that Eddie had a few, I repeat, A FEW slick lines, and the fact they brought back Eddie's old boss. No, Paul Reiser, NO irrevrant hijinks. just a plain old fashioned lousy sequel. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the worst movie I've ever seen in the theater. Luckily it was a brew & view. It's almost as if production was halted during the shoot and they had to pick up the film and paste it together to make some sort of movie. "},{"Title":"He should have quit when he was ahead","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Can't anyone else in the world shoot straight other than Alex Foley? And for someone who seems to be the world's best shot, he can NEVER hit the head bad guy until the very end of the movie.But .. if you like mindless violence, explosions, shooting and killing (and who doesn't?), then this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The third installment proves to be a continuation on the downward spiral started by Beverly Hills Cop 2. Whilst 2's plot was bearable, if not convincing, 3's plot is not only betrays lack of thought but a greed for quick profits at the box office trading on the reputation of the first film.For a start, they kill off Inspector Todd (Foley's boss) within the first half hour of the film. Then we discover that Taggart's been pensioned off and gets only a token mention. Rosewood gets about 10 minutes of on-camera time, and whilst he was charmingly goofy in the other two films, he's just plain silly and irritating this time round. Not only that, but he only gets one pathetic joke to peddle every time he's on-screen.This was one of a string of trashy Eddie Murphy movies. If you're a fan of the other Beverly Hills Cop movies and want to keep your blood pressure down, for the love of God, don't watch this film. It stinks! "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the brilliant prequels!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was a joke. I knew it was doomed for failure the minute Bruckheimer bailed. Where do I start? A poor scripted plot, terrible character development, a shocking beginning chase that is so fake its to bad to continue watching the rest of the movie, Rosewood without Taggart!!??! and most of all - an very annoying Wonderworld theme that persists all the way through that it will haunt you forever!!! Eddie Murphy's career has gone down hill completely and to suggest a Beverly Hills Cop 4 is even more sillier then the lame attempt at this sequel. Cop 1 and 2 were brilliant in their own ways by two very unique directors but Landis was simply the wrong person for the job and I hope he lives forever knowing just how bad he ruined one of the most successful trilogies in box office takings history. What ever happened to Harold Faltermeyer? Even he decided to pass on this terrible piece of tripe! "}{"Title":"No, no, no, no, nooooooooooooo!!!!!!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hardly worth your while, or your money, is the deadly Beverly Hills Cop 3. It's been many years since part 2, plenty of time to write a decent follow-up, right? Wrong. This mess gives Eddie Murphy little opportunity to do what he does best run off at the mouth. Instead of bright chatter or insolent Murphyisms, we get geriatric jokes about J. Edgar Hoover in drag or about the dangers of bending over in a prison shower. Spare me. I want my money back. The action sequences, as directed by John Landis, will have you watching, as will the lumbering plot that culminates in the dullest climax since Sliver. There is a diverting shoot-out in the first five minutes to a bouncy Supremes tune, but the rest is nothing but heartache. The movie actually comes to a complete standstill, while Bronson Pinchot delivers the only genuine laughs reprising his Serge character. Murphy is forced to stand on the sidelines and look amused. He's not awfully convincing playing second banana. "},{"Title":"They paid him to do this c**p?","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Everyone during the early 90s was making action movies - seagal, arnie, stallone, van damme, willis (the inspiration for these action years) and so on.  By this time, Eddie Murphy was looking for some inspiration - he wanted to get back to what he loved doing best - comedy.  His recent efforts didn't do too well - and he wasn't getting the money.Along comes Paramount with a deal he can't refuse - do Beverly Hills Cop III.  This was a mistake, a BIG mistake.  The film bombed - it wasn't funny (except in some certain sections), it wasn't directed properly (it felt rushed) and it hung together on the idea of making a die hard in a theme park - this was a c**p idea to base a film upon.Firstly I should point out there is a Jackie Chan film (the name of the film escapes me), where he does basically all the things that Murphy does in this movie - only better.Anyway this film is pretty bad.  Even the cameos with Lucas (acting pretty badly) and Ray Harryhausen don't work.  Nothing works in this messy film, not even the action.  So, okay the sequence on the ferris wheel is fantastic, and jaw droppingly good - but it isn't helped by the background music - or by the fact that Murphy is obviosily working in front of a blue, sky like background - whilst his stunt double does all the dangerous stuff.Overall this film SUCKS.  Avoid. "},{"Title":"Eddie Murphy does his best, but that's not enough!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw BEVERLY HILLS COP 3 one night on Cinemax and I had high hopes for the movie during the opening scene, but then my hopes died down. The premise is the same as the first two BEVERLY HILLS COP movies which is one of my problems with this movie. I mean can't the writers think of a new premise? The first BEVERLY HILLS COP movie was hilarious, the second one had its moments, and this one just isn't funny. I admire Eddie Murphy for revisiting the franchise and if there's a BEVERLY HILLS COP 4 then I'll see it as long as the Eddie Murphy returns and the writers can think of a new premise for the series. "}]