[{"Title":"An Intriguing and Intimate Drama","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tim Roth never ceases to amaze me with the parts that he plays. He is an actor's actor. Julia Ormond had some roles in which, I believe, she received unfair unfavorable reviews, here in the states. She is a very talented actress, capable of giving great depth to each performance. Without the experience of working in, and knowing prison systems, this story may seem improbable to some. Having spent some time working at an American prison during graduate schooling, I feel a need to say that it is not at all improbable. I feel that the short synopsis given for this film is not representative of the intention and depth of this creation. Both of the two main characters are in vulnerable personal positions. Their affair is one that is likely enhanced by the potential threat to her job and his upcoming parole. However, the actual relationship these two people establish, is so tender, touching and truly intimate. The trap that develops around them is frightening for them both. But it is this, that brings out each one's absolute need to protect one another, thereby cementing their bond and making them captives, each to the other's heart. This is a film that I can watch over and over again, even in one evening. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Made by the acting and the directing","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Rachel Clifford is a teacher in a dentistry school who starts doing a few days a week in a local prison while breaking up with her husband. It is in this delicate state that she meets prisoner Philip Chaney in the chair. When she meets him again it is in a supermarket &#150; she is doing a shop while he is on day release to attend college. From this informal meeting they gain a natural, chatty air and, with neither really understanding why, they start to become close and meet up each time he gets out. However, in the vicious world of prison there are no real secrets and it is only a matter of time before other cons will see this as a chance to manipulate the situation to their advantage.Although this sounds like it has a terrible plot, it actually works pretty well for the majority of the film. The core relationship that drives the film is convincingly developed and it is only really in the later stages of the film that the need for a dramatic narrative sees things turning away from the small scale and become slightly less convincing. Of course by then I was into the characters and could forgive it but it still didn't sit that easily with me. Of course for some viewers even the relationship side won't work and I can understand why; some will see it as clunky and obvious but for me it worked and it did so for two reasons.The first reason is the acting. Ormond may have seemed to have dropped off the A-list that she was in during the mid-1990's but here she is great. Her character is just damaged and frail enough to be needy enough to fall in love in such a situation but not to the point where her love seems like a failing. It sounds simple but it isn't and yet Ormond manages to pull it off. Roth is always interesting and he is just as good here. He is dark, hurt, filled with regret and entirely unsure of how to exist in the two worlds (prison and love) at the same time. They go well together and make things a lot more natural than the plot summary would suggest. The second reason is Pope. Her direction is very good and makes the most out of what must have been a modest budget &#150; only occasionally does it show that it was a BBC film. She never overdoes stuff to draw emotion from the audience and she lets the actors work well.Overall this was a good film but one that requires you to accept that you are watching a slow BBC drama rather than a Hollywood tearjerker. The story may not be totally convincing but it is not for the want of trying &#150; Pope, Ormond and Roth combine to make this much better than it could have been. Worth seeing for slow development and engaging performances although I wonder how well it sells outside of a UK market more suited to this sort of slow burn stuff. "},{"Title":"Sad, dark, tender story. Breathtaking.","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was in the middle of the night but, as I saw on the TV guide that it was starring Tim Roth and Julia Ormond, I decided a timer would be well-placed. I got more than I expected from this BBC production, which, I can say now, is one of my favourite films.WARNINGMAY CONTAIN SPOILERS The story, set in a dark and rainy London, is about a dentist, Rachel Clifford (a Julia Ormond who's perfectly filling the role) who has just gone through a hard divorce from her husband and partner at work Simon, so she decides to accept a job as a prison dentist. That's the way she comes into touch with the prison's hard reality and she meets a person who will change her life prisoner Philip Chaney (an always wonderful Tim Roth who would deserve to be better known in my country). Their feelings are evident to each other at first sight, and in some way, a relationship begins... and, with it, troubles for the two of them, both inside their relationship and with other captives. END SPOILERSEverything, I mean EVERYTHING, works in this film atmosphere (the gothic side of London), music (by the great Colin Towns), plot, directing, and mainly the two lead performances. Rachel is a very complex character, but her dominant feeling is a desperate need of love, a need to be the center of someone's life; through Ormond's performance this is perfectly rendered. And about Roth... well, I have no words for his acting here except, perhaps, more living than life! Look... just watch carefully the scene of Rachel's first visit and dialogue to Philip. They are not acting but living. And by the way who said that Tim isn't filling properly the role for his physical appearance? Should everybody look like Tom Cruise? This is not the ONLY thing a woman falls for. Just look at his eyes glancing at her to find reasons for her attraction...Overall a story that's sad, rough, dark...and tender at the same time. It will capture your attention and your breath for a hour and a half. Be nice to yourself and see!  "},{"Title":"TIM ROTH IS HOT!!!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that I really enjoyed.  It was well written and very intense.  Although the idea of a prison romance could have been a turn-off, in this film you feel compassion for the characters who are  portrayed by these two fabulous actors.  Julia Ormond was wonderful, and Tim Roth was HOT! I definitely have a thing for him, I think he is so sexy, not only is he a talented actor, but he also has this quality that makes him so attractive.  If you feel the same way I do, or you like Julia Ormond, or if your just looking for a good movie with suspense and talented actors, then you will like this movie.  "},{"Title":"Wow, this blew me away","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went to a lot of trouble to see this film. As it has not been released yet on Region 2 I had to order it from America and buy a conversion disc for my PS2. It was all so worth it.I admit that I was a fan of Tim Roth's before I saw this film, but now I am truly besotted. You never feel as if he is acting his part, it feels so true and real. There is no over dramatisation just truth and passion.The chemistry between Julia and Tim is perfect for the believability of the story, why else would a professional woman have sex with a con in a public convenience, unless the heat between them was so intense nothing else mattered.I love this film and I will be watching it most nights for a long time to come.  "},{"Title":"Ormond is beautiful, Roth is stunning, both are intense.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just got finished viewing Captives and I liked it A lot.  I guess it was Tim Roth's interaction with Ormond that drew me in and stopped me from switching channels.  A lot of dialogue was spoken not with words, but with expressions.  And the more I think about it, the more I feel the movie kept a constant level of tension throughout. As for believability, I know love can be blind, having been in love myself and that thought, for me, kept the movie alive.  I give it a big thumb's up.  "},{"Title":"Very good! Tension and sexual chemistry in abundance.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I probably wouldn't have rented it if I realized it was a woman having an affair with a prisoner, so I'm glad I didn't know that or I would have missed out on this very good movie. As it was, it turned out to be more of what I expected - two people who had been drawn together by sexual chemistry being bonded together from a shared adversity. And the sexual chemistry and tension between Roth and Ormond (or, technically, their characters as portrayed by the two excellent actors) is very strong. This is one hot movie, and it manages to be so with no nudity (although, it does have a sex scene). The movie also keeps tension throughout by showing various people noticing them. That way, you really can't be sure who their future threat will be.  "},{"Title":"Prison romance isn't just that","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie's premise-a prisoner and outsider falling in love- may normally turn many people off. Surprisingly, is well-scripted, wonderfully filmed (some of the best camera shots and angles I've ever seen, and exceptionally well-performed. Julia Ormond, who I normally don't much care for, was wonderful. Tim Roth, as usual, blew me away. It remains one of the few movies I can watch repeatedly.  "},{"Title":"Engrossing romantic thriller","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film when it came out on British TV in the 1990s and it's remained embedded in my memory ever since. All young Hollywood directors should be contractually obliged to see Captives to see what real on-screen chemistry is like the heat and intensity generated between leads Tim Roth and Julia Ormond just isn't something you see in every modern film, so much so that there were moments when I almost wanted to look away, embarrassed for their intimacy and urgency, shout get a room! &#150; ah, but there's the rub &#150; they can't. He's in prison; she's the visiting prison dentist, and they're caught in an impossible position that there's no easy escape from.Others here have described the story well, so I won't cover that ground again. But it's exactly the kind of little British film I love to watch when they're good, you're rewarded with an unusually good cast, a decent script and a neat premise that draws you in and grips you. The slightly unconvincing conclusion doesn't detract from how very enjoyable and stirring this film is.Captives illustrates why Tim Roth deserved his reputation as an actor; but I'm sorry not to have seen more of Julia Ormond on screen since the 90s. Is it that she's in that twilight zone of female actresses, who suffer from the lack of good parts for women who don't look twenty years younger than their age? "},{"Title":"Must see film","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even if you're not a fan of the great Tim Roth, Captives is a must see film.  The story draws you in, along with the strong believable performances by Roth and Julia Ormond. The strong chemistry between those two is electric - you can literally feel the sparks.  Bittersweet and touching, but also suspenseful.  Be sure to check out this drama. "}{"Title":"Interesting Chick Flick But Suffers From A Weak Ending","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anyone remember Julia Ormond ? She was a British actress touted as the next big thing in Hollywood and starred in the female friendly movies LEGENDS OF THE FALL and SABRINA . CAPTIVES is another chick flick movie starring Ormond and to be honest I think it's her best starring roleOrmond plays Rachel Clifford a newly qualified dentist who sometimes works in a prison . After finishing work she does her shopping at a supermarket and bumps into one of the inmates called Philip Chaney who is nearing his release date . After striking up a connection ... Ah but that would be telling I found CAPTIVES a thoroughly engrossing drama for the most part . Yeah anything involving a romance between two mismatched people isn't usually my kind of movie and I doubt if it was produced for a target audience of 30 something blokes , but that's not to criticise it in anyway . The central plot of two people coming closer and closer together as seen here is convincing and the characters are well defined helped no doubt by the understated performances of Ormond and Roth . Alas it's not flawless The problem is about two thirds of the way through there's a plot twist as if the producers said to themselves  Hold on let's try and liven things up a bit so it'll appeal to streetwise wannabe gangsta boys  . The screenplay did not need livening up since everything was going so well . Yeah as the demographic breakdown on this site shows far more females enjoyed this than males but there's no way CAPTIVES can be described as soppy , it's set in a prison for goodness sake and the shock ending should have been the revelation of what Chaney was in jail for and how this affected the new relationship . Like the famous cult film SCUM this is another movie featuring the British penal system whose natural ending takes place two thirds of the way in and has a rather illogical final third tacked on in the hope of shocking the audience So that's the major problem with CAPTIVES and why it loses it's potential when it had fulfilled much of it earlier on . It was also produced by the BBC and unsurprisingly it has this made for TV feel instead of a cinematic sensation which may disappoint some people . I did enjoy watching it at the time but when I came to type this review I'd almost forgotten why mainly due to the ending , same as it appears everyone seems to have forgotten Julia Ormond "},{"Title":"I can't stop watching it!","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw anything with Tim Roth was in the series Lie To Me. I was a fan from the start. This movie just solidified it. He and Julia Ormond have the most amazing chemistry. If only it was like that in real life.I have watched this movie nonstop for a few weeks now. I find myself trying to find something else to watch and just keep going back to it.I wish the soundtrack was available somewhere though. I love the music that accompanies the film.This movie definitely ranks in my top 10. And Tim Roth- They need to clone you! "},{"Title":"Underestimated","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I, myself, thought the movie was incredible. A prisoner falling in love with his dentist would probably be a turn off to people who haven't seen it, but it was surprisingly exceptional. Especially the sex scene in the bathroom. I've always had a little something for Tim Roth, but now it's grown. It was a very passionate and intense part of the movie and I really enjoyed it and I think you will too. If anything, it was the best movie I've ever seen. Big Tim Roth fan or not it is a must see and always will be, so suck it up Johnny Depp (if that is how you spell his name) and sit back and watch the show. Some popcorn wouldn't hurt though. "},{"Title":"A Thriller with a hint of Romance and unmistakable intrigue","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film showcases the sole reason why it is a shame that Julia Ormond has slowly faded in and out of the international film scene.Tim Roth plays against his Mr. Orange persona very well. Ormond shines as the dentist just trying to do her job, and keep her head over water in a large and dangerous prison population.Roth and Ormond are great, the setting giving the characters an interesting backdrop to play out a twisted tale of love and trust.For the characters the love is unexpected, for the film fan the enjoyment is indescribable. To Julia Ormond your fans want you to take more chances do more films. Roth keep doing what you do best, stealing the show... "},{"Title":"Exquisite. Hot. Tim Roth","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watched it yesterday night. Two times. And one time this morning. I'm very sure the film is for women without being a chick flick. Tim Roth turns on all of his animalistic charm and charisma of a predator. And it doesn't matter anymore that the story is weak, that the plot is at times inconsistent and that the sex scene takes place in the toilet (By the way that scene is on youtube watched around 1000 times and there's only one comment to it lucky bitch. Couldn't say better myself). A must-see for women.I guess a must see for men as well - as an educational material. It doesn't matter who you are, how much you earn or how you look - if you learn to look at a woman like THAT - she will be yours. It's a promise. "},{"Title":"Unlikely Premise Made Effective by Strong Acting/Directing.","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought the DVD to see Julia Ormond. After watching her in 'Sabrina', I really wanted to see her other efforts. 'Captives' is a very obscure film here in the U.S. I had to do a good bit of digging on the internet to find a source for the DVD. It was worth the effort.Julia was truly lovely in this role as 'Rachel Clifford'. The hurt and rage she felt as the betrayed wife came out in subtle ways as well as violently lashing out at her cheating husband. This made her character more sympathetic to the plight of prisoner 'Philip Chaney' who killed his cheating wife in a fit of rage.Tim Roth made a very convincing 'Philip Chaney' in this film. He has been confined over 5 years and is horribly deprived and lonely. He is not a career criminal, but has had to adapt to the savage lifestyle of his fellow prisoners to survive. We see a scene where he is accosted by 2 prisoners in a lavatory. His instant attack and savage beating of his assailants make it clear that he is not a man to be trifled with.The film makes clear how much survival in a prison requires great effort at reading the attitudes and motivations of those prisoners around him. 'Philip' comes to the dental clinic and encounters the new dentist 'Rachel' for the first time. He quickly sizes up her distressed mental state from subtle clues and instinctively understands that she is emotionally vulnerable. The fact that 'Rachel' is beautiful as well adds to her appeal. He takes a huge risk to pass a note to 'Rachel' asking her to come to a prisoner visitation day and see him in violation of prison rules.Tim shows 'Philip' struggling between two conflicting motivations. The noble motivation is to build a relationship that can continue after release from prison. The low motive is to continue in the law-of-the-jungle attitude he must adopt in prison and exploit 'Rachel' for his own gratification. Eventually, he comes to care for 'Rachel' enough to sacrifice his imminent release from prison to save her life.I must say that I found the sexual encounter in the ladies' room very disturbing. I flinched at the graphic and somewhat disgusting aspects of the scene. Thinking about it for this comment, I realize that Julia portrayed such an upstanding character in 'Sabrina' that it disturbed me to see her in such a darkly-themed film. I found myself fast-forwarding to get past this sticky situation. To an outside observer, there is always a ridiculous aspect to human behavior in such situations. Personally, I feel vaguely perverted to pay to witness actors engaging in such behavior. I wondered how the female director felt about her role in such conduct. On a spiritual level, how must such performances effect the real-life relationships of the actors?Colin Salmon gave a truly great performance as the psychopathic killer 'Towler'. He gave off menace with such ease that one could easily sense a volcanic rage slightly below the surface. Apparently, the BBC is not as restricted by political correctness as Hollywood. They felt free to use the 'n-word' when such utterances would never occur in domestic films.The film had a realistic ending. Such an unstable romance was bound to come to a disastrous ending. 'Rachel' is forced to shoot an assailant to protect herself. She is wise enough to continue shooting until her assailant is dead. If he survived, there was a strong possibility he would be back seeking revenge.I watched the film again with the French language dialog. I wondered if Julia Ormond had utilized her great fluency in French to dub herself. I could not be sure, but it sounded much like her voice. Her acting abilities are just stunning!After watching this film about 5 times, I became aware of the excellence of Colin Townes' score. He always hits the perfect notes to accentuate the mood of the moment or set the stage for further developments. He must have been paid very little for his efforts given the television movie budget for the project.The eventual resolution of the relationship is never given. British films always seem to end about 3/4 through the story. 'Philip' has had his release set back for violating prison rules. 'Rachel' is facing criminal charges for smuggling a gun into prison and possible murder charges. Will the two lovers eventually get together? Only the BBC knows for sure! "},{"Title":"tim roth is magnificent","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie I watch over and over. You care about Rachel (Ormond) and Philip (Roth) from the beginning. You see the struggle they both go through when weighing what they have to lose by beginning a relationship. Then it's a romantic/suspenseful joyride to the end. If you like Roth or Ormond, you will love this movie, the rest of you, give it a try, you won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"I Love You","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tim, you are the most magnetic, attractive, intense and passionate actor!! The lyrics of this song, HIGHER LOVE of Depeche Mode, is what I feel for you.I can taste more than feel This burning inside is so real I can almost lay my hands upon The warm glow that lingers on Moved, lifted higher Moved, my soul's on fire Moved, by a higher love I surrender all control To the desire that consumes me whole Leads me by the hand to infinity Lies in wait at the heart of me Moved, lifted higher Moved, my souls on fire Moved, by a higher love Heaven bound on the wings of love There's so much that you can rise above Moved, lifted higher Moved, moved, by a higher love By a higher love I surrender heart and soul Sacrificed to a higher goal Moved, moved by a higher love By a higher love (M.Gore)M. Angeles Zaragoza (Spain) "},{"Title":"Wouldn't describe it as a thriller...","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERSThis movie was billed as a thriller, but imo it was more a romance, but with a twist..Julia Ormand is a dentist working in a prison who becomes attracted to a convicted murderer (Tim Roth). Wonderful chemistry between the two of them. The tables are turned however when she is placed in a compromising position by another inmate because of her involvement with Chaney (Roth).  "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I happen to catch this movie also while channel surfing.  Just the fact that Tim Roth (One of my favorite actors) was in it grabbed my attention.  Both he and Julia were excellent in the lead parts and did this movie justice. Some points in the story line were alittle to unbelieveable but the movie was good and not hurt by it. "}{"Title":"so so","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Apart from the fact that the movie doesn't deliver what's promised in the back of the case (a thriller), Roth didn't seem to me so good as other reviewers think. Ormond is better, but the whole supposed chemistry isn't convincing. Of this troubled story of passion the actors seem to portray only the troubled part.5/10 "},{"Title":"Has Potential","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have only seen this film once, and I must say I was a bit disappointed, but I do need watch it again once more to make sure. The accent made it a bit hard to hear clearly at all times, but the acting was absolutely great on Tim Roth and Julia Ormond's behalf. I feel the story could have been better, the beginning had me waiting for more. The romance was beautiful and it was refreshing to see Tim in a lover's role, he was lovely. The scenes that have together are passionate and tantalizing. They tease the audience wonderfully. Although it twisted a little to my dislike later, (I may change my mind after a second viewing) I enjoy the performance between these two actors immensely. I have to mention I am a big fan of Tim Roth too. ) Any other fans wanna chat, email sometime! All I can say for this film is I believe it has a lot more potential and they could have rocked it better. "},{"Title":"What an amazing disturbing sleeping pill!","Date":"22 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is nothing worse than a presumptuous movie that tries to be what it is not, in this case something smart, profound, intense and thrilling. This movie is exactly the opposite.Roth, an actor I truly like, seems to go along with the sleepy mood and not even when he kicks the bad guys on the balls he seems to wake up. Ormond drags herself along the screen with an expression on her face as if she had been born preoccupied.I seldom saw a so bad editing, precipitated and hurriedly. The plot line stays horizontal throughout the entire film and you are carried from mood to mood without any reasonable connection. For half a hour nothing happens and suddenly they are on a bathroom floor making intense love (very pathetic) like Rourke and Basinger in Nine 1/2 Weeks. 15 minutes later the relationship is assaulted by doubt and drama. If this was not enough, in the last third of the movie they inject under pressure some parallel story inside the prison that undermines and overshadows the already undermined relationship between Roth and Ormond, which focus on nothing really and ends with some pathetic shooting scene at the end.C'mon, give me David Cronenberg and his smooth story telling, where suspense and mood reach the climax so slowly and so perfectly. Perhaps in his hands, this move could have lived to be something decent.Well, a very very bad movie. To be avoided at all costs, unless of course, you need desperately to get some sleep. "}]