[{"Title":"A classier action thriller.","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How did Speed ever get better reviews than this? Whilst De Bont's runaway bus is certainly good, Blown Away is by far the better bomb movie as it relies on suspense driven thrills rather than big budget stunts to deliver the kicks. Admittedly the film starts slowly but the pace steadily keeps increasing until the final half-hour where things (literally) explode in one of the best fight scenes ever put on celluloid. Stephen Hopkins plays every scene for as much tension as he can (I defy you to watch the kitchen scene without cringing at every slomo) and displays a De Palma like understanding of virtuoso camerawork. Jones menaces away as his usual psychotic prankster (think Two-Face with an Irish accent) and J Bridges is good but never truly called on to do anything special. Amis, Whitaker and the rest of the support are perhaps a little under-used but the film is never about them. This is about Jones and Bridges in a deadly, vengeful face-off and the final showdown is everything you could ever want from an action thriller. Watch it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great plot, great acting, very realistic","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Being a member of a Canadian bomb squad, I found this movie to be extremely realistic in their methods of fighting bombs. I found the acting to be great, Jeff Bridges did a great job, he really put everything he had into this.This movie is really intense, and I've found myself in similar situations which just kept me gripped to my seat when I saw it in theaters and many times again on DVD. The only movie I could try and compare it to would be Speed with Keanu Reeves. I'd give the slight lead to Blown Away however, for better acting and storyline. Another comparison would be Arlington Road, same type of story and Jeff Bridges. Explosions in this movie look real and are real, not computer animated. They look so real you can almost feel the heat on your face ) A definite must see if you like Action-Thriller genre movies "},{"Title":"Solid All Around Movie","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  From reading the other comments on this site, I was surprised at all the negativity surrounding this film.  Sure, the accents are probably bad, but everyone knows that Hollywood can't do accents and aging.This is not a movie to be picked apart, but one to be enjoyed.  Sure, the characters aren't completely fleshed out, but there is enough depth for you to feel for them.  The action is good, and despite many contrary opinions, I think the pacing is good too.One of the high points of this film was the sequence where the wife and daughter are in the house and the audience is left suspecting there may be a bomb plant.  The camera shots that frame the stove turning on, the light bulb, the phone jack, etc.  were done very well, and suspensefully, though I suspect this well done sequence is what is making many people call this film slow.Finally, the use of The Joshua Tree by U2 was a really nice touch.Overall, this film is not outstanding, but if you want a movie that is relatively light, but has some comedy, drama, suspense and action all mixed in, then check it out. "},{"Title":"Blown Up, But No Overly So","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was made during the period (early '90s) in which Hollywood was absolutely in love with blowing things up. The more explosions, the better, seemed to be the prevailing attitude.At least they weren't overdone in this film, as they were in so many others. However, the accents might have been overdone as none of the stars - Jeff Bridges,Tommy Lee Jones, Forest Whitaker, Suzy Amis and Lloyd Bridges - sounded like a true Bostonian. It's especially odd to hear Jones attempt his Irish-Boston accent, although he's more adept at it than the younger Bridges. Jones plays an Irish terrorist in this revenge movie, wreaking his havoc in Boston. The film's best asset is the suspense it builds for the two hours and the fact it keeps you interested the entire way, right from the opening scene.The negatives are too much profanity and a contrived story in spots, particularly at the end when the fight between Bridges and Jones goes on forever as does the scene with Jones trying to save his wife. It's just too much. A lot of modern-day action films just don't know when to quit, and this is a prime example. Yet, it's definitely worth at least one look. "},{"Title":"Deserved better than it got.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blown Away obviously suffered in comparison to Speed since both films were released the same year during the same summer. I never really considered this a pure action film more than a suspense thriller. Things aren't blowing up every 10 minutes and the characters are more deep and interesting here than in a lot of your mindless action romps. I found Jeff Bridges desire to resume a normal life in Boston after his questionable  IRA-like activities back home in Ireland appealing and his lovely fiancee played by Suzy Amis very likeable. Tommy Lee Jones has a great Irish accent and the lunatic he plays is great fun to watch. Lloyd Bridges as Jeff's uncle and Boston cop Forest Whittaker are equally appealing. My home-town newspaper, The Dayton Daily News gave the film 3 stars. I'd say that's about right.No sequels please! "},{"Title":"Extremely Entertaining Pyrotechnics Showcase.","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mad bomber formerly associated the IRA escapes from prison and appears in Boston to exact revenge to the man who put him there in the first place - bomb expert Jimmy Dove, a loving family man, with a dark past...If this plot seems easy to predict, it is. but it is defended by the superb action sequences filmed, the excellent explosions and also by the great acting by Jeff Bridges and Tommy Lee Jones. The standout goes to Jones, who gives an on-his-own performance as a deranged bomber at war with Jimmy Dove. And although the storyline has a few plot holes, it still manages to carry on as if nothing happened. Director Hopkins, who helmed the gory 1990 sequel to the 1987 action hit Predator, shows his potential for making action sequences as realistic as possible. One example is the abandoned ship explosion. That has what I think the biggest live action film explosion ever! On the MGM DVD the picture is a clear anamorphic 2.351 widescreen with super good Dolby Digital 5.1 surround, thus packing a punch for you home theater system.Overall, solid entertainment, you're not looking for anything like To Kill A Mockingbird, now are you? A treat for action fans and a must have for home theater enthusiasts.7.65/10 for entertainment, 6.7/10 overall.Delton "},{"Title":"Catch you at a bad time?","Date":"17 June 2013","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I may never hear the end it from people on why I love this movie so much, but it is one of my favorite Hero/Villain movies ever! It was received very poorly both critically and commercially, but I love it! It goes from Ireland to Boston. There's Guinness drinking, explosions, and at least two songs from U2's Joshua Tree Album, used in parts of the film that fit perfectly. You also have father/son Jeff Bridges/Lloyd Bridges starring together as former IRA members. I don't know what draws me so close to this film. Perhaps my fascination with Ireland, curiosity over the years of conflict there, having done my internship there or what? Maybe that I've just always liked Tommy lee Jones and Jeff Bridges. The pair worked well together in Blown Away. I don't care what the critics said, or how well it did at the box office. Reviewed by AN/NR 11-14-11 "},{"Title":"Boom, boom, boom","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Tommy Lee Jones wants Jeff Bridges and anybody he knows Blown Away in this 1994 film, also starring Suzy Amis, Forest Whitaker and Lloyd Bridges. Bridges, caught up in the Irish trying to get the English out of Ireland, worked with Jones in Ireland, but when one of the bombings goes bad, he splits, and Jones gets arrested. Jones escapes from an Irish prison and traces Bridges to Boston, where he plans on getting revenge on Bridges, his family, and the entire Boston Police Bomb Squad.This movie really needed to be seen on the big screen because of all of the special effects - huge, frequent explosions.The accents are all over the place, but the performances are good, with Lloyd Bridges on hand as a bearded character actor. It was a little too stereotypical for this viewer.The script is by the numbers and derivative, but the actors and the tension engendered from defusing bombs attached to people helps hold interest.Okay, but see it on a large flat-screen TV. "},{"Title":"Familiar but enjoyable.","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing more than a formula action picture, a studio product, but well-done and fairly enjoyable. Stephen Hopkins proves (again, after Predator 2) to be adept at filming frenetic action scenes and he shows confidence in the way he uses the camera, especially in the long shots. Tommy Lee Jones is kind of one-note as the villain, and not very satisfying, but Jeff Bridges gives depth and credibility to his role, and the supporting cast is above-average. Oh, and there ARE some spectacular explosions. (**1/2) "},{"Title":"'Bombniscient' - omniscient about bombs and where to find them.","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A minor movie with two seasoned actors, Jeff Bridges as an expert in the Boston Bomb Squad, and Tommy Lee Jones as the Irish bomb expert out for revenge.  There is nothing groundbreaking here, it uses the familiar trick of a bomb expert who can look at a few arcane clues at a scene and quickly figure out who is about to be bombed. I call it 'bombniscient.' However, it is fun in places to see Bridges and Jones in action.SPOILERS follow -- I hope no one reads any further. If you do, please don't send me a 'PM' complaining how I gave away too much of the story! Turns out the two main bombsters were friends in Ireland growing up, both wanted to 'keep the English out of Ireland', but Jones went too far and ended up with a life sentence in prison for killing a bunch of people. The movie starts with his escape by blowing out a hole in the prison wall (believable? not very...) then he ends up in Boston, finds his old friend/nemesis as a hero with a changed name. Revenge motivates Jones to kill by bombing everyone close to his old friend, plus Bridges himself. He does kill several police, plus the dad (played by real dad, Lloyd Bridges), but Bridges manages to deactivate a few of them. The strangest, his partner had earphones on, with a small bomb, tied to another in a speaker, and if you cut one wire they would both go off, so they cut them AT THE VERY SAME INSTANT, which is highly unlikely, given the speed of an electrical signal. The big showdown came in the abandoned ship the bad guy had holed up in, an explosion gets him, as the two good guys run on the dock, and I wondered why they didn't dive into the water. Just as I though that, they dived into the water. A movie that contains most of the cliches' in movies of this genre. A DVD borrowed from my local library, fine surround sound track, OK picture. "}{"Title":"Like Speed this strong competitor, might blow you away too","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" On at the same time as Speed, in the good ol year of 94, here's another exciting actioner, better for the fact, (although we can't deny Speed was an adrenaline pump filled ride of such electric intensity) we actually see with great insight, how these bomb disposal boys work. It's one stressful job, and when you have a terrorist bomb operating mastermind, who's not your usual pain in the arse bomber, it becomes a real nightmare. Tommy Lee Jones gives another great performance, like the one in Under Siege, where he worked his magic in that role. Here he plays another nutter but Irish, and the accent I must admit didn't come off that well, tried and phoney, but it's the performance you'll remember when you think about this movie. Bridges, plays Jimmy Dove, head of the bomb squad, where we too share the good times away from work, but some tragic moments too (one involving his good friend- Jeff Bridges Senior who can't be diffused in times. The smarts of Jones's character is intensely scary, as this is a terrorist not played for a fool, and knows everything about bombs, and how to use them to kill innocents. Bridges makes one remark- refer movie title, regarding what happens to men, who stay in the bomb disposal business. There are extremely intense moments that are gold, ones which involve diffusing, and watching Jones, who's waged a war against Bridges's character, you would of figured him for someone showing a lot of anger but Macready (Jones) it's in held, where we really don't know what move he'll make, or where he'll spring up next. One quick zoom in shot on Macready, played against U2'S song I still haven't found what I'm looking for I must say paints an ambiguous and exciting picture of his character. Why Blown Away is better than a lot of others is we just don't watch the characters, we share their lives, away from this suicidal choice of employment, and really get to know them. The climax in a near two hour film is intense, some sweat will be pouring of your brow, and when you two great actors like Bridges, me an avid fan of him, and Jones it's makes the experience even more enjoyable and absorbing, which this film is. For lovers of Speed. A fine psychological terrorist actioner, though very darkly shot, very much Arlington Roadish. "},{"Title":"Great Early 90s Action/Cop Drama Flick","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" An excellent early 90s action/cop drama flick, it has much of the feel of the Tom Clancy films of similar timeframe. Extremely watchable, with good performances from Bridges, Bridges, and Whitaker. Tommy Lee Jones turns out a very sinister character, and conveys the look of who and what his character is supposed to be surprisingly well.A pretty smart film with good internal consistency, it's well worth watching.One minor negative is that there are actions that police characters take that are distinctly inconsistent with how a real PD would operate - those with EMT/law enforcement backgrounds especially may find it breaks suspension of disbelief. This can be explained away by one of the key elements of a main character's story arc, and doesn't detract from the film very much, but may leave you scratching your head if you think too hard about it. Obviously it's a movie, not a documentary, but analyzing the story arc's impact on judgments allows for many of the actions taken by all of the characters to make perfect sense and maintain that good internal consistency. Being vague enough not to spoil anything - if something seems odd, think about why a character does it.Overall, a very solid, enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"A fair spin off to Speed but it is still quite a good flick","Date":"20 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The premise of the movie seems clear to meThere is a Irish immigrant living in the USA who is stalking a person affiliated with the Boston Police Bomb Squad because he married a very beautiful and very musical Irish woman. That Irish immigrant, who had ties to the Irish terrorist group called the IRA, was trying to bring Boston into fear by creating a short-scale wave of bombings in Boston as well as stalking that police member.This is what basically the flick is about.Well, the only problem is that the movie is not exciting until the very end of it. Little does the bomb squad person know that his wife's car was rigged with a bomb. She was going to ride the car after she plays in the Boston Pops 4th of July Spectacular at the Esplanade.Suzy Amis (who plays Katy Dove in the film) was in the Boston Pops Orchestra as a violin player in the 4th of July Spectacular. Her appearance in the violin section almost reminded me of Rachel Barton--the newest quintessential icon of American violin playing who is now extremely famous. The orchestra reaches the climactic ending of the 1812 Overture by Tschaikovsky. The crowd at the Esplanade--as well as the orchestra--- awaits the 4th of July fireworks that would come immediately after the overture is over. At that point, the husband rushes through 4th of July crowds and barricades on his police motorcycle to meet up with Katy as the overture music ends (as well as the concert) and the fireworks go off. Before that, I liked the part when one of the Dove's daughters in the concert seats said, Where are the fireworks?, and Dove's mother says that they will be coming soon.As Katy goes back to her car with her family, his husband warns her not to use the brakes because the bomb was rigged in the car, and the bomb would blow the car up if she slows down. This is almost like the flick Speed. The husband then goes into her car at full speed and finds the main trigger for the bomb in a shape of an illuminated puppet doll. He does pulls off half of the doll (which happens to be the main trigger for the bomb) and finally he does his job, and the lady puts on the brakes and fortunately the car does not explode.How can he do that? I never heard anyone trying to disarm a bomb rigged in a car going at full speed... "},{"Title":"Won't blow tou away.But it still passes the time.","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  * Terrible * * Below Par * * * Not Bad * * * * Good * * * * * BrilliantWARNING *POSSIBLE SPOILERS*James Dove(Jeff Bridges) works on one of Bostons finest Bomb squads. Always having to defuse the most difficult of devices his team comes across. The dedicated officer however plans to put all that behind him. Dove wishes to retire to become a teacher to young bomb disposal rookies. This is down in part to the fact that he is engaged to the lovely Kate(Suzy Amis) and doesn't wish to make his future wife a widow in the near future. Not only that but she has a young daughter who looks upon Jimmy as a father.Things take a turn for the worse however when an unwelcome face from Jimmy's past arrives in Boston. None other than former IRA terrorist Ryan Gaerity(Tommy Lee Jones). Having just escaped from an Irish prison cell and hungry for Jimmy's blood he sets out on a campaign of terror. Not only on the brave bomb disposal expert. But his impending family and fellow members of the Boston bomb squad. Jimmy now finds that only he can stop his former acquaintance. But what exactly links the two of them together and how many more people will die before Jimmy can stop him?Being one of at least two or maybe even three movies of a similar theme in the same year. 'Blown away' was going to have to be seriously good to fend off the competition. With Australian director Stephen Hopkins onboard at the movies helm who had previously directed the dire fifth 'Nightmare on Elm street' flick and with Tommy Lee Jones as an Irish terrorist. Hopes were not exactly good. The end result, although not all together great.In the end makes for passable enough viewing.Bridges as the heroic Jimmy Dove steps effortlessly in to his charismatic lead roll. That said it doesn't exactly challenge him as an actor like it should. To be quite frank this is the sort of roll he can do in his sleep. A million miles from his more difficult stab at portraying an extra terrestrial in the 1984 sci-fi/romance vehicle 'Starman'. As for Jones his personal performance as former IRA man Ryan Gaerity can be described as mediocre at best. He does show enthusiasm in his roll. But the result is a fair bit of mugging as he rant and raves at Bridges through out the movies running time of just under two hours. The less said about his woeful attempt at an oirish accent the better. Needless to say it rates as one of the worst ever. Only beaten by Robert Duvall's embarrassingly bad scottish accent in 'A Shot at Glory'. Thank god for Forest Whitaker as one of Jimmy Doves pupils. It's almost always good to see Whitaker in a film and his effortless cynism and charisma certainly livens up the enterprise.As for the film it self. It's a sadly predictable affair. With a script although not entirely bad is hardly inspiring. There's also the usual plot holes to be found in this kind of popcorn fodder. While the inclusion of Jeff Bridges old man Lloyd  in a small supporting roll seems gratuitous and not necessarily needed. That said director Hopkins makes the best of the material he has been given. His direction is slick enough and manages to keep the pace going. Where he shines most of all as a director is not in the amazing explosive sequences where the bombs finally detonate. But in the way he makes his camera go to the places we don't normally see. In this case the inner workings of the deadly bombs which is of course a master stroke of ingenuity. I can assume that this owes much and was inspired by the ground breaking work of the Cohen brothers. It was they after all who invented and used such imagery in many of their earlier work.All in all 'Blown Away' is not the best in a series of 'mad bomber' movies. That award probably goes to Jan De Bonts 'Speed' that was released the same year. Never the less it's still a passable enough way to pass the time. Even with it's faults. Just sit back and try and not to engage your brain and you might just enjoy it. But someone really should have shot Tommy Lee Jones for that laughable accent. I suppose the best I can say for it was that I got a good laugh.  "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought Tommy Lee Jones was better here than in the Fugitive. His character in this movie was one of the more original villains in an action movie.  An Irish bomb expert/terrorists who comes to Boston and wreaks havoc with the police.  Good movie.  Enough action, but not too much.  "},{"Title":"This thriller is well directed and it's worth a look to this flawed but interesting film.","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Boston's bomb squad expert Jimmy Dove (Jeff Bridges) is now at his most troubling work in his career. Jimmy is a skilled at his work and he always dis-harm every bomb until now. A Terrorist (Oscar-WinnerTommy Lee Jones) escaped from his prison cell in Ireland and this terrorist turns out to be a former mentor of Jimmy. This Terrorist decides to stalk the family and friends of Jimmy. Jimmy is forced to drawn into the action, not only that he has to face his former mentor/enemy but his troubled past.Directed by Stephen Hopkins (A Nightmare on Elm Street 5The Dream Child, Predator 2, The Ghost and the Darkness) made an fine if slow-moving action thriller. Jones gives an terrific performance as the villain. The film also stars the late Lloyd Bridges, Froest Whitaker and Suzy Amis. This film was a box office disappointment in the summer of 1994. Hopkins' visual style keeps the film going and ends up with some memorable moments.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) with an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD only features are the original theatrical trailer and a collector's booklet. The film plays better on video that it did in theaters but it is a must-see in Widescreen for the well-staged action sequences. Good music score by Alan Silvestri (Back to the Future Trilogy, Cat's Eye, Forrest Gump). Oscar-WinnerCuba Gooding, Jr. appears unbilled. Super 35. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Bad accents from a more than decent thriller","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Pretty good movie. This one kept me entertained and was better than I expected. Superb cast in Jeff Bridges as a Boston demolition expert with a past and Tommy Lee Jones, his former colleague and recent prison escapee from Ireland aiming to settle an old score.The story is exciting and I liked the set up which covered a significant period of time; Tommy escaping prison and setting himself up in America, Bridges displaying his reckless on the job attitude then getting engaged, married and aiming to retire to teaching. Time passes before Tommy starts taking out members of the team. It was also excellent to see Lloyd Bridges here even if he does play a silly sort of character with a bad accent but nice father/son dynamic.On that note just about everyone in this has a terrible accent, Forest Whitaker is the new hero on the bomb squad trying to do a Boston accent, Tommy Lee Jones does a fantastic job as the bad guy but his Irish fades in and out, he seems to be relishing playing this character though, making bombs out of toys, dancing to U2, just maniacal and crazy enough to be super entertaining, funny bad guys are the best.I wouldn't so much call this an action movie as a thriller, there are lots of exciting moments with car ignitions, oven switches and light cords where you are meant to think the bomb is going to go off any second. Several cases of Bridges riding his Harley around town super fast causing sparks to fly, Tommy stalking his victims is a bit creepy. The final showdown in the abandoned casino boat is well done. Ultimately decent enough for an 89 action movie 2/3/16 "},{"Title":"Great action flick","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have loved this film ever since the first time I saw it, several years ago. It is way better than the average 6 out of 10 score it received. First of all, the actors are what really make the film so much better than it might be with a different cast. Anytime you have a Tommy Lee Jones, Jeff Bridges, Lloyd Bridges & Forrest Whitaker u are going to have a good product & be positively entertained. Secondly, it's a very solid plot that is not confusing or difficult to follow. Thirdly, it's got just the right amount of action scenes. Too many action scenes can sometimes take away from the talented actors that make up the film...in my humble opinion. Lastly, I found the soundtrack to be very very good. I have seen thousands of movies in my life and there are some flicks that go from good or pretty good to great because of the score or soundtrack. I think the soundtrack in Blown Away worked beautifully. Don't misunderstand me, I am not suggesting that this is a life changing Oscar Award winning caliber movie, at all. However, this is a very good action movie that is highly entertaining. If u like movies like Speed, Die Hard, Face/Off, Deja Vu, etc then Blown Away is right up your alley. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Red and Blue, Ticking Timer, Jeff Bridges and Tommy Lee Jones","Date":"4 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is a Saying Among Film Fans, that a Movie is Only as Good as its Villain. This Holds True in This Bomb Disposal Thriller as Tommy Lee Jones has a Field Day as a Maniacal Sociopath with a Sense of Humor (that always helps the entertainment factor).There's a Whole Lot of Irish in This Movie. It Takes Place in Boston and Both Protagonist (Jeff Bridges) and Antagonist Jones are Former IRA Type Best Friends, but the IRA is Too Sane to Contain the Likes of Our Nutjob as Lt. Bomb Squad Explains.There is Padding About Secret Identities and Such, but That's Only a Plot Convenience to Add a Bit of Mystery Because the Jist of These Things is Not Such Things in the Jist of These Things. That Be Ticking Timers, Red and Blue Wires, and the Head to Head Physical and Mental Matchup of Our Two, You Know, Good and Bad Guys.The Movie is a Thrill Ride in the Speed (1994) Wave of Such Thrills, but Unlike its Inspirational Other, This One was a Commercial and Critical (please excuse) BOMB.But it's a Good Entertainment that is Helped by the Two Lead Actors, a Good Supporting Cast, Rousing Musical Score, and Explosive SFX. Underrated. "},{"Title":"One of those movies that isn't very memorable.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are just those movies you have a hard time remembering five minutes after you leave the theater. This is one such movie. Not that it was entirely bad, in fact it was an OK movie...it just wasn't very memorable at all. Jones plays a mad bomber and Bridges is a bomb squad member. Jones and Bridges though know each other from their Irish days. Some good scenes here and there, though for a movie called Blown Away there aren't as many explosions as one would think. At times this one gets quite boring in places too. Jones and Bridges are pretty good though and so is the elder Bridges as well. Some areas of this film are weak though like the scene where Bridge's wife walks through her house flipping switches and the screen flashes to these scenes where it shows what happens when you turn something on making you think there is a bomb somewhere. It is an OK movie, but nothing that will make you think long afterward. "}{"Title":"Everybody loves a hero.....","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jimmy Dove works for the bomb squad in Boston and he is always the one who is on the tough jobs.One day he decides to quit the force and to become a teacher for the rookies of the squad.A few days later his former partner is killed by a bomb and Jimmy becomes suspicious that maybe this bomb could have been built by a former friend of himself.He begins to investigate and finds out that his worst nightmare has returned from his past.....Lee Jones and Brides were very hot in 1994. Jones had just bagged an Oscar, and Bridges was being praised for his turn in Fearless, what could go wrong? A lot, apparently. Saying that this is a cat and mouse game is a little cynical, as the two leads only make contact twice during the movie, but kudos to them for dealing with such a touchy subject matter which is dealt with in the way only Hollywood could.....glam it up!! Bridges is great as the tortured bomb disposal expert, who has a shady past, hanging around in a hot tub with an old 'Oirish' man and being the all American hero, Bridges is a man you can rely on, when a film isn't that great.Jones on the other hand was in the psycho business at this point in his career (Natural Born Killers, Under Siege), so who better to play the bad guy. And while he's having fun, his accent and the way his culture is stated isn't. It's the worse depiction of the accent I have ever heard, makes Brad Pitt sound like on of the Corrs.And the fact that he dances around to U2 and drinks a funny looking Guinness, just adds insult.But given that, the story is pretty good, and the set pieces are astonishing, especially the destruction of the boat.Take away the bad stuff, the accents, and Lloyd Bridges who plays nothing more than a leprechaun, you have a very tight enjoyable action thriller that doesn't trouble the brain.Consider plausibility, and you will find a stinker of a movie. "},{"Title":"Good film although disturbing...","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was one of those rare films I bought just from reading the info on the box. Jeff Bridges is a bomb squad expert hoping to retire but returns to duty as he goes after an old friend (Tommy Lee Jones) who's on a revenge mission in Boston. I would have found this movie more entertaining if it wasn't for the current terrorist activities in the world today. That made it seem far too real and disturbing. However, there's good acting all around and the Irish soundtrack adds a nice touch. Not many films are shot in Boston but they made good use of the locales. Another nice touch was the way the camera zooms in on the innards of a working bomb. 3 1/2 stars of 5. "},{"Title":"I was blown away!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great. It's about a man on Bomb Squad who's life is destroyed by a man from his past. This man, an Irishman named Ryan Gaerity, happens to be a terrorist. This movie is just as good as Speed, but works as a drama as well. Everybody develops their characters well, and Tommy Lee Jones is especially believable with his Irish accent. This movie is an explosive action film and a serious drama. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably dumb and clichéd","Date":"17 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" We were perusing the On Demand list, and saw this title, with Jeff & Lloyd Bridges, Tommy Lee Jones, and Forest Whitaker, and thought it sounded like a great movie. I should have been forewarned when I didn't recall ever having heard of it before. The opening segment in the prison, where the inmates speak Gaelic ( I believe) and is subtitled, allowed for a bit of confusion when Jones dispatches his cell mate, and says something over his body. Even with repeated viewings, none of us could make out what exactly he says, or even if it's in English. Was the murder done for a reason besides needing a bomb bunker, or was there a back story? Then to watch him assemble his bomb, using all kinds of devices including machine-threaded pipes, explosives, and other unusual items hat would seem to be a bit difficult to accrue in a max security prison, he blows a hole in the wall, and apparently makes his way from that desolate area without any problems, although they don't bother to show how. He next appears in Boston, living in a decrepit, rusty old boat on an abandoned pier, which miraculously not only has electricity, but also has cable TV ( as the orchestra promo mentions that it's on A&E, not an over the air channel). He also has unlimited funds to obtain everything he needs, from explosives, to electronics, to transportation to get around the Boston area. Bridges character, as we soon find out, is also a fugitive IRA guy, wanted by Interpol, yet he apparently had no problem getting past the Boston PD's background check to get hired under his phony identity. He also exhibits almost every Hollywood cliché about the maverick cop, riding a m/c to a bomb scene while smoking a butt and wearing a Hawaiian shirt to let us know how cool he is. He also ignores basic safety procedures while disarming bombs, even though he is supposedly the one who instructs everyone on EOD protocol. Jones also exhibits the troubling Hollywood syndrome of being able to single handedly surveill multiple people and locate their homes, even their vacation homes, and also gain employment with Boston PD as a janitor ( once again, bypassing the pesky background checks a large agency like BPD conducts even for civilians) with not a care in the world. They also never bothered to explain how Jones was able to get Lloyd Bridges from the bar bathroom out the door, and to the school yard , where he was able to secure him with an unbelievably complex device, without a single person noticing. Then of course there is the TV screen continuously showing Bridges wife in closeup even though she is just one person in the Boston Pops. The story just kept getting more and more ludicrous, and of course there had to be the obligatory Hollywood fight where the bad guy is almost indestructible, no matter what he is hit with. If you come across this, keep on going, it was 2 hours that I'll never get back. I can only imagine that the Dude and the rest were in a slump and needed a quick payday, without regards to the script. The only reason I gave it 2 stars was for the Boston scenery. "},{"Title":"I was literally Blown Away","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blown Away was a truly awesome movie. I was blown away with it. I still like Speed better, but the story in this on was far more interesting. Do yourself a favor and rent this movie. Tommy Lee Jones and Jeff Bridges were very good. Enjoy getting blown away! "},{"Title":"Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha&#133;..oh, hang on &#150; you mean this wasn't a joke?","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jimmy Dove is a Boston bomb disposal expert who quits to train rookies instead.  However a series of bombs that seem familiar to him bring back old memories.  He suspects that ex-IRA bomber Ryan Gaerity is behind it as part of a revenge attack and must stop him before he can kill again.How many `bomber out for revenge' movies do we need.  The reason Hollywood loves them is because we get an easy excuse for big explosions.  However Blown Away fails on so many levels.  First it tries to flesh out the characters but this doesn't work and only serves to slow things down. Secondly the action is silly and has no real suspense &#150; it's entertaining enough if you just want to see things blow up but if you want thrills or tension as well then you're in the wrong place.  It's not all bad &#150; but the whole film just feels like it's half-baked, liked someone was stuck with a bad idea but did the best they could with it.A personal bugbear of mine is this whole Hollywood obsession with the IRA &#150; why do characters always have to be `too crazy for the IRA' or have gone good form the IRA etc.  How on earth ex-IRA member Dove gets into the Boston police force is the first joke but also the fact that Gaerity is `too crazy etc' is daft.  Do the IRA put people out for bombing innocent people &#150; I think not&#133;..hence the word `terrorist'.Jeff Bridges is OK but really just runs round with a furrowed brow all the time.  Jones is OTT, it's like he realises that this is crap and wants people to see his tongue is in his cheek.  His Oirish accent is terrible and just made me laugh.  The worse is Lloyd Bridges &#150; is he awake for most of this?  The two funniest bits with him in it is where he is attached to some absurd bomb thing but, even funnier, is him in an Irish pub drinking some black watery liquid that's supposed to be Guinness!  If I made the drink I would have sued!  Quality people like Amis and Whitaker are just plain wasted.OK &#150; some of the action is good and it's not all terrible but it's not very good.  Whether it be the bad performances, bad plotting or just sheer silliness of the whole thing it lacks tension and it's too lame to get involved in. "},{"Title":"A sputtering thriller.","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  2 out of 10Blown Away is a surprisingly awful action film; it never works as a thriller or a character drama, and it's insertion of both elements don't gel together well at all.  Jeff Bridges stars as a cop whose family and friends are threatened by a mad bomber played by Tommy Lee Jones.  It appears this bomber was actually Bridges' mentor and is intent on revenge. The story itself has promise, but director Stephen Hopkins' inept direction fails to translate any tension to the screen.  Almost every scene is put together at a somnambulant pace and poorly realized (i.e. constant flashbacks from out of nowhere, the jarringly awful phone conversation between Bridges and Tommy Lee Jones, and the abrupt, cheesy ending).  Slow motion is overused during the explosions (what, you didn't think Bridges would disarm every bomb, did you?) and all the action scenes are too short to even begin delivering anything resembling thrills.  At least Hopkins would go on to direct the TV series 24, arguably the most thrilling ride on-screen in years, so all is forgiven. "},{"Title":"A better 'bomb' movie than Speed.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most IRA movies made in Hollywood are always criticised for the actors not sounding like real Irishmen. I have never once found this to be true and certainly not for Blown Away. Tommy Lee Jones is quite convincing as a deranged bomber who goes after Jeff Bridges in revenge for betraying him 25 years earlier.Stephen Hopkins uses his fave cinematographer and composer Peter Levy and Alan Silvestri to bring some visual style and a powerful musical score to accompany the action and explosion scenes. The final encounter between Jones and Bridges is WAY cool. Trust me. It's one of the best showdowns in history. A cool use of widescreen photography captures a pleasant and eye-pleasing view of Boston. I only ever saw this city in Cheers previously and now it makes wanna visit. This film was overlooked in the summer of 1994 because the audience was too busy with the other BOMB movie Speed. By that I mean movies with bombs. Not movies that are bombs. Speed was about a bomber wanting money. But Blown Away is a more personal, character-driven film and definitely the superior of the two. "},{"Title":"You shouldn't of done that dad!!!!!","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like this movie it's fun to watch, great score,good music not bad special effects. Jeff Bridges is the most underrated actor period and tommy lee jones did a good job again. all around very enjoyable flick good one liners. "},{"Title":"The Pinball Wizard with a Bang!","Date":"25 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hesitant to see another Terrorist-Mad Bomber movie but with Jeff and Tommy in it we couldn't pass it up.  A cop vs. bad guy story but a lot of twists, great suspense, action, emotions and empathy for the Good guys. Seeing Jeff with his dad was also great- they both have so much talent and class. Special effects for how things go boom were frighteningly great. Captivated and hooked on watching but hoping it doesn't give anyone new ideas.  Worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"Okay for a Time Consumer","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie ranks between complete stupidity and humiliation and excellence. The actors are fair; the plot a little too foreseen; the visual effects excellent. This movie is a perfect getaway for a long weekend or boring afternoon. "},{"Title":"Great Film and visual effects","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was great. It was filmed well in Boston, the actors were great as well. The visual effects were even better. This film is great to see every once in a while and should not be a one time thing to watch. "},{"Title":"The Bridges Men","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blown Away was re-run on Australian TV in September 1998.The Bridges men have starred together on several occasions. This is one that is poignant because Lloyd died not long afterward, a matter that must have seemed like deja vu to Jeff after the filmic death of his 'uncle' (father).I caught a continuity error. The scene where the Bridges men are on the river. The O'Bannon character (Lloyd Bridges) is fishing and the younger man comes to talk... O'Bannon is wearing a material hat and, as the shots swap between the two men in close-up, the hat's rippled brim has two distinct patterns of ripples over O'Bannon's forehead. Obviously, done in two takes that were then cut together. "},{"Title":"I wasn't blown away by it.","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie starts out nice, you don't know what the connection is between the two. But the connection is soon to be told and was unlikely. Unlikely for Mr. Dove. Unlikely for the Irish guy(i forgot his name) to do what he does. Unliky that Mrs. Dove married him without ever knowing his real name. Who is the old guy who chooses to be blown up. What is his deal in this? Just a few of the many questions that came up in my mind. This movie stars nice,(could have been pretty good but) then quickly takes the obvious turn to oblivion where it will lie forever with a lot of other movies.I gave it a 7 out 10, because some bits where entertaining "},{"Title":"Totally Blown Away....","Date":"14 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Stephen Hopkins 1994 action-packed thriller 'Blown Away' easily ranks amongst the better films from that year. It has a crispy script, fantastic action, superb performances and stylish direction. In short, A winner all the way.'Blown Away' is a revenge saga about 2 individuals. One believes in violence, while the other keeps away from violence. Hopkins body of work is truly admirable, his direction in here is simply spell-binding. 'Blown Away' has a terrific start, a good middle and an excellent end. This film promises entertainment, and it serves it in abundance.In performances, Jeff Bridges steals the show with a winning performance. He breathes fire in all of his dramatic scenes. Tommy Lee Jones is fantastic as the calculative/conniving villain. He crates a terror in you, without making morbid faces. The Late Lloyd Bridges is lovable. Suzy Amis is very good. In fact, this is her careers best work. Forest Whitaker is excellent from start to end.'Blown Away' is simply an amazing watch. Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Bombs and bombers are a blast!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There was a nicely controlled lunacy in this film.  Jeff Bridges is likable as the reformed IRA guy, but TLJ is great as the terrorist the video scene where he goes from one costume to another is worth evey penny it costs to rent the video... too bad it had to compete with Speed Boston is a city that the Irish have always loved to hate....  "},{"Title":"One of the worst Hollywood action thrillers out there.","Date":"6 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blown Away starts at Castle Gleigh Prison in Nothern Ireland as convicted terrorist bomber Ryan Gaerity (Tommy Lee Jones) escapes using his explosive know how. Jumpt to Boston in the US where bomb squad member Jimmy Dove (Jeff Bridges) has decided to retire & new recruit Anthony Franklin (Forest Whitaker) is set to take his place alongside Jimmy's old partner Blanket (Ruben Santiago-Hudson), on their first job Blanket is killed by a booby trapped explosive which forces Jimmy out of retirement. Soon it gets personal for Jimmy as he discovers that his old terrorist mate from Ireland Ryan is behind a series of bombings & he is out for revenge against Jimmy, his family & friends as it was Jimmy who put Ryan behind bars in Ireland all those years ago...Directed by Stephen Hopkins this is actually the second Hopkins directed film I have seen in the past twenty four hours after also seeing The Reaping (2007) yesterday, it wasn't planned & it was a co-incidence & pretty lousy luck as The Reaping was average & this was plain crap. At two hours long Blown Away is very slow going & apart from the last fifteen or so minutes is really dull, lifeless, bland & dare I say it even boring. The melodramatics between Jimmy & his family are unintentionally funny (the scene when his wife jumps in the jacuzzi to shout at Jimmy is pure comedy) while the hero with a dark past role just doesn't suit Bridges, his confrontations with Tommy Lee Jones are awful as it seems to be a contest between the both of them to discover who can do the worst Irish accent. The plot is extremely predictable, routine & by the numbers as the clichéd tough guy hero with a dark past has to save the day on his own playing by his own rules, any number of better action films use this scenario & add that to a script that offers no surprises (good guy wins in the end, bad guy is stopped) & feels like little or no effort has gone into it.For a big budget action thriller Blown Away is really short on action or thrills, there's a decent explosion at the end, a truck is blown up & there's a speeding jeep & that's it. For a two hour film not enough happens. Footage from Blown Away was edited into two low budget action films called Stealth Fighter (1999) & Agent Red (2000). The Boston locations don't add anything to the film at all to be honest. Apparently the shockwave from the ship explosion at the end shattered 8000 windows in East Boston. If you really want to see an exciting action thriller about bombs then watch Speed (1994) again instead & see how a proper action film should be done.This has decent production values & is well made for what it is but it's still a rubbish film. The acting is poor from a good cast, father & son Jeff & Lloyd Bridges appear here together.Blown Away is a poor action thriller with virtually no action & some poor performances from a decent cast, this is just bad all round really & far too predictable. "},{"Title":"There's hardly room for one more mad bomber movie.","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blown Away takes the time to flesh out its characters , but fails miserably. Jimmy Dove (Jeff Bridges) is a member of the Boston PD bomb squad with a new wife, Kate (Suzy Amis). His fellow bomb-defusers start dying one by one, and it's soon apparent that there's a lunatic bomber loose in Boston. Tommy Lee Jones plays Ryan Gaerity, a nut job with a short fuse, who hails from Ireland. For reasons awkwardly explained in the tortured exposition, Ryan seems to have it in for Jimmy and is gleefully planting bombs in hopes one of them will blow Jimmy from Cambridge to Roxbury. Too bad Blown Away fritters away the talents of its actors with far-fetched attempts at suspense and stilted dialogue. The big finale is a blast, but by the time it arrives, you may be in a mood to launch a few aerial mines of your own in the direction of the screen. Jeff Bridges has a perpetual furrow in his brow, as if trying to figure out what he is doing here, while Oscar-winning Jones is stuck with an Irish accent that could best be described as horrible. Jeff's father, Lloyd Bridges, plays a crusty oldster whom you'll recognize as a walking bomb target from the moment he comes on screen. Same goes for the lovable family pet. Forrest Whitaker acts up a storm, to little avail, while poor Ms. Amis, cursed with one of those thankless dutiful-wife parts, looks to be in need of a good meal. "},{"Title":"Poorly executed thriller","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Between the boring melodrama, the bad accents, and the goofy portrayal of the mad bomber by Tommy Lee Jones, the nonsensical thriller is poorly put together. My only memories of the film was how elaborately he would concoct a Rube-Goldberg series of devices to ignite the bomb. My thought after watching the movie was - How come he would go through such lengths to create such intricate ways of making a bomb, when it all just gets obliterated when it explodes? What's the point? Nobody is ever going to see it and admire it. Another ridiculous problem are the overly artsy shots that have NOTHING to do with carrying the momentum of the film. In fact, they do not match the editing at all, making me believe the director forced them into the cut despite the editor's protest. On the other hand, the story and direction lack momentum on their own, meaning if you removed those shots you surely would fall asleep. "},{"Title":"It Blows","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a boring movie.  I am all for psychological suspense, but this really strained my ability to buy into it.  Unfortunately, an actor whose performances I usually enjoy, Tommy Lee Jones, was totally limp as the villain.  The defining moment for the film for me was when TLJ is on the phone, jumping up and down on the bed.  It's as if the director said OK, this character is crazy, so show it......uh, bounce on the bed.  A lot of wasted talent.  "}{"Title":"good","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Beautiful film. Of course it was obvious to see an Italian film with a low vote. A film that shows very well interpreted in the squalor of the lives of the policemen. Kim Rossi Stuart, Amendola and Placido are really good at acting their parts. UInfatti carabiniere life is always surrounded by this unique squalor. Kim Rossi Stuart plays the part of the carabiniere naive and problems. The rawness in the film is very scandalous and ugly to watch but that is why it is close to reality. Vedilo, you will like it, without following the miserable rating of this site. Not understand why on this website must always utilizzaree a low voting against movies less spectacular than for Hollywood.Spielberg, Lucas, Scorsese and give high ratings to bad movies like sin city. ON THIS SITE I PREJUDICES AND THE RULE OF TWO WEIGHTS AND TWO measured E 'AGAIN THIS! 10 votes "},{"Title":"Sucky Movie!","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A Jr. High School student could have made this movie better! The movie is 2 long, long hours! It's one of those movies with too many unnecessary characters and scenes that should have been deleted.I have never seen Tommy Lee Jones, Forrest Whitaker, Lloyd Bridges or Jeff Bridges act as horribly as they do in this movie! The movie has interesting explosions... I'll give it that, but wow... the director really needs to go back to school! The writer probably did OK, but the actors obviously didn't know how to work the script.If you can stomach it... watch this movie and you'll see what I'm talking about.I'm just glad I didn't spend money on renting it. Thank you Flix channel for saving me from making that mistake. "},{"Title":"Feel like being manipulated ? This ones for you- waste of time","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILERS AHEAD- but you don't WANT to watch this anyway.Let's see - Jeff Bridges realizes there is a bomb in the truck, hmm....There are only 75 police officers and 20 firemen around, instead of telling the person next to him - he keeps it ALL to himself, and makes a mad dash run to the truck.He does stop on the way though to way at some helicopters to 'get out of the way' - I'm sure at a distance of 1500 yards they can hear him fine.So, he runs right into the exploding truck.Now, he gets a phone call from Tommy Lee Jones, calling from his daughters bedroom.Now Bridges - again, surrounded by at LEAST 75 policemen - and 2 helicopters mind you - INSTEAD of saying hey - some nutcase is in my family home in my daughters bedroom, get a car over there ASAP - oh no.Jeff decides to hop on his motorcycle and TELL NO ONE - once again... Almost hitting a semi truck on his mad dash to his family home, possibly causing fatal accidents ALL ALONG THE WAY - but oh no - Jeff and his MOTOR CYCLE - hmm - probably a leather jacket in there somewhere- will SAVE THE DAY.Meanwhile the director decides to manipulate you with a camera shot from a phone receptacle - which IS unique - and you won't find THAT in another movie - but nope- no bomb in the phone jack.Before Jeff made it home ? I stopped watching.I saw this movie a long time ago ? But it seems as Homer Simpson said about Baseball when he stopped drinking I never realized how boring this game really is.This movie is a STRANGE bundle of emotional manipulation.I don't support censorship but THIS movie should be BANNED from every retina - I'd go SO FAR as to say- let's adopt an inferior linear temporal model and pretend you CAN go back in time, BEFORE this movie was ever made - and celebrate what life was like. "},{"Title":"What is this crap?","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is quickly forgotten. It's not truly awful, it's just slow, and fairly uninteresting. Bridges sure has made better films before and after this one - his character is slow and loony. Tommy Lee Jones is not much better, faking a fantastically rotten Irish accent that comes and goes as the story progresses. Find better films. "},{"Title":"Stuff and nonsense","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was really surprised to read a few other comments on this film praising Tommy Lee Jones' Irish accent - you have got to be kidding !!  The whole film stinks and is as bad if not worse than Patriot Games.  What is this obsession with deranged IRA killers??  It may come as a shock to some people but all IRA killers are deranged.  As are the Boston Police department for allowing one to work for them without checking - maybe they have a few mass murderers in their ranks too.  The Bridges family are useless in this film, I think Lloyd was asleep in his scenes, and Jeff has simply made another bad filming decision !!  Jones is ok (apart from the accent) and Forrest Whitaker loses his way.Stuff and nonsense.   "},{"Title":"Block Buster Sizzler","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jeff Bridges was OK in this movie, but Tommy Lee Jones took it way over the top in his role as an IRA terror bomber. It became silly after awhile.The characters were two dimensional, stereotyped and clichéd. Jeff has a past that haunts him, a job he is addicted to but wants to get out of. Oh, I did not like the nepotism of having Lyold Bridges (Jeff's real life dad) play a cameo. Boston Irish cops drinking, there's a twist.Hollywood block busters or pop corn movies are big on explosions and short on credibility. The rube Goldberg bomb device at the end was beyond disbelief and I have a pretty good suspension of disbelief. And let's add one more cliché into the mix, just in case you have not had your fill the U-2 songs played as back drops.One star for Jeff Bridges, one for Forrest Whitaker. It's not their fault the script was terrible and predictable. "},{"Title":"Blown away is what should happen to the guy that wrote this bunk","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most dull action films yet. The IRA is at it again with their bombs. Hasn't this horse been beaten long enough? Jimmy Cagney was doing this act back during the depression. Enough, already. And what was with all these brogues? Tommy Lee is a great actor, but that irish lilt of his went over like a led balloon. What a stupid movie. Oh well, top 'o the mornin' to ya'! "},{"Title":"Bad Accents","Date":"9 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Blown Away 1994 movie bout a bomb squads in Boston. Sorry but I just saw it for the first time. Bad casting and really bad voice coaching. Tommy Lee Jones is a fine actor, but his Irish accent was way, way off with his Texas drawl. PLEASE. That was embarrassingly pitiful. Then you've got Jeff Bridges with, I don't know, what was that a combo- Irish and Boston Southie accent. Again &#x96; really bad to the point of stinking up the entirety of all Boston zip codes. And I really like Jeff, too. But, here's the real kicker - Forest Whitaker with some kind of lame, overdone Southie brogue mixed in with the inevitable ethnicity blended in. Hell, I was in the Marines with black Bostonians and I never heard the likes of that fiasco &#x96; never. And finally, poor old Lloyd Bridges. He actually got the best Irish accent, but he went overboard with it and over-emoted it into almost a caricature. I am no expert and I am no authority, but I can hear and both my ears were offended by the lousy accents, over-emotion and probably bad casting in what could have been a really fine movie. "},{"Title":"Tommy Lee Jone Gives Oscar Worthy Performance.","Date":"7 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For Tommy Lee Jones fans only.This IS the movie that he will be remembered for. I have seen many of his films The Fugitive, Double Jeopardy, U.S. Marshall's, The Missing, The Hunted, Men In Black 1 & 2, Space Cowboys, Volcano, Batman Forever, Natural Born Killers, In The Valley Of Elah, No Country For Old Man, The Client, Eyes of Laura Mars.*Jones got an Oscar for best supporting actor in The Fugitive. *Jones was also nominated for MTV Movie Awards Best Villain for Blown Away and Batman Forever.The role seems to fit him like a glove. The character he portrays in the film is of an arrogant, dangerous and an untrustworthy person with a one-track mind and a keen eye for revenge.That is the character of Ryan Gaerity, an Irish terrorist imprisoned in Castle Gleigh prison in Northern Ireland. He makes a daring escape to seek vengeance against Liam McGivney, a member of Ryan's original group which also consisted of Ryan's sister who was also Liam's girlfriend. Liam had foiled a plan to bomb some targets chosen be Ryan. As a result he was quickly arrested by the Police and imprisoned for life. Ryan comes to Boston to seek vengeance against Liam, who is semi-retired but working as an instructor with a new identity Jimmy Dove. Ryan begins taunting his old comrade with threats and his homemade explosives. With his family and friends in danger, he reveals his secret to his wife Kate (Suzy Amis). He returns to action to hunt for Ryan when a former partner of his is killed by one of Ryan's bombs. Fellow officer Anthony Franklin (Forest Whitaker) investigates Jimmy, suspecting a connection between the two.See this superb film directed by Stephen Hopkins (Predator 2, The Ghost And The Darkness) to find out what happens next. Overall the special effects are fantastic, the background music is excellent, script, direction and acting are professionally done. Score 10/10. Flawless film. Buy it on DVD.Similar films Speed, The Specialist, Executive Decision, The Mechanic, Juggernaut.Email me Vivekmaru45@yahoo.com for info one more movies.Thanks for reading. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Showy AND So American !","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's Hollywood. With the good and bad senses of the word.Aside from objection I hold against its standpoint, this is an entertaining movie. In the mid-90s there were many American blockbusters with a plot centers on one bomber and consecutive bombs such as  Speed, The Specialist, Blown Away (all produced in 1994), then Die Hard with a Vengeance (1995). Blown Away stands as one of their best.First it's in the direction. (Stephen Hopkins) is the star of the show. Other work for him like The Ghost and the Darkness (1996), Under Suspicion (2000) got my attention by their clever and charming technique. (Hopkins) here makes every moment thrilling and, thank god, not in a hyped way. The picture was never brighter with an explosion before. Just remember the shot in which the lead takes the bad guy out of the last's cache near the ocean; this live piece of action was historically dazzling. In one word  it's showiness as it should be.The script delivers  action, thrill, and hot conflict. But nothing is perfect. As I wasn't convinced with matters like a forced nagging (Forest Whitaker); it should have been better as justified enemy turns-into justified friend character. Or how the father (Lloyd Bridges) finds the bad guy (Tommy Lee Jones) plainly and illogically. Plus non-understandable matter like seeing (Jones) crying over killing (Lloyd Bridges) ! (Does he originally love and respect the man? Does he blame himself for killing one of his own people ? Does he hate to murder innocent people ????? I don't know, and I won't know at all !). Let alone the Hollywood clichés about the IRA (The Provisional Irish Republican Army) that were so prevalent before the 1998 Belfast agreement. The same you can find in Patriot Games (1992) where the IRA's men are always unmerciful, nearly crazy, assassins. They love to blow up everything and everyone. And their best are the ones whom went to America and stayed there as peaceful citizens ! It could be Hollywood's style of categorizing everyone to only bad guy/good guy, or it's Hollywood's big companies' faith about the IRA, or maybe both !However, you can touch this movie's desire to ignore any political conflict by showing the Irish man this time as a maniac who is rejected by the IRA itself, finding a warrant for him to be evil, and turning the whole matter into just another revenge story. Though, why relating him to the IRA from the start ?! It's obvious point of view about anyone who's not American or supporting the American policy, especially when the movie shows information about Palestinians as terrorists the evil man worked with them once. It's sorrowfully typical. Since Hollywood, here, means being illiberal American; namely non-objective (Well, for little instance the Israelis used to kill unarmed men, women and children since ages and I've never seen them as terrorists in one mainstream American movie yet !?).While the 2 leads were cogent and intensive, just casting (Whitaker) was weird. I mean aside from mixed up performance came mainly from weak characterization, he's the last Irish in the world, too heavy to be in a bomb squad, and I don't catch on how they cast him repeatedly as a police officer with the obvious condition of his eye ??! No police officer can make it to be one with that I suppose ! It got madly stimulating Alan Silvestri's soundtrack, unforgettable (Peter Levy)'s cinematography, and masterfully thrilling (Tim Wellburn)'s editing. Enough to remember the climactic sequence in the car. I don't know how this movie wasn't a hit back then. But sure it hits its mark very well.Hollywood movies lately were about abstract explosions and exhausting excitement, with one cliffhanger after another, and non-stop in-the-nick-of-time rescues. (Blown Away) personifies that in iconic way. And even its stereotypes apply to that, since stereotyping became &#x96; along the years &#x96; part of the show's original formula. The bad, semi-lasting, part. "}{"Title":"neither bad nor great","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just watched it on late-night cable, and it's pretty good for late-night cable. Forest Whitaker and Tommy Lee Jones play their parts well enough. It's not idiotic, as some people have suggested. It's better than average, for sure. "},{"Title":"Calculated mad bomber vs. diffuser movie...","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1st watched 8/31/2007, 3 out of 10(Dir-Stephen Hopkins) Calculated mad bomber vs. diffuser movie that plots Tommy Lee Jones as an eccentric Irish bomb expert(who's the bad guy) against Jeff Bridges as the innocent former comrade who now works for the Boston bomb squad(the good guy) as a diffusion expert. The mad bomber escapes from prison in the first scene and then moves to Boston to hunt down the good guy and his friends and family. And why?? Well, it appears that when they were partners in dear old Ireland an explosion happened that shouldn't have that killed some people the bad guy was endeared to and he's out for revenge. This was not very well detailed in the movie, so if I got part of this wrong it's not entirely my fault. The director's use of flashbacks didn't do a very good job of telling this backstory. So anyway, there are lots of complicated bombs that the squad have to diffuse to save their own skins(some blow, some don't -- so some get killed). The new kid on the block, played by Forest Whitaker(who's wasted in this movie), is trying to put all the pieces together because the Jeff Bridges character chooses not to reveal what's going on to his cohorts. The problem as you can tell, with this movie, is they didn't take the time to tell the story behind the story until it's too late and what's left is just a bad guy killing people and a good guy trying to stop him. This is pretty basic Hollywood crap film-making and it's too bad because many talented actors were involved for what appears to be not much more than a paycheck. As you can tell, I didn't particularly like this movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites. Jeff and Lloyd Bridges are excellent. Lloyd falls right into the roll and does an awesome performance. Jeff was strong as the hero with the mysterious past. But, i must say that Tommy Lee Jones gave one of his most memorable performances. He does a great job with his accent. Forest Whitaker also does an awesome job as the wannabe hero. Lastly is the music composition. I love movies with good music that fits the emotion of the scene. Theres nothing worse than a movie with music that doesnt flow with the movie. This is a must see.  "},{"Title":"A Must watch","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie got me all wired up. Tommy Lee Jones was just amazing-he etched himself forever in my film memory when he performed his dancing steps. I kept on renting the film over and over till the film began to go fuzzy. I'm looking to get an original version for myself for keeps. I do believe the film deserved more credit than it got. "},{"Title":"one other mistake I noticed and not listed","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the movie, James Dove is a bomb squad LT. who has a heavy conscious of blowing up civilians when he was with the IRA or whatever fanatical organization he was with. There is no way he would be a police officer with that kind of background, I don't care how great a bomb person he is....police backgrounds are so thorough a TRAFFIC TICKET doesn't get by without notice, and whatever isn't revealed through word of mouth ...the polygraph reveals...and it WORKS..believe me...I tried several times to get on with my city police department, and to no avail...and I have a squeaky clean record, (never did pot) if you can believe it!! and this terrorist becomes a LT in the Boston PD...come on.Eric "},{"Title":"..picked a bad day to give up smoking..","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't look at Lloyd Bridges without thinking about Flying High.Just like every other role in this movie is only one step away from comic cliché.Only dis ain't funny,just an insult to intelligence.Seriously is there any room in the world for movies like this,cardboard cutout figures on a paint by numbers landscape,in this case Boston,peopled by hotshot bomb squad man Bridges,whose woman does'nt understand his driven past,and a bevy of poorly accented coppers after psycho Jones.I love the way Tommy Lee can masquerade as a cleaner at the bomb squad,wandering in as he feels like it.I'm all for suspension of disbelief in order to drive a plot,and there is nothing worse than listening to nerds enumerating errors throughout a film,but when a film is this facile it makes one feel less charitable. "},{"Title":"As flat as the Guinness","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 116 minSpeaking as an Irishman I can say Hollywood and Irish accents never seem to mix well - or maybe 15 minutes on the west side of the Atlantic does something to the vocal chords. Speaking of accents Bridges slips in an out of a rather good Kennedy impersonation throughout the film.The whole Irish bit is unimportant to the main story of a bomber targeting a bomb squad - a novel idea wasted. Alas the direction focuses on details and fails to present a coherent big picture, we see lots of rolling balls, mercury (looks very cool) and toy gadgets but fail to see what it's all for.5/10 passable at best.P.S. Guinness should sue. "},{"Title":"pure crap","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If i had the option to give this 0/10, i would have.I found it completely stereotypical and insulting to the Irish race in relation to most of Tommy Lee Jones pathetic acting in the movie. However in support to him the script didn't give him much inspiration to act in his usual convincing manner. One example which which clarifies this is midway through the film as he sings along to a U2 song while gleefully manufacturing home explosives. Is this supposed to give the scene a realistic edge or force the majority of viewers to fire a basket of eggs at their television screens. I think the latter! Don't bother wasting two hours by viewing this crap "},{"Title":"Films about terrorism are humorous and entertaining","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This excellent film has become even more humorous since the Autumn of 2001.I recall my father, who was born in Eire and moved to the UK during the 1930s, relating tales of how he found being blown up by Irish terrorists preferable to being blown up by luftwaffe terrorists.Other correspondents have seen fit to criticize two eminent actors for their interpretation of the gaelic brogue. It's not very  easy to emulate. And those of us fortunate enough to have been born with a brogue also have ears which can detect the phony however skillfully delivered.The story line is a little shaky. But then it was probably composed by a hyphenated Irishman and in that event it's not a bad effort.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever!","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  It's so stupid and childish, no adult should be made to endure it.  The actors are turned into some kind of silly clowns trying to fit into the stupid roles.  This is a 1 star movie.  Absolutely no redeeming qualities, none.  There are many films about this subject matter that are so much better.  Jeff Bridges is a great actor, and he is wasted on this junk. F-. Thank you "}{"Title":"Speechless!","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wont delve into a complete movie commentary, only due to the few words needed to critique this movie.The only positive was the presence of Tommy Lee Jones (TLJ), ever the great villain in any film, i'm sure he'll be kicking himself for agreeing to take this role. If you choose to watch this movie, in order to see an individual performance of TLJ, then go for it. However, the performances by the 2 x Bridges, Whittaker & Amis were terrible.A movie with little or no thought put into its plot, The typical American stereotype of the bomb squad expert, complete with his harley and hawaiian shirt just insult the viewer. I nearly turned the movie off, when it took only 20 minutes for the cliché line to come out...... yeah, you know what it is..... Which wire do i cut? the blue one? or the red one?I wont summarise, because an obituary would be more pleasant to read.So all in all, never watch this movie, because you will have wasted 2 hours of your life that could've been spent watching paint dry, or grass grow instead. "},{"Title":"Horrible movie","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Anyone actually from Boston will not reduce themselves to 2 hours of this mind numbing entertainment. With an all-star cast (Forrest Wittacker, Jeff Bridges, Tommy Lee Jones) you would expect at least a decent Boston accent to be thrown around here and there. Not only do they murder the accent, they murder the acting. Aside from the bad acting, the special effects ranged from mediocre to unnecessary. Although these effects seemed excessive, they were really the only thing that got me through the movie. For something that is two hours long, if it's as bad as this movie was, you want to see something blow up as bad as the movie did. Good luck trying to sit through this one. "},{"Title":"Worst accents ever.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have to say, I watched this film a little while ago, and while it was a completly rubbish film, it was lent an air or humor by the fact that tommy lee jones and the bridges boys seem to have competition for who can do the worst irish accent in the world. Ever. "}]