[{"Title":"underrated","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Blue Chips looks at the greed, cheating, and winning at all costs in the world of college basketball. Nick Nolte plays the stressed out coach on the verge of his first losing season, who hits the road in search of new players not already signed by other big name schools. He finds three prospects, a Chicago sharp shooter (Anfernee Hardaway), a farm boy (Matt Nover), and a talented troublemaker (Shaquille O'Neal). All three, wise to the ways of college basketball recruitment, make excessive financial and lifestyle demands before they can be persuaded to come to the school; Nolte, already haunted by accusations of underhanded dealings, doesn't want to dig himself in any deeper, but has no choice if he wants to win again. Blue Chips is a very underrated sports movie, there are plenty of cameos from basketball stars (at the time) and legends you may enjoy.   "},{"Title":"Under-Rated Sports Film That Tells Important Story","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Blue Chips is a vastly under-rated sports film which deals with the shady dealings of colleges and their players.  Nick Nolte plays a college basketball coach who is so desperate to return to his glory days that he breaks the rules by giving his newest recruits (Shaquille O'Neal, Anfernee Hardaway, and Matt Nover) basically anything they and their families want.  School alumnus J.T. Walsh is the catalyst to these shady dealings and now the college has a winning team again, but at what price?  Blue Chips is another one of William Friedkin's films that is much deeper than it first appears on the surface.  With the exception of The French Connection and The Exorcist, this is his finest film as a director.  His documentary-style makes you feel as if you are in on all the action.  Numerous parts are played by real basketball players and coaches, adding a great bit of realism to the story.  The French Connection benefited from this style by having real cops in key roles and The Exorcist did the same having priests play themselves.  Shaquille O'Neal, Anfernee Hardaway, and Matt Nover do surprisingly well with the material.  They are all three-dimensional characters and shine throughout the film.  However with that said, it is Nick Nolte who is the primary factor that makes the film well worth while.  Far from perfect, but still a very good movie.  4 out of 5 stars.     "},{"Title":"Most Underrated Sports Movie Ever!","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I'm not a big sports movie guy, so I went into this not really expecting much other than killing 90 some minutes. I loved it! To see the struggle of a school and coach as they attempt to create a legit winning team in an environment of corruption was interesting. Then when they join that corruption it becomes exciting, you just know it's gonna blowup some time. Nick Nolte carries this film throughout it's entirety, and amazingly the real life players do a great job of acting and the rest of the cast is perfect. I love how they took real players and coaches and brought them into this film, it fits perfectly. The last 35 minutes of this film is brilliant. I've seen many people here talk of how bad this film is, I wonder if they just don't care about sports that much like myself, or have some underlying bias about admitting the corruption exists and always has in much of college sports. I don't care for sports! But I loved this film. The ratings this film gets on here really ticks me off, what is it, a 5.5 star average? I've learned one thing on here and other review sites, if you let others judge for you, you'll miss a lot of good movies. "},{"Title":"What Could Have Been","Date":"29 January 2008","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie seems to have a funny and interesting idea from the outlook. Yet this movies never quite takes off in the right direction or any direction. Through the first half of the movie it builds up as a comedy. In the second half it tries to alter itself into an engaging drama. Personally I had no problem with Shaq and Penny Hardaway in the movie. Nick Nolte with his character fit perfectly. Still the writing was totally unimpressive and horrible except for the one scene with Nick Nolte at the end with his press conference. Everything else in this movie seems to be cliché and would not amuse anyone except for small kids. The supporting cast other than the three basketball players and Nolte's ex-wife fit perfectly or should I say match the poor and cliché writing of this movie. For example J.T. Walsh was cast as Happy. Happy was in charge or at least had connections that helped Nolte get his top notch recruits with illegal strategies such as buying houses, giving money and buying other luxurious items for the recruits' families. J.T. Walsh seemed very easy to spot as a corrupt and horrible man even though his character is supposed to have a low profile and be behind the scenes. This presents a huge problem for a key character who does seem to be quite believable. He is supposed to be the man doing things under the table instead he is totally visible to the public.As I said before the writing in this movie does not engage the audience because it doesn't take on its own identity. It is hard to call this a comedy with too few jokes and attempts to amuse the audience and it is hard to call this a drama with the movie trying to be portrayed as a comedy. This movie could have been easily fixed if there was more work done on the writing and the casting. Blue Chips attempts to show the corruption in college sports but it fails to show the many aspects of it. Such as the corporate sponsors and the pressure an athletic director is under of loosing their job. It does not show the competing colleges vying for the top recruits and most of all it does not show you how such pure and genuine feeling such as playing a sport can be so easily corrupted by the pressure and the need for winning from coaches and colleges to fans and corporate sponsors. This sounds like a lot but could have been very easily included in the movie without having to overextend this into a 2 1/2 hour movie. "},{"Title":"Tells it like it is","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Pete Bell is a college basketball coach.  He's under pressure to win and is under pressure to get the players by any means necessary.  How will he stand up to the pressure or will he give in to pressure?Basketball movies are often the `weak team overcomes' type and are not exactly great.  Some are good (Hoosiers) but most are mildly distracting at best (The air up there), few reach the heights of Hoop Dreams.  However Blue Chips is good because it manages to cast a critical eye over the real world of college ball &#150; there are no small town winners, there are no `kids with hearts of gold' etc &#150; instead it is as much a business as the NBA and the stakes are high to get the best players.Bell shows us how he must juggle doing what's right but also doing what the players want in order to get a winning team.  This is refreshing &#150; rather than yet another sports movie with the same old cliches.  The down side is that it doesn't go far enough in my mind and it doesn't offer solutions.Nolte is good and is really convincing as a coach &#150; even if he's a bit OTT at times on the sidelines.  His support is great in the form of McDonnell, Walsh, Woodard and the real players of Shaq and Penny do OK.  The cast is also filled out with plenty of coaches, commentators and such from real life &#150; so there's plenty to see.Overall this is one of my favourite basketball movies simply because it tells it like it is &#150; even if it does have it's weaknesses. "},{"Title":"Awesome Basketball Movie!","Date":"29 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie can't come out on DVD soon enough! I have loved this movie since that first time I saw it. As someone that has always played basketball, I found it very entertaining. The acting was good, but the story line was great. After playing intercolligiate athletics, athletes being coaxed to do things outside of the NCAA rules is very relevant in any sport. I think that any sports fan would enjoy watching this movie. As a University of Kentucky basketball fan, I enjoyed seeing Bobby Knight get a little mad!!! Pete Bell was a man with a lot on his mind and finally realized that his career had gone far away from what basketball and sports should be...having fun! I really wish this DVD would be released!!!  "},{"Title":"One of Nolte's best!","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" I think this film is very underrated! Nick Nolte gives a perfect performance as coach Pete Bell who can't decide between the legal and the illegal way to get some excellent players to make his team better. Finally success will be more important than his own honor and he chooses the wrong way when accepts the help of Happy. This movie shows the inner changes of Pete Bell (with his weakness)and problems that coaches have to face when they try to be honest. I liked the play of Penny Hardaway and Shaq O' Neal in spite of that they don't give an unforgettable performance. 'Blue Chips' is a very exciting basketball movie with Nolte's lovable character! "},{"Title":"Good basketball movie","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  While the story was rather interesting, it  seemed like it was too sensationalized  for it own good. Unfortunately, in a movie  about basketball players, one cannot  find 7-foot actors, which meant Shaq O'Neal  was one of the few people who could fill  the role. This entire film tries to hard,  accentuating points too harshly, and showing  how corrupt the entire system in a manner  that doesn't appear believable. I will say  this, Nick Nolte really embodies the  uber-Bobby Knight character, and what  happened to Matt Nover? He was clearly  the only good actor amongst all of the basketball  players in the film. "},{"Title":"another underrated movie, a great film","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is very underrated, it hasn't gotten nearly the credit it deserves.  I thought it was very well done, although it wasn't perfect, it was still very good.  It is the first movie to talk about a problem that is very prominent in todays colleges and their methods of recruiting.  The film is very well written and Nick Nolte does a great, great job playing the conflicted coach. "},{"Title":"The World Of High Pressure College Sports","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Blue Chips gives us a view of high pressure college sports.It is a film about basketball that stars Nick Nolte as a college coach,Pete Bell,who was based loosely on Coach Bob Knight of Texas Tech,together with real- life basketball stars Shaquille O'Neal,Anfernee Penny Hardaway and Matt Nover as talented recruits.Blue Chips examines greed, cheating, and winning at all costs in the world of college basketball. Pete Bell is the stressed-out coach on the verge of his first losing season, who hits the road in search of new players not already signed by a bigger school. He finds three prospects a precision Chicago shooter Butch McRae,a giant farm boy Ricky Roe and a talented troublemaker Neon.All three top prospects, wise to the ways of college basketball recruitment, make excessive financial and lifestyle demands before they can be persuaded to come to the school.Coach Bell, already haunted by accusations of underhanded dealings, doesn't want to dig himself a deeper hole but has no choice. The movie was started really well.Director William Friedkin and Writer Ron Shelton made an accurate depiction of the reality of college recruitment and the morality play that schools figure in on the college sports.There was also a story about how college players get involved with game fixing themselves.The acting was great on Nick Nolte as usual.While the performance of Shaq was good for his first screen appearance.But in the end,it chickened out and opted for an implausible conclusion and resolved for a Hollywood ending.But given its poor ending,Blue Chips is still an entertaining movie to watch especially for basketball fans. "}{"Title":"An Excellent Basketball Movie","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Yes, I would admit that this movie is not THE greatest basketball movie of all time.  I suppose Hoosiers would get that title.  The only real pet-peave I had is that the basketball players such as Penny, Shaq, and Matt are not exactly Shakespearean actors.  Of course, their athletic ability is perfect for their parts and the movie covers their acting deficiencies enough with plenty of playing scenes including numerous dunks by Shaq.  I'm a huge college b-ball fan and the cameos including Pitino, Knight, Tark, and Dicky V give the movie a better sense of realism.  Knight was certainly great at playing himself, which involves yelling-cursing at the players and refs. Nick Nolte makes this movie, however.  He comes off thoroughly convincing as a veteran college coach who is facing the twilight of his career and considers illegal recruiting tactics to get a winning team again.  The series of the movie with his recruiting visits is the best part.  He did a great job at kissing up to the players and parents.  Now is this movie realistic?  I don't know for sure, but it was still entertaining and fun to watch nonetheless. "},{"Title":"My favorite basketball movie ever.","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Blue Chips is a great basketball movie.  It features great, realistic basketball action filmed at normal speed using low angles so you can't tell they are acting.  Nick Nolte is fantastic as Coach Pete Bell with so many great quotes I couldn't list them all here.  Directed by William Friedkin, (The Exorcist) Blue Chips really uses it basketball players well.  Athletes are probably the worst actors in the world, but in this movie they do most of their acting on the court so it really works.  The action is told almost exclusively through Nick Nolte's point of view and his inner conflict with breaking the collegiate rules is stressed heavily.  Also features memorable performances by J.T. Walsh as Happy, and cameos by countless college basketball players and coaches and a very entertaining cameo by Larry Bird. I strongly recommend you watch this movie, it's the best basketball movie ever! "},{"Title":"Decent Movie, Good Sports Movie","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Blue Chips, for a sports movie, was very well done and well put together. Pete Bell, played by Nolte, is a Bob Knight style coach at Western University, a fictitous university in LA (think UCLA). After a few sub-par seasons, he has his first losing season as head coach and to keep up with the other big programs (think Kentucky and Michigan), he needs to recruit some top players, or blue chips, to come to Western. Strictly against under the table recruiting, Bell is forced to make a tough decision. Recruit good but not great players and perhaps lose his job due to losing as head coach, or go after the top 10 recruits to keep his job and start winning again. The movie plays out well and supporting actors, JT Walsh and Shaq, give solid performances. As for the basketball action itself, this movie probably has the best game sequences I have ever seen in a movie, with real college players filling as extras. There is also a load of cameos, including Rick Pitino, Dick Vitale and Larry Bird to name a few. Blue Chips is a solid movie and a very good sports movie. "},{"Title":"scattered story overloaded with cameo","Date":"18 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Pete Bell (Nick Nolte) is the hard-pressed college basketball coach of Western University running a seemingly clean program. Reporter Ed (Ed O'Neill) has been hounding him about an alleged point shaving incident four years ago. He has his first losing season after winning a few championships. He pushes his team to recruit harder. Butch McRae (Penny Hardaway)'s mother Lavada (Alfre Woodard) wants to be compensated. Farm boy Ricky Roe is more interested in girls. Neon Boudeaux (Shaq) traveled a winding road under the recruiters' radar and scored horribly with his SAT. Pete uses his ex-wife Jenny (Mary McDonnell) as his tutor. His idealism is constantly being worn away by school booster Happy (J.T. Walsh).Nick Nolte holds this together as much as possible. There are many cameos. It's overloaded and some of it is unnecessary. There's no point in having Larry Bird. The movie has so much already. It could trim some of the extras. It has to tighten the first act because it is still waiting to introduce the new players. It's not until midpoint when Shaq finally shows up. Shaq doesn't deserve his Razzie. He's got natural charisma. It's also hard to make this team an underdog with Shaq around. The college ball corruption discussion can be overwrought but I'm fine with that. "},{"Title":"Very Realistic movie","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" This movie could have potentially been based on a true story. The plot of the movie was unlike any other basketball or sports movie. Also the casting of actual NBA players like Penny Hardaway and Shaq was brilliant by the director. They both played great parts in this movie as highly recruited blue chip basketball players and fit perfectly within the plot. This movie was also unique in the regards that it featured other universities like Bobby Knight and the Indiana Hoosiers. Although this movie was a great movie overall , i feel it could have had a better ending. The ending of the movie was pretty weak and was the only downfall of this movie. However I still believe that this is one of the best basketball movies of all time and there will never be a movie like this again. "},{"Title":"He Got Shame","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Money corrupts in Blue Chips, one of director William Friedkin's better films. It stars the always watchable Nick Nolte as a basketball coach who breaks regulations, rules and bribery statutes in order to put together a winning team.Nolte often plays tortured characters who crumble under the weight of guilt and self-hatred. Here his character, Pete Bell, starts off as a confident con-man but eventually becomes a hunchbacked wreck. In the film's climactic sequence (possibly informed by a decade's worth of NCAA athletic scandals), Bell stands before journalists and delivers an almighty confession, denouncing the corruption which spawns organically from systems reliant upon profit, loss and winning at any cost. Evocative of And Justice For All, which featured a similar last-act rant by Al Pacino, the film also anticipates Spike Lee's He Got Game, another basketball flick which milks similar themes.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte is Outstanding!","Date":"7 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Nick Nolte is Outstanding in his portrayal of a frustrated, ambitious basketball coach in 'Blue Chips'. The legendary actor, who's had a career full of amazing performances, tops himself, yet again with his portrayal in here. 'Blue Chips' Synopsis A college basketball coach is forced to break the rules in order to get the players he needs to stay competitive.'Blue Chips' is an interesting watch. Ron Shelton's Screenplay is grasping & often-confounding. It depicts a human-story, full of human-emotions & gives Nolte ample score to the anchor the film. William Friedkin's Direction is good. Performance-Wise Nolte is the life of the show. He's in complete command & holds the film from start to end. Its amongst his greatest performances, that proves us once again, what a fine actor Nolte is!On the whole, 'Blue Chips' works & Nolte doesn't miss a single beat. "},{"Title":"Underrated, under-appreciated, dark sports tale","Date":"8 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Blue Chips was a movie that was at least a decade ahead of its time, and its story is more relevant today than when the movie came out. It presents a question that other sports movies, including amateur sports movies, haven't explored. Namely, why should you bother to follow the rules when cheating is already widespread? Is it wrong to cheat if that's what it takes to compete? Is widespread cheating in amateur athletics the inevitable result of fans' obsession with winning? This movie would seem to suggest that the answers to those last two questions are no and yes. Almost every other sports movie of the past 50 years has had some kind of uplifting ending, but this one ends mostly on a downer.Nick Nolte plays a college basketball coach, coaching at a major California basketball school (which might as well be UCLA), clearly modeled after Bobby Knight. He's a hot-tempered, aging and increasingly frustrated, old-school guy whose record has slipped in recent years. A shady booster enters the picture, trying to convince him that if he wants to be on top again, he has to start playing the game with recruits. He has to start making deals. Coach Nolte is initially hostile to the guy, but after it looks like he's going to get shut out of getting three huge recruits, he reluctantly changes his mind. Nolte gives an excellent performance in this movie. Everything that he does in the movie, whether it's angry tantrums against refs or the occasional dose of humor, he does well. He is convincing as a guy who just wants to mold student-athletes and coach the game that he loves. The speech that he gives at the end is priceless.The more I read about recruiting, especially basketball recruiting, the more I feel like I need to take a shower. This movie perfectly captures the sleaze of the sport during its recruiting scenes. There's the scum bag deal maker mother, who tries to peddle her influence to the highest bidder. There is the superstar white kid, who recognizes his value and demands a huge pile of cash. One kid eventually gets a new car. The movie ultimately presents a pretty revolting picture of college athletics, and if you have followed the scandals at places like Auburn, you know that it is pretty accurate.This movie could have been a failure, but it has that one important trait that all great sports movies have. It was made with a genuine love and respect for the sport. There is a lot of basketball porn in this movie, perhaps even too much. There are scenes that show Nolte coaching Xs and Os. The coaches yell out a bunch of terminology during practices and games, as opposed to 95% of sports movies, where coaches never sound like actual coaches. Blue Chips tries to be one of the more realistic sports movies ever made, and it largely succeeds. It perhaps goes a little too far though with the basketball porn, showing tons and tons of slam dunks and three pointers. If you watch this movie, you would get the impression that 90% of the scoring in basketball is due to these two plays. It also has a somewhat annoying appearance by Dick Vitale, which serves no purpose except to remind you that you are watching a basketball movie. The movie also shoehorns a few too many current basketball stars into it. That might have made it sell better at the time, but do you really care now whether Penny Hardaway and Bobby Hurley appear in it? (And Hurley plays for Indiana in this movie &#x96; LULZ).The worst part about this movie, ultimately, is the casting of the basketball stars in it. Namely, Shaquille O'Neal, who can't act his way out of a paper bag. To make matters worse, they give his character the most interesting background story, that of a Gulf War veteran with a Black power, we shall overcome type attitude. He's awful. He's really awful. It's as if he had a part written for Ice Cube or Denzel Washington, but then the studio decided that they needed a big name star in the case. He doesn't have many lines, but the ones that he has are not good.Blue Chips is one of those sports movies that you should see at least once. It's unlikely that you will remember it amongst the best that you have seen, but if you follow college athletics, you should at least find it interesting. Blue Chips shows us the hypocrisy of college athletics, and the seemingly futile endeavor of trying to keep money out of the hands of athletes. It is though provoking, albeit a bit preachy. Given the current debates about whether we should be paying players, this movie is now more relevant than it ever has been. "},{"Title":"See Shaq before he had his own zip code","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This isn't a bad movie at all. Considering the scandals that have come to light about college athletes receiving cars, houses, money, etc. this film has even more relevance today than it did when it first came out.To see a Shaquille O'Neal full of potential and natural talent (yet not yet spoiled by his own success) is a thrill - even for a Kings fan. His acting isn't the point; it's the few scenes that show him actually playing basketball that are worth watching for. "},{"Title":"Half-assed film but with good and positive ideas","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" The vicissitudes of winning or losing a game and doing the best you can to be successful at it whether playing clean or pulling some dirty tricks are what makes of Blue Chips an nice film whose main character played by Nick Nolte has to fight against the odds of losing another championship for another consecutive year. Here's a full-mouthed Basketball coach with lots of anger, high intelligence, knows how to conduct a team but he doesn't have much of a good team, and to built the team of his dream, he's gonna have to select new players but not in the traditional and right way by giving extra things to his players in order to get them on his team and also in college. He can't follow the rules by the book, the ones he created to himself in order to be successful at what he does but will he manage to play the game regardless of ethics?So, Blue Chips nicely builds its discourse of the importance of winning things in a fair way and shows how much someone can lose by breaking the rules. However, for a sport themed film this isn't so great as it could be, where's the director's energy to conduct the games scenes? It's not much involving when we have to watch the games but the dramatic and funny scenes compensates the trouble. Lacks energy, some thrills and at times even the dramatic sequences are monotonous and uninteresting. Nolte confuses extreme passion for a game with some overacting but he gives a decent performance here (but can you imagine Bob De Niro in this role? It would be excellent!). And along with him we have good supportive acting by Mary McDonnell, J.T. Walsh, Ed O'Neill and basketball legends Bob Cousy, Shaquille O'Neal among others. Right at the beginning Nolte gives this speech to the players about the impossibility of winning a game by being half-assed. You can do whatever half assed except winning. Wiser words were never spoken before and this film proves this when you have a great director like William Friedkin behind all this when it's quite visible he's not much suitable for this (and what's strange is Ron Shelton wrote this film and he's a specialist in making sport themed flicks, so why he didn't directed it in the first place?). So, in the end you can do things half-assed but just don't expect to win much sympathy, awards and recognition with it. Good film but it could've been better considering the talents involved. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Would-Be Expose of Fishy Draft Practices is Minor and Detached Friedkin","Date":"6 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" Friedkin outlines Nick Nolte's Coach Bell as a guy who's on the spot. Shoulders arched and head low, Bell moves through unadorned halls, overcrowded locker rooms. There's not one of you that's learned how to win! He thunders out, slamming the door only to come back to heave a water tank across the room and trudge out again. On the court, fans shouting, cheerleaders abound, band playing, Bell's face is anxious, his fuse lit again. Cries and chaos churn around Bell like he's within a bulldozer. His university team plays vigorously, but drop the ball, miss hoops. He hangs a towel overhead to shield his eyes. At loggerheads with a ref, Bell kicks the ball up into the stands and is disqualified. After winning national championships, Nolte's Bell is at risk of having his first losing season. And joblessness.He could procure blue chip prospects, giving them cash, cars, etc. But in two respects he's unable to take advantage. Primarily, if I break the rules I get kicked out of coaching. Next, I might not get caught. It's Bell's ethical predicament. Blue Chips is not about the fight for victory but the fight to defeat. That's the appeal. Bell's passion for winning forces him to be disloyal to himself. Contempt comes in the figure of J.T. Walsh's gladly corrupt, obnoxious alum. When Bell refuses his first proposal of money to draft blue chip players, he tells Bell they make millions for the university for nothing in return and a multi-year contract for him, that they're owed these inducements. Bell storms off but the press-stud is in as he can see no other way. It's the vehicle for Bell's self-destruction.Director William Friedkin's drawn to desperate characters with very few choices. His portrayal of college basketball bribery may be pessimistic, and Bell may be having an emergency of principles, but it's not especially gripping. His ex-wife Mary McDonnell asks him if he cheated. He denies it. Later, when she learns the facts, she sobbingly says she can't trust him anymore. A point-shaving rumor has hung over Bell for awhile. Walsh says it's true, go look at the tape. Bell does. His response is somewhat stupid, saying with surprise that he coached a rigged game. Bell wasn't a schemer but a dupe! He's acting like he perpetrated an offense against humankind. After his recently bought team's climactic game, Bell says words he never thought he'd say. It's paradoxical, but what does it matter? Friedkin tries to infuse some visual strength into the narrative when one of Bell's procured athletes tells the Coach he's homesick but if he goes, will his mother lose her new house that the friends of the program gave her? Bell pretends unawareness of any arrangement. Friedkin begins the scene at Dutch angles, calling direct awareness to itself, the purpose vague. Is it showing Bell's world growing uncontrollable? We already got that when he sat alone in the gym staring longingly at the championship banners, imagined the cheering of past triumphs, sees no option but to cheat. Or when his wife asked him if he deceived and he denies. Bell approaches the gym before the final game, and we see him from another Dutch angle. They seem incompatible and bland here.There are of course elements of Ron Shelton's script that Friedkin helms shrewdly. Bell's introductory locker talk and the first game, for instance. Later, Bell follows coaches who are also probing blue chip possibilities. One of them is Ricky from French Lick. They watch a main street parade highlighting the town pet, Larry Bird, and Ricky riding together in a convertible. The coaches beckon but then look shocked as Friedkin shows Bell, grinningly gesturing back at them from the driver's seat.Another high point is the introduction of Shaq's character Neon in a Louisiana backwoods storehouse playing ruthless street basketball, a Goliath smashing the ball through the hoop over and over, his fierce expression defying the other players to face up to him. Bell's jaw gapes. One other highlight Bell calls Walsh, Friedkin cuts from the miserable Bell to Walsh at the vast pool in back of his lavish home, drink in hand, his generous tummy laboring the strip of his red trunks, barking to sell this spoiled brat on how happy he really is! Friedkin returns to Bell, his throat parched as he turns to the homesick youngster. Nolte's words almost snag in his esophagus, You better be at practice on Monday. Weak and trampled, Bell knows he's property now. It's painful. The gimmicky Dutches almost spoil it totally.Ultimately, Friedkin's basketball footage brings about frenzied, dynamic action, from the players hurling across the court to coaches speedily drawing plays in clammy clusters. They're impressions, rapid and fuming. Staying at court level, Friedkin seizes the hostility of the sport in volatile surges. Though effective as moments, Friedkin hits the backboard, even bounces off the rim, but rarely goes through the net. "},{"Title":"Was not close to being realistic","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  I remember when this movie was receiving a lot of publicity while it was being filmed. The obvious reasons were because Shaquille O'Neal of the Orlando Magic starred in it. Others were because well known people from the basketball world were involved as well. You had Bobby Knight, Larry Bird, George Raveling, Bob Cousy, and Anfernee Hardaway. This gave Blue Chips credibility. Despite that, there were problems with this movie when it comes to how it was filmed. One problem is when the fictional Western University played a team called, Coast. That was too unrealistic. You would have thought since Indiana University was actually used in the movie, other colleges could have been used as well. It was questionable to have Western University play Texas Western. I'm not certain if Texas Western is fictional. If this is the case, it would have been better to have Western play against a fictional team like CALU.Other mishaps in Blue Chips is how some scenes were just way too short. Those that come to mind are the ones with Robert Wuhl(Arliss), the one with Larry Bird on the playground in French Lick, another where the black guy meets Coach Bell at the club in LA, and the scene where Pete Bell talks to Neon Bodeaux(Shaq) after his friend(Slick) introduces him to Coach Bell. There are others that come to mind as well. The scenes in Chicago with Butch McCray's mother should have been longer. The thing I remember the most is how Ed O'Neil's character was called Ed, and that just didn't make any sense. The scenario that was incomplete is the part on the Western University campus with the three recruits. This should have been shown extensively since Blue Chips was a college basketball movie. They should have shown that player who was flunking TV, in some of his college classes. It would have been cool to see Ricky Roe flirt with the hot girls on the campus since he tells the coach that is what he is very interested in.The main point about Blue Chips is that it was a film that should have been over two hours long. The shortness of it is part of the reason why it was average. Blue Chips had a very good plot which was under-the-table recruiting of college basketball players and the point shaving scandal was a subplot. The ending that described how two of the players dropped out of Western University and then somehow ended up in the NBA was incorrect. Realistically, they would have transfered from Western and finished up college at another school before making it to the NBA.     "},{"Title":"Nope!","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Blue Chips - starting such wasted talent as Nick Nolte!  Not to mention such all star actors as Shaquille O'Neal.  From the get-go, it is not the smartest of movies, but it did have its fair share of entertaining value as the movie progressed.  I thought Shaq would be a dismal actor, but he came to play, or at least more than Nolte did.  I felt Nolte and his character were wildly out of control, not balanced with the movie, and simply not quality.  I clearly understand that his character is a wild individual, but the odd mood swings, and multi-persona touch that he added to the character was weird and distracting.Props to Shaq for dunking nearly continously during the film - once again showing that his shooting range is typically 2-3 inches.  A shame too, because the movie highlight this stereotype and runs with it.  Penny was alright, but in this day in age, where is his almost a forgotten player, it was more of a nostalgia to watch him in the movie.Overall, the movie sucked.  The moral plot was weak, and there was little else to the content of the film.  By far the worst part was the ended which gives rather weak explanations of what happens post-ending. 5/10 stars for some decent basketball footage, and a different type of basketball movie.  But it lacks five stars for poor plot, acting, and a sloppy ending which tries to tie together a bunch of moral stuff without much success. "},{"Title":"Stereotypes abound","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":" If you know the doings of Bobby Knight, then you'll quickly notice that coach Pete Bell is modeled after the IU legend. Even down to the kicking the basketball in the stands. His teaching of the games, emphasis on defense, and heretofore clean program could have been lifted from Season on the Brink by John Feinstein. And if you enjoy seeing Tark the Shark, Jim Boeheim, Bob Cousy, and even Knight himself, you will like this film. If you are looking for continuity, character development, and basically a reason for filming this monstrosity of a jock movie,then you will be disappointed. True, it was filmed in Indiana, my native state. True, Larry Bird makes a cameo appearance but the rest of it is so clichéd that you'll wonder why the screenwriters didn't inject a bit of originality. This type of story has been done dozens of times previously and it could work again. But when the producers are overly reliant on big name sports stars and lame acting from all, you have a very predictable flick that is good for little more than killing 90 minutes of tube time. "},{"Title":"Not close to being a A+ movie","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  This basketball movie was far from being a complete work. There were errors that were glaring. Everyone should look at it in realistic terms. Could there ever be a college called Coast, State, OR Texas Western. How could Pete Bell not get suspended for kicking or punting the basketball into the crowd during a game????? There is no way a college coach could escape without being punished. Another thing about Pete Bell is that not wearing a tie made it look like the character had no identity of his own and was created only to be a replica of Bobby Knight.My take on the content of Blue Chips is that it should have been extensively spent on the extremely competitive recruiting aspects of NCAA basketball. Wasn't Pete Bell's problem that Western University had not recruited any blue chip athletes like they once did.The ending that briefly explained what happened after Coach Bell quit was indeed sloppy. This would have been avoided by the producers and the director of Blue Chips by deciding to make Blue Chips on the premise that there would be a sequel. The exposing of recruiting violations alone, made room for a sequel. That was a better idea than being left in the dark as to what really happened to the Western Basketball team for the remainder of the season since Pete Bell abruptly resigns after the very first game of the new college basketball season.With all the big name actors, coaches, and athletes in Blue Chips, this should have turned out to be the very best sports movie of the 90's.    "},{"Title":"Foul ball","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Shaquille O'Neal is a great basketball player and it would be nice if his attempts in other fields would lead to equal success but so far, they haven't. This 1994 Paramount release was O'Neal's film debut and features him in a weak story costarring Nick Nolte as a Bobby Knight type character who is dealing with reaching profitable success both on and off the basketball courts. Several cameos help to enhance and improve this film somewhat. At least it's better than O'Neal's later films which would include the unbelievably bad fantasy comedies Kazaam and Steel.  "},{"Title":"Should have been called Cow Chips","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Sport","Review":"  Avoid this movie.  Anyone who thinks this is the best basketball movie of all time has never seen Hoosiers or Hoop Dreams.  Hoosiers and Hoop Dreams are to basketball movies what Caddyshack is to golf movies-clearly the best of the genre.  Blue Chips is to basketball movies what Caddyshack 2 is to golf movies-so bad, everyone involved in its production should be suspended from making movies.   "}]