[{"Title":"A movie to make your jaw drop open","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"37 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Now I have witnessed the third truly great film to have come out of America in 1994.  One that can hold its own, and more, against such films released that year as Pulp Fiction, Natural Born Killers, and Vanya on 42nd Street.  It's called Fresh, and I'll go out on a limb to say it's as powerful an urban drama as any other I've seen in my life.There are no fancy cinematic magic tricks going on in this film, aside from an instance of superimposed images that is so simple it almost seems like a throwback to old silent dramas.  There are no choreographed gun fights, no switching film stocks to produce psychedelic effects, nothing like that. Not to say that these things cannot be used appropriately and judiciously to enhance the effect of a particular film, but Fresh is stripped bare, and must depend on its performances, direction, and writing alone.For starters, a young Sean Nelson delivers a performance that puts the lion's share of veteran actors to shame.  He's completely lacking in self-consciousness, almost like he's unaware that the camera is on him for nine out of ten of the shots in Fresh.  His character, for which the film takes its title, may be the smartest youth in motion picture history for whom genius is not a gimmick or a joke (i.e. Good Will Hunting, Real Genius, stuff like that).  Watching him, you see a wise old actor in a teen's body; he does not act any emotions or thoughts, but merely feels them and thinks them.  He seems to embody bits of screen legend  a little Bogart stalwartness there, some of Jimmy Stewart's quiet charm here, and most of all Morgan Freeman's ability to communicate much while doing or saying very little.That'd be just enough for most movies, but Nelson is backed by a choice supporting cast the two most recognizable names are obviously Samuel L. Jackson (Fresh's chessmaster/alcoholic father) and Giancarlo Esposito (the slimy, high-living drug dealer Esteban), and both are perfect in award-caliber performances.  Two lesser known actors, N'Bushe Wright (Fresh's junkie sister Nichole) and Jean LaMare (as Jake, the hot tempered low-man-on-the-totem-pole employee of Corky) are also terrific in key roles.The screenplay, by director Boaz Yakin, is doggedly unpredictable, but in retrospect it all makes perfect sense -- nothing in the movie pushes the bounds of credibility.  I've seen truckloads of thrillers, most of them are wearily proficient at making you guess what's next.  None but a few, however, kept me guessing WHEN to guess, or surprised me with such affecting emotional developments.  None but a few moved along with such self-assured grace and style.  Fresh knows its territory, the time and place it's set in, and it provides characters who talk like they do in real life -- not ones that sound like they're in a movie where they talk like they do in real life.The use of violence is admirably restrained.  Most of it takes place off camera, silhouetted, or cut away from quickly.  The two scenes of bloodletting, when they are shown to us, are literally heartbreaking.  Not only does Fresh keep us off guard on a psychological level, but on an emotional one as well, something few films ever think of doing.If I were to offer one criticism, it would be that the chess metaphor was pressed just a bit too hard by Yakin (though the final scene is devastating)  we already know that this kid is thinking like a master strategist, we don't need quite so many shots of him playing the game in his room.  That's a small quibble, though, because the chess metaphor is entirely appropriate, and Jackson's early speech about the game is an ingenious device. "},{"Title":"The very, very best of modern drama","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"36 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is simply an incredible film. Deeply thought provoking, it is not for those of you who like your films to have guns, sex and violence. This is NOT a typical 'hood' film - there are no banging hiphop beats, no flash cars, and no cheesy action scenes.It tells the story of a clever 12 year old brought up in a culture of danger, mistrust and urban decay. Sean Nelson displays a maturity which would guarantee any adult actor many millions a film, and the film never wavers from the incredibly high standards set by its fabulous scripting and casting. The storyline is oddly compelling throughout, and never veers either towards the 'nannying' line that plagues so many drugs films, or the insane satire that kills off others. It moves at a healthy, but not crazy pace, and there are some truly chilling moments, which really make you ponder over humanity's capacity for mindless violence.This is certainly the best film I have ever had the pleasure of seeing, and I advise anyone who craves intelligent, thoughtful films to go out and buy this one. "},{"Title":"This is the best drama I have EVER seen","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film will completely astound you. Unspoiled by the gangsta rap, and glamorisation of street culture that normally pervades a 'black' film, it tells the story of the 12-year old, chess-playing, drug-dealing streetwise genius, Fresh.Living in poverty with 11 others in his aunt's house, and using his wits to survive, he slowly gets trapped deeper and deeper in the world of drugs, a world in which all his loyalties are challenged.Most 'hood films either satirise black culture completely with their loud, cool attitudes, or on the other become touchy-feely anti-drugs schmaltz. This is the ONLY film I have seen to tread the thin line between them and come away looking not only credible, but superbly enjoyable.Both Giancarlo Esposito (the smooth talking drugs dealer) and Samuel L. Jackson (the alcoholic chess-master tramp) give strong, realistic performances in challenging roles. The other characters (like N'Bushe Wright's portrayal of Fresh's sister) are also incredibly well played, and every single one of them is believable.However, the main credit HAS to go to Sean Nelson. I have never seen such a dignified performance, and i can honestly say that I was AMAZED at how involving the film was. You could empathise with him every step of the way. He was never overly emotional, yet never came across as being arrogant and calculating. He plays the 'streetwise genius' role to perfection, again, remaining completely credible.The script was also fantastic. Full marks to Boaz Yakin for such an accurate picture of life in the ghetto. This is not a film for those who want the cheap formulaic thrills of violence, sex and guns that are so prevalent today. There are no special effects, no overly violent scenes. Instead, the movie relies on superb acting and a relentless drive for gritty realism.I cannot recommend this film enough to anyone who appreciates drama - it will really open your eyes.  "},{"Title":"Your queen is just a pawn with some fancy moves, nothing more.","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fresh is one of those movies that you never see coming. From the opening credits until the end, it provides you with this deep, gritty, yet utterly realistic portrayal of a youth's mind on the streets. While our normal society will shrug a struggling African American living in the ghetto as someone without the intelligence to go forward in life. It is a sad reality in which we live, but it is a thought that goes through suburbia's minds. This film proves the age-old saying that you should never judge a book by its cover. What begins as a normal urban drama quickly unfolds into this tightly woven crime story where we have this unexpected hero that arrives from nowhere to pull of this incredible feat. With perfect acting, the right combination of drama and action coupled with suspense, and a story that literally keeps you glued to your seat until the very end, it surprises me that more people haven't discovered this cinematic gem and attached themselves to it.To begin, Sean Nelson is brilliant. I have not seen better acting from a young adult in my entire film life. Dakota Fanning comes close, but Nelson's emotion seems to be raw and uncreated by Hollywood. His reactions and passion behind his eyes is intense and compelling at the same time. You cannot watch this movie without keeping your eyes glued to this kid. I am very surprised that he has not done more roles that would be able to showcase this young protégé's talent. He interacts well with the other actors as well, giving us this rare glimpse into a world that many of us may not be familiar with. He takes us away from the clichéd child abandoned on the streets with nothing to loose and gives us faith in the family structure and bonds that are created between humans. Sometimes I think we forget this as we watch our televisions, buy our cars, and spend our money. There are important aspects in life, but at times our ideas of that can be skewed. That is what I love about Sean's role in this film. He defines himself early, and allows us to see his change clearly throughout the film. He begins as wanting to have a lot of money and power to using what he has earned to save his family and his friends. There is something redeemable about that which isn't shown as much in films today.Add to the brilliant work of Sean Nelson are a couple of actors that really played well of the emotional child. Giancarlo Esposito, N'Bushe Wright, Jean-Claude La Marre, Ron Brice, and the unquenchable Sam Jackson are just a few. Nelson's ability to play off Jackson's intensity with the greatest of ease is just another glowing example of the power behind this film. You can honestly see where Fresh's talent began with the strong father/son dynamic that director Boaz Yakin has created. Yakin has crafted this beautiful story of a child's inner demons and desires with the greatest of ease. As a director, he has pulled more emotion out of these children than I have ever seen with any other child actors. Where he takes his story is bold and realistic. The dirtiness and grime of the streets contrasted with the intelligence of this child was nerve racking and intense. I loved it. Yakin had to be proud of himself to find such a great cast to work with as well as create this story that could be enjoyed by audience throughout the ages.Finally, I would like to comment on one of the most important themes of this film that I didn't realize until closer to the end. Chess is a huge element in this film, and at first you will not see this, but by the end it will hit you like a brick. The power that Jackson brings to this young boy's mind simply by teaching him the strategies of chess is insurmountable. While I thought that Yakin was just trying to define the father/son relationship with this game, there was so much more going on underneath the top layer that I wasn't expecting it from this small title. I think that is what impressed me so much.Overall, this film is great. It is boldly honest and originally beautiful (in repetition of myself) that needs to be re-released or remembered time after time. I am so glad that I discovered it and cannot wait to show it to friends and family. It is nothing short of the perfect film! Grade ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Boy in the 'Hood","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Boaz Yakin, the enormously talented writer/director of Fresh has done the impossible, a real movie about real things that offers a sharp contrast with other films about the subject we have seen before. Mr. Yakin working with what appears to be a cast of non professional actors, mainly, presents a gripping tale of life in the ghetto that will probably be a classic in this genre.If you haven't seen the film, please stop reading now.Fresh is the young boy at the center of the action. We follow him as he runs illegal drugs for the dealers of his area. Fresh comes from a broken home where the mother is not around and the father is absent from the picture. His kind aunt Frances has gathered about a dozen youngsters in the home she shares with her mother, who is the grandmother of all of them. In spite of the poor surroundings, this is a decent home.Fresh probably learned quickly in his young life he must be a step ahead of the drug dealers and their henchmen in order to survive in that world. It's a heavy trip for a young child to deal with in his own life and still have a head in his shoulders. What Fresh does, of course, is illegal, but this is a determined young man that is looking for a better future in spite of what he sees around him.Fresh loves to play chess. We watch him win games in Washington Square Park over more skilled players. Sam, his absent father, is a master of the game. Sam teaches his son the game and how to think the way the champions do. Sam is a highly intelligent man who has had the misfortune of falling victim to the bottle. His son, admires him but bears a resentment against him for abandoning him and Nicole, his sister. One thing is sure, Sam always wins when he plays Fresh. Only after all the big events at the end of the film, Fresh beats the old man up. In doing so, we see tears coming out of him because maybe then, Fresh realizes the enormity of the events he's been involved in, and the fact that his father, in yelling at him, perhaps shows the boy how much he cares for him.There is a scene in the film involving pit bull fighting that will make, even the coolest viewer cringe. Fresh's dog wins a match, but it is a menace that has to be put to sleep. The scene where Fresh hangs the dog by his collar is one of the most horrible things we watch in the movie. Fresh is venting his frustration at a dog he clearly loved, but now he cannot keep. The acting by all the principals is first rate. The only problem is that sometimes some of what he hear in the dialog is incomprehensible because of the use of street slang most of the viewers don't know. Sean Nelson makes a perfect Fresh. He is one of the most natural actors we have seen in a while. The lack of formal training works out as we watch a portrayal that is devoid of any mannerisms, or other cute poses that someone with more experience would have done with this role.Samuel L. Jackson makes another incredible appearance as Fresh's father Sam. Mr. Jackson's take on this man is an excellent example why he is on of the best actors working in films today. Giancarlo Esposito as Esteban, the nasty drug dealer, adds another great role to his brilliant film career. Adam Holender, the cinematographer, has given the film the right look. The dreamy scenes where Fresh is seen looking toward Manhattan at different times of the day, is pure poetry. This is an important movie dealing with an important subject. Thanks to Mr. Yakin, we go into that world that, for some of us, might as well be in another continent, but never right here in another part of town! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie didn't have to rely on BIG NAMES to make this movie great. It didn't have to rely on lots of on screen killing to be great. This movie was great because the dialog between the characters as well as the screen play were excellent all by themselves. The people who did play the parts DID justice to the characters they played. As the movie started and in the first 15 minutes, all I could think was this kid (Sean Nelson) was a punk trying to make a buck. I didn't realize, like most, until the end of the film what this kid was actaully doing, which was playing everyone like they were live chess pieces. He got what he wanted all by playing one against the other. This movie proved that a film does not have to be high budget or big names to be great. If that were the case, The Last Action Hero or Reindeer Games should win an OSCARS for Best Movie. "},{"Title":"Best of its genre","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I watched 'Fresh' again recently, with several other examples ofits genre (urban crime drama, or words to that effect). Itstands out head and shoulders above the rest as an engaging andintelligent film. Part of 'Fresh's strength is that it beliesmany of the genre's expected conventions. Rap music is vaguelyincidental, giving way to a poignant soundtrack by StewartCopeland. For once, gang life, alcoholism, and drug addictionare never glamourized as they are simultaneously condemned...the fault of so many films which purport to be morally aware ofthe destructive nature of these things (but seem to say,backhandedly, isn't T-Bone a badd mutha, though?) And asanother reviewer noted, the central character as an intellectualprodigy is neither a joke nor a gimmick, his mind is the meansof his survival and eventually his triumph over the forcesaround him. The cast is excellent, the standouts being anextraordinary debut by Sean Nelson as the Fresh and the reliableSamuel L. Jackson as his alcoholic speed-chess-master father.The final scene is one of the most devastating and memorablescenes in the last decade of films. The sincerity and  unpredictability of 'Fresh' are unparalleled in films of itstype.     "},{"Title":"Multilayered chess puzzle","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Many comments confirm the strength of this movie in simple manipulation of an camera eye. Well, that's true. You will not find any fancy FXs here. But, does it make the picture less spectacular? Of course not. Script is brilliant. Whole plot resembles well played chess game telling the story about violence and losing innocence. This is not only a game in an explicit chess meaning. Main characters , wonderfully played by S. L. Jackson and Sean Nelson, are playing chess with themselves, struggling with their lives. There is another aspect of chess game that accompanies the plot till the end. Throughout duration of the movie chess puzzle gets clear. We can finally see where 'Fresh' is heading to and what he wants to achieve through his plan. Anyway, Boaz Yakin made one of the best movies of 94' , really worth seeing.Mariusz Pelka  "},{"Title":"can you say authenticity??","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fresh was a very unique movie, the opening montage was great and the dialogue was so realistic to the point where li'l kids in the ghetto are talkin' about bein' rich and Scarsdale, NY which really impressed me 'cause Scarsdale is a rich neighborhood.  Sean Nelson in a great role as Fresh the young drug dealer who's livin' in a home with 10-11 other relatives and has to move crack in order to survive.  N'Bushe Wright shows up in her most depressing role as Fresh's under-confident sister - you really feel sorry for her in this as well as a few others. Giancarlo Esposito is cool to watch as Esteban, A drug dealer that looks out for Fresh and the other top-tier performance comes in the form of Ron Brice as Corky the other drug dealer who is ruthless and demands that you do what you have to while he's looking and not behind his back.  We already know Samuel L. Jackson would give a good performance that's no surprise at all. Good story about the ghetto life and the drug game from the eyes of those around it.  The ending in this epitomizes the saying every man for himselfanother gunshot in the air for the ghetto genre 10/10 "},{"Title":"Checkmate!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fresh (Nelson), the title character and a black kid in his early teens, is a runner for low level drug distributors in the mean streets of NYC with a plan to get out of the ghetto. He plays speed chess with his estranged father and stashes money in a tin can but his plan goes well beyond just saving for a bus ticket. Fresh offers good production value, par performances, somewhat stereotypical characters, and lots of grit. However, what sets this critically lauded flick apart from its peers is a human drama with a clever storyline which transcend the usual stuck-in-the-ghetto flicks full of sensational crime stuff. An engaging watch for those into drug/ghetto/crime flicks. (B) "}{"Title":"Perfectly Fantastic","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I have very little criticism for the movie Fresh.  There just isn't really anything there TO criticize.  This movie is one of the few that is close to cinematic perfection...yes, it's THAT good.Young Michael (or Fresh) witnesses the horrors of street life every day.  His mother is gone, his father is a virtual bum, he loses his friends to violence, his sister is a prostitute, and he is a runner for the drug lords of his neighborhood.  Not surprisingly, Fresh isn't content with his lifestyle and is determined to make life better not only for him, but for his sister as well.The movie sounds like a standard cliche film, but this is far from the truth.  Fresh is a breath of fresh air in the realm of movie redundancy and predictability.  There is no overacting, use of gratuitous violence or sex, or unbelievable plots to spoil this little gem.  Young Sean Nelson is as gifted as any veteran actor and carries this movie on his small shoulders.  Yes, he is simply *that* good.  Fortunately, he is supported by a fabulous cast in Samuel Jackson as his father, N'Bushe Wright as his prostitue sister, and Giancarlo Esposito as the local drug dealer. There are no big budget shootouts, no computer enhanced scenes, or ridiculously cliche special effects.  No, Fresh relies on the very basics of moviemaking acting, plot, setting, and direction.  And it succeeds where so many others  have failed.All of this is woven into an intelligent and entertaining movie that is as close to perfection as Pulp Fiction.  Undoubtedly, it is that good.Fresh earns a 10 out of 10 stars rating and I highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys seeing what movies SHOULD be. "},{"Title":"The perfect accident","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Perfect accident because as director Yakin explains, while casting, he almost overloooked Sean Nelson for the part of Fresh and then there would have been no Fresh.Perfect accident because, tired of Hollywood, Yakin had almost given up on ever making something he felt he could identify with, till friend and producer Lawrence Bender hit the jackpot with Reservoir Dogs and made space for Fresh to be born.Perfect accident because former The Police-drummer Stewart Copeland writes a beautiful non-rap score that frees Fresh from becoming just another political statement about inner-city living conditions, yet highlights the sparkle and charm of the characters.Perfect accident because the mastery of Samuel Jackson and Giancarlo Esposito blend to perfection with the innocence of such a young cast.Perfect accident because Boaz Yakin - away from the constraints of major league production (THANKS AGAIN MIRAMAX and French producers Lumière!!) was able to smash this trash some call Political Correctness to pieces and tell a great story, the way he felt it, not caring where he trod, unafraid of those susceptible-many who confuse storytelling with an accusatory poke in the ribs.I honestly don't see how such thrilling honest and human films will ever be made while US citizens keep sending signals to Hollywood that all they want is something brainless to go along with their soda and popcorn. Take drugs! They're far more effective and leave cinema to those who want to use their imagination.  "},{"Title":"Excellent cross of hood movie and thriller with great delivery across acting, score, cinematography and direction","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you will allow me a personal moment, Fresh was one of the films that I saw at a time when I was really in love with film. I had just moved to England in 1995 and had gone from being a 20 minute drive to a small multiplex chain cinema, to being a 5 minute walk away from the Light House independent cinema in Wolverhampton. Not only was it close but it was cheap and I would regularly go there to see films big and small. I was lucky because this rough period was throwing up things like Usual Suspects, Pulp Fiction and many other really strong films. Fresh was one of these and I remembered thinking it was great but, not having seen it since, I wasn't sure if maybe the period in my life was also giving it a rose-tinted memory in my head.I watched it again last night and did so as a different person &#x96; 35 instead of 18, living comfortably instead of a struggling student; regardless of time and place though, the film still gripped me from start to finish and justifies my memory of it being an excellent film. The plot starts out as a ghetto film that fits into the genre of the early 90's (Menace II Society, Boyz n the Hood etc) but then in the middle it becomes much more of a thriller where young Fresh tries to turn the table on his dealing employers in revenge for the murder of one of his friends. Both parts of the film work equally well and merge into each other seamlessly. Just like the construction of the city environment in the opening titles, the film builds on the details and at times the viewer will be a few steps behind Fresh in terms of his plan. It is a dangerous game and there are quite brutal moments in it, but these just help up the tension, of which there is lots.Yakin directs really well throughout the film and is aided by excellent cinematography, capturing a sense of place really well. The patient orchestral score also fits with this and the slower pace that it can at times have, however all of these qualities (however good they are) tend to get lost in the background of the praise because front and centre is a terrific performance from a very young Sean Nelson. He is the heart of the film and the ability to deliver his character is key &#x96; and he nails it. Fresh isn't on a moral quest for what is right, he is very much on a personal mission and he does it by playing cynically with those around him, making sacrifices of both himself and of them. It is a great performance throughout and it is hard to imagine anyone else but him in that role &#x96; perfect bit of casting. That he stands up on his own with such a strong support cast is also impressive. Esposito is great despite hamming up his accent and his abs a little bit &#x96; amusing to watch this character back through the filter of Breaking Bad as well! Jackson was pushing to the front on the DVD cover due to Pulp Fiction's success, but he is only in a small role, albeit a good one. Beyond them La Marre, Brice, Wright and others are also good.Almost twenty years old, Fresh is an excellent film that is well made across the board as both a hood movie and a thriller &#x96; my memory was not faded, this is a great film. "},{"Title":"The Best Crime/Chess Film of All-Time!","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film was excellent. The score well-used. It's well-acted, greatly written and executed, and it manages to capture a lot of nuances of childhood and children's behavior.The movie follows Fresh, a drug runner for two different major pushers in his hood. After a series of events he makes the decision to play the pushers as he would an opponent in chess. As the game of chess plays out over the last 15 minutes, the suspense grips you.The film guest stars Samuel L. Jackson as the absentee, alcoholic father of Fresh who is a great source for chess strategy, but not for compassion or love.The star of the film is the 12 year old (at the time) Sean Nelson, who does a fabulous job in the title role as Fresh.This movie makes Boys in the Hood, and Menace II Society look low-rate. "},{"Title":"How is this movie not in the top 250?","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I almost never review movies but after watching Fresh I felt compelled to. From the beginning of the movie my eyes were glued to the screen. I though it was just another hood movie but it turned out to be deeply complex. All I really want to say is that Fresh struck a cord for me on many levels. Its a coming of age story like no other, he goes through school, crushes, friends, fights, and his parents but set in the projects where violence and drugs are a commonplace. In fact, it would be an insult to pigeon-hole this movie into one genre it is one of the best dramas and action movies I have ever seen. The final scene was such a devastating moment and I'll admit I started weeping. Rarely do I cry because of a movie and even rarer will I admit to it. Go see this movie, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The modern day Through the Looking Glass. Enough said. But because of requirements here is a bit more. I caught this movie midway through in the middle of the night on one of the movie channels. I was intrigued by the honesty of the characters, the lines, and the idea of Samuel L. Jackson in a cameo. Fresh, as he is known, is a boy dealing with the harsh realities of inner city life and a broken family but rises above his circumstances although he is walking in them. This movie is a drama and a thriller. Just a heads up- there is a lot of brash language and situations but none gratuitous and no glamorization of crime. I found it to be a deep, thoughtful, heart-wrenching tale of the realities of life's circumstances and how one little hero overcame through the wisdom of chess. "},{"Title":"I have seen the movie before BUT NOT LIKE THIS","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Hi all.I have seen this movie before and it didn't touch me then. Now 10 years after, much have happened in my life.Now I was touched all the way into my bones. What a movie. So real. So cruel. So a world of drugs and feelings blended to, much death and some hope. A hope so strong that nothing breaks through.Like life. A road is to be decided. You, other decide. All life will be affected by your choices. This movie contains 2 well known highways along your journey of decisions.Thanks for a great experience on my journey around.D. Severinsen "},{"Title":"Very dark and Real masterpiece","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie both surprised and impressed me for all the right reasons. I noticed that the acting from Sean Nelson as Fresh was amazing, totally unfaltering. That kid must be from a bad area! There are very good performances from everyone involved especially Giancarlo Esposito. I don't really notice good acting unless it is truly excellent and in this case there is no doubt about that. The look of everyone and the area ( BK or the Bronx NY, i think?) was real convincing unlike many other ghetto movies.The story encompasses a young black kid being a runner for drug dealers in NY working his way up, while the whole time he hates them and forms an elaborate plot to f*** them all up for their evil deeds!!! That is quite a poor summary I must admit but I can assure you the plot is very good, and not cliched like my summary might suggest.Films do not get much better. "},{"Title":"The Most Underrated Film of all time (may contain spoilers)","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film doesnt come near receiving the credit it deserves..i was happy to see it at least has a 7 on IMDB. Sean Nelson should have gotten the rave reviews and academy award nomination for this work that mr haley joel osment got for 6th Sense. This kid was incredible, as the focal point for a gritty story about life in the south bronx, and how the chess games he plays with his father (Samuel L at his subtlest and best...) provide an analogy for his strategy to get he and his sister away from the drugs and poverty of the projects.  Giancarlo esposito and nbushe wright give stellar performances, and Fresh's friend Chuckie is a definite scene stealer.  There are some disturbing scenes here, especially a playground massacre with child victims. All in all a powerful and seamless story. "},{"Title":"Best 'Hood Film Ever","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  With the 1990s came the release of major motion pictures dedicated to presenting Black urban life in the United States from Black perspectives. The only predecessors of these films were either Blaxploitation films or White perspective productions with ambiguous glimpses into the essence of Black city life at best.  Until such films as Boyz 'N' The Hood and Juice, Black youths had to depend on either White film executives or Spike Lee if they wanted to see familiar situations in major films.Since John Singleton's masterpiece, many producers and directors followed suit with their own version of what some like to call 'hood movies (after Singleton's Boyz 'N' The Hood).  Even Oliver Stone managed to concoct an exceptional addition, South Central, to his list of film excellence.  He even managed it without his trademark artsy camera tricks he used in JFK and Natural Born Killers, which were excellent films nonetheless.The 'hood movie has one defining attribute.  It is a full-length feature film with the United States Black and/or Hispanic urban neighborhood experience as the dominant theme.  This disqualifies Dennis Hopper's Colors (because cops were the main focus), Sugar Hill and New Jack City (they were more gangster dramas than 'hood films), and Master P's I'm 'Bout It (which was a gangsta rap teeny-bop fairytale at best).Fresh is the first (and perhaps the last) motion picture to bring the 'hood film to the drama level of The Godfather.  Anyone who appreciates Mario Puzo's masterpiece brought to life by Francis Ford Coppola should appreciate this film.  There are no scenes with gratuitous sex or violence.  The one instance of nudity may have been unnecessary, but it wasn't tasteless.  The violence shown isn't glorified, humorized, nor emphasized.>Unlike other 'hood films, Fresh does not need an urban contemporary soundtrack infested with gangsta rap and R & B ballads to sell nor enhance it.  Such music has its place in Singleton's 'Hood and many other films, but to add the like to Fresh would have been unnecessary and perhaps a mistake.The dramatic vigor of Fresh is unprecedented in 'hood films because the story does not insult the viewers' intelligence, as compared to Menace II Society in which the main character's father shoots a man seven or eight times with a revolver (a type of gun that exists mostly as a five- or six-shooter in reality).The biggest contrast between Fresh and such films as Menace II Society is that Fresh refuses to appeal to the least common viewing denominator while Menace II Society thrives on it.  And while Boyz 'N' The Hood was indeed an outstanding film, Fresh depends on no hip hop personalities to support its cast.  The reason why Fresh was never celebrated as the other 'hood films is because the film never celebrated itself.  It's like a platinum nugget in a pile of gold.  Relatively few people appreciate it, but it's worth much more than its counterparts. "}{"Title":"A Great and Very Important Film","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have never seen a movie quite as frank and powerful about the inner-city drug scene. The acting is superb all the way around, with Sean Nelson leading the way with his excellent portrayal of a young pre-teen forced to face harsh realities of street life that most of us could not imagine in our worst nightmares. Giancarlo Esposito, Ron Brice and Jean-Claude La Marre are all excellent as ruthless drug dealers. If you want to see a truly important movie with great acting and a riveting plot, check out Fresh. Be warned, this movie deals with harsh and grim realities of street life and as such can be very difficult to watch at times. "},{"Title":"FOR ALL Y'ALL MENACE II SOCIETY LOVERS OR HATERS...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The tag-line for this movie in no way does justice to this superb look at the not so ghetto-fabulous world of Fresh. There is portrayal without judgement that does not demonise black people, black men, Fresh or his sister. What is supremely enchanting about Fresh is the spirit of love that survives under such precarious conditions. Fresh's determination to leave the drug culture behind and take his sister with him, masks the fact that he is only a child. He is the only male to tell his sister that she is loved. We only see his vulnerability and pain at the very end, facing a father who does not know how to hold his own child.This is the best film I have seen in a long time. It is not clichéd and avoids a minefield of ghetto stereotypes. Drug and gang culture is not glorified but realised as real and tragic. For all y'all Menace II Society and New Jack City lovers or haters you have to see this... you might learn something. "},{"Title":"Seriously superb film.  Cannot get it out of my mind","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I was not prepared for so fine a film. Perhaps one never is prepared for true excellence.   It presented a world into which most can never go, but a world where other filmmakers pretend to take us.   Only Spike Lee's films have given me a sense that I am getting a glimpse of this intense and intensely human world, yet Lee's films are so dramatic I'm always aware that it is a story being told, even if by a master storyteller. FRESH seemed to unroll before me as if happening then and there.  I remain moved, shocked, amazed. "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 90's or any other decade - exceptional.","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie did a lot for me and it is my hope that other new viewers will feel the same. The proof of the power of the film grabs you from the beginning with the simple musical texture of the film score by Stewart Copeland coupled with the piece by piece layering of the street scenery. It is unique and perfect, revealed as an even more appropriate detail to the movie as more of the plot themes are revealed. The main character in the movie, Fresh, is played by a really exceptional young actor, Sean Nelson, who manages to steal scenes from two of my other favorite actors, Samuel L. Jackson and Giancarlo Esposito. I am trying to remember the other movies that came out in 1994 and recall why one as powerful as this one would not receive much consideration for the Academy Awards that year. It was a good year for movies - Pulp Fiction, The Shawshank Redemption (7 nominations but no Oscars), Ed Wood, Hoop Dreams (received no nominations), and on a lesser scale Forrest Gump (which you'll recall received the majority of Oscars) - but regardless, 'Fresh' should have been recognized even amongst that competition. The sad truth realized from all this is that voting is usually conducted along white lines based upon publicity, demographics and exposure rather than upon quality lines.Accusations have been thrown out there a number of times in the past and unfortunately the majority of those accusations are true. I used to deny the possibility for bias when movies like 'Amistad' received attention for not getting its share, but the difference there was that 'Amistad' was not a good movie and 'Fresh' was an exceptional movie. The two are united only by their non-white content and not by their level of quality.Also a surprise for me is the background of the writer-director, Boaz Yakin. He is not African-American yet the dialogue of his characters holds an authenticity of the New York streets which is phenomenal. I understand his next movie concerns Orthodox Jewish characters, leading me to my final question - Who is this guy and where did he come from? No matter. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary film, a must see","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fresh is a stunningly original story, that at first seems merely some sort of ordinary, ugly gangster/drug pusher flick -- but that is just the setting. Half way through the film the story shifts, its disparate elements come together, and you realize that everything has been very carefully laid out. The script is intelligent, the acting superb, the direction sublime.You can watch the film come together time and again, with fascination. One of the ten best films of the decade. "},{"Title":"Shocking good!!!!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was one of those films which I didn´t expect much of but it was very good.I first saw this with my brother a couple of years ago and I don´t use to like this sort of films(Boyz N the hood Menace to society.....)but I liked it much more then my brother did,even if he loved those  hood films at that time.The film has a low budget but one big starSEAN NELSON!!! His acting is fantastic.The best parts of the film is when Fresh plays chess with his dad(Samuel L. Jackson).Also very good music by Stewart Copeland.Fresh is a intelligent gangster drama.4,5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed _Fresh_, in particular the way the repeated image of chess and chess players mirrors Fresh's machinations.  However, I found it very difficult to empathise much with Fresh, apart from one or two scenes. Here we have a kid who we see dealing drugs and running errands for dealers and wheeling and dealing in a *very* adult manner; in light of this the ending was, for me, more than a little unbelievable.  Overall though, I found the film enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Unusual","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This slice of ghetto life is like nothing else I ave seen. A young drug runner decides he wants out of the life. He also wants to save his sister, who has taken up with one of the kid's drug kingpins. In order to get out, he has to do some pretty fancy footwork. But he is a master strategist as we see when he plays chess with his dad. Wonderful location photography and acting, with a large cast of mostly unknown actors except for Sam Jackson as the dad and Giancarlo Esposito as the drug kingpin. The plot doesn't necessarily go in the direction you might think. There is a fair amount of violence, but most of it is off camera or quickly cut away from. "},{"Title":"The Tenth Anniversary","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" On commerating the 10th Anniversary of this classic film,the motion picture FRESH(Lawrence Bender Productions-A Band Apart-Miramax Films,1995) brings a slice of lowlife in the streets of New York City,but it is also an intelligent but fatally disadvantaged African-American youngster's inexorable descent into criminality. The situations here maybe familiar,but the characters are not. They are the same junkies,whores,and gangsters-but first time director Boaz Yakim invents all of them-but particularly Fresh(played with tour-de-force by Sean Nelson)-with a subtle,complex life that is both painful and exhilarating. In a world crushed by the ongoing poverty and hair-triggering violence,12-year-old Fresh may beat the odds,since he does well in school,is preceptive beyond his years,and he can see past the narrow soul-destroying confines of the hood to the larger world that is beyond(the way out of a dangerous infested neighborhood). Realizing that the best defense against chaos is unobtrusive flexibility,he cultivates an impressive exterior that conceals his aspiration to bigger and better things. But as for the film itself,FRESH stands on Sean Nelson's performance(who was 12-years-old at the time he did this film)and he is so good its hard to believe that he made this film stand out,and it's even sadder that Sean Nelson did not get any recognition for this neither. Fresh is a complex and contradictory character,a boy who's simultaneously sophisticated and callow,naive enough to think life can be played like a game and smart enough to do it and win,though at a disturbing price. Though his plan is outrageously brazen,it makes terrible logical sense here,which is a keen observation and analyst of the human nature,in which Fresh is able to exploit the vanity,greed,suspicion and macho pride of adults,turning them against one another with frightening skill.For most of the length,FRESH seems to be on the verge of falling into one trap after another presenting a portrait of an adolescent sociopath who's likable and engaging,but too self-centered and duplicious to deserve sympathy for the viewer. In the final climax of the film,which is a quite shattering scene,his reserved facade cracks to reveal the sensitive child who knows exactly what he has done. Its a performance that needs to be seen and only few filmmakers would dare end a film on such a naked disturbing image of bottomless grief,and few actors could make it like the heralded performance of Sean Nelson. Look for breathtaking performances here as well especially from actress N'Bushe Wright as the troubled rebellious sister Nicole,Fresh's sister. It was also a turnout performance from Samuel L. Jackson as well as Fresh's unemployed father(and this was a year after the hugely successful Pulp Fiction),and also from the violent and ruthless drug dealer Esteban,played mercifully with icy precision by Giancarlo Esposito. Worth Seeing.MPAA Rating R-For strong substance abuse,extreme graphic violence and gore,persuasive raw language,and adult situations involving minors. "},{"Title":"A Tale of Two Street Kids","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's interesting to note how two people react to the same set of circumstances; one shrewdly navigates his way to the top, the less clever one runs smack into every obstacle, finding only destruction and death. Fresh is a black 13-year-old budding chess master and fledgling drug runner who uses his gift for strategy and guile to turn the city's toughest drug dealers against one other, as he checkmates them all to save himself and his drug-addicted sister - a thrall to one of them. Meanwhile brash Chucky, the same age as Fresh, assumes the macho posturing and tough talk of the street hoods, brazenly announcing I bustin' the DOPE moves! I bustin' the STUPID moves! as he wears his cap backwards, stuffs a gun inside his sweat pants and swaggers like the drug dealers he seeks to emulate, only to be mowed down like a blade of grass the first time he tries to run a batch of drugs.I saw this one in the theater and noted how the audience cracked up at foolish Chucky and his antics. What I noticed even more was writer and director Boaz Yakin's smart script and how he deftly mixes Fresh's school, home and street scenes with those in the city's chess square, where Fresh meets his alcoholic chess-bum father, a noted master, for timed speed matches, a ritual which gives Fresh the ability to remain cool under the most intense pressure and the smarts to win his deadly duel with the drug dealers who want to turn him into one of them.Sean Nelson is superb as a young boy who literally lives by his wits, as only his smarts and nerves of steel can save him once he sets himself against the murderous thugs he works for. Samuel L. Jackson is terrific as the wayward father who lives only for chess, while Giancarlo Esposito is a standout as the coke dealer who has it all until his desire for Fresh's sister pits him against the 13-year-old genius who easily outwits everyone except his father. Special mention go to Jean-Claude La Marre, as vicious drug dealer Jake, and N'Bushe Wright, as Fresh's heroin-addict sister. What's so unusual about this movie is how it translates chess into a game of life, where the strategy of feints and checks with mere game board pieces becomes the model for a boy's real-life battle to stay alive against some of the worst people imaginable. This is a very special picture - powerful, unusual and very well acted. "}{"Title":"Don't miss this one -- please.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The tag-line about an innocent boy just exactly misses the central point of this powerful and disturbing movie. The protagonist, Fresh, is innocent neither in the literal/legal sense of the word, nor in its more modern ambivalent denotation of ignorant, naive, when applied to young persons. At 12, Fresh, having lived, and often enjoyed, what most people would consider a lifetime's worth of experiences, and endured more than a lifetime's worth of suffering, takes charge of his own destiny in a manner suggestive of the great film heroes of yore. The difference is that while the morality of his actions clearly makes sense to us within the context of his subculture, and thus he is a sympathetic character to us, those actions are so opposed to our conventional ideas of right and wrong that we recoil from what this winningly handsome boy is, what he represents, and what we suspect he is to become. To portray such an ambiguous character, and one who hasn't a great many verbal skills nor opportunities for verbal expression, would be a tall order for any actor, let alone 13-year-old Sean Nelson. One just can't praise him enough; I'm sure his prior acting experience on the legitimate stage, and his training at the Lola Louis school came to his aid. Samuel L. Jackson and Giancarlo Esposito come to life as the two adult male influences in Fresh's life, each also living with his own demons and paradoxes. In fact every role could be enumerated, from N'Bushe Wright's rendition of Fresh's drugged-out sister to Luis Lantigua's as his obnoxious best friend. Of course when you hear that, you must immediately think, Director, and this was indeed the directorial debut of Boaz Yakin, the same who made A Price Above Rubies, also a significant and moving examination of subcultural moral ambiguities. In short, this is a great movie -- not an easy one, but one that will stick with you long after the end credits have run. "},{"Title":"Good Movie/Good Acting/Good Drama!","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What made this all the more real for me was the locations... This is Brooklyn in its darker hours Williamsburg, Bushwick, Brownsville, Bed Stuy - real life for some folks - kids and adults dark and overshadowed like the elevated subway train structures; a bit destitute, like some of the abandoned buildings and train tracks; and full of drama and drugs and dealing and death. And folks moving in and out of it daily - some to never return to it again - sometimes dead, and some alive, like the protagonist was able to do. Further, the film caused me to try and imagine how a kid could function in school under these circumstances, and then there is the chess outlet - which teaches how to think and act and fight on a variety of levels. My favorite line? Put Bobby Fisher on the clock and I'll eat 'em up! (This was Samuel Jackson's veiled excuse for his dysfunctionality, but the words were nonetheless obtusely inspiring to his son). I agree with other reviewers that the first half was slower in pace and action, but it laid the ground work for the second half. Knowing the neighborhoods this was filmed in, the first half was just fine for me. Perhaps that is my bias for the movie. "},{"Title":"a couple of side bar notes (chess and hoops)","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cool hard hitting multi-layered film...but did any ballers out there notice that little Curtis' ball handling ability?  Doing a search on Mizan Ayers I found that he is not just a good recreational street baller but went on to be an award winning standout at Connecticut College.  Also, many of the great chess GM's including Bobby F are/were actually excellent at speed chess. "},{"Title":"Well-told story","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie tells a good, engrossing story about a young boy who tries to rescue his older sister from the ghetto.  Unlike Boyz in the Hood and other movies of this genre, Fresh doesn't crowd the viewer with any political or moralistic views; it just tells the story.  Allowing the viewer to have an honest reaction makes this a more memorable film, in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Fresh Chess","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Possible SpoilersAbout halfway through this movie, after Fresh has had several losing encounters with his almost-Grand Master Dad, you realize that Fresh is preparing a chess game of his own; On a much grander scale. He is applying chess strategy to life, in his case the harsh life of the streets, which are the property of the drug dealers he serves.When Fresh again loses on the board to his Dad, and sheds some tears, we must guess for what these tears are shed; for what he has seen, for what he has done, or because he does win on the larger board, which his father could not and will never do.This is a masterful and accurate movie with great performances by all. It can depress, but has an odd, almost imperceptibly uplifting end.    "},{"Title":"The best living in the street meets Shakespeare movie I've seen.","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film more than 4 or 5 times intentionally or just caught my eyes as flipping through over hundred channels on my cable station. It looks Fresh every time I catch it and show me another level of story plot line. I always love the ending where fresh makes his move and his father (Samuel Jackson) is completely move less, check mate!. It is almost like a fairy tale for a kid to come up with daring and complex plot to set everyone up like a chess game and use police as his own chess pieces. But as I watched it for the fifth time, story becomes more fresh with portrayal of violent street world . If you've never experienced the real street smart people, it will be difficult for suburbia audience to comprehend their livelihoods. Fresh is the street reality cloaked in fairy tales. It is that horrible to live in the project like Fresh is desperate to get out.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Besides the movie Se7en, i would say that this is the best movie i have ever seen. Sean Nelson delivers a great performance. Realism is also another great thing about this film.10/10   "},{"Title":"An Overlooked Gem!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say enough about this movie and Sean Nelson performance there within.  The movie was great and Sean was incredible.  I am amazed that Sean Nelson is not a superstar actor now in the leagues of Denzel Washington and Samuel Jackson - who himself gives a great performance.  In fact, everyone in the movie gives a strong performance.  The direction is superb and the supporting cast is first rate.  Fresh should be on everyone's To Watch list. "},{"Title":"Badass flick","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It was a really complicated film, but really gripping.  If you liked LA Confidential and Usual Suspects, you should like this film also.  It's the kind of film that you should really watch twice to swallow all of it. Personally, I liked those movies I mentioned earlier better, though I thought this movie was better than a lot of other urban dramas.  I thought Chuckie's character was really funny. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Intelligent","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Though this film obviously came out at a time when movies like Boyz in the Hood, and Menace II Society were prominent but might have been overdone, Fresh shines as an inspired blend of talented acting, symbolism, and thought provoking imagery.  Sean Nelson earns his stripes with a caliber performance as the young Fresh, especially when trying to hold his own next to actors such as Samuel L. Jackson and Giancarlo Esposito.  You often forget the character is only a 12-year-old boy.    Fresh's intellect and composure is evenly balanced by the tempered drug dealer Jake, and less brainy friend, Chucky.  The movie exhibits inventiveness with its addition of parallelism, comparing the game of chess to the movie's plot foreshadowing the movie's ironic sequence of events.  When he experiences one too many hardships, Fresh hatches a cunning plan to escape the streets with its crime, drugs, and violence. However Fresh ultimately uses these elements as a vessel for escape.  Even with its lack of the typical gang related cinema, it manages to produce a realistic atmosphere while still maintaining its depth.  "}{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good film about a very smart young boy who uses his wits to save himself and his sister from the streets.  In the scenes between Fresh and his father in the park we see the boy learning how to act and react by watching/playing chess.  His father even says at one point while playing chess, the queen is all you care about, and the pawns are only there to help you save the queen. Well, as the film goes on, you see that Fresh's sister is the queen and everyone else including Fresh's friend and fighting pit bull, dealers, cops, are pawns. "},{"Title":"Compelling taut complex drama.  Great acting. Chilling.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A rare film.  It combines a really compelling plot with complex and fascinating characters.  Sean Nelson is amazing as the 11-year-old Fresh. I've seen this film repeatedly, and I'm always drawn in by it.  It has the appeal of a good suspense film as well as an outstanding drama.  It tells a very real and gritty story, never preaches, and always entertains.  Deeply moving. "},{"Title":"The best tale of the streets I've seen","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good film with no big name actors but Samuel L. Jackson.  This movie is a must own.  In my opinion the writing was good and the drama intense.  Ended well which is where many films similar to this fail.  Powerful, emotional, a great film for its sub-genre  "},{"Title":"Unforgettable Piece of Work.","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film has one of the true great unsung performances in all  of cinema, in Sean Nelson as Fresh. You will never forget this multifaceted character or Nelson's skill at bringing him to life.FRESH also has my favorite ending image of any movie, even better than RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY. If y'all have seen the film, you know what I'm talking about. "},{"Title":"An intelligent hood movie","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say about this movie ? It's excellent. It shows that a movie about the projects can be intelligent, powerfully acted and emotional all at the same time. The only bad thing about this film is that I felt that it was on the slow side, but if it had a quicker pace it wouldn't be quite the same.No fancy effects at all, just great acting and a great story. It has some disturbing scenes and language, but that's only to reflect the reality of the world that Fresh lives in. I love the chess metaphors and even though Samuel Jackson has a small role, he still provide a powerful impact. Of course the real star of this film is Sean Nelson, his performance was outstanding. He must've been nominated for some award or something, if he wasn't he should've had. A must see for ANY film buff around the world. The slang might be a little tough to understand but you'll still get the hang of it. "},{"Title":"Very moving - wonderful performances","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Easily one of my favorite films of the 90s, Fresh features one of the finest child-actor performances I have ever witnessed. The depth with which Sean Nelson portrayed the title character was breathtaking. From the opening frames, in which a city is pieced together, to the final scene featuring Nelson and his father, played wonderfully (as usual) by Samuel L. Jackson, this film is amazing. The pacing is perfect, the script is never overbearing and the plot is written to perfection.One of the most enjoyable aspects of the film was the soundtrack. Films of this genre are typically filled with gangsta rap or techno. Fresh contains a soundtrack filled with beautiful atmospheric, classically-tinged pieces and are placed perfectly throughout the film.An excellent film in every aspect.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A film about the loss of innocence told from the perspective of an adolescent drug pusher.  A stand-out performance by Sean Nelson.  I particularly enjoyed Yakin's camera work and choice of music.  The analogy of life in the street as a strategic game of chess, is somewhat blatant, but still provides for an excellent theme. "},{"Title":"Thanks to the original second half, this movie is better than average","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I must say that the first half of this movie didn't really do it for me. I know that many people will not understand that, but for me this was yet another movie about a poor, yet smart black kid growing up in a bad neighborhood full of crime and without any opportunities of escaping it. It has been done many times before and I didn't want to see it once more. But than the movie offered a new and more original approach in the second half and from that moment on, it captivated me.Michael, who goes by the name of Fresh when he is on the street, is a 12-year-old drug pusher, living in a half-way house for children without their parents. Even though he isn't allowed to see him, he regularly meets his father, a man who lives in a trailer and in the park, where he plays chess with him. Despite the fact that he is a smart kid, he will once become a big dealer and the boss of his neighborhood, because there are no opportunities for him outside the ghetto. But when he sees the consequences of it all and is confronted with his sister who works as a prostitute, friends being murdered for no reason,... he decides that drugs isn't the way of life he is looking for. What he wants is revenge and his knowledge of chess will help him getting it.Despite the fact that there aren't too many known names in it (I only know Samuel L. Jackson and the director, Boaz Yakin), I must say that this is a decent movie. It isn't as perfect as some people try to make you believe, but the story works and especially the second part in which he takes revenge is very original. The acting is OK and it all looks believable. The only problem that I had with this movie was all that macho talk from those 12 year old kids and all their yo yo yo's. Man, I don't know if they are really like that in the ghettos, but I just wanted to kick them in the butt and tell them to go back to their mama, where they belong, instead of acting like the grown-up which they may never become. But despite that little 'problem' I still consider this a decent movie that sure deserves to be seen. This is a movie that will be loved by all the fans of ghetto/crime movies and I rewarded it with a 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Crack Story","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael (or Fresh as he is well known) is a 12-year-old drug pusher who lives in a crowded housing project with his cousins and aunt. His father has become a street bum, but still meets with Fresh on occasion to play chess.Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film four out of four stars and called it a movie filled with drama and excitement, unfolding a plot of brilliant complexity. He praised Nelson's performance as extraordinary and found its plot focused and perceptive, praising it for its social commentary.This really is a great film, and although Sam Jackson is only in a supporting role, you have to wonder about his career choices. He does so many big, over the top films that he is known for... but then he will do these smaller, lesser-known pictures with great critical acclaim. Jackson is more than an action star with a dirty mouth... he knows how to pick his projects. "},{"Title":"A movie that is ratable if you lived in the hood","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fresh is about a kid that lives in the hood. He lives in a cramped house with his cousins. He goes to school. As a kid who live in Brooklyn, this movie is reliable. The struggles are realistic the violence is sadly accurate. The drugs are always around. One thing that the movie did good was making the movie realistic based in that time period. There was lots of violence going on, people dying, getting hurt a lot of violent acts like in the movie. The drug situation back then was terrible like in the movie. They had little kids doing drug runs because they would get in less trouble. A lot of the violent stuff that was going on was because of the drugs. One thing that the movie could of worked on was the fat Spanish kid he was type annoying. In my life growing up in Brooklyn I have seen people getting hurt over basketball and people falling in love. "}{"Title":"brilliant child acting","Date":"2 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Michael aka 'Fresh' (Sean Nelson) is a streetwise 12-year-old. He tries to balance school, friends, dysfunctional family and his full-time drug dealing job. His sister Nichole (N'Bushe Wright) is a drug addict. He plays chess with his alcoholic homeless father Sam (Samuel L. Jackson) at the park. He lives in his grandmother's house staying with his cousins and other relatives. He works for charismatic drug dealer Esteban (Giancarlo Esposito) who starts sleeping with Nichole.I love both Giancarlo Esposito and Samuel L. Jackson. They form compelling dueling father figures in Fresh's life. The best thing is Sean Nelson or the way that he's directed by Boaz Yakin. Sean is playing Fresh perfectly. He has both street toughness and also his youthful innocence. It's his quiet stillness that is so effective. I could really feel for him. It's a brilliant performance from this child actor. "},{"Title":"is a really exaggerated movie","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is really giving a bad perspective to people that has never been in New York, showing that deaths,drugs and all those insane things are something regular in New York like a everyday thing when it really isn't is making us look bad as a New Yorkers, making us look like drug dealers, killers and unfair and disrespectful to others. And it also make Fresh look really smart for a kid of his age and I kind of like it the way he was like the way he acts, and he also planned every move he would make during his actions while messing with gangster and drug dealers and all those dangerous people that were around him while growing up during his childhood "},{"Title":"great story, fantastic acting.","Date":"15 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" From German cinema and TV i am used to kids that aren't kids. Don't know why, but the German movie makers -- authors at first, the directors and the rest -- seem not to know, how a kid feels, talks or behaves. This movie is how Fresh does it, and you believe it -- brilliant acting, not some pedagogues point of view, how Fresh should be, but how he is.And at the same time a thrilling story about how to survive as Fresh, save your sister, keep your money, play with dad, and some other things.A must-see if you like realism with pretty unusual stories. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"watch this movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i think that the movie fresh was a great movie and it shows how people can be active street wish at an young age and have the strength to provide for himself and for his other siblings.Also it shows how it can happen to kids also not just adults everybody can get into the lifestyleand do what they do to provide for their family by any means and the movie fresh shows us that and is a great example. To sum it up my favorite part about the movie was when he left this friend under the car and his friend end up dying. Also another good part in the story was when the black dude shot the boy over a basketball game and he hit the main character girlfriend in the story too it was messed up but it was also a good part and an example of how it can get real at at anytime in the street. "},{"Title":"decent movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" One thing I liked about ¨Fresh¨ is how the main character was a young boy when most of the conflict was about drugs,because it gave me a different perspective.Another thing I liked about ¨Fresh¨ is that it's about a realistic life situation. Lastly a thing i liked about ¨Fresh¨ is that the main character barely knew his father but still played chess with him,which shows that even if he walked out on him he still cares for him.One thing that annoyed me was that they never showed what happened after Michael got rid of all the bad guys.Another thing that annoyed me was that it never showed us what became of Michael, for example if he stopped selling drugs or what. One way ¨Fresh¨ was realistic is the fact that some kids in brooklyn actually go through this, where they sell drugs to get through life.I think i'am qualified to give this review because i was raised in Brooklyn and know many kids that go through what the main character of ¨Fresh¨ went through.I give credit to the director for making a decent movie that many can relate to. "},{"Title":"pretty good movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The director Boaz Yakin created a masterpiece of a movie and a mastermind.OK so fresh is basically a good movie in my opinion and one of the things that annoyed me is when they killed his dog right infront of and another thing is that they was all teenagers doing all this currupted stuff.One way it was realistic was when they was selling drugs because in the real world people try to make a living off of that.And to me it was realistic because the main character was a 12 year old drug pusher or seller that lives in a crowded house hold.And the movie was pretty good for a kid that sell drugs basically based on kids that want a better lifestyle or kids in a messed up neiborhood or there parents don't give them attention but overall it was good.I recommend it to the kids growing up. "},{"Title":"excellent","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is the best movie that really connected with me as a teen myself growing up in New York. I want to give credit to Boaz Yakin for creating a very realistic story that can connect to teenagers of 2015. a few things i like in this movie is how fresh is portrayed as an intelligent teen that makes a lot of brave decisions, and the love he has for his family.One thing i hate about the movie is Chucky, Fresh's best friend, and the drug dealer Fresh worked with. One way the movie is realistic is the way Fresh's family treats him, the obstacles in the path of a young boys dream. this is a film i think everyone should see because it is great. "},{"Title":"This movie was great had my heart beating fast didn't wanna leave my seat","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After watching the movie called called Fresh i think that it was a good experience watching it such things that happened in fresh opened my mind up and showed me some good insite in how brooklyn was in the 1990s before i was even born or even was old enough to remember anything .I feel like that this movie is some what true about what the surrounding was like in this time because in the 90s everyone was big on drugs violence and etc and all of this and more portrays in the movie . I would suggest this movie to any teenagers mostly ones that live in brooklyn.It might be violent but it opens up ya mind to different surroundings. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" To be honest Fresh was a great movie. The directors and actors did a good job to show what life was in New York during the 90s. I like how the director wanted to make the main character Fresh very clever. The film wasn't perfect so some things that annoyed me was that not everything that happened in the film happens in New York. The trains in the film make it really feel like you're in New York. I think my review is better than others because I lived in New York so I know how things are around here. Many things are different now but my grandmother use to tell me stories about New York back in the early 90s. Things were similar back then. I recommend this movie to anyone over 13 & likes movies that is well planned out. "},{"Title":"Fresh is about a boy named Micheal and he lives in Brooklyn NY and he is selling drugs to help his family","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I feel this movie shows how life in Brooklyn was in the 90's and the stories i was told by my parents they was right New York in the 90's was a dangerous time with all the violence the drugs and the police. That Spanish kid was hilarious in this movie I be busting those dope moves homes I was kinda upset when he died because he was really funny. The thing i liked about that movie is that Fresh was able to get his family out of the hood by himself with no ones help. Fresh is about this 12 year old boy named Micheal (a.k.a Fresh) lives with his aunt and his cousins and he is selling drugs on the mean streets of Brooklyn but he is only doing this to help his family but its also interfering with his school life. "}{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I really liked the movie fresh because it showed me that kids my age can do things to. the man and woman can do. The things that annoyed me was when the guy killed the little boy that was playing basketball and he also killed the little girl that fresh had a crush on. I think that kids my age should watch this movie so they could know how to movie the works and get money without killing one another. Kids that's under 12 shouldn't be able to watch this movie.The director kinda know what he or she was doing when they added the part when fresh best friend got killed.That showed me that any and everybody could get killed. fresh sister should of never did those things with those men. "},{"Title":"Good Movie To Watch","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What I liked about the movie Fresh is that it is not a typical hood film, Its a good movie if the main thing in the movie was about how clever the 12 year old boy was than Fresh would be the best movie. Another thing I liked about the movie was it gives many life lessons, One way this movie was realistic is because a lot of the boy Fresh situations was or can be somebody real life problems. Something that did annoy me is how the 12 year old boy was basically living on his own and his family didn't want to help him much.The boy fresh lived with his grandma and cousins and sister but they didn't want him living there because of the type of things he was doing an who he was seeing. "},{"Title":"Really Good Movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The director Boaz Yakin created a masterpiece with the movie Fresh. One thing that I liked was the way that Fresh set everything up. Another thing I liked was the conflict in the story, the way the Fresh worked for both drug dealers then got both killed or in trouble. One last thing I liked was the way the Spanish dude talked. I didn't like when Fresh shot the dog up. Another thing I didn't like was when the guy at the basketball court shot the boy with the nice handles up. One way it was realistic was when they would show the scenes of the train passing by. So basically to sum all of this up this is a really good movie. I love this movie so much. Oh and when you watch the movie the ending it is really good. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A few things I like about the movie Fresh is how brave the main character was. After everything that happened on that basketball court, he went home and kept his mouth shut. He ain't even snitch on the guy who was shooting. A thing that annoyed me was that the guy killed 2 innocent people over a basketball game. One way it was realistic was that it can actually happen in real life, In fact it already did happen, but it was all over an video game. There are tons of people dying over little stuff like this. But my opinion, this movie was pretty good.This is a good movie to watch if you like entertainment or little violence. "},{"Title":"this is good movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The movie is very accurate in Brooklyn. Which is why i understand it. It showed that young kids or teens go through things that are drastic like that. The hood was described good even if it was made years ago. Till today those types of conflicts are happening in Nyc. I never heard of this movie but i wonder why i haven't. It should be a popular movie for people that can relate to it. The ghetto slang is almost from today in Brooklyn. I liked the movie,it gave a good way of showing how some lifestyles are. I also think that honestly the ghetto is worst than that. A little boy like that would be instanting shot the way he is. I think it's overall a good movie and most people should like it. Some parts of it was kinda annoying. It got me confused till i saw the end. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Three things that i liked about the film is the soothing music, The life lessons, and the intelligence of the main character. The soothing music that played throughout the whole film made the movie different from all the typical hood movies; usually there would be gangster music, rap and etc. The life lessons in the movie prevented me from making certain mistakes ahead of time, and the intelligence of the main character fresh amazed me. Two things that annoyed me were that I couldn't understand the movie, i had to watch it a couple of times to understand it and I also didn't like the fact that every scene wasn't in the bush wick area. Bushwick is a place in Brooklyn,NY where most of the scenes were shot at.This movie is very realistic. This stuff actually goes on in the violent parts of Brooklyn. My review is accurate because i am a resident of Brooklyn,Ny. "},{"Title":"Adolescent uses rules of chess to help save himself and his family from drug dealers","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you have played chess and/or studied the moves, and take the game seriously, you will spend much time studying, rethinking and labeling the characters in the movie as pieces of a Chess Game. If you take the Chess Game seriously, you will understand the violence and the big picture hidden in the actions of this adolescent. You may find yourself going back and re-watching it to see when, where and who with Fresh takes matters into his own hands and begins to manipulate the drug dealers as well as his family members that as he begins to gather the incentives to make the 'players' move to the proper place on the Chess Board to allow him (Fish) as the Knight to win the battle. Violence-Yes, Message-Definitely "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" While learning chess against his expert player dad, Fresh also learns how to play for life. Another brilliant basketball playing kid, is deliberately fouled by a thug, a hood. To get back, he dazzles that hood - embarrassing him. The enraged hood goes gets a gun, and shoots him dead. Collateral damage is a sweet innocent girl who's character has been built sufficiently, just so we know that Fresh has a soft spot for her. A dogfight build's Fresh's character more - we know he has sound morals but gets swept along to the dog fight anyway. We know that Fresh is troubled. We then weave through the movie like a game of chess, where pieces are sacrificed for the final victory. There are lessons through out, metaphors and texture for anyone who cares to look. Thoroughly enjoyed it. Gave it an 8 out of ten. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films Ever Made","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Just watched this movie for about the twentieth time. It never fails to astound me and make me cry. This film is the perfect mix of cerebral and tear jerker. Even when you know what is going to happen, you have to watch and be amazed at the 1) writer who came up with this 2) the actors who play the characters, especially the boy, Michael. It is very, very close to being as good as my other favorite crime drama, LA Confidential. Solid editing and score, too. Just be sure to pay close attention, or the plot, with its many twists and turns will lose you, and the second half of the film will make absolutely no sense. The moral---if you are too attached, you can not save those things that you truly value---may throw some folks in the U.S. who are used to good versus evil themes. Thematically, this movie is a lot like another done by the same director, A Price Above Rubies. "},{"Title":"Very good ghetto film","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Fresh was one of the many urban ghetto films which came out in the 90's, around the same time gangsta rap was at it's peak.Films like Boyz N The Hood, Menace 2 Society & this film showed the dangers of urban life, while other films such as Friday showed that it could be fun.If you dislike these types of movies, you may still like fresh.It is actually a fairly smart film with a good storyline, acting and some funny moments as well.The film is centred around a young twelve year old drug dealer and his relationships with the dealers he works for.He is actually a very smart and calculating child and hatches a plan to end all the drug dealers in the neighbourhood.The score by Stu Copeland is great, however they could have incorporated some early 90's hip-hop/rap in the film.Some may like it better if it didn't but I find that it adds to the whole feel of the film.Anyway, if you like urban ghetto films, you owe it to yourself to watch Fresh, it is probably one of the better ones. "}{"Title":"A dark side to the inner city","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Fresh should be deemed as one of the films that expresses the realism of the inner city, especially through an individual that has been acculturated by his surroundings.  He's a streetwise, young individual that sets an example of how life in the inner city is like, and there are noted examples.First of all, Fresh is a young, 11 year old African American male that rejects the societal norms that are analogous to achieving success.  In this case, Fresh, a young African American male, would accept society's goal of economic success and prestige, since this bestows power and respect (e.g the character in this film earns a living from pushing drugs), but one issue that is focused relates to the rejection of the legitimate means to achieve a successful lifestyle, e.g. a legitimate education, in which one would work his or her way up the ladder to success (e.g. graduate high school, go to a good university, and earning a legitimate living, and being a loyal taxpayer), or being employed for a certain time bracket (e.g. 20 years), and collecting a pension check after retirement.What is stated here is that the opportunities of success for minorities in general is that the doors of capitalism are closed to them, and in this case, a young African American male, like Fresh, would resort to other means for survival and earning a living, which was to push drugs in the Brooklyn community.  From this viewpoint, a good example would be synonymous with Al Capone, who was an immigrant that rejects the means to achieve a successful lifestyle, in which he bootlegs alcohol during Prohibition.  This example signifies that lower class castes would do whatever they have to where earning income for a living is the major goal of living in America.Throughout the movie, he lives the typical lifestyle of a young male that pushes drugs, lives in a single parent household, with a lot of younger siblings.  He has no male role model, since his father is a convicted felon, living on the streets as a chess player/hustler.  The only family that he is closest to is his sister, who is portrayed as a drug addicted individual that sleeps with other men, and living a lifestyle that is deemed as degrading.The money that he saves from pushing drugs, being the lookout man on the block, and from other drug dealers would serve as a focal point, in which he pays off one of the major suppliers, which eventually would pave his way for a better life.  Fresh would sell out to all of his friends, who are hoodlums, drug dealers, hustlers, and pimps, in which he would want a better life that was deemed acceptable, like a good home in suburbia, for himself and his sister.  He cooperates with a police detective in this film, and eventually, he gets his chance, and goes into protective custody, a la witness protection.    "},{"Title":"an OK representation of life in Brooklyn","Date":"21 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i am a 17 year old who lived in brooklyn in my entire life i say my review is valid.1) i like this movie because its shows the struggle of a child who lives nyc. 2) i like this movie because it shows how he become a person who cares then to a person who don't care.3) i dislike the character named chuck e . because he acted bad and was faking that he knows about life from a bad family. He also treated the dog badly. 4) i dislike some actors who don't put real emotions into what they are doing. One example of this is how fresh really didn't cry the whole movie and the drug dealers didn't seem totally into the acting. "},{"Title":"INNER CITY PARABLE","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  FRESH (1994) ***1/2  Sean Nelson, Samuel L. Jackson, Giancarlo Esposito.  Devestatingly accurate and unnerving portrait of inner city crime through the eyes of a 12 year old drug runner (newcomer Nelson in a hauntingly powerful debut) who is faced blending in with the violence and death or becoming his own man.  Baptism of adolescence and powerful imagery. "},{"Title":"Kind of like an after school special, but still fairly decent","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While this film was a bit corny and poorly acted, it was still poignant in its storytelling techniques. The idea of kids being drug dealers isn't at all improbable, and the lives they seek out seem conducive with the consequences of following such a path in life. Not a very memorable film, but is still an interesting commentary on inner-city culture. "},{"Title":"Blaxploitation At Its Worst","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This had to be one of the worst written movies i've ever seen. I am highly insulted by the ridiculous/fake dialogue. These people are supposed to be in New York. The sad attempt at 'ghetto slang,' and so-called realistic portrayal of 'life on the streets' makes my stomach turn. I am from the Bronx. Most of my family is from NYC. And my childhood/adolescence took part in the Bronx in the early 90s. As a black person I am offended. This movie is a prime example of why movies like 'Hollywood Shuffle' were created--to exploit offensive movies like this. I'm so tired of movies trying to normalize this type of sick behavior. this is where stereotypes come from. And if you believe the lifestyles presented in this movie are realistic scenarios, you're an idiot. Get over it.and by the way, the plot sucked. I'd have to write another post to address that...oh, and that little Spanish kid--She be likin you Homes...I'm kickin the stupid dope moves?!? what the heck?!? are they in fake south central or fake new york? No one talks like that. seriously, homes.everyone sucked--from sam jackson to fresh to his crack-ho sister. they can't possibly be proud of this movie. "},{"Title":"Holy Mother of God....","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a steaming cesspool. I'm sorry but if you want to see a real movie involving drugs, go watch Traffic instead. I've watched this a few times when it came on HBO and it's not a thriller, it's not even a vague tingling in the bottom of my left foot - er. The plot is tired and rigid, there's little exploration of character and the lead shows all the emotion of a paper cup. In short, avoid this movie unless you enjoy houseflies slowly flogging your brain. "}]