[{"Title":"The Disenfranchised of Hal Hartley","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	A chance encounter in a coffee shop between two people, both of whom are seeking their own identities (one literally, one figuratively), leads to a relationship seemingly beneficial to both, but for different reasons, in `Amateur,' written and directed by Hal Hartley.  A man (Martin Donovan) wakes up one morning lying on his back in a quiet, out-of-the-way street in New York City; all he knows is that he's bleeding from the back of his head and is suffering from total amnesia.  He has no identification on him; he has no idea who he is or how he came to be on that street.  Dazed, he stumbles into a small coffee shop and sits down at the counter.  He tries to order something, but the only money he has is Dutch, and he has no idea why.  A young woman, also sitting at the counter and working on a lap-top computer, observes his plight and notices the blood on the back of his neck.	Her name is Isabelle (Isabelle Huppert); asking for some water, she cleans his injury and buys him something to eat.  Isabelle, it turns out, is a former nun, having only recently left the convent after fifteen years.  Rather lost herself, she is attempting to make a living by writing pornographic stories for a magazine.  A self-professed nymphomaniac (though she is still a virgin), she also feels that she has a specific purpose in life, a destiny she has yet to fulfill, though she has yet to figure out what it is.  But she believes that meeting this man is a sign; perhaps he's a part of whatever it is she has to do.  So she decides to help him, which just may lead her to the answers she is seeking about her own life, as well.  	As with all of Hartley's films, this one has a somewhat mesmerizing effect, which he exacts with a unique style of presenting his story that has to do with the look and feel of the film, the deliberate pace he establishes, and most especially the manner in which his actors deliver their lines.  His performers speak with a rather stoic, matter-of-fact, understated rhythm that is engrossing in itself, very similar to the kind of cadence David Mamet employs in his films.  But Hartley's method is even more pronounced, so that when one of his characters does have an emotional outburst, the underplaying that surrounds it significantly underscores the impact of it all.  	Few directors have such a unique style that so vividly identifies their work;  Mamet is one, Ingmar Bergman another (the three of them being part of a very select group).  And though this particular film is not, perhaps, one of Hartley's best, it is still pure Hartley, with aspects that are certainly engaging and memorable, beginning with his main character, Isabelle.  Talk about an off-the-wall character!  And yet, within the context of the story, she comes across as quite real and believable, which says something about Huppert's ability as an actress, as well as Hartley's expertise as a director.	Huppert gives a very credible performance here, convincingly conveying that sense of confusion Isabelle obviously harbors deep within about her own life and where she's headed.  She makes you realize that beyond anything else that's happening, this is essentially a person searching for a place to fit in, which is why she makes such a connection with this stranger, this man who really has no idea of who he is or where he belongs.  And Huppert certainly makes Isabelle someone with whom it is easy to empathize.	Donovan, a veteran of many of Hartley's films, is very effective here also, with a very pensive, understated performance that clearly indicates an honest sense of this man's bewilderment, as does the very real caution with which he approaches his situation as he attempts to reorient himself and get on with his life.  And Hartley develops the relationship between Isabelle and this man in real time-- there's no instant love affair here, as happens so often in cinematic renderings of similar situations-- which gives a ring of authenticity to the story, bizarre as it may get.	The supporting cast includes Elina Lowensohn (Sofia), Damian Young (Edward), Chuck Montgomery (Jan), Dave Simonds (Kurt) and Pamela Stewart (Officer Melville).  No one can capture a sense of disenfranchisement any better than Hartley, as the characters in `Amateur' so aptly illustrate; these are people perpetually on the outside looking in, and yet there's something about them with which you will be able to relate, as well as sympathize .  And that's part of Hartley's magic; making you realize, that in the end we're not so different from one another, after all.  I rate this one 7/10.      "},{"Title":"One of those movies after which you shake your head and say bemusedly, Wow.","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hal Hartley where have you been all my movie-loving life?  This was the sort of movie-watching experience which required my calling my best friend and telling her about it, as I would any noteworthy experience.Yes, the ending was dismal... yet perfect!  So much about redemption This was clear if one remembers Thomas's feet at the beginning of the movie, and then Thomas's feet at the end.  At that point, I saw the (one of) point to the story.  I enjoyed the clipped dialogue, the clarity, AND the ironic absurdity.  The story was not meant to be reality-driven, but limited to the raison d'etre of Thomas and the other characters as in a dream, but not. Discovering it was a marvelous channel-surfing accident.Now I must do a search on Hal Hartley.  Check out his portfolio, so to speak.  Rating 9/10. "},{"Title":"a must see","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Its been a while since I've this movie but its always stayed with me and I would strongly recommend it. This film has Hal Hartley's trademark sparse, artsy atmosphere, with the slightly surreal characters, the staged dialogue and set pieces. All the characters are quirky and memorable, I loved Isabelle Huppert's character - the nymphomanical nun - in particular and the story dissects amnesia in a really interesting way. Above all the central love story will draw you in more than you realise; the ending was both crushing and fitting. This is due to the acting, as every movement and expression helps to build characters and relationships. Isabelle Huppert and Martin Donovan both do this perfectly, and the impact of the ending owes a lot to them. The odd 'staging' of the film may put off those expecting a more conventional thriller but open minded viewers will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"Likably offbeat fare.","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hal Hartley's Amateur is an engagingly offbeat take on the crime thriller genre. It is also perhaps the most quietly thoughtful handling of amnesia (not as a plot trick, but as a subject) you're ever likely to see. But be warned Hartley's refreshingly non-mainstream, detached, minimalist style takes quite some getting used to, and the ending is needlessly downbeat.     (**1/2) "},{"Title":"I laughed out loud!!","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Just stumbled across this movie on STARZ CINEMA. Never hear of it, the director (who apparently has a following) or most of the actors. But I remembered Isabelle Huppert from Bedroom Window years ago, and she was worth a look.What a piece of work! The most inspired, goofy film noir dialogue you will ever hear spoken, by deadpanned actors that somehow still grow on you. The missing person police officer who is heartbroken with every case. The virgin nymphomaniac, when asked how that combination can exist, says I'm Choosy! Since she's an ex-nun, I suppose that's true. The former porn star (what a sultry look!!) who wants to become a mover and a shaker. Priceless stuff. This is also a very gentle R, with almost no profanity or nudity, in its sex crazed, porn sort of way.Many other IMDb people have given plot points, and either love or hate the presentation, but anyone who was not flat out hysterical when the hitman got shot, should stick to TV sitcoms. It was a pure Monty Python worthy moment!! "},{"Title":"review","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Quirky, odd, brilliant.  This is the best use of deadpan delivery I've ever seen. Martin Donovan is excellent. If you're going to rent a Hal Hartley movie you should start with this one; it's the most accessible and the funniest, and also the least stagey.  "},{"Title":"Abstract Porn","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hartley is one of the most interesting directors working. Many associate him with French intuitives, but I think his experiments are more intellectual, more New York. His films are not only about other films, but exist in a world abstracted from them where almost everyone else insists on wallowing in the same space they reference.This is still an early work, which I had the opportunity to see with its purported referent 'Band of Outsiders.'Writing as a fulcrum; performance as porn; film humor as a selfaware deadpan. Sex as an abstract creation. Pain as an act. Huppert as walking hair, early Posey on her way to Jackie K.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Offbeat mystery","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a mystery that seems to want to satirize mysteries in general and while I had a little trouble with the script its the presence of Isabelle Huppert that adds the interest to the film. Story is about a former nun named Isabelle (Huppert) who meets a man (Martin Donovan) with amnesia and helps him out. There is also a French porno actress named Sofia (Elina Lowensohn) who was the one that pushed the man out the window and gave him amnesia. She meets Edward (Damian Young) who is hiding out from corporate gangsters and they seek some floppy discs with pertinent information on them. Sofia steals the discs and tries to get money from the gangsters but they doublecross her and grab Edward whom they recognize. Meanwhile Isabelle and the man try and figure out who he is and they find a connection to Sofia and find her in trouble with gangsters chasing her. Film is directed by independent veteran Hal Hartley and he adds some very unusual touches to the script and the characters. The gangsters chasing everyone were former accountants and they talk like accountants even when they are about to torture someone. But the heart of the film is Huppert and I have always found her fascinating to watch. In this film she appears to be very docile and timid but at the same time we can see that she craves excitement and love. In some of the scenes Huppert has nothing to say and she just allows her gaze to wander off and I found these moments very effective as she seems to be thinking of something relevant in her life. Even when she does nothing she's interesting to watch and its one of the reasons why she is considered on of the best actress's in the world. Also, Parker Posey appears as a punk girl and Tim Blake Nelson pops up as a detective. Offbeat film mat be to different for the casual viewer but fans of Huppert should take a look. "},{"Title":"Maybe the most underestimated movie of all times.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is without any doubt one of the best films ever made. The plot is pretty complex, four persons (all terrible amateurs) trying to live their lives without mutch knowledge 'bout the subject. The conversations are wonderful, the acting is awesome (especially Isabelle Huppert, her performance is a masterpiece you haven't seen since...Vertigo?). This is the only film I've ever seen three times in a row.I couldn't stop myself. An interesting thing about it is that not only the main, but even the smallest and least important characters are truly amateurs. The police girl, the video store guy, the café girl... Ain't we all after all? "},{"Title":"Words fail me","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am ashamed to admit that I have only just discovered Hal Hartley. Fortunately, not too late, as I think I still have enough time remaining on this planet to hunt up and watch all of his other films.I'm getting a real chuckle out of reading all the one-star reviews here by people who just don't get it. I don't blame them, really, but there should be some way of warning them not to do it; not to embarrass themselves by displaying their shallowness. If it's slick predigested Hollywood pap liberally peppered with explosions they're looking for, they're in the wrong place.Hal Hartley rules. If he's made better films than Amateur then I'm in for a real treat. "}{"Title":"Two complete lives lasting few days","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a surprising movie.  It's more crime genre than you expect with Isabelle Huppert in cast, but much more French style than you expect from American director.  First part of the movie was Chabrol-like (and it's a complement), second is more action but far from modern American action movies (that I don't like).  This change is well made, it has reasons according to the development of the plot.  ***  spoilers, including end of movie !!  ***The movie shows a few days that make a whole life for two main characters.  Isabelle was lethargic, almost in a hibernation, living in a nunnery and later waiting for things to happen; now she feels she found the purpose of her existence, to fulfill the task she has been given by Holy Virgin, and starts living.  At the end of the movie she succeeded in doing it, her possible lover is killed, she is left empty and seems emotionally dead.  For Thomas the situation is even more extreme suffering complete amnesia it's as if he was born on the beginning of the movie, and (physically) dies at the end.  His death is absurd though he was a criminal, ruining many lives, he is punished for crimes he (because of amnesia) doesn't even know he did.  And it makes this execution as pointless as in Easy Rider or Blue Soldier.Photography was better indoors than outdoors (restaurant in the beginning, Sofia and the rose, or empty room where Edward was tortured); good camera angles in country house when Edward looks for Thomas.  In a border-reality movie like this some use of slow-motion or Hamilton-like soft photo could be expected, but maybe it would look to much like a dream (Isabelle) or nightmare (Thomas), or too profane, so the director didn't do it.  Interesting use of carefully chosen objects, like a lamp in empty room it seems to be the guy's only possession in a place he uses to make love, and now it is used for violence, for torturing.*  spoilers-free part  *I don't know how many people will enjoy this movie.  It's not like old French crime movies (Delon, Belmondo, Ventura) or modern American action movies, so if you expect it, be careful.  Maybe you'll like it, I did.  But I like Chabrol and old film-noir movies, so if you're closer to my taste, and if you prefer visual beauty and mood instead of action and dynamic change of scenes, this could be a movie for you.  "},{"Title":"Off-beat, funny drama from a true original","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hal Hartley is just my all-out favourite auteur director, brought me through my teens and helped form my world view. When he makes a film you're in for something that is at the very least interesting, and at best, moves you, creates a new world out of the one you're already in, shows you the art in life. That sounds pretentious and some might think his films are too; but that's just the knee-jerk effect that comes with overexposure to rubbish presented as if it's art. But one good Hal Hartley film cures a soul wearied with too much dross. Amateur is up there with Trust and The Unbelievable Truth if you have any time at all for films which are off-kilter, intelligent and which depart from the linear norm. They're also very funny, in a low-key way. His actors are usually regulars, skilled at his unique, poetic and rhythmic script style. His America is intriguing, a place painted with the eye of a true original, and presented with a rigour entirely absent from many more recent so-called independent American films. Another reviewer here noted the strong European flavour in his work; this is quite right; and if you enjoy a varied experience of film I can't see how you wouldn't like his best. The plot of Amateur is crazy and contorted, like a dance, with a fascinating premise and a weird logic of its own. Martin Donovan here is Hartley's muse; he perfectly captures the rapid, deadpan delivery and manages to be charming and mysterious, dangerous and vulnerable with minimal changes in expression. Why his career has stayed largely small-scale is beyond me. Perhaps he goes about his work too quietly; perhaps his jaw isn't chiselled enough, I don't know.But Isabelle Huppert is outstanding as the struggling porn writer fresh out of the convent. Says her scumbag-with-a-heart publisher of her attempts The problem is, it's quite&#133;bad. It's poetry, and don't you try and deny it. And it is poetry; heartbreakingly so. She looks out at the strange world, uniquely innocent, with her big, solemn eyes, and you instinctively feel with her, and wish her a knight to watch over her. And of course, this being Hal Hartley's world, her protector arrives, uniquely flawed. He could be Grandma; or he could be the Wolf. Excellent, good-looking and intriguing. "},{"Title":"how much can be said with so little!","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just adore this movie.I like to remember its precious lines and, particularly, its superb acting. The idea of an ex-nun writing pornography sounds an interesting one, as does her relationship with an amnesiac and an ice-cold porn star. The mystery plot is quite risible but by then you are already so inside the film that the wonderful performances manage to keep you interested. Hartley's rich creation of each of the 3 main characters finds a perfect response in each of the performances carried out by Isabelle Huppert, Martin Donovan and Elina Lowensohn, creating an incredibly touching sense of vulnerability, interdependence already suggested by the opening credits and its unforgettable music.The conception of the characters finds great help in the paused acting and staticism of the actors, making the most of each single move of their faces. This finds its parangon in Huppert's stunning turn. We already knew how great the red-haired was (see Une affaire de femmes, to name one), but she deals here with a character which could have resulted grotesque in other hands. She provides innocence, freakiness, sympathy and a thousand more in one, making it inevitable to want to embrace her when the curtain is down and tears go down your face. Isabelle, you are the greatest!!! "},{"Title":"Hal Hartley does it again","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Much like Hartley's earlier works, Trust and The Unbelievable Truth, Amateur is a quirky, offbeat film, that achieves success through its deadpan dialog and its quirky character portrayals.  Martin Donovan (who also appears in Trust) plays Thomas, who, suffering from amnesia resulting from a fall at the start of the film, never discovers his own identity.  His interactions with those who knew him (but won't necessarily admit it) provide the basis for the rest of the story.Although I liked Trust somewhat more, Amateur is still a good film, and does provide a gentle introduction to Hartley's work. "},{"Title":"Hartley's Most Accessible Film","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mix Hal Hartley's deft writing, crisp dialogue and odd sensibilities with an almost Hollywood plot and you have a great film.Isabelle Huppert and Martin Donavan are great on screen together. "},{"Title":"How can you not like this film?","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In fact, how can you not love it? All the Hartley stylistic markers are here and frankly that should be enough but if it isn't then, well, you'll just have to make do with liking it for its top plot, corking dialogue and entertaining moments. Hal Hartley has been a consistently clever film-maker throughout this decade and Amateur is one of his more accomplished works, adding a real depth to some quite seedy characters. Simply put, this film is stonking and, hopefully, after watching it you will be tempted, like me, to go out and watch the rest of the Hartley back catalogue. "},{"Title":"Reminiscent of Godard in 80s, but BAD","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In story, cinematography, and acting, I see the strong influence from Jean-Luc Godard's films in the 80s, especially arty-and-pop amateur crime movie First Name Carmen. The behavior of Edward (Damian Young) after being tortured is reminiscent of Godard's acting; it cracks me up.However, I have to say this film is terrible for the following reasons student film level of acting, full of meaningless dialogues (e.g. I'm sorry For what? I don't know), and an abrupt ending. Please no more clichéd amnesia gimmick to make a plot. Please no more latest technology gadget--I'm talking about that pathetic floppy disk joke. "},{"Title":"Amateur &#150; artsy, quirky, escapist - and rather entertaining sort of film.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My one-line summary is about all I really have to say about the film. But hey, why don't I just throw in some filler material here? Well, okay then...I can't honestly say that this is a good film it ultimately seems vapid, empty. The plot is lame, the acting and dialogue seem dead-pan and artificial, none of the characters really grabs me and holds me. I couldn't help but feel that huge parts of the movie seem absurd (such as without giving too much away here the part where the police sniper pulls his head away from his rifle&#133; and he is calmly smoking a cigarette &#150; what's up with that??! No, police snipers do NOT do that!!!). Oh, and the ending &#150; just when the movie really gets interesting and enjoyable right at the end, well, the damn movie just abruptly ends.Nevertheless, it is an enjoyable film &#150; while it lasts, that is (I'm once again referring to that abrupt ending). Did you ever see An American Werewolf in London (1981)? Remember how it just, well... stopped?? That's what Amateur did for me. It just suddenly stopped. *Note to self good thing I didn't pay to see this in the theater, as I surely would have approached the box office and asked for at least a partial refund.Anyway, I couldn't help enjoying the film. It is definitely a crime movie, along the lines of, say, a Joel and Ethan Coen film. But unlike those, this movie is simple, quiet, and seems to have a darkly vague and mysterious sense of satire all to itself. It's not full of over-the-top stunts, bloody shootings and car chases. There is, however, an excellent scene in which a hit man &#150; in a case of the hunter becoming the hunted &#150; gets plugged full of lead, and how! As a previous reviewer noted, it was a pure Monty Python worthy moment (think the Black Knight being de-limbed by King Arthur in Monty Python and the Holy Grail).The dialogue is either extremely deliberate or at times utterly meaningless, but it reminds me of other atmospheric sorts of movies such as The Spanish Prisoner, House of Games and August 32nd on Earth. And for that I was thankful, because it enhanced the quiet, detached feel of the film. Ditto for the filming locations. Though filmed in and around New York, it was tastefully void of splashy references to big-city surroundings.So watch this film sometime when you are in a quiet, laid back mood, when you just want to escape the usual hype and schlock of most modern day big-budget films. You never know given half a chance, it just may grow on you.A final thought if you don't instinctively know that Isabelle Huppert's last name is pronounced oo-PAIR and not hup-purt, then this film may not be your cup of tea. "},{"Title":"Hartly HEAVEN.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Special brand of Hartly with a nymphomaniac ex-nun, (who hasn't had sex yet!), looking for that special mission from God. Along comes Thomas, (Donovan, the only actor who knows how to fit perfectly into Hartly's strange but exciting style), a man with amnesia, in search of himself. To stir the pot we have Sofia, (the stunning Elina), who makes up the web that draws the film into a set of genres dealing with corporate espionage, sexual tension, demented gangsters, cops on the hunt and everything quiet peculiar! "},{"Title":"Professionally done","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An interesting work that depends on quirky (though unrealisitc) dialouge and fortuitous happenings to occupy the viewer.  A pleasant surprise when I rented it a few years back because I had never heard of it, and other than the quotidian critics rave on the box, had no expectations.  Good performances and direction give it a wierd quality. "}{"Title":"Clearly, one of the smartest movies of the decade.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like all Hal Harltley flicks, you never just like them. Forgive me for the cliche, but you either love them, or hate them. Amateur is no exception. Simply put, I was awestruck at how thorough, and true the film was to it's title. Few other films so clearly conform all elements, be it theme, or just plain performance, to one sole thing being Amateur.  "},{"Title":"Hal Hartley, where's my $1.50?","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yes, I'm aware that Hal Hartley is an acclaimed independent film maker.  I like most of his films myself.Yes, I'm aware that I'm supposed to like this film.That having been made clear, I want the $1.50 it cost me to see Amateur back!  (Hey, it's been eight years and I'm not asking for interest or emotional damages.)I suppose it's only fair that I give some reasons for thinking that Amateur is a bad film.  1) It is too long.  The story could have been told quicker.  2) Owing, in part, to the first reason, it is boring.  3) It keeps faking you out, making you think that something exciting is about to happen and you, the weary viewer, keep giving it that chance.  It's kind of like an abusive relationship despite being hurt time after time, you can't break it off.Don't get me wrong, I'm not claiming that I could do a better job or anything like that.  It's just that I had really high hopes for Amateur and those hopes were crushed. "},{"Title":"Forgettable pretension","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A month after seeing this movie, I cannot remember how it ends.  A waste of time.  Some interesting characters - a nun writing porno, yuppie hit men - but they are never developed.  Instead, they are stock, quirky types.  You never get a feel of their inner lives. "},{"Title":"Form, Form, Form = Nausea","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Amateur -- Beautiful titles, title music, actors, actresses, sets and locations.  But that's all, folks.  If only this were a simple noir film! When movie dialog is so flat, so much less than ordinary speech, and so affectedly slow that the viewer hears each line 3 times mentally before it's actually spoken, something is wrong.  I kept thinking, Art, Art, Art, and plenty of it!  When the Avenging Angel fires his gun into a demon's body over and over, it's a perfect example of more is less. "},{"Title":"Professional, but disgusting","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Five years after making his delightful first feature film, THE UNBELIEVABLE TRUTH (1989), Hal Hartley wrote and directed this rather inferior film, his fifth feature. This film certainly has excellent acting by Martin Donovan, Elina Löwensohn, and Isabelle Huppert. (Donovan is still working with Hartley, and has just appeared in Hartley's latest film NED RIFLE (2014).) But Hartley does not pull off the extremely unpleasant story about some pretty unpleasant people. He goes for comedic effects including holding shots for long enough for us to laugh (hopefully), but he overdoes it and the whole thing does not work. Nor would one necessarily want to know what happens to those people anyway. And I for one certainly did not want to laugh about it, because they are all so disgusting that it simply is not funny. The film starts off with Martin Donovan lying in an alley in New York City, apparently dead. Elina Löwensohn is scampering around his body anxiously and then runs off in fear. Donovan then wakes up and can remember nothing, not even who he is. So far, so good, a promising start to an amnesia story. But then Hartley has ludicrously created a character played by Huppert who is an ex-nun who has left her convent and engages in sex fantasies, claiming to Donovan (whom she befriends) that she is a nymphomaniac who is also a virgin. So far not so good. It is too silly, and Huppert's gloomy expressions and attempts to make her character convincing by means of enigmatic frowns are not successful. Then we discover that the unknown persona of Donovan is not Mr. Nice Guy suffering from memory loss, as we have been led to believe, but instead a Mr. Extremely Nasty who murders and maims people and is involved in prostitution rackets. Charming! So we have a violent nutter who is mixed up with a pious nutter and also with a pornography star who is also a nutter, played by the always-intriguing and alluring Löwensohn whose talents are utterly wasted here. And it is all such a waste of time. Hartley should have torn up the hopeless script and written something worthwhile, but instead he went ahead and shot the damned thing. If we are meant to see anything profound in the resulting mess, I have yet to detect it. Time to move on. "},{"Title":"A little unusual","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an interesting movie but not especially interesting. It is a little unusual. However it does get slow in the last half and then eventually dies an undesirable death. It is worth watching but not for the ending.However I think they tried to put too much into Isabelle's character. She did not need to have been a nun and a nymphomaniac. And in fact it is unclear to me whether she was a nymphomaniac; I think you will need to decide for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Dumb, dumb, dumb...","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I kept waiting for this movie to make sense at some point, and it never happened. I looked at the IMDB rating hoping to get some kind of an idea how many people saw the film and how many people gave it a rating higher than 7. Boy was I disapointed. What a waste of celluloid! "},{"Title":"The only thing that keeps you watching is amazement","Date":"31 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the worst movie I can remember having watched! A sort of new violence but not really type of movie. Bad acting, stupid plot, going nowhere, ending nowhere. The only thing I liked was the Edward-character. "},{"Title":"So so so so so so so so so so so so boring boring and slow","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Completely flat, unfathomably long, completely unwatchable. Nondimensional characters deliver trite deadpan lines and it I'm supposed to think its brilliant and funny? This movie had almost nothing in it that was genuinely amusing. It had anti-stereotypes like accountant-torturers that wouldn't sustain a SNL sketch let alone what felt like a 16 hour movie. It wasn't sexy or smart. There wasn't one likable character (if you could argue that this film had characters), and for the most part there was no plot, nothing at all to keep you interested. If I hadn't agreed to watch it, I would have turned it off during every scene. I just don't get the joke. Is the film-loving community so desiccated by ennui that they adore a film that shakes its angry fist at the concept of being entertaining? "},{"Title":"Film school pap amateurish, tedious, fake.","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Characters and story dreamed up by an auteur without imagination. Fake to the bone. No relation to life. Dialog pretentiously abstract, meant to be funny but isn't. Caricatured characters can sometimes be fun--see Dr. Strangelove--but the caricature has to grow from a sense of life. This is so airless, so film-schooly, watching it is like trying to breathe in a vacuum. An ex-nun nymphomaniac, so she says, who has not had sex because I'm choosy, and a porn star, some gangsters, etc., adds up to a labored, dead, badly acted pseudo movie. I watched it because of all the good comments, so I'm warning those with ears to hear. "}{"Title":"Misfire from Hal Hartley","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wonderfully aloof writer-director Hal Hartley hits a speedbump with this heavy-handed comic oddity about eccentrics, losers and assorted misfits. Isabelle Huppert plays a former nun who is trying her hand at writing sexual fiction; Martin Donovan is an amnesiac (groan) she picks up in a diner. Hartley, who had his biggest success with this formula via 1991's dryly goofy and charming Trust, is too self-conscious this time out, and the results are twee. Several funny lines cannot compensate for an ugly look and an overall lack of interest in these characters. Supporting cast of crazies includes Parker Posey, but Amateur skirts a dead-eyed blandness at every turn. * from **** "},{"Title":"It Killed My DVD Player!!!","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maybe Isabelle Huppert rubs me the wrong way, maybe trying to do European work in an American context confused the crew and writers, maybe the cast and director realised that this just wasn't going to connect for most people, but it proved unwatchable for me. I'd try it for a while, and then go back to channel hopping. The DVD, which I bought at a liquidation store, sat in the player for three months, watching a chapter here, a chapter there, until I got into the eighth chapter. I elected to bite my tongue and watch the rest, finding myself pushed away further by acting that just did not seem to be trying or allowed to try, from actors that I have seen do much better. In the end, the player would no longer open, possibly fearing that others may have to see the movie.Much of the cinema I seek out is European, not in English, with writing and concepts of depth. I watch and enjoy art movies, great films that explore people, concepts, relations, but that is not what this was for me.It reminded me of what someone trying to live the concept of The Producers would do - irrelevant and unbelievable dialogue, a gunfight that belongs in Police Squad, and characters that are almost universally unsympathetic - except the missing persons officer who aspires to make up for all the rest. I laughed at the production that seemed to have been asking the cast to weaken their performances, a presentation that increasingly seemed like theatresports without the humour as the rendition gave up in even believing the movie would work. I'm sorry, but this is closer to Plan 9 from Outer Space and Spaceballs than it is to Kolya or L'Ennui. "}]