[{"Title":"one of the best","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all don't believe ALL of the harsh words that were said about this film. In my opinion it is definitely worth a try. Part six was MUCH worse. This one was creative and different as each movie in the series. I know what I am talking about; I've been a huge fan since I was a kid, I've seen all of the movies, and I even own a Blade replica. Maybe the reason why I liked this movie so much is because when I first saw it I was very young (yet at the same time an obsessed fan) and found the plot perfect for me all of our favorite little puppets, including a very cool new one who only appears in parts four and five, are this time completely good and fighting pure evil and equally small enemies. It was neat seeing the puppets really work together, it was neat seeing them interact and communicate with humans in a friendly way for a change, and it was also neat that there was sequel that I could actually watch with my family. (keeping in mind that I was young and that the other films were much more hard core, not that I didn't love the carnage candy myself) The point is we know that while these puppets are good they have done a million ultra-violent,perverse,maniacal, and destructive things, which makes a perfect stand off between our little anti-heros and the absolutely evil demons. And a lot of fans seem to forget that the puppets did not turn good, but in fact were always good. If you've seen part 3 you would know that they were nice people in life, and if you are a steady viewer in the puppets adventures you should notice the fact that the puppets up untill know have killed for only two reasons survival or because their master(s) forced them to. So give the flick a try, I know that some of you will not like it but it is one of my favorites in the ever-expanding Puppet Master universe. "},{"Title":"The last truly good sequel!","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PUPPET MASTER 5 (was intended at the time) to be the last film in the PUPPET MASTER series. Shot back to back with Part 4. PUPPET MASTER 5 picks up right where that film ended. Returning director JEFF BURR does great behind the camera. Able to pull of a few suspenseful moments, adds plenty of tension & throws in a few bloody murders here & there. The acting remains reasonably above par for this type of film. GORDON CURRIE is perfection as Rick, the wiz kid set to become the new puppet master, while CHANDRA WEST is fun to watch as his girlfriend. The human villains are really fun to watch as well, especially the one playing the head of the company Rick works for, who has comes to Bodega Bay Inn to capture the puppets & their secret in order to sell it to the highest bidder. Sadly THERESA HILL who is rather talented who had her character put to good use in the last film, is wasted in her role as the psychic channeller Lauren. Since she spends the entire film in a coma, lying in a hospital bed. Her part could so easily have been written around since she serves the plot none at all. David Allen returns to do the stop motion animation & was clearly having a ball since the effects seen here are really something special & best of all TORCH is back (though where he was in Part 4 is never explained).That said there were some problems that I had with the film, nothing major to spoil the viewing experience though, they were as follows As I already mentioned in my review for Part 4, the SUTEK demon looked to rubbery & was clearly a puppet, since it moved like one. It's not featured as much in this one, as it was in Part 4 though. Plus it's clear that FULL MOON deliberately took one film apart in order to make two movies, since there really isn't that much going on in Part 5, that it couldn't have been added to Part 4 to make one movie. The vast majority of the scenes here feature people walking down dark hallways looking for the puppets or stumbling around when running from the Totem demon, which added alongside a five minute flashback sequence, a three minute opening credits intro & a four minute closing credits sequence, & several pointless scenes of Sutek trying to bring the totem to life after several pelvic thrusts, scattered throughout the first forty minutes of the movie eats up a sizable chunk of the films sparse 80 minute running time. A lot of the footage here seemingly was padded in, to max out the films running time. Not that this is surprising, since FULL MOON did the same with their TRANCERS/SUBSPECIES series around the same time, with them (like this movie), announcing that there would be no more entries to either cannon, only for FULL MOON to recant on that promise a few years later by making more sequels. Look for CLU GULAGER in a bit part.In the end despite some short comings, PUPPET MASTER 5 was a really fun film that I felt closed the series out quiet nicely. In my eyes the PUPPET MASTER series would never be the same again. This would also be one of the last films FULL MOON would release through it's gates before it's departure from PARAMOUNT. It would mark the end of the series story lines at Bodega Bay Inn (PUPPET MASTER LEGACY's plot doesn't count). It would mark the end of David Allen's involvement (he would sadly pass away a few short years later from cancer) & the last one to feature a really good plot, great effects, suspense, tension & atmosphere & fun characters, all the things that virtually none of the sequels that would follow had & would mark the last time we would see TORCH & DECAPITRON. In short, this is literally the last one you had to see! the next few prequels & sequels were nowhere near as good as the first five films in the series, they didn't even come close. Had this been truly the last film in the series it would have gone out on top! Producer CHARLES BAND would later announce a spin off series called PUPPET WARS, that never happened, when FULL MOON collapsed briefly in the mid 90's, with plans for a PUPPET MASTER VS. DEMONIC TOYS movie going with it. Before resuming in the late 90's without PARAMOUNT'S backing, meaning they were on their own to try & fund their own films, that were nowhere near as good (mainly due to budget constraints & really bad plots) as the films they made with PARAMOUNT in the early to mid 90's. See PUPPET MASTER LEGACY for a correct & complete chronological order of the series.Despite the title, the Puppets came back four years later in - CURSE OF THE PUPPET MASTER THE HUMAN EXPERIMENT**** stars "},{"Title":"Perfect follow up...","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Filmed back to back with Puppet Master 4, this film picks up just 24 hours after the last one and the Demon itself transports itself to our world to finish the puppet master.Again, as with all the Puppet Master Movies, switch your brain off and just sit back and enjoy - Do not try and make sense of the plot as the Movies are quite disjointed and out of chronological order.Its more of the same silly fun as last time. Effects are as excellent for the time as they have always been, especially for a low budget production.That said, the film has also managed to pull in Major talent in the form of Ian Ogilvy - A very well respected actor who plays a perfect slime ball as always... "},{"Title":"Do you think those things are dangerous?","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The final chapter&#x85; ah where have I heard this before? Sorry your reservation has just been cancelled! Well we know that's definitely not the case, as Full Moon's killer doll franchise is still kicking on. Chapter 5 pretty much follows on from the fourth film (as they were virtually shot back-to-back by director Jeff Burr with the same cast and crew) and I found it a little more enjoyable than previous instalment. After recapping what had already occurred, again the new puppet master Rick Myers must face up against the ancient Egyptian God Sutek who wants to destroy any sort of evidence about its reanimated ancient magic that Toulon had stolen and also cope with an interfering scientist played with devious glee by Ian Ogilvy. The outlandish story layout is simply as before, repeating what happened in the fourth chapter (even with a storm brewing) but the pacing is a lot better and energy much more spruce with the Gothic seaside hotel having a little more of an impression. The thing was that the sequences involving Sutek just didn't seem to work (with its unconvincing voice reciting ridiculous dialogues and the dramatic body movements). It looked good it detail, but I preferred when it wasn't focusing on that demon. Director Jeff Burr ably constructs some atmospheric set-pieces, creating more a nightmarish tone like a very odd, but jarring dream sequence that was just as darkly unpleasant as any of the scenes from the original. Quite uneven in mood, due to its unbalanced material of humour and horror, but at times the goofiness does take away from it. Like some of the attack / death set-ups follow a formula; run, fall on ground, begin crawling and wrestle than die a bloody death. Not much else to it.The illuminating special effects are just as potent as before with it colourful optical work and masterful puppet creations. The creativity shows in the puppet work forming their own characteristics, from the animation and the effective movements of the puppets. All the iconic puppets return, also with the new creation Decapitron that's inhabitant by the spirit Andre Toulon when resurrected by electricity. Modest acting by returning leads Gordon Currie and Chandra West. Teresa Hill returns in a lesser part and Guy Rolfe. Ian Ogilvy is great and Clu Gulager makes a cameo appearance. There's good support by Nicholas Guest, Willard E. Pugh and Duane Whitaker. "},{"Title":"Final Chapter...Latest Chapter...Chapter","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Certainly not the 'final chapter' and though sometimes subtitled 'the latest chapter' this is also true of Puppet Master 2, 3, 4 and the other sequels. Filmed concurrently with Chapter 4 (NOT back-to-back as often mis-claimed) this has the same director (Jeff Burr) and most of the main cast - though yummy Teresa Hill is in a coma and Gordon Currie beefcakes his way through police questioning and whatever with the help of sex interest (not love) Chandra West. English actor Ian Ogilvy joins the English (and frankly quite amazing) Guy Rolfe as Toulon. Ogilvy plays a villainous doctor wanting to steal the puppets secret but of course has to battle with the lovely puppets, their saviour Gordon Currie and the Egypyian God, Suketh and Mr Totem from the third film. Many of the extras in this one (including the thugs that Ogilvy hires to steal the puppets) are actual animators and special effects people so its fun to see them acting alongside that which they normally create. Toulon barely features again and its truly a pity that the team at Full Moon couldn't produce a stronger story and one where Toulon could truly feature (Guy Rolfe was deceased before any demanding sequel was made). Not sure why this seemed better than volume four but it is less dull and the English/Canadian cast make good viewing. Top scenes include menacing Six-Shooter fires the fingers from Totems' claws and a dream sequence (usually so tedious) where Teresa Hill (the psychic from number four who is in a coma now) is orgasmic in a blood filled bath tub as Pinhead holds her head as Tunneler drills her skull - it's a job to explain why this scene is so great but see it and you'll probably agree. Special mention for Jester because he rocks and in a way his head rolls!..! "},{"Title":"Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like the Puppet Master movies and Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter is one of my favourite sequels, it was shot back to back with Puppet Master 4 since the story takes place after part 4. One interesting thing is that Torch is in this one but not in Puppet Master 4 even though on the box I've got for Puppet Master 4 he's shown with the other Puppets.The plot sees Richard Myers under arrest since they think he killed Dr. Baker and Dr. Piper and the others with the Puppets since they think he programmed them to. He then meets the boss of the company who is interested about Puppets with a mind of their own and after leaving he comes up with a plan to go to the Inn and steal the Puppets with the help of a few people, meanwhile Richard's girlfriend pays bail to get him out and Blade who was taken in the evidence room escapes and goes into their bag. That night Richard sees Blade and finds out that the other Puppets are still in the Inn so they go to get them while Sutek plans to get his secret by sending his own Totem to the Inn, Richard goes into the Inn to get the Puppets and soon his girlfriend helps him, the psychic keeps on having nightmares and through telekinesis informs Richard to make more of the formula. Meanwhile the Puppets are trying to stop the thieves while the Sutek Totem is killing them off and searching for the secret. Soon Richard re-activates the Decapatron and with the help of Toulon's Spirt stop the Sutek Totem for good and then Richard Myers is the new Puppet Master.Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter wasn't really the last in the series because four more films was made, Curse of the Puppet Master, Retro Puppet Master, Puppet Master The Legacy and Puppet Master Vs Demonic Toys. Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter is a great sequel. Check it out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not Bad, one of my favourite in the series","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fifth and apparent last Puppet master movie, LIE! They made another 4 if u include PM VS DT. This movie continues straight after the 4th and it is more of a fantasy rather than a horror, Totem the evil god sets his spirit in a puppet size daemon and travels to the human realm to kill Andre Toulon and his puppets, true this is not as gory as some of the other PM movies but it really doesn't matter it is still a good movie worth seeing if u want to see what happens in the PM story.The acting isn't really bad but not great but u can accept that for a B-Movie. Unfortuanly the movie is quite short and thats not nice they could of made the battles longer and better and made even a few more fights between those totems from the 4th movie. "},{"Title":"An improvement from 4","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PUPPET MASTER V THE FINAL CHAPTER🌕🌕🌕🌗🌑 3.6This movie has the same elements of four, puppets vs puppets, a similar plot and many of the same actors, except PM5 does it better. It has a well flowing plot, good camera work, a satisfying conclusion, and more horror. So yes it is much better than the third. It also adds some more characters, who provide the human enemy that horror films need, more of the maze-like hotel, which boosts the horror well, and gives decapatron a better role. There still are the cheesy moments such as Toulon being channeled through a puppet and sutek the demon god of Styrofoam's appearances, but they add comic relief, and this is a B- movie, so what ever. Recommended for fans of gremlins, PM. Series, or any other little monster movie, and for the tween horror audience. "},{"Title":"Same as before","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't have much to say about Puppet Master V.  It more or less treads all the waters of its predecessor.  The movie takes place just after PM4. The next day in fact (they were shot back to back).  Rick is being questioned by the cops (who else, the sushi bar attendents?) about the previous nights ensuing mayhem.  While trying to sort out all of this crap, Rick finds out from Lauren that more puppet-related chaos is on the way.It appears Suteckh, the villian from the previous chapter, has decided he has no choice but to take things into his own hands after lastnight's failure.  He transfers his power and mind into a single totem and sends it to the human realm.  This doesn't settle all that well with our protagonists.  A totem-puppet tustle erupts.Since this was shot right with PM4 it is more or less the same movie. Same actors, same puppets (except for Torch, who for some reason was conspicuous by his absence in the last), same villain, same everything. Which brings up a question.  If Suteckh could just put himself into a totem or more, why didn't he do that in the first place?  What did he want to get paid for TWO movies?I really can't find myself to recomend this to anyone except hardcore Puppet Master fans.  Even a large group of them dislike.  Not that it's any worse than the previous (which is unpopular as well).  But it doesn't bring anything new to the table.  Only for PM fans who want to see all of the pictures as part of a huge Puppethon. "},{"Title":"Puppet Master 5","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fifth installment is a direct sequel to the forth movie which follows Rick Myers the current Puppet Master expressed by Andre Toulon. This movie introduces a corporation's intent to steal the puppets led by the new director of operations for the Omega Project. I found this new storyline to sit well with the main villain being Sutekh, the puppet's arch rival. I digged the writing and characters in this entry, some funny moments too but the deaths could have been better. The continuality was nice to see too bring back the two main leads from the last movie however there wasn't much new development between the two of them. The growing of characters seemed to happen with the puppets were Blade could start speaking a bit saying Yeah! when he was excited to go back to Bodega Bay Inn with his fellow puppets. Puppet Master 5 is a good addition to the franchise and I'd recommended it to view directly following the forth if you're going to watch it. Solid movie, long live Blade! "}{"Title":"Puppet Master 5 A Fine Note To End On That's Not The Ending","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been a fan of Puppet Master for many years now. Despite this, I only very recently watched Jeff Burr's two entries in the series, 4 and 5. #4, I felt, was similar in quality to the other puppet master films; it was hokey, sort of cheesy, and the story took its time until the very end, then rushed headlong into a rather jumbled conclusion. It was the sort of pleasure and pain reaction that I've had to most of the series. Thus, I expected the same from #5, as 4 and 5 were filmed back-to-back. Then I watched the fifth film, and I can say I've never been so pleasantly surprised by Puppet Master. I was all smiles.I watched the film, about the final battle between the new puppet master and the Egyptian demon-lord Sutekh, who has manifested himself in the form of the mightiest totem of all (a last-ditch attempt, mind you), and I thought to myself that this is what the series can and should be. The foremost thing about this film that makes this film superior to most other Full Moon productions is the same thing that made The Avengers better than most other movies of its kind it's fun. I had lots of fun watching the puppets at work against the evil they faced, I had lots of fun watching Ian Ogilvy's character and his bumbling henchmen, I had lots of fun watching the cute romance between Chandra West and Gordan Currie. The special effects, by David Allen and Mark Rappaport, are by far their best (in this series) and in the script by the five(?)writers, more does in this case mean more. Jeff Burr made this a very fun little movie, which in only the briefest of moments struck me as B-budget; it would have been good for theaters, in my book.Puppet Master 5 ends on what is probably the best note possible a near-nonstop special effects extravaganza in which the puppets truly shine (if only for a time), followed by a heart-warming moment between all the leads. This was originally intended as the final film, and I almost wish it was, as it would have been a fun note to end on. However, although the series might have soured after this, I'm holding out for another Puppet Master as good as this one. Puppet Master Forever. "},{"Title":"Another enjoyable entry in the series","Date":"29 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The greedy Dr. Jennings (a nicely slimy portrayal by Ian Ogilvy) wants the puppets for himself so he can sell them as military weapons. Meanwhile, evil dark pharaoh Sutek sends his minion Totem into our dimension to kill Rick Myers (an earnest and likable performance by Gordon Currie). Director Jeff Burr relates the enjoyable premise at a snappy pace, maintains a generally serious tone throughout, stages the monster attack scenes with flair, and delivers a sizable smattering of splatter. The solid acting from the able cast rates as another real asset the lovely Chandra West as Rick's sweet gal pal Susie, the fetching Teresa Hill as vulnerable psychic Lauren, Nicholas Guest as the sleazy Hendy, William E. Pugh as tough hood Hason, and Duane Whitaker as wormy low-life Scott. Guy Rolfe makes sporadic appearances as Andre Toulon. Popping up in nifty bits are Ron Superfly O'Neal as a skeptical detective, Diane McBain as an attorney, and Clu Gulager as a businessman. Sutek and Totem both make for a gnarly demons. Moreover, the puppets posses a certain quirky charm and it's nice to see them working together for a good cause (the sequence at the end with the little guys taking on Totem is especially cool and rousing). Adolfo Bartoli's slick cinematography gives the picture a pleasing polished look and makes inspired occasional use of tilted camera angles. The shivery score by Richard Band and Michael Weatherwax does the shuddery trick. A fun flick. "},{"Title":"Average  movie to Average series","Date":"31 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie start off just Day after Puppet Master 4, which I thought was decent idea, to give a hint of first in it.This movie did have bit more of plot then the one before, everyone from last movie turn, even Sutekh who creates a new creature.This was entertaining to watch and it's never it's boring at all as them movie flows really well..The acting was decent in this movie, better then the one before.I give this movie 5 out of 10I going to skip sixth, really messed thing up with no Torch and bring back Leech Woman, when she killed in part 2!By missing 6, Part 7 is sequel to Part 3 ? "},{"Title":"Poor Jeff Burr","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This picks up days after part 4 with Rick Myers being charged with the murders of his colleagues. He gets bailed out by the company he was working for and, while the authorities don't believe his stories of killer mini-demons, Dr. Jennings (Ian Ogilvy) is intrigued. He gets together a shady group of folks to head to the Inn to retrieve these puppets. Of course, Myers has shown up there too. And our old pal Sutek is still around and sends his ultimate creation (the same old mini-demon puppet but with a cape) back to kill. If you needed a sign that the wheels were coming off at Charles Band's Full Moon, look no further than this fifth entry in his top series. Showing pre-Weinstein intuition (without the dollars), Band chopped the script of one film into two and we get this sad excuse for a film, complete with credit padding and a 5 minute on screen recap of the previous entry. Poor director Jeff Burr, a true talent who has been relegated to lower level horror sequels. This just features folks walking around the hotel getting killed. The saddest/funniest/strangest thing is the point of this entry is to once again resurrect Decapitron and have Toulon tell Rick he is the puppet master. Didn't we already do that? Ron O'Neal and Clu Gulagher both have small cameos. Subtitled The Final Chapter on the VHS box, this was the last PUPPET MASTER film released by Paramount. The next entry, CURSE OF THE PUPPET MASTER, would appear in 1998. "},{"Title":"Boring Rehash","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master 5 is nothing more than a boring rehash of the previous film, featuring the same demon from underworld (looking like a power rangers cast-off bad guy) sending a Giger-inspired (read Alien rip-off)critter to Bogeda Hotel to kill people. Dull and overly long, I really wonder why parts 4 and 5 were filmed back-to-back- there's not enough plot, or variation or direction for 2 movies. It's a mystery to me.There are unintentional moments of hilarity though. Lauren, who spends most of the film comatose, seems to be there only to convulse and occasionally jump out of her bed screaming. Great characterisation (!) It's unfortunate because the initial set up- Rick Myers looks very guilty of murder, Dr. Jennings, a scientist being corrupted by a big organisation to find the the secret of the puppets, could potentially have led to an intriguing film, instead of the uninspired ' people wandering around a dark hotel and getting killed' number.Yes it's a formula that worked in the earlier puppet master films, but the characters had actual character, and weren't just cardboard cut-outs. As campy and hammy as they may have been, you felt for them. If I ever have a puppet master marathon, I can quite easily say I'll skip both 4 and 5- they really are the least inspired of the series so far. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest...","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PUPPET MASTER 4 was a lot better, but this movie is still satisfying. It is about a scientist who gathers three guys to enter the abandoned hotel to try and capture the puppets. But the survivors from PUPPET MASTER 4 are going to try to stop them. This makes a cool movie.It is not as good as any of the predecessors except for PUPPET MASTER III TOULAN'S REVENGE. That was the crappiest of the series. So, with that crap there in the middle, this movie makes a worthy fifth addition.Not much of a shock factor here unless you are very easily frightened. There is not that much gore either. So, if you want a nice, mellow horror film that will most likely satisfy your appetite for horror, this is probably the best movie to pick.PUPPET MASTER 5 gets 3/5. "},{"Title":"The worst one so far.","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter (the actual on-screen title on my copy was just Puppet Master 5) starts with boy genius Rick Meyers (Gordon Currie) at a police station being interrogated over the murders of Dr's. Baker & Piper as well as his mate Cameron (who were all killed in Puppet Master 4 (1993)), the evidence against Rick is strong & he is charged with the three murders. Fellow Omega scientist Dr. Jennings (Ian Ogilvy) reads Rick's outlandish statement about living puppets & senses the opportunity to make a bundle of cash so he takes along three guy's to help him break into the Bogeda Bay Inn & steal the puppets for himself. Meanwhile Rick gets out on bail & heads for the Inn to get the puppets in order to help clear himself & the evil ancient Egyptian God Sutek still wants to kill Rick & destroy the puppets & sends yet another little monster to do just that.Billed & planned as the final Puppet Master film this was the fourth straight sequel to the rather excellent Puppetmaster (1989) & was in fact filmed back-to-back with the previous entry Puppet Master 4 & as such features a lot of the same cast, crew, locations, props & special effects as well as having a story which follows on directly from the events of the previous film. Again directed by Jeff Burr & written by the same five(!) people responsible for Puppet Master 4 this is a disappointing entry in what was a fantastic series of horror film up to & including Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge (1991) & you can see why the series has died a death if you compare this with the earlier entries. For a start the plot is all over the place, at first it directly contradicts Puppet Master 4 as the reason for Sutek wanting to kill Rick & destroy the puppets is because he wanted to protect the secret of life that Toulon had stolen from him but at the start of Puppet Master 5 it is said Sutek wants to kill Rick & destroy the puppets to learn the secret himself before reverting back to the premise of Puppet Master 4 for the final twenty minutes. Then there's the odd plot hole which states that Sutek can't travel between dimensions yet where did all the creatures he sent in Puppet Master 4 come from? The body count is again far too low, several of the main character's from Puppet Master 4 return including Lauren who manages to psychically control computers while she is in a coma! Also what happened to the murder charges against Rick? Did the police just forget about them? Again the once cool killer puppets don't kill anyone, aren't evil & generally are portrayed as the heroes which to me is just all wrong & evidence the makers wanted to tone things down for a newer & younger audience. Although the duration of the film is just over 80 odd minutes there's a fairly long compilation of footage from Puppet Master 4 to act as a recap or to fill those in who haven't seen it.After his absence in Puppet Master 4 the cool puppet Torch makes an appearance here as does Blade, Jester, Pinhead, Tunneller, Six Shooter & the new puppet Decapitron. They are still very cool & the film picks up whenever they are on screen but not much is done with them & they don't get to be evil anymore which just doesn't sit right with me. The special effects are alright, there are less of them than in Puppet Master 4 & a lot less stop-motion animation. Like Puppet Master 4 the violence, gore & nudity of the excellent first three Puppet Master films have been reduced to virtually zero, there's a few cuts seen on someone's face & a bit of blood splatter & that's it. If not for some strong profanity this would pass as a PG. The final fight between the Sutek creature & the puppets looks a bit silly & like the sort of thing your six year old kid brother would set-up & stage with his Star Wars figures.Like Puppet Master 4 the Bogeda Bay Inn scenes are well lit & shot but the rest of it looks cheap & Sutek & his liar look absolutely awful & feel like they belong in a different film (for some reason the actor playing Sutek is not credited in either Puppet Master 4 or 5). The acting is OK, the two girls from Puppet Master 4 barely feature this time around while British veteran actor Ian Ogilvy brings a bit of class to things.Puppet Master 5 The Final Chapter wasn't the final chapter at all although considering how poor it is & what the makers have done with a once great franchise it maybe should have been. Followed by Curse of the Puppet Master (1998) & you know a series is in trouble when the makers stop numbering them... "},{"Title":"A Nice Addition to the Best Series of Horror Films","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Film was a Perfect Horror Movie and a Mighty Fine Addition to the Puppet Master Series. It's not Different From Puppet Master 4 except a few Things. One of Them Being that Torch is Back! This Film, However, is Also a little Different from Part 4 because Now the Puppets are back to Slaughtering Humans. Why? Because as Well as Demons from another Dimension after the Secret, so are a Team of Scientists who The New Puppet Master was Working With. Stupid Traitors! But. Do you really Think a Team of 5 people can Outsmart a Gang of Killer Puppets? The Puppets are just nothing but a Pure Pleasure. Part 3 was a Masterpiece and Part 5 is not too far Behind.Why Did People give parts 4 and 5 Such a Hard time? I think it is the Simple fact that The Puppets are Good Guys. But So What? I am Fine with That as Long as They just look Scary and Chase Things Around The Old Hotel. Another Reason The Critics Dumped The Whole Series is That it was Labeled as a Rip off of The Child's Play Series. Even If It was, Who Really Gives a Jumping Fish? They are Cool and Scary, that is all that Should matter! People. Wake Up! If you Haven't seen a Puppet Master Movie I highly suggest you Do.The Movie Itself Consisted of Many good Qualities. One of Them Continuing The Plot from Part 4. But That's Not All! The Hotel was Dark and Spooky and Really just Gave Me The Creeps. As Well as A Bunch of Psychic Stuff that I Would never want to Spoil for You. The Puppets also Looked Like they were Walking. In Parts 2 and 3, The Puppets Sometimes looked as if They Were Hovering or Floating. At Least on Digital Video, This Film had Outstanding Sound and Picture Quality.Be Sure to Remember that it is Not the Scares or Thrills That Make The Movie, It's the puppets! The Puppets' Names are as Follows Blade, Jester, Pin Head, Torch, Decapitron, and My Favorite, Six Shooter. Blade has Very Interesting Hands. One is a Knife, The Other is a Hook. Jester leads the Puppet Gang and When he Gets Violent He Throws or Picks up Things such as Hammers to Use as a Weapon. Torch has one Arm that is Really a Flame Thrower. Decapitron has a Head Which shoots out Electricity, He is The Most Powerful of Them All. And Finally, Six Shooter always has You In His Sights with his Six Pistol Packing Arms. All in All, There's no Escaping The Killer Puppets! The Demons are Also a Good Flick, But It's Hard to see the Puppets Become the Prey. I Liked The Directing Done by Mr. Jeff Burr, Who has Given us Such Pleasures Like Stepfather II and Puppet Master 4. Good Acting Done by All Cast Members. The Score is Also Perfect. It's Better Than Any Other Sound track In History. It even Bets out Halloween and Friday the 13th.Was It Gory? To a Certain Extent. There was some Blood and A lot of Knife Wounds, But Nothing New. Perfect Movie. I Give it 10 out of 10. 20 out of 20. 100 out of 100. and so on. Not The Best of The Series, But I'd Say it is Probably The Fourth Best. Recommended to Any Horror Fan, Highly Recommended to Any Puppet Master Fan. If You Like Scary Movies, You Need to See This. Also Recommended The Dead Hate The Living. For more Recommendations, please Check The Other Movies I Have Reviewed By Clicking on My Name above This Review Section. "},{"Title":"A Fine Addition to the Coolest Series ever!!!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This Film was a Perfect Horror Movie and a Mighty Fine Addition to the Puppet Master Series. It's not Different From Puppet Master 4 except a few Things. One of Them Being that Torch is Back! This Film, However, is Also a little Different from Part 4 because Now the Puppets are back to Slaughtering Humans. Why? Because as Well as Demons from another Dimension after the Secret, so are a Team of Scientists who The New Puppet Master was Working With. Stupid Traitors! But. Do you really Think a Team of 5 people can Outsmart a Gang of Killer Puppets? The Puppets are just nothing but a Pure Pleasure. Part 3 was a Masterpiece and Part 5 is not too far Behind.Why Did People give parts 4 and 5 Such a Hard time? I think it is the Simple fact that The Puppets are Good Guys. But So What? I am Fine with That as Long as They just look Scary and Chase Things Around The Old Hotel. Another Reason The Critics Dumped The Whole Series is That it was Labeled as a Rip off of The Child's Play Series. Even If It was, Who Really Gives a Jumping Fish? They are Cool and Scary, that is all that Should matter! People. Wake Up! If you Haven't seen a Puppet Master Movie I highly suggest you Do. In Addition to This, These people Probably don't Hate Part 5, they hate the Whole Series. I can Assure you that if you like Any other Puppet Master Movie, you'll love this one. The most popular two Words that Weird people Say About this Movie with are Stupid and Lame. First off, this Movie isn't Stupid. The Plot is Highly intelligent and well Thought out. And Lame, Give me a Break! This Movie Is Completely Entertaining. It kept my Eyes Glued to the Television. Beginning to End!The Movie Itself Consisted of Many good Qualities. One of Them Continuing The Plot from Part 4. But That's Not All! The Hotel was Dark and Spooky and Really just Gave Me The Creeps. As Well as A Bunch of Psychic Stuff that I Would never want to Spoil for You. The Puppets also Looked Like they were Walking. In Parts 2 and 3, The Puppets Sometimes looked as if They Were Hovering or Floating. At Least on Digital Video, This Film had Outstanding Sound and Picture Quality.Be Sure to Remember that it is Not the Scares or Thrills That Make The Movie, It's the puppets! The Puppets' Names are as Follows Blade, Jester, Pin Head, Torch, Decapitron, and My Favorite, Six Shooter. Blade has Very Interesting Hands. One is a Knife, The Other is a Hook. Jester leads the Puppet Gang and When he Gets Violent He Throws or Picks up Things such as Hammers to Use as a Weapon. Torch has one Arm that is Really a Flame Thrower. Decapitron has a Head Which shoots out Electricity, He is The Most Powerful of Them All. And Finally, Six Shooter always has You In His Sights with his Six Pistol Packing Arms. All in All, There's no Escaping The Killer Puppets! The Demons are Also a Good Flick, But It's Hard to see the Puppets Become the Prey. I Liked The Directing Done by Mr. Jeff Burr, Who has Given us Such Pleasures Like Stepfather II and Puppet Master 4, as Well as the Third installment in The Texas Chain Saw Massacre. Good Acting Done by All Cast Members. The Score is Also Perfect. It's Better Than Any Other Sound track In History. It even Bets out Halloween and Friday the 13th. I Think that the Whole Mad Puppet Master Thing kind of Reminds me of Vincent Price.Was It Gory? To a Certain Extent. There was some Blood and A lot of Knife Wounds, But Nothing New. Perfect Movie. I Give it 10 out of 10. 20 out of 20. 100 out of 100. and so on. Not The Best of The Series, But I'd Say it is Probably The Fourth Best. Recommended to Any Horror Fan, Highly Recommended to Any Puppet Master Fan. If You Like Scary Movies, You Need to See This. Also Recommended The Dead Hate The Living, Head of the Family, ALL Other Puppet Master Movies, Halloween, Hannibal, Child's Play, Bride of Chucky, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, Bloody Murder (Can't Wait for Part 2 to Come out!), House, Stigmata, House on Haunted Hill, Night of the Living Dead, and The Pit and The Pendulum. For more Recommendations, please Check The Other Movies I Have Reviewed By Clicking on My Name above This Review Section. "},{"Title":"Slightly Better Than Part Four","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master 5 (1994) * 1/2 (out of 4) Number five picks up right after the events in the previous film. This one starts off with Rick (Gordon Currie) behind bars accused of killing those poor souls from part four. He gets released and he and his girlfriend (Chandra West) get caught up with the puppets who are once again doing battle against the evil Demon God and his smaller creatures. PUPPET MASTER 5 is certainly a step up from the previous film but that's really not saying too much. Director Jeff Burr filmed the two installment back to back and this one here certainly has a better path as to where it's going even if the story with the Demon God was incredibly silly. The middle of this film has some thugs breaking into Toulon's hotel where they're searching for the puppets who of course have to use their weapons to destroy them. As with the previous film, this one here has the puppets playing good guys so the film offers up some bad guys that they can kill and still consider themselves as good. At least this section of the film enters the horror trappings of idiots being locked up inside a creepy hotel where they're picked off one by one. With that said, the story itself really isn't anything special as once again the human characters aren't interesting and I think the puppets too get the short shifted. The puppets at least get a few more kills under their belts but the film has pretty much milked them of any personality with the exception of Blade who gets a few good scenes. Both Currie and West are pretty bland as the leads but horror fans will enjoy seeing Clu Gulager from THE RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD. Once again the special effects have clearly lost some of their budget from the first three films. The effects aren't nearly as effective and they're also used a lot less than the previous entries. Don't even get me started on the Demon God outfits that looks to be something made for a high school play. "}{"Title":"Direct to video bore!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie never made it to threaters . I saw every puppet master movie and this is the seond worst one of them (The SIXTH BEING THE WORST ) . I'm not even going to get into this movie . Just igore it and dont watch it . If you do you will 9 times out of ten go to sleep . 0 *'s out of four .  "},{"Title":"Lame and stupid...","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one and part four are really weak.Why?In my opinion,the idea of puppets fighting with evil is completely inane.I like part one and three but this one is simply beyond bad.All actors are horrendous,the script is dull and the ending is extremely bad.Absolutely no suspense,even not enough gore to satisfy many gore-hounds.Dear User,stay away from this ridiculous crap.It should burn in eternal hellfire. My rating3 out of 10. "}]