[{"Title":"Definitely one of the most controversial films in cinema history","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Father Greg Pilkinton (Linus Roache) is a young, dedicated, idealistic and yet conservative (comparing to his colleague, Father Matthew Thomas, played by Tom Wilkinson) priest who has recently arrived in his new parish. He works hard with total faith and devotion. Soon after moving in to Father Matthew's house, he discovers that Father Matthew has been having a relationship with his maid. Later on, a school girl, Lisa (Christine Tremarco) confesses to him that her father has been sexually abusing her, Father Greg faces his inner struggle on whether to reveal the truth to the authority, or remain silent in order not to break his vow.Confused and frustrated, Father Greg goes to a pub and meets Graham (Robert Carlyle) and later they have sex. They are to stay in an on-and-off relationship. Now Father Greg must confront his human desire and his sexuality. Eventually, he also has to deal with his being arrested while making love in a parked car and the devastating consequences.This film challenges the entire system. Must a priest (or a nun) remain celibate? Should we leave out non-heterosexuals for being Catholics or whatever? Must a priest remain silent when hearing a serious problem or even an about-to-be-committed crime (which happens all the time in Northern Ireland) and do nothing? Can all priests honestly give themselves away completely to God and refrain from letting their human emotion, human desire flow? Don't some priests become child molesters because they've been trying to repress their human desire for too long (this seems outside the subject. On the other hand, not all priests commit such a crime)? Should we refuse to show compassion towards certain people simply because they are different from us and that their life styles are 'not accepted' by society or the usual moral standard? Still, who is the hypocrite here? Father Matthew's relationship with his housekeeper has never been revealed. If otherwise, he would be rejected, too. He leads a double life. Being a 'liberal' priest and breaking his vow of celibacy at the same time. But WHO are the hypocrites? Aren't we all?'Priest' is not about a story of one priest. It's about any one priest. And the movie is compelling and well-made. One thing for sure, the Roman Catholic Church would not be pleased with this film. "},{"Title":"Strong, complex, well-acted religious drama","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You need to have watched a few BBC dramas, and like the style in order to really appreciate this film. It may seem slow in the eyes of viewers used with the American cinema approach, but I tremor to the thought of how Hollywood could have spoiled this film, and I am happy that the script fell in Brits hands first. 'Priest' is a complex film, dealing with hard issues of incest and homo-sexuality, but first with the conflict between the priest mission as a moral leader and the Procustian laws of the Catholic church he needs to obeye by. The ideological content may be controversial for many, it was partly for me as well, but I cannot help admiring the well kept balance, the dramatic tension, and the masterful way the excellent team of actors is filling the roles. I wonder how comes that Linus Roache is not a bigger star after having made this film about one decade ago. He certainly deserves to be in the same line as some of his generation colleagues who have succeeded that well in American and world cinema. Yes, the film is controversial, you may not agree with some of the ideas and it looks sometimes as a cinema manifest, but it is still a good and human film. I less liked the final, which is the only place in the script where art logic seems to surrender to the religious concepts.  9/10 on my personal scale. "},{"Title":"Stirring, controversial, well-acted religious pot-boiler - still, a mixed blessing.","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  From the symbolic introductory scene of Priest wherein an old, weary-looking priest yanks a huge crucifix from the church altar, proceeds to carry it through the streets of his impoverished town as if he were Jesus himself, and proceed to bash through the door of his presbytery, you know you're in for something different - stimulating, controversial, thought-provoking.  Priest is VERY MUCH that movie.The old priest's clerical replacement comes in the form of Father Greg (Linus Roache, in a star-making role), a young, fair-haired, boyishly handsome visionary who, with typically youthful verve, strives to bring the Catholic Church directly to the people (well, to the Catholics, anyway), and receives his actions with decidedly mixed feelings.  The older priest still in residence, Father Matthew (the excellent Tom Wilkinson), who has long settled into amiable apathy, inclines toward drink while maintaining a relatively clandestine relationship with his black, attractively careworn housekeeper (the underused Cathy Tyson).  There is initial friction as the Old and New Worlds collide.  Father Matthew dismisses Father Greg's modernistic sermons, while Father Greg frowns upon Father Matthew's casual stance on papal celibacy.  Eventually, we learn Father Greg has his own difficulty with celibacy...but with other men.As the story proceeds, we are drawn into the emotional and moral struggles of Father Greg as he wrestles not only with his own social and spiritual ethics, but those of his parish.  In one particularly chilling confessional scene, a male member of the parish practically flaunts his sexual desires while justifying his incestuous advances toward his teenage daughter.Priest is an important, ambitious project and yields emotional power in its depiction of moral adversity.  But it's a mixed blessing.  Some of the scenes come off overbaked and melodramatic, while the resolution of the piece should be more powerful and less compromising; instead it comes off manufactured and unrealistic, hurting its overall impact.In fairness, Priest does bring out the hypocrisy in both priests, as well as the parish.  Nobody comes off saintly here, just flawed and human.  An interesting bi-note is that there have been no comments in the fact that the elder priest is having a sexual relationship with a BLACK housekeeper. Forty years ago, according to religious purists, the Bible interpreted ethnically mixed relationships and marriages as abominations as well.  At least some headway HAS been made.Is Priest anti-Catholic in its message?  To an extent, yes.  The Catholic's Church's unyielding, unprogressive, medieval doctrines are brought to task here, never more pointedly than in the scene where Father Greg, agonizing over whether to prevent the continued sexual abuse of the young girl and report the father to authorities, or respect the confidentiality of the confessional and remain silent, reluctantly chooses the latter.While I deem this movie to be a stronger platform for social tolerance, `Priest' still drums home beautifully the message that organized religion is still used as a tool to govern instead of instill moral standards, particularly in other countries, and as a persecutive weapon against certain sectors of society that do not conform to those rigid standards.  As a consequence, the Church has provided a comforting harbor and hazardous safety zone for certain acceptable bigotries.We need more brave, topical films like Priest to confront such important social issues and display them front-and-center.   "},{"Title":"Powerful and Intense","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ending of this film at the communion rail, is the MOST powerful scene I have ever seen in any movie for a long long time. It will have you sobbing like a baby, guaranteed. Film is an emotion charged look at the Catholic Church's problems and cover-ups concerning a closeted guilt ridden gay priest's sexual desires, and a little girl being molested by her disgusting father who relates in the confessional not for penance, but to tell the priest it is his right and not to interfere. Priest has guilt over his sexuality and about the confession, but he can not tell about the girl because of church rules. Meanwhile it's found out about his being gay with parish congregation and church hierarchy is in an uproar. Linus Roache plays gay priest. His performance is outstanding. Very thought provoking movie. makes you think for weeks afterward about guilt and redemption. I gave it 10/10. This movie blew me away with it's intense plotting, powerful themes  and the courage to film it with such insight. Recommend this film very highly but have a box of tissue for final 5 minutes. I warned you. "},{"Title":"Journey of Growth and the Heart of Forgiveness","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 11 years after its release, I finally got around to watching one of 1994's most controversial films. I don't know what took me so long.This is the story of Father Greg Pilkington, an idealistic young priest appalled by the liberal-thinking, older priest he shares a congregation with. Clashes and airs of superiority from Father Greg set up, almost calculatedly, his crushing and inevitable fall from grace. Try as he might, Father Greg, pious and as intolerant as ever, cannot suppress his sexuality and takes to the gay bar scene. A casual pick up turns into an affair which in turn becomes a personal and professional disaster as an equally intolerant society pushes him towards wrongful arrest and a verdict of guilty. Father Greg becomes the object of derision and hatred by the bigoted, close minded community, itself a reflection of all the young priest exhibited in but a show of intolerance and sanctimoniousness.The real heart of this picture occurs in the confessional when a desperate young girl tells of ongoing sexual abuse at the hands of her father. Eventually, this information becomes a test of faith for Father Greg as he questions his spirituality, the laws of the church and God himself.During all of this the older priest, Father Matthew, preaches of the trappings of power that the Church has saddled itself with - and how the trappings have gotten in the way of the message of God, of love, of tolerance, of patience and compassion. As might be expected, the Church's higher ups have little patience for this sort of talk - and the congregation itself shuns Father Greg turning mass into an explosive show of blind eyed fanaticism.As Father Greg, Linus Roche gives a searing, searching performance as the young tormented priest. His fall and redemption, the center of the story, comes across with an earnestness that steers clear of sensationalism, despite the loaded message of the movie. Tom Wilkinson, as ever, gives a performance that is as natural and believable - and likable - as anything he's done before or since. (Side note having waited so long to watch this it's interesting to see these two actors with important roles in this year's new and glorious Batman Begins.) A truly remarkable and emotional film. "},{"Title":"Moving  and powerful","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A young handsome Catholic priest Father Greg (Linus Roache) starts at a new parish in London. He butts heads with the older and more lenient Father Matthew (Tom Wilkinson) but they become friends. But Greg is gay and sneaks out to gay bars to meet men. He meets up with Graham (Robert Carlyle) and they fall in love--but Greg feels guilty about it. Also a young girl tells him in confession that her father is sexually using her--but he can't tell anybody. Slowly these two issues start to drive him crazy...Excellent drama. This was attacked by the Catholic church (who didn't see it) as being anti-Catholic. Director Antonia Bird said she wasn't trying to blast the Catholic church--and she doesn't! She's pointing out some issues that the Catholic church has and should be dealt with. The church is not demonized--they show the good and the bad. The film is well-written--I never thought theological discussions could be interesting but they are! Also they don't pull back--there is some extreme anti-gay language but it is needed for the story. The sex scenes between Carlyle and Roache are pretty tame though--especially in the American version where they're edited (stupid censors!).The acting is superb. Carlyle is just excellent Wilkinson was also good but Roache is just incredible. You see the pain in his face and feel his struggle trying to reconcile his faith with his orientation. The most powerful sequence comes when he breaks down in front of a cross begging God to help him.I don't want to make it sound like this is all gloom and doom. There are some very funny moments mixed in too. The ending is sad but realistic (unfortunately). A powerful and moving film. A must-see. 10 all the way. "},{"Title":"Should be embraced by the church.","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just caught this movie on cable, and found it to be one of the most touching I've seen. I'm Roman Catholic, and unless you are the type to blindly follow the tenants of your faith without question, you will likely find the questions raised by this film familiar. It really makes no difference whether the Priest is gay or straight, as human beings, they are undoubtedly often caught between the desire to respond to normal human needs and the requirements of the church. And while the Catholic church provides the setting, much of what the older priest says in his sermon regarding what God finds worthy of His attention can be applied to most any religion, as can the discussion near the end between the angry parishioners and the younger priest upon his return from exile. There are some very emotional moments in the film, not the least of which is the ending. As Catholics, we tend to forget that priests are human beings. This movie shows us that they are. I will warn you that, if you tend to cringe at the portrayal of gay attraction (as I do), you WILL find yourself doing so at various points in this film (Brokeback Mountain has nothing on Priest), but nothing is ever presented in poor taste or gratuitously, in my opinion. A film definitely worth viewing.On a side note, I counted at least 5 performers in Priest that also appear in The Full Monty. Guess they needed to do something a bit lighter after this one. "},{"Title":"Very intelligent and beautiful piece of film making","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Priest, by Antonia Bird, is very beautiful and also provocative film about faith, church, forgiveness and tolerance, which all have as many shapes as there are human beings. The film tells the story of a priest who arrives to new town and soon he notices some things he don't consider too acceptable, and learns also that incredible and selfish evil lives inside every human being, including himself.The film is a powerful study about religion and many ways to interpret and obey its orders. How can a priest do his good job as he is rotten and evil inside and there is always the chance of Sin lurking somewhere? The main point is that no human is purely good and without any flaws and everyone sins, priests too. The purification can be reach only by forgiving and being tolerant and loving towards others, and thus the peace of mind and happiness may be reached trying to be as good as human being can. Forgiveness and love are the most important things and the film ends in extremely beautiful scene at the church, as at least one little person forgives the priest for his crimes and sees into the heart and soul of the priest. We cannot judge someone for something because there are no sinless people in the world. The narrow-mindedness is one problem the film deals with, and it is sad to see that these things take place in real life, too. The film is very deep and beautiful and also funny and it unfolds more and more with each viewing time. This should be seen by persons who cannot forgive someone for something he/she has done. What is the benefit people think they get by not forgiving someone and hating someone? As I mentioned, the power of love, forgiveness, and tolerance are the main themes of the film so there are no people in the world, who this film cannot be recommended. This is like Abel Ferrara's and his screenwriter's work, but not as fierce and relentless as their work. Priest is a little more restrained and easier for everyone to watch version of the themes of Ferrara and St. John.Remarkable, beautiful, touching and forces the viewer to think. 9/10 masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Judge not lest ye be judged..","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Priests are not often the heroes of moviessome famous predecessors were Robert Bresson's journal d'un curé de campagne (1945),Luis Bunuel's Nazarin (1958) and Jean-Pierre Melville 's Leon Morin prêtre (1961).But none of these directors went as far as Antonia Bird .Their movies were perhaps esthetically better,but nothing shocking for people who were brought up religiously ,nothing like the pictures of this priest lying on a bed with his lover.One will add that Bunuel's movie was looked upon as very Christian by the Spanish censorship when it was exactly the contrary.But it's difficult to consider Bird's work a fableit's a realistic story,where sex occupies the center of the plotsex between the other priest and the housekeeper,sex between the father and his daughter,sex between Rochman and Carlyle .Bird's style,though depicting the poor sides of Liverpool is very different from Kenneth Loach's .Her pictures are polished up ,like the one in confessional where the incest father is speaking through the grille ,or the two lovers on the beach.Bird's movie is very interesting because it broaches the problem of celibacy in the catholic religion (protestant priests are allowed to marry aren't they),and,as the hero remarks Jesus did not ask for chastity did he?A hero who is not always very smartbe discreet he tells to his colleague who sleeps with the housekeeper,but he kisses his lover in a car in broad daylight.The final battle in the church is particularly interesting,because it's a battle of words,repeating quotations from the Bible,and there are so many ways of interpreting its meanings .It seems that the priest uses the New testament ( judge not lest...,Mary Magdelene, forgive not seven times but seventy)whereas his enemy draws from the old one (a man sleeping with a man is an abomination).The seal of the confessional subject is not that much new howevereven in 1953,Hitchcock made I confess in which Montgomery Clift was confronted to the same problem.Best line;the older priest ,telling a shocked congregation that God is probably too busy to care about what men do with their d..... "},{"Title":"Incredibly moving","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was incredibly moving, especially the last 10 minutes.  It accurately portrays the struggle one would go through, being Catholic, gay, and a priest, all at once.  Yikes. The ending is very VERY powerful, and sends a strong message that we learn and grow through our suffering, and surviving our hardships enables us to help others.  If you're up for an emotionally powerful movie, see this movie!! You'll love the ending!  "}{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Insightful movie. Makes you reflect a lot on the reality of those who embrace celibacy as priests. There are issues in today's world that affect priests and their commitment as ministers in the Church that this movie brings out very well. It might have been considered a very provocative movie when it came out, but it honestly reflects Church reality in some countries. It makes you realize the humanness of priests and the emotional, moral and spiritual problems they grapple with. I liked the ending the best - the only one in the Church capable of forgiving and accepting the gay priest, was the young girl who had been abused by her father and who had confided in the priest. Very touching and realistic. "},{"Title":"Powerful, Emotionally Harrowing","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The striking opening sequence of 'Priest' depicts an enraged elderly cleric, having learned he is being pushed into retirement, utilizing a large crucifix as a battering ram and raiding the offices of the bishop; the climax of the film is one of the most powerful, emotionally shattering scenes I have ever seen, imbued with forgiveness and redemption and humanity at its shining, courageous best, in the face of humanity at its self-righteous worst. In between is a searing indictment of the outdated practices of the Catholic Church and its breeding of intolerance and hate. Father Greg Pilkington (portrayed with astonishing clarity and mesmerizing, gut-wrenching passion by Linus Roache) is a young, idealistic priest who is more than a little put-off by his unorthodox partner, Father Matthew Thomas (a wonderful performance by the great Tom Wilkinson), who sings karaoke at the neighborhood pub and sleeps with the housekeeper. But Father Greg's smug little world soon begins to spin out of control as he attempts to deal with his own homosexuality and with a heartbreaking secret learned by him in the confessional. Roache's breathtaking performance is palpable and eloquently harrowing as Father Greg becomes more and more tortured by guilt and grief. Also in the film, in a winning, endearing turn, is Robert Carlyle (one of Wilkinson's cohorts in 'The Full Monty') as Graham, the object (and the victim) of Father Greg's affection. 'Priest' is a remarkable and revelatory piece of work, intelligent and gripping and deeply felt. Highly, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I don't think it's about what most people think it's about.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  --=POSSIBLE SPOILERS=-- Proceed With CautionPriest could have been a truly great movie.  I like it overall, but I confess from the start that I'm probably biased.  I'm gay and nearly became a missionary for a Protestant faith that has strong prohibitions against homosexuality, so I can relate somewhat to Father Greg.  I think that the weaknesses of Priest lay in the subplots.  I was very disappointed in Father Matthew for his sexual relationship with the housekeeper and his unrepentant attitude.  Regardless of whether priests should be allowed to marry, Father Matthew took a vow not to get sexually involved with someone so that he can devote himself more fully to his parish.  I think his marital-style relationship was a betrayal of the trust that his parish placed in him.  I also wasn't keen on Father Matthew's vulgar language during one of his sermons.  While I appreciated the sentiment, I probably would have walked out, too.  I very much liked Father Matthew, however, and his supportive relationship with Father Greg.  The subplot with the incestual molestation added some great drama, but the dilemma about the confidentiality of confession borders on trite.  Priest movies are almost as certain to include this story-line as submarine movies are to include that slow, terrifyingly tense descent below the maximum depth for which the sub was designed.What I love about this movie is that it really isn't about whether homosexuality is OK.  Father Greg never attempts to defend his fling with Graham.  He acknowledges that it was a mistake and even asks for the parish's forgiveness.  I think the movie is a story of human xenophobia, people's paranoid reaction to something they don't or can't fully understand.  I think it's about the parish's venomous lashing out against Father Greg when they would have been much more understanding had he slept with a woman.  He'd be breaking the same vow either way, but if he breaks it in a way that someone else can't relate to or understand, then just cancel Christmas.I live in a very conservative college town whose students threw a fit when the the university's film club held screenings of this movie on campus.  I wish I had seen it back then.  I wish more people from this town had seen it.  The film doesn't argue for or against homosexuality.  I think you can watch this film without having your stance on the issue challenged.  The film is about people's failure, specifically Christian people's failure, to react in a way that is responsible and caring and forgiving toward a neighbor who makes a mistake that they may not be able to fully understand. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  PRIEST is one of those movies that is so surrounded by controversy, few people ever remember to evaluate it purely as art, which is a shame because it's really an incredible film. As a writer, I was blown away the first time I saw this movie because the script is so excellent every character in the film, from the lead priest to the maid, seems to have something at stake in the plot, be it religious morals, sexual happiness, love, personal fulfillment, honesty, duty or physical safety. The characters grow out of the situation in a way that's surprisingly organic in today's movie scene, where often the plot seems to be incidental to the characters, or vice versa. Regardless of your take on the issues, I think you have to admire that they are being presented, not just talked about, and the film does an excellent job of balancing both the potential enormousness of the questions it raises, and the intimate, personal nature of its story. After the script, another reason to love PRIEST is the performances it is one of those few movies where absolutely everyone is excellent, from Roache and Wilkinson, down to bit players like the irate Housekeeper at the priest retreat and the young reporter who tries to corner Roache after his hearing. The film is shot very well, especially considering they could have gotten away with a fairly straightforward point and shoot but no, we got so amazingly well framed shots of the North Sea, England in winter, industrial vistas... And yes, whether you agree with its stance or not, kudos to the movie for taking a plethora of tough subjects like homosexuality, religious guilt, incest and life on earth vs. life in heaven, and dealing with them in a mature and often compassionate manner (as opposed to say, the way Kevin Smith deals with them in DOGMA). All in all, an excellent film. Watch it with an open mind, and a keen artistic eye.  "},{"Title":"Intensely moving and moral film","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just re-watched Priest after 12 years, and I think it is even more powerful and relevant now it was then, given the scandals in the Catholic Church and the rise of religious militancy and fundamentalism in the world.While occasionally teetering on the brink of preachiness and soap opera, Priest is saved by tight direction and very fine acting. It effectively shows the humaness of people in the Church, as opposed to how some would have you believe.As a person not all attached to organized religion, I obviously find much to approve of here. But the strength of Priest is that someone who loves the Catholic Church for what is really is, the teachings of Jesus, and not what cruel, irrational and ignorant human beings have made of it will find much to be enriched by here. Priest is not anti-Catholic at all, not in the true sense of the word. Rather, it is anti human folly.Of course that segment that is fundamentalist and inflexible, who cannot imagine - horrors! - that a Priest could be gay have and will continue to express their moral outrage and call this hate speech.As a final note, I also happened to read Roger Ebert's inexplicible review of Priest. If I hadn't seen his name on it, I would think it was written by Michael Medved. Since Ebert is generally religion neutral and very gay positive, I simply don't understand his outrage at all - very puzzling indeed. And he gives Mel's hideous Passion of the Christ, one of the most immoral and disgusting movies ever made (again most especially if you ARE religious) a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"Certainty of Vocation, Humanity/Spirituality, Challenging Moral Issues","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is worth watching but please be prepared to be challenged by the moral issues it raises, especially if you are Catholic.  I am NOT Catholic but I enjoyed the film on many levels.  Several of the scenes pack an emotional whallop and yet one stands out in my mind  The scene in which the central character, a young priest, shares his heart with another understanding priest, one he has replaced, who shares with him You have certainty of vocation.  This is one of several themes in this riveting film.As someone praying to be of service to our Lord (and far from perfect myself) - I found the portrayal of the flawed men in the story interesting. The main character tries to keep morally and spiritually centered - despite handicaps - and in my opinion that's worth tuning in for.This film is NOT an indictment of the Catholic church or ABOUT a homosexual Priest.  If you see the world in a black/white way, then this film is NOT for you.  If you, however, see its greys (or other colors) and live your life focused upon God or if you are trying to be of service to him, then this movie may be of interest to you.I ebayed all my Jesus interpretation films such as Jesus Christ Superstar but I kept this spiritual film.  Its that good.  Peace! "},{"Title":"An incredibly well-acted, soulful drama","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this film to be one of the most incredibly well-acted films I have viewed in a long time. Linus Roache is a revelation as Father Greg Pilkington, who finds his sexual orientation conflicting with his religious faith. The film raises many issues, making the question of celibacy only one of many points. There is also hypocrisy, homophobia, shame, incest...it runs the gamut of emotions. Tom Wilkinson is also brilliant as the parish rector who is having an affair with his housemaid (Cathy Tyson). The deep-seeded condemnation of Father Greg, who truly wants to practice his religious faith but is shamed into a failed suicide attempt, is maddening. The first stone is cast repeatedly, and there are no easy conclusions. The film ends with a beautiful example of forgiveness and empathy. This is an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"15 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Priest is a powerful and well-acted film. It exposes the hypocrisy of the Catholic Church (not hard to do) but it is also about the larger issues of faith, compassion and forgiveness. The film is NOT ABOUT being a gay priest.It speaks to any thinking person who has ever questioned their faith only to find that there are no answers and that faith is all there is.Father Greg (Linus Roche) is gay and conflicted. On one hand he is certain that God wants him to be a priest. On the other hand, he is not certain that God exists. All he has is faith and faith abandons him in the face of evil.The conversations between Father Greg and Father Matthew (Tom Wilkinson) are compelling. Did Jesus have it easier than everyone else because he knew what his purpose was? Do men's laws need to be followed as strictly as God's laws? Can the rules be changed just because they don't suit us?The only wrong note struck in the film is when Father Greg removes his collar, gets on his bike and heads to a gay bar. With quick ease he catches the eye of a stranger and they are soon in bed without so much as a hello. A little too Brian- from- Queer- as- Folk if you ask me but, whatever.You've got to grin at the sacrilegious irony of a disgruntled priest removing a large crucifix from a church, walking through the streets with it over his shoulder and smashing it into the rectory. The battle of bible quotes between Father Greg and a devout parishioner perfectly illustrates the futility of proving your point through bible verse.The ending is powerful and perfect. Get your tissue box out because if you don't bawl like a baby there is a black hole where your heart should be..  "},{"Title":"This film was unfairly judged by the church, and some critics","Date":"30 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have wanted to write a review for this film for years. Now that I realize that God loves everyone unconditionally, I have even more respect for the film. Now, I wasn't raised Catholic but I have spoken with friends who are. I will say from what I understand, it's a very conservative religion and hard to live up to it's standards. I like this film for many reasons-one I'm gay myself and still firmly believe in God. 2 the acting is incredible and very plausible-Linus Roache should have been Oscar nominated in my opinion, the rest of the main cast is amazing too. 3 the script though obviously not original is written with dignity and a sense of humor. The storyline centers around conservative priest Father Greg who has his secrets and his teamwork with Father Matthew. At first they're practically at each others throats due to different morales, but before long, his tone begins to change-he picks up a man at a gay bar, seduces him and then hears about child abuse from a girl at the hands of her unrepentant father. This revelation makes him question everything he knows. I will agree that the ending is a tear-jerker I came close to crying too. Check it out! "},{"Title":"one of the best unknown films ever made","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have just seen this movie a second time and am more convinced than ever that it is one of the finest films of its type. It is probably neglected because it was initially overshadowed by other films during its time. Yet I predict that one day it will be rediscovered and get its due. Under-rated, in my opinion, this film should be seen be everyone. The acting is so good that their work seems just an extension of their real-life personae. The script is never clichéd, which can easily happen in films of this type. And the direction is terse and powerful. I cannot find fault with this unknown masterpiece and hope especially Linus Roache will get the recognition he deserves for one of the most moving performances ever filmed. "}{"Title":"Keep The Faith","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  PRIEST is a powerful film.  If nothing else, this ambitious (at times overly ambitious) feature keeps us painfully aware that, like we laity in the pews, no one lives in a vacuum.  Love, sex, controversy, pain, anger, injustice and all the natural and unnatural twists and turns of life affect the clergy in ways that we who have not taken the vows cannot possibly understand.PRIEST revolves around the troubled life journey of Father Greg, whose major struggle is one of sexual orientation.  In a break-out performance, the multi-dimensional Linus Roache is thoroughly human as he faces personal and parish turmoil.  Robert Carlyle (THE FULL MONTY) is wonderfully touching and sensitive as the object of his affection.  Roache is ably supported by Tom Wilkinson (SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE) as Father Matthew, who has reconciled his long-standing relationship with their housekeeper (Cathy Tyson). When Greg's proclivity is revealed in the tabloids, he is promptly shipped off by a brusque Bishop to a country retreat ruled by a humorless housekeeper with a neck brace (the collar imagery is obvious) and a miserable Latin-spouting cleric in retirement.  It is here that Fathers Greg and Matthew lay out the simple arguments of pro and con that support the premise of this thought-provoking and intelligent film.Aside from a hokey scene where Greg sheds his Roman collar, opening his closet to reveal a hidden black leather jacket (oddly reminiscent of Barbara Gordon's Batgirl costume behind a revolving bookcase), PRIEST doesn't make a false step, even in it's sensual and delicately constructed sex scenes.At times, PRIEST almost threatens to try to cover too much territory - a close-up of a girl alter-server is blessedly as far as female director Antonia Bird goes with the quandary of the role of women in clerical life.  But controversy aside, this film is a wonderful affirmation of one undeniable fact - Priests are only human. "},{"Title":"It's not easy being a gay priest!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being gay is hard enough in a world who fears the different, but being a gay priest? Oh-la-la. ...Anyhow, the movie uses that dramatic conflict and mixes it with another story-line of a sexually abused little girl who confess to priest about it while asking him to keep it a secret.Soon enough everything goes for a big emotional climax. The movie is well written and well acted with a lovely cast and interesting sub-plots. "},{"Title":"A Powerful Film!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was not prepared for the powerful film that this was.  It really had me riveted to my seat!  Linus Roache is not only a great actor, but a very handsome one as well.  He brought compassion to his role and my heart ached for him.  The ending was extremely touching and I was in tears.  I recommend everyone to see this film and I do not agree with some Catholics who felt the film bashed their religion.   "},{"Title":"Inspired, multi-layered film albeit offers no practical solutions","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Priest is filled with more issues than its title may suggest. Aiming not so much to question the values of the church, it is a humorous and uncompromised journey, examining the title character's ideals and his approach to realistically facing the problem of conflicting standards, modern versus tradition.The talented British cast are more than merely believable in their roles, to my surprise even after seeing them in different memorable contexts, for example, Wings of the Dove and The Full Monty.While the film excels in story-telling and to convey emotional issues, it does not necessarily offer a satisfactory solution to the questions it raised. Nevertheless, it didn't take the easy way out and in the end, viewers are offered a personal and thought provoking account of one man's struggle attempting to balance his own faith against what he knows to be the truth. "},{"Title":"Two great performances make this a worthy experience for all","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For Catholics Priest must certainly be a wrenching experience. Though it must be stated that the picture painted is hardly a balanced one. The clergy as a whole are portrayed as a vicious bunch. Still the discussion that this film will provoke is certainly an important one.Not being Catholic myself, the religious aspects were interesting though did not resonate strongly on an emotional level. Still, there's much worthy in this film for those far removed from organised religion or the Catholic Church. The story of an individual torn apart by conflicting beliefs and forces is indeed fascinating and Priest deals with this in a powerful and convincing fashion.The success of the movie lies largely in the truly stunning performance of Linus Roache. Slightly resembling Montgomery Clift in I Confess, Roache possesses a rare ability to totally inhabit his character and his acting is simply faultless. Tom Wilkinson too is in top form. For their performances alone, Priest is most definitely a must see. "},{"Title":"Quite a thought-provoking movie","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that this is quite a good movie.  Me and my gay best friend watched it recently because we'd heard a lot about it.  I think that the movie shows a good representation of the soul of a homosexual who is looking for God in a religion that seems to shun him.  I thought it had a good message, especially for gay Christians.  I recommend it to anyone who is a homosexual or the straight friend or family member of a gay person. Anyone who is closed-minded about homosexuality and religion should stay away from this one though. "},{"Title":"Brilliant film","Date":"20 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a classic film, working powerfully on several levels. This is not just a film about a gay priest, although that element is superbly handled. It also tackles the problems associated with any institutional religion (including the love-hate relationship of its adherents); paedophilia; confession and confidentiality etc. The plot works well, and the aforementioned themes are brought in with subtlety. This easily makes my top ten films.  "},{"Title":"Tender and well acted - one for the brain cells","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm neither gay nor Catholic but found this a very personal film.  The traumas of living a lie and finding yourself in a the midst of a theological mindfield make for great drama but this film also works as thriller (will he be found out), social commentary (is it patronising to consider poor people are not responsible for their actions?) and moral fable.Great acting, typical gritty script from Jimmy McGovern and a series of taboo subjects that many would not wish to see dramatised.One small criticism.  Aren't there any other, new Scouse actors out there or at least those that can act it.  On a line through the Liver Birds, Boys from the Blackstuff and Bread, all the minor parts are played by very familiar faces.  One day it would good to see a Merseyside drama without the Prime Minister's father in law and Jimmy Ellis.   "},{"Title":"Flawed but fascinating drama (spoilers)","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  To read the plot summary, one would think that this is a poorly written script with two different plots.  In fact, the whole thing makes perfect sense.  But one must be a bit of an insider as I am to find oneself riveted by this complex and troubling story.The big flaw in the plot is that there is no seal on the confessional when one confesses oneself the victim rather than the criminal.  I would have to guess that the same is true in England as in the US and that a priest who heard a child confess to being incestuously abused by her father would march out on the instant and report it to social services.To really appreciate this movie, one has to have been in the position (antique for me now but the memories are there) of loving a belief system and an institution and all the smells and bells and at the same time finding it cynically unwelcoming and compromised. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie brought me to tears.  It surfaces the struggles of being oneself, above the rituals of society.  It is a very controversial story.  It melds the fears of gays and straights.  For those seeking understanding and reconciliation, I highly recommend it. To those who hate Watch this. It may bring you closer to humanity.  )  "}{"Title":"Intense and deeply moving","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* Extremely thought provoking, moving, oft times gut-wrenching portrait of a staid, newly ordained priest by the name of Father Greg Pilkington. Greg not only has to come to grips with the rigors of his vocation, but also the pressure from within over his sexual orientation.Fresh from the seminary, Greg is sent to minister in a rundown, working class neighborhood, replacing an older priest who was put out to pasture by the region's arrogant bishop. There, he joins resident priest Father Matthew, a sensible, even cynical clergyman. Matthew attempts to connect Father Greg with the stark realities of his new congregation. Greg spouts the pontifical party line, and is immediately at odds with his ecclesiastic cohort. The concept of one-fits-all religion taught in the seminary, is starkly at odds with the despairing humanity about them.Controversial? Absolutely. It's a riveting story that will open clogged minds. The dialogue is taut, precise, acerbic and witty. The screenplay of PRIEST runs the ranges swiftly, without a hint of pretension. The film does not shrink or shirk from the unsettling portrait it paints. The ending propels an emotional blow, that is worthy of a WBA champ.See it for one or more of the following reasons A. It is a remarkably fine motion picture. B. It's a tense human story that involves people of faith, without slamming Christianity or anybody else's religion, for that matter. C. U.S. Presidential candidate Bob Dole verbally trashed this movie for the shady reasons of politics.     "},{"Title":"Great Cast, Flawed Plot","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film has a wonderful cast and a few memorable scenes.  It is entertaining enough to propel the viewer along with the story but although it threatens, it does not deliver any thought provoking, or discussion provoking material.  The young priest is conservative and believes in following the strict letter of Catholic law- thus, he has a moral dilemma when a young woman confesses she is being sexually abused.  Does he break the seal of the confessional and tell someone?  He is torn apart, and yet he seems to have no trouble, not a second thought, about taking off his clerical collar and going to a gay bar, despite that pesky vow of celibacy thing.  In one contradictory scene the priest is on the beach with his lover.  He tells him that he has no trouble with the laws of such things as the seal on the confessional when he is the one to suffer, but when others are suffering he has a problem with it-- and yet his actions imply the opposite.  While he wrestles with this dilemma and lets the girl stay in the care of an incestuous father, he breaks the vow that would cause only him to suffer, or rather, sacrifice.  The other main problem is the relationship between the priest and his lover.  They meet at a bar, spend a night together and then they are in love.  It would have helped the plot quite a bit if the relationship had developed in some way.  Perhaps the question of the seal on the confessional could have been put aside to allow for some real connection between the men that would explain why this priest would be willing to risk so much and break one of his vows when he is supposedly very strict about them.  The viewer is asked to assume that Father Greg has a very deep spiritual conviction and a calling, yet it is not effectively demonstrated.  A little more demonstration and elaboration there would have helped as well. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Powerful Film","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Father Greg Pilkington (Linus Roache) is torn between his call as a conservative Catholic priest and his secret life as a homosexual with a gay lover, frowned upon by the Church.I did not know what I was getting into watching this, but found that it was above and beyond anything I could have expected. One could look at it from a shallow point of view and see it as an attack on the Church, but it is not that at all. And it could be seen as a film about homosexuality. Which it is, but that is not the point either.This is about life's contradictions, about the rules we all have to follow, and about when the rules do not always make sense. We see how the vow of silence destroys a man, a family and so much more... how can it be acceptable? "},{"Title":"Twenty Years Later, and The Priest Holds Up Well","Date":"14 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember this film when it first came out in 1994. Much was made by the media about it, particularly because there was the feeling that this film was an attack on the Catholic Church. In the intervening two decades we have read with dismay the sexual abuse by priests of young boys, our awareness of sexual predators of young children of both sexes and other abuses (such as the scandal of young girls being incarcerated in laundries all over Great Britain and the U.S. as indentured servants throughout their teens), that the Church hierarchy swept under the rug. This film explores some of the issues that have caused the church to experience much embarrassment, but little change. This is a well-acted, film with crisp direction, a strong script and I suspect a sense of moral outrage. Tom Wilkinson and Linus Roach are both outstanding. Wilkinson's liberal views of his church are pragmatic. His young house-mate is a smug and rigidly conforming young priest named Father Greg Pilkington who has hardly been buffeted by the realities of adulthood. He's so busy being holier-than-thou, he cannot really see his own hypocrisy. He meets another young man in a gay bar and has a fling with him, but cannot face the fact that he's a young man in search of some romantic connection. And when the young man comes to take communion at his church, Father Greg humiliates him by refusing to give him communion. His biggest challenge comes when one of his young parishioner confesses to him that her father has sexually abused her. The Church's sanctity about the privacy of confession is enough to make you condemn the Church for it's insanely strict rules. Father Greg pays for his rigidity when the girl's mother confronts him at church. He has a complete breakdown at that point. It is well deserved. The Church's authority has now exceeded its humanity. Tom Wilkinson, well on his way to the kind of regular movie stardom that has been conferred on to other excellent character actors such as Eli Wallach, Karl Malden, and more recently, Allison Janney and John Goodman,is his usual outstanding self as the liberal Father Matthew. He's in a serious but secret relationship with his housekeeper (the excellent Cathy Tyson who is given far little to do), enjoys his drink and holds liberal views that don't always sit well with the parishioners. It sometimes feels if the deck is too stacked against the church. Only the most devout will see the Church as innocents here, and in fact, the entire institution deserves the drubbing it receives here. There's a new Pope in Rome, whom many feel and hope will be a force of change to bring the Church to a more modern and compassionate level in our increasingly turbulent times. THE PRIEST can be enjoyed on many levels--as an entertaining film with a charismatic actor at its center, a polemic of the modern day Catholic Church or even a modern warning to the perils of our modern age. It holds up very well in this the twentieth year since its release. "},{"Title":"Abi Et Futue Te Ipsum, Sordide Senex","Date":"6 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Father Greg Pilkington is a young Roman Catholic priest who is assigned to a tough working-class parish in inner-city Liverpool, where he acts as assistant to the existing parish priest Father Matthew Thomas. The two men are very different. Father Pilkington is a theological and political conservative; his first sermon is effectively a paraphrase of Margaret Thatcher's famous no such thing as society speech. The considerably older Father Thomas is politically a left-wing radical and a theological liberal; Father Pilkington is shocked to discover that he is engaged in a long-standing sexual relationship with his housekeeper Maria.The younger man, however, also has his own struggles with his sexuality, as he is secretly a homosexual. He meets another man, Graham, at a local gay nightclub and the two begin a physical relationship. Father Pilkington's faith is further tested when a teenage schoolgirl confides to him in the confessional that she is being sexually abused by her father. Because of the traditional Catholic doctrine of the seal of the confessional, he is unable to notify the authorities, even though he is sorely tempted to do so.Priest was one of the most controversial British films of the 1990s because of the way in which it dealt with the issues of homosexuality, incest, child abuse and religious celibacy. As might be expected, it was particularly controversial in Catholic circles, and there have been numerous allegations, both on this board and elsewhere, that it is anti-Catholic. Critic Roger Ebert, although he is no longer a practising Catholic, was particularly scathing, saying that For this movie to be described as a moral statement about anything other than the filmmaker's prejudices is beyond belief. This is not a view with which I would agree. Priest is a dramatic exploration of various moral issues raised by Catholic theology, not an anti-Catholic diatribe. It is clearly not anti-Catholic in the sense of Protestantism good, Catholicism bad. Nor in the sense of Atheism good, Religion bad, Catholicism particularly so. Both the protagonists Father Pilkington and Father Thomas are men who, despite their disagreements with the Church authorities, find (in different ways) that Christian teachings give meaning to their lives as a source of values. Both (although they are tempted to leave the priesthood) remain loyal to the Church as an institution, believing that it is through the Church that they can best serve God. That doesn't seem to me to be either anti-Christian or anti-Catholic.At times it appears as though the scriptwriter Jimmy McGovern is arguing against traditionalist religion and in favour of a more inclusive Catholicism which accepts married priests, takes a more liberal line on homosexuality and focuses more on social issues than questions of sexual morality. Yet even this would be an oversimplification of the film's position. When Father Pilkington is finally exposed as gay, he is the target of severe criticism from his bishop, from several members of his congregation and from an elderly priest who tells him in Latin that he is a pustule on the body of Christ. (Greg's response is to tell him, also in Latin, Go **** yourself, you dirty old man). Yet his severest critic is himself. He sees his homosexual nature as something sinful, as a temptation that his is too weak to resist.Both Father Pilkington and Father Thomas can, in different ways, be seen as hypocritical. Yet Greg at least sees his hypocrisy for what it is. He realises that his priesthood gives him a position of spiritual authority within the Catholic Church and widespread respect outside it. He is therefore bound in all honesty to try to fulfil the responsibilities which go with that position, including the responsibility to abide by his vow of celibacy. Father Thomas, by contrast, is not self-critical enough to realise how hypocritical he is being. One of his favourite quotes from the Bible is Judge not, lest ye be judged. He interprets this, however, as a sort of bargain with God, hoping that if he takes a laissez-faire attitude to other people's sex-lives then God will turn a blind eye to his own blatant violation of his vow of celibacy. Father Thomas's principle of non-judgementalism does not, it should be noted, extend beyond the field of sexual ethics. In political matters he can be very judgemental indeed; in one sermon he accuses those who do not share his socialist world-view of spitting in the face of God.This was Antonia Bird's first feature film, and I was very impressed by it. She manages the difficult task of making complex religious issues seem both interesting and relevant in the cinema, but Priest is much more than a filmed theological debate. It is also a powerful psychological drama, with excellent performances from the two leading actors, Linus Roache and Tom Wilkinson, and an important contribution to the distinguished British tradition of social-realist film-making. Unlike some, I did not see it as a prejudiced attack on the Church. Rather, it is an exploration of a number of important issues which the Church needs to confront. That need is perhaps even more urgent in 2010 than it was in 1994. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Damnation with sympathy","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You can leave the church of England; Catholics lapse; you're always a Jew. Of course I generalise, but religions differ in their ability to define the individual; perhaps its for this reason that the best dramas about Catholicism are written by Catholics. The Catholic church is ripe for attack; yet an attack made without understanding will not provide insight. In 'Priest', Jimmy McGovern has written a thoughtful, impassioned and above all else sympathetic account of the struggle of two priests to deal with their own imperfections, the trials and faith and the demands of the secular world. It's a strong drama; but it's also interesting to look at the world it portrays, an impoverished working class Liverpool with its roots in Ireland. But even in Ireland today, the church is on the retreat; and while it's been involved in plenty of scandals (with some resemblance to some of the issues touched upon in this film), those scandals have played their own part in its eclipse from the central role it once held in many people's lives. 'Priest' reflects that process, but critically, it was made at a time when the process was less advanced, and the church more powerful, than it is today. It's still powerful stuff, and recommended viewing. "},{"Title":"Crisis in the Catholic priesthood","Date":"24 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are looking for a movie on the crisis in the Catholic priesthood in the late 20th century, this is it. Not related to the recent sex abuse crisis, it deals with adult sexuality and the struggle with celibacy. It also highlights two different styles of leadership among the Catholic clergy.Two priests with decidedly different approaches find themselves in the same parish in working class Liverpool. The younger priest Fr Pilkington (Linus Roache) takes the view that he is in the world but not part of it. His older counterpart Fr Thomas (Tom Wilkinson) plays fast and loose with church protocols while going to night clubs and keeping the parish housekeeper as his live-in girlfriend. Fr Pilkington breaks his own high standards by going to a gay bar where he meets a male partner for his own sexual gratification. When he returns late to the rectory, Fr. Thomas asks if he wants to talk but Pilkington disregards him. Succumbing to temptation, Fr Pilkington is unable to resist getting involved in a sexual liaison. When it becomes public, Fr Thomas becomes his ally and shows that he can befriend a man whose style is so at odds with his own. Without giving away the ending, the two priests have many heated discussions which in an odd way bring them together and leads to a dramatic showdown with their own parishioners. Tom Wilkinson is exceptional in the role of Fr Matthew Thomas; Linus Roche as Fr Pilkington walks a tightrope as a man dedicated to his faith and to his calling but cannot resist the temptation to have sex with another man. If you are interested in the priesthood and its challenges, don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted and Powerful","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film features some of the best performances in the past decade. Linus Roache (who was also wonderful in Wings Of A Dove) gives an amazing performance as well as Tom Wilkinson and Robert Carlyle (who would be later paired in The Full Monty). This is a powerful film about faith, charity and most of all, forgiveness. I would put this film on a double bill with the under-rated Ed Harris movie, The Third Miracle. Anotnia Bird does a great job directing a smart script by Jimmy McGovern. Check this film out. "},{"Title":"Absorbing Drama","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Problems stemming from physical v.s. spiritual matters is considered in Priest.  A top notch British cast portray men of the cloth and their parishioners in a drama which provokes thought on a number of issues.  The script is well written, the production values strong, and the over all effect engaging. A most absorbing and challenging  presentation.  "},{"Title":"Linus Roache IS the conflicted Fr. Greg; Acting at its best","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thanks to Miramax, the U.S. saw a less controversial version of this film. In fact the video packaging fails to mention that Fr. Greg (Linus Roache) is gay, and that his gayness consumes this Catholic priest as much as the other, awful issue his oath of the confessional won't let him reveal, tearing him apart.Some saw this as an anti-Catholic film, but the script clearly distinguishes between disparaging the Catholic religion and certain hypocritical Catholics who seem incapable of hating the sin but loving the sinner.  As the movie points out, we are all sinners, some more than others, but confession brings remission though not always in this lifetime.  When the job-induced stress within him reaches the boiling point, Fr. Greg does not reach for the bottle, as some might, but he takes off his clerical collar, puts on a leather jacket and visits a gay bar where, as worldly Greg, he turns sexual predator.  But he absolutely hates himself and his lover afterwards, and, with his collar firmly in place, he later refuses his lover communion.  He cannot reconcile himself to be both Gregs.Linus Roache IS Fr. Greg, and is as believably homosexual here as he is believably heterosexual in Wings of a Dove. All the supporting actors are as good as he is, too. You get the impression that The Full Monty and Brassed Off might have been filmed in this same town.  The characters are comfortably familiar and real.There is a lot of love in this film, and it ultimately saves Fr. Greg and everyone who watches his travails.  You are truly callous if a tear does not well up in the final scene. "}{"Title":"Down to earth... human story...","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great movie... one of the best movies to openly challenge the hypocrisy of the world, especially that of the Catholic church.A very human story, cleverly depicts Father Greg's torment when he is faced with a dilemma. The most dramatic scene is when he challenges Jesus' beliefs with his own.Linus Roach is a fantastic actor, can't wait to see him in more!  "},{"Title":"A film that doesn't mind putting you in discomfort for ninety-six minutes without the need of sex, violence, or blood","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Antonia Bird's Priest revolves around Father Greg Pilkington (Linus Roache), who is just assigned to St. Mary's Church in Liverpool. Upon being hired, he is disgusted to discover that Father Matthew Thomas (Tom Wilkinson), a very liberal member of the archdiocese, is having sexual relations with his housekeeper, despite his vow of celibacy. Not long after joining the church, he also meets Lisa (Christine Tremarco), a young girl who confides in Father Greg about her father's persistent abuse that goes from being verbal to sexual on a regular basis.Father Greg sees this rampant sin all over his church, disgracing his new home like graffiti on the cold concrete of an urban underpass. This especially disturbs him because, despite having fairly conservative values and beliefs when it comes to the teachings and the practices of leaders in the church, Father Greg is a closet homosexual. He begins having recurring sexual encounters with Graham (Robert Carlyle) upon meeting him at a club one night. His ultimate test as a newly appointed member of a church comes in numerous forms - his battle with his closet orientation, his vow of silence and secrecy when he knows several dangerous and unethical things are taking place, and his contentment with robbing himself of his true identity for the sake of his job.Priest examines the multiple hypocrisies of the church in a manner that isn't so much incriminating as it is an act of introspective examination. Bird and screenwriter Jimmy McGovern illustrate the church's disapproval on same-sex marriage and relations, adamantly bashing everything that has to do with either, yet actively turns a blind eye to the sins committed within the four walls of the church. Why is it so difficult and daunting to take a metaphorical magnifying glass to examine the intricate problems of those that are ostensibly chosen to lead a nation of lost souls to the path of righteousness?Without sermonizing themes and morals at us, Bird and McGovern leave the area pleasantly gray, largely so the audience came come to the consensus of justifying the church's, and for that matter, the public's, willingness to really turn the tables on the alleged holiness of those leading us in Sunday mass. My assumption comes from the idea of having faith in those who are guiding you. The public would love to believe the person leading them in their service are the most trustworthy person around, but it's so easy to condemn and go along with a pastor, father, or preacher's ideology without turning the tables on him or examining him and his actions. What results is dangerous groupthink, and why societal atrocities like rape, incestuous sex, and inequality can become justified and accepted, or even worse, unnoticed.The bulk of Priest, however, handles Greg's crisis of faith and lack of hope in the institution he has trusted since he was a kid. Upon his first encounter with Graham at a nightclub, when he sees things are taking a turn for the romantic, we can tell that everything he has been told or has taught himself, is coming into question. Couple that with the plethora of sins he sees his church so casually committing and he is sick with uncertainty and frustration over everything he is handling and dealing with at once.Linus Roache gives a solid performance as Greg, though he can be shaky in more dramatic circumstances. Consider the scene where Father Greg is kneeling before Christ on the cross, cursing his name for allowing what is happening to poor Lisa. During this confrontation between Greg and Christ, Bird juxtaposes a scene of Lisa's father violently assaulting her before being interrupted by the mother, who witnesses his actions. It's a frightening scene, and although Roache doesn't handle the crying and the more dramatic elements with immense conviction, it's adequate enough, especially when edited together ostensibly to create an act of God circumstance in response to Father Greg's persistent pleading.Priest is more an impressionistic soap-opera regarding the church than it is a drama. Its production values are notably low, its color scheme never reaches past a bleak pastel, and its acting is unanimously adequate. But Bird and McGovern wisely overcome all of the above in order to make their audience think and contemplate about their own judgments and, in turn, put them in an uncomfortable position for ninety-six minutes. As easy as it is to dismiss the cheap and stiff aesthetic of Priest, it's as hard to admit that it might have a point or at least be onto something, and that's the first step in admitting there is a serious problem embedded somewhere.Starring Linus Roache, Tom Wilkinson, Robert Carlyle, and Christine Tremarco. Directed by Antonia Bird. "},{"Title":"A very unexpected and a questionable film","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At the beginning of the movie, we see a priest holding up the crucifix and not looking at anyone in the eye. Then he charges at a window. It really didn't explain why he did it which is rather odd. I was appalled at this because why would someone Anyways Fr Greg was such a devoted and loving priest, no wonder he was looked up by his lover. I was gutted that he was caught and arrested for adultery. Like why did they arrest him and Graham. Was it that they were gay or they think they were having sex in a public area? I felt it was wrong to arrest innocent ordinary men y'know.I found it very hard to find out the girl, Fr Greg had confession with, was sexually abused by her father. Fr Greg should've gone to the place in the first place and shouldn't involve the Catholic Church's rules over rights. Where I live, no catholic church should tell anyone what to do and how to live their lives. I wasn't surprised that they made a big fuss on this films because they are a bunch of cowards. Sure this film has sexual scene's and a bit of references but it's just human life at the end of the day. I felt very sad and heartbroken when the girl and priest broke down with wrapping around each others arms. Sexual abuse must be reported and whoever reads this review, please get help. There will always be someone to talk to ♡ "},{"Title":"Better than Philomena","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Somebody recommended this movie. Than there was Roger Ebert giving it only one start out of four. I knew Ebert was a bigot. But a movie made just for picking on the Catholic Church, worth it? To tell you the truth I was expecting some British Mads Mikkelsen doing some sort of Adam's Apples. Maybe darker. Maybe with some protestants put in for more color.But no, that was an excellent movie. The story is rather tight. It looks like a comedy, only to lighten the issues or things would be way to depressive. I did not like Philomena. I think that is a story that has to be told, but how Philomena was told is a bad idea. Priest doesn't suffer from those shortcomings. "},{"Title":"An interesting story about a gay priest","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a former Christian, I must admit that I was hesitant about watching this film after reading the synopsis. I already dealt with the struggles of being gay and religious in the past, and I didn't think I'd find the topic of being a gay priest in the Catholic Church too interesting. I was definitely mistaken.This movie is a hidden gem from the mid 90s, taking place in Liverpool, England. Linus Roache did a wonderful job as Father Greg. He portrayed the character as flawed yet likable. His lover Graham (Robert Carlyle) was also equally great, and their kiss on the beach was one of the most passionate that I've seen in a film. Father Matthew (Tom Wilkinson) was also a wonderful character, showing that despite his religious role, he was rather open-minded, defending Father Greg multiple times against bishops of the Church and even homophobic members of the local parish.One of the biggest subplots was with the girl Lisa, who confessed to Father Greg that she was being molested by her father. Father Greg wanted to tell her mother, but he knew he couldn't break the Seal of the Confessional, an important sacrament in the Catholic Church. This was another turning point for his character, furthering his doubt about whether he was meant to be a priest. The storyline was powerful, and I'd say it was just as important a plot point as being gay in the Catholic Church.Priest is one of the best movies I've seen about being gay and religious, and it showcased each identity with compassion. However, the movie was pretty critical against the Catholic Church, illustrating that their ideas are outdated such as Father Greg not being able to reveal Lisa's secret and help her. I highly recommend this film if you're gay or even straight and wonder why gay people should be accepted in spite of so-called 'traditional' teachings of various religions. "},{"Title":"Emotional and genuine act of drama","Date":"18 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Priest is a touching movie that I have seen recently. In Catholic church, homosexuality is a really controversial topic and in Priest, the main character turned out to be a man who is in love with another man. This act raises a lot of negative reaction among the people who attend the church. But are they sinless enough to criticize the priest? In the Book of John in the Bible, chapter 8 verse 7, the Bible says Let any one of you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her. This statement really makes me think a lot so I will not try to criticize anyone without looking at my sins. Among all the people at the church, only a girl shows sympathy for him. The final scene is so marvelous and emotional when the priest holds the girl and cries with her. This is a movie that someone needs to watch more than one time! "},{"Title":"There should be more like this...","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ￼The Catholic League for religious and civil rights was so outraged by this film they called for all of their members to boycott it and all other products from Disney. The Catholic Church in Ireland sought to have the film banned and battled with the Irish film censors, who eventually let the film come out with an 18 certificate. It deals directly with the hypocrisies of the Roman Catholic Church head on, from remorselessly casting aside vows to god, upholding the seal of secrecy of the confessional condoning as it does incestuous sexual abuse, denunciation and dismissal of homosexuality and homosexuals. A clear part of the story here in Priest is that according to the catholic church it is OK to sexually abuse your daughter, as long as you say a couple of Hail Mary's afterwards. Sin is awful and bad, unless of course, it is the priest doing it and then, hey it is all right after all.There are some impressive performances at play during Priest, not least Father Greg Pilkington &#x96; Linus Roach and his love interest, Graham played by Robert Carlyle. They are compelling to watch as they compassionately confront the situations they they must endure in the story, a real triumph of ability. Tom Wilkinson who plays the old and sinning Father is absolutely wonderful and chilling at the same time, such is the authenticity of his performance. The gritty realism aspect is perhaps not surprising as the screenplay was written by none other than Jimmy McGovern, so you know it's going to have more layers than an onion and just the same amount of bite. Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"Great movie,  inspired me to write a poem","Date":"5 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Gay priest, Practicing his sexuality, Torn between desire and duty to God. Hetero priest, Assuaging his loneliness With lovely, dark woman, Giving no thought to duty. Greg and Matthew, Matthew and Greg. Slowly coming to know each other, Slowly coming to respect each other. Matthew, hiding his own dark secret, Reaches out in compassion To Greg, whose sin Is thrust into the public's eye. Greg, consumed by his fall from grace, Still feels compassion for Lisa. Together they comfort each other. Where is God in all this? S/he is there, all right. In Greg's knowing God wants him to be a priest, In Greg's agonizing prayer for help for Lisa, Who is being molested by her father, In Greg's longing for sexual love, In Greg's turning from that longing, In Matthew's raw, burning compassion -- For the poor, the downtrodden, the different, Greg. In Jesus' forgiveness manifested in Lisa. Oh, yes, God is there, all right. "},{"Title":"Most wonderful movie I've seen in years","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautifully shows the loving soul a person desperately trying to be good owns. It was painful to watch this fantastic movie and i haven't cried so hard in years i believe. You will see a person who is willing to give any sacrifice break down. Rejected for trying his very best. Hated for love. The ending feels so divine -) To forgive is what the bible tells. Not to judge. Isn't God the one who will love you through all your sins. God is said to be love not fear. It's kind of sad that a movie as good as this gets such a low ranking. I guess it's hard to understand. I can only hope some day people will be able to open their hearts for the love of others. "},{"Title":"Controversy Handled Tastefully","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Priest was an interesting movie. When I read about it in Down and Dirty Pictures I expected it to be a tasteless assault upon the Christian religion, but to my surprise it wasn't, and not only was it not tasteless it turned out to be a pretty good film. I felt like it treated its subject matter fairly delicately given that it was an independent film and it was a Miramax production. I thought that this was an excellent movie about a priest who is doubting his own profession and the fact that God was even real. Honestly I thought that his relationship with the girl who was being molested by her father was more interesting than the fact that he was gay. At first I even thought that him being gay was overkill and the movie would have been better if it were just about his relationship to the girl, but by the time the ending rolled around I realized that it was necessary for him to be gay for this movie to work. If it were not for that touching scene in which she is the only person to receive the sacraments from him I would say that his being gay was totally inconsequential to the movie. But those very few moments absolutely make this movie. But now that I have discussed the gay factor I would like to concentrate on some of the movie's other strong points. This film was truly hilarious. The gay priest's relationship with his fellow straight priest was another high point in the film. Their conversations about, What does God care about what a man does with his dick? Were particularly funny and the scene in which the older man they are staying with chaperones them is just hysterical. There are two other scenes that stick out in my mind about this movie. The first being when the molesting father is in the confessional and you only get to see his face, that man was simply terrifying. He seemed to be so evil in that one scene, he really nailed the part. The second scene that I thought was particularly powerful was when the gay priest was praying and telling Jesus that he had it so easy because He knew everything and basically yelling at God for being God&#151;if that makes any sense&#151;God was answering his prayer by exposing the girl's father as a molester. Overall Priest is a superb movie and it is rather unfortunate that some people will avoid this film simply because of its premise. "}{"Title":"Excellent film, full of strong questions.","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was very controversial upon initial release, but its not as sensational as you might think. Some other users have called it slow, or even boring. I think it's an excellent film and a subject that needs to be explored, so if you're looking for action go elsewhere. The questions of spirituality and devotion to a religion are no addressed often enough in mainstream films. Most Hollywood films seem determined to deny that religion even exists. Furthermore, this is a ground-breaking study in homosexuality. In 1994, smart gay-themed films were even harder to come by, and this is one of the first to break through to mainstream attention. "},{"Title":"EXCELLENT!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  I have to say, the acting and portrayal of the characters was absolutly wonderful.There's only one mistake though.  Roman Catholics believe that, after a person is given absolution, the priest is allowed to speak out about what has happened to the girl.  This is a mistake on the director's and the writer's part.  It sort of defeats the purpose and the turmoil he goes through, but if you ignore that little part, which means a lot in the Catholic eye, then the movie is absolutly magnificent.Watch this movie./  It'll make you cry, feel what normal priests go through, and it will also make you think. "},{"Title":"Forget the controversy","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is neither anti-Catholic or pro-gay, it is just a great movie with great performances.  The acting here is absolutely perfect, the only qualm I had with the whole film was too many loose ends, but that is more than forgotten in one of the best films about church life that I have ever seen. I bless this with a 9. "},{"Title":"Beautiful tale of God's grace","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A wonderfully shot, masterfully told tale of the mystery of God's grace in the Roman Catholic religion.  The film tells a tale of God's grace, the fallibility of all humans, and the fact that humans are not privvy to the inner workings of the divine, but that those workings are always in accordance with the teachings of Christ. "},{"Title":"A Confederacy of Unflattering Stereotypes.","Date":"13 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't find the portrayal of the main character to be especially realistic. If someone has grown up Catholic and gay, and particularly if he chooses to enter the priesthood, he's going to have to have developed a sense of self-preservation along the way. Father Greg's irrational behavior belies that.Of course, everyone can be driven to do idiotic things because of suppressed sexual urges, but in this case Father Greg seems to be more a victim of stupidity than anything else. He arrives in a new parish located in a lower socio-economic area, supposedly in response to his own request, lectures another priest because of his inappropriate behavior and then bicycles off to a gay club.The club couldn't have been very far from his new posting. Hard to believe he would assume that by removing his dog collar he'd be cloaked in anonymity or that he would never again encounter the man with whom he has sex, possibly in the streets or in his church. While this might be explained as impulsive behavior in one instance, making out with the same man in a car in a wide-open public setting seems to beggar belief. And his love interest, Graham, seems remarkably unaware of the potential for problems that a priest might face if discovered to be having a gay affair.Given the church's history of burying such problems rather than dealing with them, the reactions of the bishop may or may not have been realistic, although an amazing number of people seem to be borderline drama queens in this film, not least Father Greg who turns the focus of everyone's problems onto himself even before he manages to hit the headlines.Probably the most convincing acting came from the angry parishioners and other priests whose cranky approach to Christianity was underscored by their behavior.I would say that the screenplay didn't play favorites. The lower economic classes came off as self-indulgent bigots. The church and its hierarchy were, deservedly, shown as self-serving hypocrites. And the gays in the movie seemed to exist in a state of mentally challenged numbness to the world around them. The author apparently had numerous axes to grind.The ending, in addition to portraying Father Greg as emotionally feeble-minded, was simply embarrassing.It may have been controversial when it was first released, but probably for the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"Priest","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember watching this film in Secondary School for R.E. (Religious Education), because it portrayed some important issues, so when I had the opportunity to see it again I had to, from director Antonia Bird (Ravenous). Basically in Liverpool, Father Greg Pilkington (Linus Roache, son of William aka Ken Barlow from Coronation Street) has recently come to St. Mary's parish, and he is shocked to see Father Matthew Thomas (Tom Wilkinson) having a sexual relationship with housekeeper Maria Kerrigan (Cathy Tyson). Despite knowing this disregard for the rule of celibacy, he continues working at the church like a professional priest, despite hiding a secret himself, that he is homosexual, which in these days can get you arrested. Greg has allowed people to open up in the confessional, and he is shocked to hear young student Lisa Unsworth (Christine Tremarco) confess that her father (Robert Pugh) is abusing her, and sticking to the rules of sanctity he knows it would be a sin to tell anyone. While at the same time having a nice relationship with Graham (Robert Carlyle), Greg tries to warn Lisa's mother (Lesley Sharp) to keep an eye on her daughter, but she foolishly believes the husband protects them, and he confronts the priest to mind his own business. A big blow comes when he both faces Mrs. Unsworth confronting him about the fact he knew about the incestuous molestation and she caught her husband, and the priest is arrested for engaging in sexual activity with another man in a parked car, to which he pleads guilty and is let go. The next day everyone knows about his homosexuality, most feel disgusted that he is what he is, and more so that he is committing sin and going against his beliefs. Father Matthew demands he leave the chapel, but he sees his side of the story and forgives him and says he should go back to work, for a while he resists, and in the end, after returning Greg gets a final hug from Lisa, and they sob together in front the communion queue. Also starring James Ellis as Father Ellerton. Roache gives a marvellous performance as the religious man struggling with the pressures of his beliefs, Wilkinson gets his moments as his fellow priest friend, and Carlyle is also effective as the gay lover, this is a thought provoking story filled with compassion, harrowing material and a real sense of how beliefs overpower people, a great British drama. It was nominated the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Oh my God!","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For all those who think this film is just an anti-Church tirade - you have obviously missed something here ... it is called humanity. The main problem of the Catholic Church today is that it is too obsessed with maintaining power and inflicting dogma - and completely forgetting the human element in its midst. The AIDS crisis would be a perfect analogy for this which is more important, saving people's lives or NOT using a condom? Not only does the Catholic Church preach against using condoms EVEN between husband and wife if one is HIV positive - it actually disseminates lies all throughout Africa by pretending that condoms are not viable in stopping infection.That said, this film NEVER forgets the human element, even when - SPOILER - the father of the girl is explaining that it is NORMAL for a father to be sexually attracted to his daughter. His arguments, as well as many others in this film, continually point out the dilemma of allowing dogma to run our lives rather than compassion and understanding. The theory is one thing; putting it into practice is another. The most obvious problem is the one of a relatively conservative Catholic priest who, despite all his prayers and faith, still cannot stop himself from acting on his homosexual urges.Some people in other posts here just say How absurd - he took a vow - too bad for him blah blah blah. Yes, well, that's the RULES - but what about life? The whole point of the Catholic idea of Communion is based on the idea that ALL men are sinners - and they all must be absolved of their guilt. This should also include the priests for they were men BEFORE they were priests, and sometimes hormones are stronger than any man-made law.The real problem for any person, and especially a priest, is trying to live according to Church doctrines. In one way or another - they will ALL at some point have to be hypocritical in what they say or do, because the Church demands total obedience and perfection, whereas human life is messy and complicated. I know a gay priest who HAS remained more or less celibate since his ordination... yet he still masturbates and then finds himself in the ironic position of having to tell his teenage flock that they SHOULDN'T masturbate. Well, even if he is not capable of following the teachings of the Church himself - he still feels it is his obligation to tell the kids that they must strive not to masturbate themselves. Once he has passed on the Church's teachings, he has fulfilled his job - and it is up to each individual to decide whether or not he (she) will or CAN follow the rules precisely.Which is why this film is so good. It deals with all the complications of dogma, but never forgets the human element and the complications coming out of such dogma. The actors are excellent , the script is honest and vibrant, and there is a building tension throughout the film that is beautifully handled by the director. What more can one ask for? "},{"Title":"Very moving and superb movie","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a superb film that I really enjoyed. The acting is wonderful and a great cast makes this film truly heartwarming. The emotional stress that the characters are exposed to is truly amazing. This film not only deals with moral dilemma but two. Linus Roach is a great actor and is so wonderful as the torn priest. He displayes the drama that the seal of confession is giving him and his battle with the emotion of being gay in the gloomy UK industrial city. I must admit that the end scene is so emotional and that every time I watch it I shed a lot of tears.Highly can recommend this fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Very Touching Movie!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found it fitting to rent this movie tonight because of the recent scandals in the Catholic Church.  This movie shows the torment of priests who want to love and make love like normal human beings.  It also has a focus on the contradictions of the Bible.  Father Greg is prejudiced against himself, while Father Matthew is a bleeding-heart liberal, wanting to create changes in the Church.  Lisa is a victim of sexual abuse by her father, and she is afraid of what might happen if her father is confronted.  This movie is sad, heart-warming, and funny all at once! "},{"Title":"One of the best films i've ever seen","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  !Jimmy McGovern is one the UK's best writers, his work on cracker was excellent. But Priest really shows him at his best. Well rounded characters, controversial storylines, the works ......If this movie doesn't touch you somewhere deep inside then there is certainly something wrong with you.Truly excellent...truly disturbing  "}{"Title":"Well done British Cinema","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Priest is an excellent British film.  With solid casting, it is very well-acted.  The direction is excellent and the story/script is straight forward and thought provoking.  Unlike a typical Hollywood production, this film is candid, but avoids titillation.   "},{"Title":"This wonderful film never fails to move me","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my all-time favorites of this decade. I've seen it at least four times. The conflict of this young priest between his religion and his sexuality is neither melodramatic nor underplayed. The quiet sensitivity of this movie never fails to move me, and it makes me reflect upon my own relationship with God and my religion. When Father Greg admits that when he sees the symbol of Christ on the cross he sees a naked man taunting him, we truly understand his personal struggle. Even if you're not gay, this movie speaks directly to all of us whose true self has been (or is) in direct conflict of learned and trusted beliefs.  "},{"Title":"Soap Box For Progressive Politics","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was widely panned by critics everywhere when it came out, and it doesn't take much to see why. The story is a completely one-sided railing against doctrines of the Catholic Church in order to justify homosexual activities. Don't waste your time with it. I want to, so I'm gonna is the entire statement of the movie. Don't expect any real arguments or philosophy here. The acting is passable at best, but given that the screenplay/story is terrible, they didn't have much to work with. What's frustrating is that there's no serious dialog where the clergy get to spell out exactly why sins are sins here along with the harmful after-effects of them. The film seeks immoral justification without proper philosophical/mental evaluation. "},{"Title":"a simpler story would help the point","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Father Greg Pilkington (Linus Roache) is new to a Liverpool inner-city parish. He is stiff and proper. Father Matthew Thomas (Tom Wilkinson) is a flamboyant leftist man of the people. Pilkington is uncertain of the senior Father and disapproves of the housekeeper Maria Kerrigan (Cathy Tyson) as well as their relationship. Greg hears Lisa Unsworth's confession about her incestuous father which causes him a moral conflict. He is also struggling with his own homosexual feelings towards Graham (Robert Carlyle).This movie has a lot of things going on and it's trying to make a point about sex and the church. I like all the actors in this and they do an admirable job. The point could have been made better with a slim down script. Tom Wilkinson could have played a simple elder statesman. His character's sexual going-ons probably distracted the main story a bit. The incest story is quite compelling and brings out some real effecting scenes. "},{"Title":"I Just Didn't Dig it.","Date":"23 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" * 1/2 out of ****I watched the film PRIEST because I thought it sounded different. But i watched it and i just don't see what the big deal is. I mean sure, the film's depiction of homosexuality was done with a little more respect than the typical Hollywood film. I liked that. The characters did strike a cord and the film, overall, does have a fluid sense of what its trying to depict, and the screenplay was obviously written with respect to the material too, but that's really where my praise ends.I guess its just because the film is treating homosexuality like its a bigger deal than it should be. And I know that priests aren't supposed to do this stuff, and i like how the film just allows it to be without being exploitive, but I get to the end of the film and I really didn't feel anything. I just felt like i watched a film that just didn't have any real pressure to be a little more characteristic.Now even though i'm bisexual and I'm an atheist, the film doesn't really hit close to the things i feel when i normally watch a film like this. And it's disappointing because there really aren't that many films about gay priests. And for a film about a gay catholic priest who has deep emotional problems with choosing to live by his religion or come out as a gay priest, things are made too easy with the girl who tells him inside a confessional that she is sexually abused by her father. I was just irritated.I didn't hate the film. I'd watch it again without argument if someone wanted to watch it with me, but i don't like that that the film gives us a gay story without any real connection with the religious undertones. If the film gave us a sort of more hopeful message about homosexuality and its juxtaposing with religion, it'd be a much better film, but for this, i didn't feel any of that.For a film that does work with juxtaposing religion with something discuss able, I'd recommend the documentary, Jesus CAMP. This is a film that exhibits the thought of religion and politics being interrelated and it leaves it up to the viewer to decide what the right thing is after what they've seen. It's really good. And I know I'm being rude comparing a film like Jesus CAMP to a film like PRIEST, but I couldn't help but be reminded how Jesus CAMP hit me harder.Rated R for depiction of mature themes involving sexuality. "},{"Title":"Seems rather tame after the pedophile revelations","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember when this came out--there were protests from Catholic groups all over the country about its depiction of priests.  One of the priests has a mistress, the other is a secret homosexual who gets caught during a tryst in a car.  I don't think you can get arrested for what the guys did in the car any more.What I thought was most unrealistic was the depiction of the priest going to a gay bar for 10 minutes tops, and there finding the man who, after sleeping together once, falls in love with him.  And the priest falls in love with his trick, at least when he doesn't think the guy is Satan.Meanwhile, the other priest is a raging radical who would never be tolerated in the repressive atmosphere of the current church.  This reverend, who says dick in his sermon, is a cartoon image of a liberation theologist.The part that got to me, however, is the way the gay priest (Father Greg) reacts whenever his lover finds him.  It's a total freezeout.  He no longer sees a person; he sees the Devil.  He won't even serve him the host. But when Fr. Greg gets horny, he seeks out the boyfriend, and engages in acts of love.  I've gone out with devout catholics, and they seem to have that ability to completely tune you out if it suits their religious needs of the moment.  I identified with the boyfriend (Graham) and his hurt.It's a vivid picture of city life in Liverpool, but it's not convincing. Too much depends on the belief that a guy can go into any gay bar, find a man, and decide that his life revolves around this man.  And the intolerance of the churchfolk, while some stand firm, is a bit of cliche.  A sideplot, which becomes the main plot, involving a confession of incest, holds a great deal of pathos, and leads to an emotional, but ambiguous, ending. "},{"Title":"Another lame attempt to blame the Catholic Church","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Let me begin by saying that a movie that would explore the role of homosexuality in the Catholic Church could be very interesting. So could a movie that explores the CHOICE of celibacy. So could a movie that looks at the monsters who use their collar to molest children. THis movie just points out that the writers think that celibacy is bad and that the Church is out of date and should let all those poor priests just have partners and everything would be great. I am really tired of this same old lame formula. This is a silly movie for many reasons 1. If the father in the film had really made a confession about molesting his daughter, the priest MUST tell! The confessional does not allow for people to be hurt or for those who are hurting to just keep it up. Please refer to all the abuse that has been currently reported and what should have been done. 2. Priests become priests by choice and choose to accept the condition that they be celibate. They can leave if they can't do this. It is difficult, but what in life is not? Let's try to get beyond the idea that all men must engage in sexual intercourse or they will go crazy or become child molesters. Child molesters are sick and like to have sex with little kids. They do not become this way due to a lack of sex, or because they wear a Roman Collar.Last, but not least, could someone make a movie about the Church without always portraying the leaders of the Church as heartless old goats who just love to make everyone unhappy? An objective and critical film could be interesting, just not trash like this that is full of recycled angst from failed Catholics who wish that the Church would just let them do what they want. It's OK, you just are not Catholic anymore if you can't follow the rules. You can change or leave, just don't expect the whole religion to change for you! "},{"Title":"truly emotive","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a really good example of a story, and a movie that can brake the stupid moralistic ideas of people that nowadays still try to maintain the dark and damaging image of the religious people, no matter the sex or the rank in the church, in this case the catholic one. It really explores the deep needs, and true weaknesses of a priest, that is not a pretended superior man that just with praying or with the torture of his body is able to supress his natural needs, in this case of a physical needs, like sex is. This movie goes beyond the idealizing of religious people, which even if we dont want it, they have needs like anyone else. And of course they make mistakes, even Jesus made mistakes, it is just that the church has covered them. You just have to read the apocryphal Gospels, and the prophesies of virgin Fatima to learn about some of them.  "},{"Title":"Not as good as it seems at the first glance","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, I guess whether you will like the movie or not depends on what expectations you have before watching it. To sum it up The movie is about a young priest, who on the one hand doubts his religious beliefs and on the other hand comes in terms with his homosexuality. There is absolutely nothing to complain about the main actors - Linus Roache and, more or less, all the cast from The Full Monty (brilliant Tom Wilkinson) but I didn't like the way the story in the film develops and the worst thing in it is the end, at least in my opinion. I won't spoil it here, but it was just not what I expected it to be. My greatest critic is about the hypocracy in the film. I mean, on the one hand this priest despites his job but still isn't willing to change anything. On the other hand he's gay and although he falls in love, he insults the one he loves. I guess the film will separate the viewers in two groups Those who have sympathy with the young man's final decision (oh yes, he really makes one - believe it or not!) and those who don't. As for me - I definitely didn't. Let me express it that way It's not a film that will ever be remembered as a great work of art, but just one of those films you've once heard about and should at least see once because of curiosity. Pity for the wasted actors - as I already said, a brilliant Tom Wilkinson and most of all I loved Robert Carlyle for his sensitive performance. So if you decide to see the movie then only for its sake and because of the actors - but most of you will be disappointed, this I promise. "},{"Title":"Insufferable bit of reaching out...saved only by some intelligent conversation","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Linus Roache plays a young British priest conflicted over his vocation, by the Catholic rules governing him, and by his sexual orientation (he picks up a lad for sex in a gay pub, and we are to assume this isn't his first time at the rodeo). Beginning with a bit of religious anarchy (which is muted, and then forgotten about), this well-meaning melodrama indicates to us that it intends to be shocking and unsettling. Unfortunately, screenwriter Jimmy McGovern is much too interested in being sympathetic to our hero, resulting in a film that seesaws its way through a number of dispiriting episodes. Some of McGovern's dialogue regarding sex, celibacy, homosexuality, and the church is thought-provoking, but his central character is a dullard. Roache, with his round, empty eyes and gray pallor, hasn't an ounce of charisma. The sparkle that was so needed here is provided by Tom Wilkinson in the smaller role of the older, seasoned priest who is in love with his housekeeper. The movie isn't very well edited or directed, though there are some strong scenes as well as plenty of ludicrous ones. ** from **** "}{"Title":"Ecce Homo.","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I knew there were going to be problems in the church when I got to know the two priests who showed up at a funeral mass I attended. A far cry from the vigorous Irishmen and Poles of my youth. And, man, does father Gregory have problems. Played by the blandly handsome Linus Roache, he goes through a contretemps with Father Mathew about priestly celibacy, picks up a guy in a gay bar, is burdened with the knowledge of some sinful acts going on in the community which he cannot reveal because it was given to him in confession. Worst of all, he's stuck in a poor parish in Liverpool that is all dismal rain, grime, and cobblestone streets. Inter faeces et urinas nascimur. And he's pretty uptight when it comes to other people's transgressions, awful as they are. (In an exercise in self justification, a parishioner gives him a history lesson on incest, even pulling in Pope Alexander The Something, and the sinner is right about the cultural anthropology too. Every culture -- every last one -- has a taboo on incest. The exceptions -- the Hawaiians, Incas, Ancient Egyptians -- were limited to royal families.) The movie is well acted and well intentioned but it comes across like a lawyer's brief in a case against the Catholic church. It's true, as Father Mathew says, that the rule of celibacy is man made. In fact, it wasn't even man made until about half-way through the church's history. Until then, priests and monks had wives and mistresses like everyone else. But, well, nobody is twisting anyone's arm and forcing them to become a priest. And why is the only humanist among church authorities, Father Mathew, have to be a self-indulgent fornicator? Who complains to his congregation during mass that God doesn't care what men do with their d***s? And why must the parishioners be such intolerant dolts? In one awful scene, Father Greg and some old geezer spit Biblical quotes at one another. The Bishop is withered and angry. It would have been interesting to have someone in a position of authority who had some understanding and some brains. I wonder how Teilhard de Chardin would have handled these issues? Or Andrew Greeley? There's another terrible scene too. Father Greg, alone in his room, wails on and on before a crucifix. (After having admitted that, when he looks at a crucifix, he sees a naked man and it kind of turns him on.) Let me not leave out the good scene, though. The incest problem resolves itself without interference from Father Greg. And while giving out the communion wafers at his last mass, he finds the young girl who had been victimized standing in front of him. They stare wordlessly at one another until Father Greg breaks down and they fall into an embrace. It can't help but be moving. Overall, the movie hands us a pretty lousy picture of human nature all around. And, by the way, the incestuous father visits Father Greg in the confessional and warns him to mind his own business because he, the Dad, intends to go on balling his nubile daughter. It's not a confession, it's a scolding and a threat. Therefore, it is not, de jure, bound by secrecy. If I banged on some lawyer's door and told him I'd just committed a murder, he'd report me to the police, as he should. The same logic applies to the abusive father, doesn't it? "},{"Title":"Sensitive? Not!","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the most crude and obscene impulses collaborators on a film can experience is the urge to incite controversy.It seems to plague filmmakers particularly lacking in talent and anything truly meaningful to say.The film gets done, carted off to several festivals, where allegedly it receives 5-minute standing ovations and audience awards.The P.C. parrots squawk and the callow sheep bleat as the snowball of invalid acclaim rolls down the hill, getting bigger and bigger.The above phrases are very mostly apt when describing PRIEST, a rabble-rousing, offensive new feature film by British television director Antonia Bird. Sickeningly smarmy, with unappealing, unconvincing characters and situations, the film is almost a textbook case of the forsaking of craft, aesthetic sense, and love for humanity in favor of an imperceptive, sensationalistic, vulgar, divisive exercise in liberal politics and unnecessary trouncing on a religion which is still real for many people in the world. It's a wonder that this film can elicit the above comments from me, someone who isn't even Catholic, or even religious!An aging, washed up, cynical priest goes berserk and uses a large crucifix to bust down the door of the presbytery in a drab, working class parish in Liverpool. Idealistic and somewhat uptight, Father Greg Pilkington (Linus Roache) is assigned as his replacement. Arriving at the presbytery, the handsome young cleric is greeted by a cadre of women who are sprucing up the edifice for his arrival.Everything seems like it will be pleasant at the outset, but immediately conflicts start to crop up. Father Matthew Thomas (Tom Wilkinson), fellow priest and seasoned transgressor, gets into a few arguments with him over interpretations of church laws and the use of political endorsements in homilies. Their strained relationship is further aggravated when Pilkington discovers that Thomas is having an illicit affair with Maria Kerrigan, the housekeeper (Cathy Tyson, most well-known for her role as Simone in Neil Jordan's MONA LISA.)Their rapport becomes slightly better as Thomas breaks some of Pilkington's idealistic notions, such as home visits, by showing him the ropes around the tough, unforgiving neighborhood.Pilkington stumbles upon a rather volatile dilemma while hearing confessions one day, a frightened teenage girl named Lisa (Christine Tremarco) admits to him that her father is sexually abusing her. Burdened with this information, Pilkington is faced with either going to the authorities for help and breaking the seal of the confessional, or remaining silent, and trying to find some other way to stop Lisa's degraded father (Robert Pugh) from raping her.He vacillates between the two difficult decisions until Lisa's mother (Lesley Sharp, of Mike Leigh's Naked ) discovers the horrid deeds of her husband herself. How unbelievably spineless and stupid! She then totally shuns Pilkington, screaming at him, What kind of a man are you?!?Parallel to all of this, Pilkington has to deal with a more personal impasse, that of being gay. He deals with it by donning civilian clothes, going to a club, picking up a guy, and going back to his place for some action, and then ditching him. Apparently, this one night stand is not enough for his partner, Graham (Robert Carlyle), who obsessively tracks him down. Most likely because of his precarious situation as a member of the clergy, Pilkington rejects him repeatedly, then finally relents, only to be discovered snogging in the car with him, and having plastered all over the morning tabloids.The film implies the two of them are experiencing romance using a variety of clichZ byronic shots by the ocean, kissing, with a whirling camera a la A MAN AND A WOMAN. This is particularly ignoble and hard to swallow, since they only just met, and really don't know each other from Adam. Granted, it may be 'love at fist sight', but then for their relationship to be convincing, it requires much more development than is provided in the film.Then the personality conflict between Pilkington and Thomas is somehow conveniently resolved, and Thomas proceeds to be oh so tolerant of Pilkington's sexual orientation given that he has broken the rules himself. Pilkington is shown to be a total hypocrite, and by this point in the film, one loses whatever speck of respect one had for him at the outset of the film. When the church administration and Pilkington's flock discover his homosexuality, there is the predictable furor and whole host of negative reactions, and he is prepared to be thrown out of the church. The film ends with a ridiculously sentimental redemption scene in the church.Pilkington is too asinine to be real. If he already knew he was gay, and needed to act upon it, why remain in the priesthood? There's even a scene in the film which explores this question, but doesn't answer it. Why even go into the priesthood? Sounds like a case of mental masochism, but it's just plain stupid. And his surrender to the conformity of the confessional in the face of saving Lisa from abuse doesn't jibe with his unabashed reveling in breaking the celibacy rule.It can be said that Roman Catholicism has certain very real, outmoded, often crudely repressive moral restraints, but the positive aspects of the religion still hold significance for many people in the world, and this film disavows this and incites pointless controversy.The makers of this film are no more refined than the denouncers and condemning judges of the Inquisition. Because of their lofty, imbecilically seditious, fanatically P.C. approach, they miss out on certain essential qualities which make a believable, persuasive film, and create a vicious gob of spit which has a calculated trajectory, straight into the face of Catholicism.Even perceptive non-Christians, agnostics, and atheists might find it offensive! The fact that film is fairly technically accomplished and that a couple of the performances are earnest (like that of Wilkinson and Tyson, but definitely not Roache's) doesn't amount to much in the face of its lack of humanistic value. At its core, it's rotten. It compartmentalizes people on the basis of their beliefs, which is totally reprehensible. "},{"Title":"Oh you are awful","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a lot of prancing fluffy nonsense. How come the Priest was so worked up about his vow of confessional confidentiality that he wouldn't grass up a child molester, but then so cavalier about celibacy that he went cruising? The conclusion is laughably bad. The rest just bad. Oh, and by the way, what the child molester said in the confessional was not a confession and was therefore not confidential. DUH. The film gets very worked up about nothing. It has a kind of look at the muck in here hysteria to it. Pants. "},{"Title":"Politically Correct bigots will love this Dreck","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike people with a PC agenda, I oppose all bigotry, even against Christians and Catholics. The PC bigots will praise Priest simply because it's pro-Homosexual, anti-Catholic. These same Politically Correct hypocrits will not tolerate one word against their creed. Finally, aside form the PC, Priest is just a plain bad movie. Junk for the tasteless masses.  "},{"Title":"double entendre heap of crap","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  On one hand you could say this movie is a stinging indictment on the medieval practices of the Catholic church or on the other hand you could say that this a super-secular movie industry nose-thumbing to all things religious.What is this so-called priests problem.   He picks and chooses the vows he is going to uphold.  It is incredible  to believe he has a crisis of conscience about the confessions of the young girl he has heard but  finds his vow of celibacy  to be a mere inconvenience.Why wasn't the character a teacher or doctor, someone else who might hear the confessions of children but without the vow of celibacy.   Why did he have to be a gay priest breaking his vows.Why couldn't he just have sex with a female.  The fact that this character is a priest shows pure contempt for religion.This is the kind of priest that gives Catholicism and organized religion in general a bad wrap.  He is the kind of priest that eventually corrupts altar boys because he himself is corrupted.Great!  So what do we have.  Our hero, the Priest, is basically evil.He breaks his vow of celibacy numerous time, he has homo-sexual relations (I don't care what you think on this, a priest is supposed to believe it is wrong) and causes the girl more harm than good by being indecisive.This movie is divisive  not creative.  It uses strong emotional images to make its point.  It gets more praise than it deserves.Don't be blinded by it apparent politically correct veneer.Watch Boondock Saints instead. "},{"Title":"Tiresome and Bigoted","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This tiresome bit of propaganda is strictly for those who like their drama with one-note predicability and and a glaring bit of anti-Catholic bigotry to boot. It is inconceivable that bigotry of this sort could be made substituting any other racial or religious group for the Catholic Church. This is one for anyone who isn't a bigot to avoid. "}]