[{"Title":"An emotional, rewarding experience","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"76 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It's a shame that not more people have seen this movie, judging by the amount of user comments and ratings. Now that director Yimou Zhang ('Hero' & 'House of Flying Daggers') has become more popular, I'm hoping this will change.'Huozhe' or 'To Live' takes us on a trip in China that will last us from the 40's through the 70's. Through that time, we will see life through the eyes of Fugui and Jiazhen, a husband and wife with 2 children, as well as Fugui's mother.Fugui, the husband, has a gambling problem which will set off a chain of events that will have them lose the house, and eventually separate the family. Jiazhen, his wife, is forced to take a job which will put a strain on her children. Communist and nationalist armies battle each other, and the rise of Chairman Mao will affect them as well. Fugui will go through layers of mishaps that will change him forever. I don't want to detail anything more about the plot, it's much more worth viewing it and experiencing it then anything I can ever say here.Not once is this movie boring, effectively placing us there, with the family. The acting seems so natural that it feels like you are there, traveling with them, rather then viewing them through a camera. This of course shows the strength of Zhang's directing. You Ge plays Fugui, a popular actor in China, won the award for the Cannes Film Festival. Li Gong is beautiful, and portrays her character with such passion, it's no wonder she has been nominated nearly a dozen times, winning most.Emotional without being sappy, honest, & historically accurate, the film does have a black shroud covering it. In times of sadness, it's lifted a bit to allow us to see happiness, indeed, life, pull this family together. It even has bits of humor in it, at times, I laughed along with the family as much as I felt their pain. Little details, such paintings in the background that chip away as time goes by, shows how much care went into making this film. Characters that seem unimportant become part of the story later.What a wonderful film. When I saw it 10 years ago, it not only changed the way I saw foreign movies, it also changed the way I see life and people. Any movie that can do that is one I highly recommend to anyone.A perfect 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Simple epic, masterfully made","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"53 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  When I re-watched FAREWELL MY CONCUBINE recently I was surprised that it was much less political than I remembered it being. Turns out that's because I'd somehow merged together that film and TO LIVE together in my poor muddled brain. Both have some similarities, beyond the common appearance of Gong Li in front and Zhang Yimou behind the camera, but TO LIVE definitely confronts the political (I should really say social) aspects of the decades they cover much more directly and forcefully.TO LIVE (aka LIFETIMES - I dunno what the Chinese name is) basically covers 3 or 4 decades of one family's life in China, in a period that saw not one but two revolutions, and looks at the effect the social upheaval had on ordinary people's lives. The film rarely criticises the political movements instigated by Mao Tse Tung, but does an effective job of showing the hellishness of a society that has been turned on its head, where the people are forced to change not just the way they live but the way they think, and people are forced into social relationships that are new, and quite possibly against human nature.I hope I won't jeapordise my visa if I admit that I had strong leanings towards Communism when I was younger, having read Marx in philosophy classes. His picture of a society without private possessions or social hierarchy did seem very appealing, but Marx acknowledged that the only way for such a society to work was if every member saw the value of it and willingly took part in it, and admitted that the only way that was likely to happen was via massive revolution - i.e. killing everyone that didn't agree with the plan. As a teenager, that didn't seem like such a big price or problemCertainly I'm not the only person to have considered this price worth paying, and a couple of people have actually put the plan into practice - lamentably with less than stellar results. Mao Tse Tung is, I guess, the undisputed king of Communist revolution, having led TWO of them in China, and probably disrupting more peoples' lives than anybody else in history in the process. TO LIVE gives those of us that haven't had to live through such conditions some idea of what it might have been like. People used to the cushy capitalist western lifestyle might wonder just how on earth people can live through conditions like that, but that's the what the film wants to say... life might deal you some crappy hands, but people are remarkably adaptable and resilient, and you've just got to try to live the best you can. It sounds remarkably trite put like that, but the film does a good job of expressing it.The film is based on a novel, with the author co-writing the screenplay as well. Zhang Yimou directs brilliantly as usual, which in this case is to recognise the strength of the story and characters and to back off a little, giving them space to live their lives. Although the film looks great throughout, the cinematography is quite unobtrusive. He once more elicits a great performance from Gong Li and the rest of the cast, with leading man Ge You giving the best one of all. The film has occasionally been criticised for throwing piling too much tragedy on, but this is never done in an exploitative/manipulative way, and Zhang Yimou avoids turning to melodrama to evoke an audience reaction... which makes him all the more likely to get one (and without the audience feeling used afterwards).In a career full of magnificent films, TO LIVE stands as one of Zhang Yimou's finest moments. The film is epic yet remarkably simple, and the execution is as near to flawless as I've seen. I doubt that even Akira Kurosawa could have handled the material better, which is to say that Zhang Yimou surely ranks in the world's top echelon of film-makers. Long may his life and career continueHighest recommendation!  "},{"Title":"An All-Time Top Ten Film","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"44 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is Zhang Yimou's and Gong Li's crowning triumph -- a top candidate for the greatest Chinese film of all time. Splendidly photographed and composed, consumately acted and faithfully scored, To Live is a three or four hour film novel lovingly packed into two hours and fifteen minutes. For a long time, Ingmar Bergman's Fanny and Alexander stood by itself as the greatest family epic in my moviegoing experience. The Best Years of Our Lives ran a distant second. But since 1995 To Live has moved into a very close second.Most Chinese who lived through Mao's Revolution say this film tells it like it was at the simple townsperson level. Though it can serve as an overview of Chinese history 1944 to 1970 or so, unlike Lean's Gandhi or Lawrence of Arabia, this is not a hero's biopic. Instead we see a foolish, once rich but now fallen heir and his wife blown about by the winds of fortune for three decades and challenged as parents trying to raise two children under increasingly harsh and punitive communist tyranny. What you sense in this film, that I've never seen before in any Chinese film, is how the ethical and moral principles that have prevailed in Chinese culture for 2500 years - a mix of transcendence and pragmatism, humility and grit, cosmic harmonic balance and social duty - allows an ordinary couple to accept unbearable tragedy and keep going. It also shows what this survival strategy costs them in their Communist context. The screenplay is full of cosmic irony. It makes us aware, without shouting, that this is just one family among millions. As Yimou's transitional screen message says ...leaving no family unaffected. It is to that extent, a tribute film.Maybe ten hours of Kieslowski's Decalogue might accomplish the same broad survey of of human happenstance and emotion. Maybe Kurosawa in three or four hours. But never in two plus hours have I seen the scope Zhang Yimou achieves here. To Live also contains as wise a moral lesson as any film I've seen, and it's a gentle one despite the surrounding violence. I couldn't paraphrase the lesson for you. I wouldn't try. Just watch. It will reach you non-verbally in about 90 minutes. Just know, this isn't Shakespeare, Hollywood or soap opera. It's something else.Gong Li's work is as powerful as anything Streep or Sarandon have ever done in the west - which is all the more inspiring since the camera doesn't lavish star-level attention on her. As her husband, Ge You turns in an emotionally riveting, charming, sometimes funny and devastatingly honest performance. The direction is sure handed, the shooting unfailingly gorgeous. Zhang Yimou's cinematic canvass has never been so big or his palette so colorful and controlled. Full of spectacle, great sweeps of time and onrushing tides of humanity, To Live is still, in the end, a sweet and poignant epic with an intimate,  observant heart. Great story telling. Do not miss! Try to view a letterbox version on a big screen.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, painfully heartbreaking.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I think most of us can watch Freddy Krueger rip people apart and barely flinch. Not that Nightmare on Elm Street is a bad film, it never inflicts pain on the viewer.But this film is so beautiful and so real, that it's unbearably heartbreaking at times. Every time I watch it, and I know a particular heartbreaking scene is coming up, I almost want to turn it off, but I'm just frozen in place, forced to experience the pain of the people on screen, that I've traveled three decades with. Zhang's understanding of the people of China, and the tragedy of history is full of empathy, respect, and adoration. In every scene, Gong Li embodies strength and beauty. Zhang's study of communism and of the Chinese government, isn't a villifying one sided argument, but one with complete understanding of the tragedy of this huge social experiment, that effected not only China, but the whole world.As a Korean American, I draw some appreciation at the parallel effects on Communism on Korea. Mao-Kim, Taiwan-SouthKorea. But this is a truly universal movie, and anyone would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Glory to the revolution...","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Not.What I think Zhang Yimou's message here is that the will of the people to live, as in the title, to survive and overcome obstacles is what defines the Chinese people. They ride the ox of communism as a boat rides a wave. They adapt.Consider that tall and thin Fugui (played with consummate skill by You Ge) says that a chick will become a chicken when it grows up, and then a sheep and then an ox and then the Communist Party. But as the film ends he tells his grandson only that the chick will become a chicken and then a sheep and then an ox. He doesn't mention communism. In this way we know that the people have tamed the ox.Zhang's film is an epic parable of life in China in the 20th century. It opens before the communist revolution with protagonist Fugui as a wayward son who is gambling the family fortune away. His wife, Jiazhen (Gong Li) pleads with him to stop, but he cannot. He is addicted to vice. Symbolically he represents the old regime. He loses everything, wife included and goes to live in the streets. After some time the revolutionary war begins and he and his friends find it convenient to switch sides and join the revolutionary army--he as an entertainer for the troops, a puppeteer. He and wife reunite and become loyal and even enthusiastic communists. He is lucky to have lost his fortune for now he is recognized as a hero of the revolution, while the man who won his family's house at dice is declared a counter-revolutionary and meets a bad end.As in every Zhang Yimou film I have seen, everything is beautifully and exquisitely done. His work is characterized by an artist's sense of color and form, by an engaging simplicity in the telling, and by a subtle sense of what is going on politically, and especially by a deep and abiding sense of humanity. Here the transformation of Chinese society from feudalism to communism to the capitalist/communism hybrid that exists today is shown through the eyes and experiences of the people; and what is emphasized is the endurance and the will of the people to survive, adapt and finally to flourish regardless of who might be in power.I would compare Zhang Yimou to the very greatest directors, say, to Stanley Kubrick, to Francis Ford Coppola, to Louis Malle, to Krzysztof Kieslowski in sheer artistic talent. Like Malle he is warm and honest about human beings and what they do without being maudlin or sentimental. Like Coppola he has an epic-maker's vision, and like the Coppola of the Godfather films, a strong sense of family. Like Kubrick he is creative and always aware of the needs of the audience, and like Kieslowski he is clever.This is in some respects Zhang Yimou's finest achievement because of the way he tells the story of communism in China. I am reminded of the way Louis Malle tells the truth about human sexuality without inciting the censors. Here Zhang Yimou tells the truth about the communist experience in China, subtly demonstrating its cruelties and stupidities without, amazing enough, incurring the wrath of the authorities. (Some of his films have been banned in China, but I understand they are readily available nonetheless.) Here the kids are smiling and happy as they work in the steel mill. The accident that kills Fugui's son is seen as just that, an accident and not the fault of the Great Leap Forward. The members of the educated class, who are ridiculed, beaten and banished (and worse) during the Cultural Revolution, accept their fate as their just deserts--the doctor who insists that it is better to wear the placard shaming him that is hung from around his neck than it is to take it off. The local official who has preached and practiced the communist line faithfully, who finds himself being labeled a capitalist, also accepts his fate as though in doing so he is furthering a cause larger than himself.In a way Zhang Yimou's international celebrity and reputation as one of the world's greatest film makers protects him. In another sense his depictions of the sins and excesses of the old regime before communism are so well done and appreciated by all, that such an expression also protects him.Nonetheless, I do not personally consider this Zhang Yimou's best film. I prefer the startling beauty of Raise the Red Lantern (1991) and Red Sorghum (1987) as well as the charming Not One Less (1999) or the simple but powerful, The Story of Qiu Ju. However, this is an outstanding film.Notable in a supporting role is Wu Jiang as Wan Erxi the strong young man with the limp who marries the mute daughter. I have seen him in Shower (1999) in which his personal charisma and strength of character are shown more fully. He is the younger brother of Wan Jiang who starred in Zhang Yimou's first film, Red Sorghum. Of course Gong Li, one of the finest actresses of our time, who is often featured in Zhang Yimou's films, is outstanding as always.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Chinese history on a human scale","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Yimou Zhang's To Live begins in the late 1940s and covers several decades in the life of Fugui (You Ge), his wife Jiazhen (Li Gong), and their two children. It is an excellent family drama, provoking both laughter and tears, and distinguishing itself from similar movies because of its commitment to showing how China's changing society affects the family. It takes the huge subject of the first twenty years of Communism in China, and brings it down to a human scale.Both leading actors nicely portray the way their characters change over the years. At first, Fugui is the stereotypical callow young man and Jiazhen the even more stereotypical long- suffering wife, but the screenplay and actors eventually deepen the characterizations.The best sequence of the film covers the Chinese Civil War. Wisely, Yimou Zhang resists the temptation to make the movie too epic, and instead focuses on Fugui's personal experiences. The result is a very moving depiction of the human cost of war. In another striking touch, Fugui's hobby is singing with a shadow-puppet troupe. The puppets not only provide an interesting glimpse into traditional Chinese culture, they also take on a symbolic meaning. After watching To Live, it's easy to see why the Chinese authorities banned it there's a lot of tragedy in the film, and in most cases, Communism is to blame. Remarkably, though, Zhang also makes many of the Communist characters sympathetic. For instance, Fugui and Jiazhen's daughter marries an officer in the Red Guards, who is a little ridiculous in his devotion to Mao Zedong, but not a villain. This is in keeping with the overall spirit of To Live--humanistic and subtle, instead of bombastic or propagandistic. It's both an important examination of recent Chinese history, and a universal story about how individual human beings manage to live in times of hardship. A rare combination, and one well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Impressive, objective film","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Impressive observational film about mid-20th-century China, which is brought into focus through the tribulations of one family over a thirty-plus-year period.  Others here have called it a Chinese `Gone with the Wind,' but in this respect it's more like a Chinese `Les Misérables,' albeit on a smaller scale.  What's most remarkable about it is how it manages to be both a political film, and an objective one--it judges the political happenings that serve as its backdrop, yes, but we never get the sense that it is PRE-judging them.  `Huozhe' is no propaganda film--it allows its events to unfold organically, and allows us to infer its meaning on our own.  The fact that director Zhang Yimou's approach is so delicate makes what happened after the film's release even more sad, and more telling--the film was banned, and Zhang and one of his stars, Gong Li, were barred from filmmaking for two years.  Casual viewers may find that shocking, as the overall tone is one of affection and optimism for one's country, and the characters are more interested in simply staying together (and alive) than in declaring any kind of political allegiance.  Technically, the film is lovely as well, with beautiful cinematography and fine performances by Ge You and Gong making it as satisfying aesthetically as it is intellectually.  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Moving, comic and political &#150; despite being a little bleak at times it is almost without flaw","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Reasonably well off, Fugui loses all his money due to his gambling addiction.  Eventually he loses his house in a game of dice with Long'er.  Fugui's pregnant wife Jiazhen leaves him when it is clear he wants his vice over her.  With poverty, Fugui comes to his senses and starts work with his own puppet troupe.  On the birth of their son Jiazhen returns to the reformed Fugui, but civil war breaks out and Fugui leaves to fight.  With things difficult already, the rise of the Maoist regime makes things ever more difficult and the Xu family suffer fortune and misfortune as Communism is formed.I watched this movie because it had won the top award at Cannes.  I hadn't high hopes for some reason, but I figured it was worth a look.  I am very glad I did because it is a wonderful little piece that can be enjoyed with little knowledge of the regime against which it is set.  The story follows the family's misfortunes and how they are affected by the rise of Chairman Mao.  Their plight is touching as they suffer wrongs but also show compassion on others &#150; all the while trying to do the right thing by the system that is impacting on them.  Even when tragedy occurs they never blame Communism but heap it on themselves instead.This unfolds over many years with the rise of Mao as the backdrop.  The parrellel between the two things is clear without being forced or rammed down our throats &#150; it's a wonderful bit of handling.  Even better is the infusion of comic touches all the way through, the dialogue (even in subtitle form) is great and is witty and touching &#150; I laughed out loud many times.Not having seen any other films by Zhang, I can only hope they are as good as this one.  The cast, too, do a great job with the film.  You Ge's Fugui is fabulous &#150; he is a draw from the start on, and his ageing is so convincing that credit must go not only to the makeup but also to Ge for doing so well with  potentially tragic figure.  Likewise Gong is superb but ages less convincingly.  The support cast are all good from the children through to the figures of Mao like Jiang and Niu.  The only thing that saddened me about the two great leads is to think that Western cinema will never care to have them in any films &#150; I guess that when it comes to Hong Kong cinema Hollywood only are interested if it has slow-motion and guns! (and they think they're cutting edge!)Overall I find it very hard to fault this film as it has so much going for it on so many levels.  Just as a human story it is excellent, and the historical context only serves to make it better.  Comic and touching right to it's perfectly pitched close, this should be searched out by anyone who wants a genuinely moving human tale with political comment sown into each frame without intrusion. "},{"Title":"Such a moving piece","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This movie, which was banned in mainland China for Questionable outlooks on the communist party, is one of the best movies I have seen thus far.It is easy to dismiss this movie as a Sad period piece, but with another look, one sees that this is a story about triumph... of taking heart in the fact that one lives. The title, To Live, is very apt, as we see the rises and falls of one small family living through the ups and downs of China during the pre-revolutionary era, the civil war, the Great Leap Forward, the Proletariat Cultural Revolution, and beyond.This movie is at turns dramatic, humorous, touching, chilling, heart-wrenching, and triumphant. A true roller coaster of emotions, played out in the subtle tones only Chinese film can truly capture. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming story of a Chinese family's struggles","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a beautiful story of one family as they cope with the changing times in revolutionary China.  Through their eyes, we get a glimpse of what life must have been like for an average person in those days.The story begins with Fugui gambling away his family's home.  Urbane and self-confident, he is quickly broken by the loss of his home and his father, who dies from shame.  Having to leave his mother in the care of the new owner, he goes off with some puppets that have been loaned to him, making a living putting on shows around the countryside.  He gets caught up in the revolution, helps the communist army, and eventually returns to find the wife and family he left behind.Nearly the entire story takes place in the city where he lives, a small side street in particular - no more than an alley by western standards.  Fugui's wife, Jiazhen, lovingly played by the great actress, Gong Li, has been given a job by the local committee hauling hot water to local families.  Fugui settles in and begins entertaining the neighborhood with his puppet shows.   They have a mute daughter, Fengxia, and a precocious son, Youging. We see the family grow up and undergo changes, most of them tragic.  Much of the action is tied to the political climate that evolves from the revolution through the period of the Red Guards (50's, 60's, early 70's).  The son is killed by accident when a party official backs his jeep into a wall and crushes him.  The father is told that his puppets are now considered counter-revolutionary, so he has to give up that pleasure.  The daughter marries a kindly party official from a local factory, but dies in childbirth after the nursing students have expelled the doctors from the maternity ward for not being politically pure enough.Through it all the family perseveres, not with any great histrionics, but with acceptance and love.  The parents are simple people who just want what's best for their children, but because of the circumstances set in action by the communists, they lose their daughter and son.  This isn't an overly political film.  The communist officials aren't depicted as evil, but neither are they particularly heroic.  The local party leader is friendly and helpful to the family, as is the son-in-law.  But apparently the depiction of the party in less than glowing terms during this period was offensive enough for the Chinese government to ban this film.  Which is too bad because it's a tribute to the strength of the Chinese people and not a slam at communism per se.This is a beautiful film with a haunting musical theme running through it.  I highly recommend it. "}{"Title":"My Honest Opinion","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is the best movie that I have ever seen.I watched this movie because I was taking a class on the politics of China. When I saw that this movie covered such an expansive time period I thought great, I will learn something. That I did. I cried, I cheered, I stayed up very late... I made my then future husband watch it... he liked it too, not as much as I do.I tell everyone in conversations about movies that this one is my all time favorite. It took the place of American Beauty, a movie that I have watched about eleven times.So, I recommend it. If I had a lot of money I would pay people to watch this. It is THAT great. "},{"Title":"The Story-Image","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" When you come to these, you expect beauty and the sweep of society and how it jostles the humans we're touching. You expect that as the advertised values.But I want something more than a good book well illustrated. This crop of Chinese filmmakers looks for the soul of the story in what some might call a gimmick, what they call the story-image. In some cases, this can make art that is lifealtering. Zhou Yu's Train with this actress was one of these for me. It was a delicate, complex weave among the layers of the story and the story-image reference of the train. And it explored that train from perspectives that were amazingly new.Chinese Box, also with this same actress used a more human device. Kar-wei's films are the ultimate for me because he has transcended this notion of needing a visual metaphor/ allegory as an anchor.This director, used the notion of space in Hero as the story-image in that film, together with the notion that space itself could be the storyteller, and this is compounded by there being many candidate space-tellers.In this film, he uses the shadowpuppets as his device. I'm attracted to that because it is a sort of play within the play that is embossed on the play. Sure, the movie itself is about humans as puppets of society -- and got him in trouble with the puppetmasters.So I will recommend it on that basis a folded film that happens to be lush and beautiful in a way that is enhanced by the folds.But if you want a more cinematic story-image see Hero. If you want a richer fold with that image and this lovely actress, see Zhou Yu's Train. And if you want these ideas in the extremest depth and effectiveness, see the pair of In the Mood for Love and 2046.Its a strange recommendation for a film to situate it among others that do elements better. But this is definitely worth your energy, investing your soul.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Shadow plays of forgotten ancestors","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I saw this together with Red Lantern and viscerally knew which one I preferred right away. Having given it a few days to sit now, I see that Red Lantern has grown even more in my estimation while this has almost completely faded from view.Lantern was precisely contained within narrative walls, it abstracted life by placing us in the midst of turning cycles of life and wove cloths out of that turning in the form of rituals that marked passage; color, sound, weather, architecture. It was akin to a Buddhist mandala to me, a cosmic picture directing me to find my own place in the center of things, choose repose over madness.Zhang by contrast here wanders unconstrained, under the auspice of history, aiming for a full chronicle of sorts of Chinese life as a family moves through the decades. The stage backdrop changes frequently; Civil war, Great Leap, Cultural Revolution.We do still have the turning of cycles and it does create a (cosmic) picture; a life of comfort squandered by the man's ignorance who loses it all, to one of hardship and quiet abiding. But eventually it doesn't direct towards a center that will illuminate the turn as something more than the ramblings of history.And it's simply not a very enviable position to want to be the chronicler of history like Zhang is trying to here, it reminds me of how Kusturica stifled himself in similar endeavors. It means our reference point always has to be an externally agreed version of reality and we have to be chained to that sweep.You can see him try to root himself in something more essential - the husband becomes a puppeteer putting on shadow plays for the people, life as the canvas where these evanescent shadow plays are enacted, now losing a fortune, now gaining back your family, so that we could see it from the distance of transient flickers of drama. Civil war is introduced as someone hacking down the screen, revealing war as another play that demands its actors assume their place.But this is forgotten in lieu of stopping at various points of history so that it ends up being more the Oscar winning type than history parting to reveal myriad reflections like Andrei Rublev. Had it come out from the West, I'm sure it would have won a few and the wonderful Gong Li her first. The best I got out of it eventually was the sense of a man and woman trying to make their way together as the skies shift and the stage quakes by the ignorance of unseen puppet masters enacting their little plays. The Great Leap castigated as a wall collapsing on a little boy, because the man who crashed his car and the boy were both overworked and needed sleep.Zhang took care to color history within certain lines so that we veer close to the monumental failures of the era but never quite see the full brunt of the horror, famine or mass persecution, only bits of abuse in passing. It was still banned by Party hacks anxious to control the play. "},{"Title":"What most of you have seen is a cut version.","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I watched this version tonight and noticed that this almost perfect file is now cut (or hacked would be a better word) and ruined for me.  I watched this film when it was new on an import laserdisc back in late '94 or early '95.  The version I saw was just 2 minutes shy of 4 hours.  The orginal laserdisc's were in CAV format and there were 8 of them in a beautiful red and black box with the shadow puppets on the front of it.  Does anybody know where to find this or if the full version is on dvd?  Just remember, if you havent seen the full version then you have NOT seen this film.  "},{"Title":"amazing and objective","Date":"27 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is an amazing film that satisfies every criteria I have for cinema excellent acting, great story, absorbing characters, consistent pacing, and beautiful images. Ge You gives a consummate performance, and it is through his eyes that we view the story; Gong Li, though not lavished with the attention Zhang Yimou usually gives her, provides the heart and soul of the film. It's her suffering and triumph that complements and completes Ge You's. Two things in particular elevate their performances their complete avoidance of melodrama and their chemistry. They're flawlessly convincing as married couples who have gone through decades of turmoil.Many have claimed that this film is an overt attack on Mao's reign, but I disagree. At its core the movie is about living -- about how people endure and adapt through the worst of times. To this extent the movie is marvelously effective, but because of its focus on the characters, it's easy to overturn the objectivity and construe a message from the viewer and not the film. That said, the film does subtly criticize Communism, but in a matter-of-fact and objective manner. When tragedy strikes, the characters don't turn around and blame Mao Zedong; the film leaves it up to us to draw interpretations from the tragedies and joys we see. Perhaps this makes it an all the more potent assault, but the important thing is, Zhang Yimou didn't make this film to denounce Mao; Gong Li and Ge You don't have secret anti-Communism fires burning in their eyes. It's first and foremost a heartfelt, sympathetic, and beautiful portrayal of the endurance and spirit of common people in the face of seemingly unsurmountable odds. "},{"Title":"Understanding our 'Foreign' neighbors","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film is an excellent journey in the life of one unimportant chinese family through the middle of the 20th century. The rise of the communist regime is there for us to see in all it's glory and ineptitude as well. The films shows the fallibility of human government. This family goes through life surviving love intact through hardships and tragidies but they continue 'Living', 'To Live' and that is the beauty of the film.  "},{"Title":"Zhang Yimou's best","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This piece of art is an epic family drama. If i read reviews like this, i usually think of over-the-top artsy movies with weird acting, unrealistic dialogs and long shots at clocks or stones that no person in his right mind, who is not a complete movie buff would voluntarily sit through. To all you normal people, who are afraid of just this This is not one of those movies. It's no popcorn cinema, but it's still highly entertaining in its own way. The story is gripping, the acting is nothing short of marvelous (Ge You and Gong Li deserve every prize there is for their performances) and the dialogs are simply ...real. It makes you laugh out loud and it makes you cry (there'll be more crying than laughing going on, though) To me, it's a perfect movie, that might just change your perspective on life. However, you will be able to enjoy this masterpiece more thoroughly, if you get yourself acquainted with Chinese history from the 1930s to the 1970s, and while you're at it try to dive into Chinese culture itself real quick as well ^_^ Trust me, you will be able to enjoy this movie much more, if you know more than well, the commies took over in '49 and then there was this cultural revolution, i guess. If you don't have all that background information, you'll probably still think of it as a great movie, but you're going to miss some of the subtle social commentary and will not recognize the importance of some of the plot devices. So you might want to check out wikipedia or a history book beforehand; or maybe even the novel itself, if you can get your hands on it. The novel is very good, too. But it does lack the optimistic fundamental note and the humor of the movie. "},{"Title":"Chinese Gone With The Wind (possible spoilers)","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  What struck me the most about this film is that is was a story of survival of an upper class (not working class) family that get swept up in the revolution.  They have few skills because of their background and are initially saved from the communists because of a fluke.As the years roll on and calamities beset them, they blame each other for these events, however, their heartbreaking tragedies are no one's fault because they are engulfed in historical events over which no one is in control.  They are so immersed in it they have no objectivity.I rate it as one of my favorite films (a 10) partly because there are no stereotypes.  There are no real heavies.  I thought it was wonderful and really humanizes the Chinese people to those of us who have no concept of who the Chinese are and what their life is like (and that includes me).  It is one of the most gripping, emotional movies of all time. "},{"Title":"The hidden point behind To Live","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To Live is a film that takes the viewer to urban China around the time of the 1940's. This is around the time that Mao Zedong and the Communist Party will eventually rise as the dominant power of Chinese politics. The story begins with one of the main characters, Fugui, gambling in a local establishment. He will eventually get caught up in the war between the Communists and the Capitalists for the control of China's government. He has recently lost his home due to his gambling debts, so when he arrives back home from the war he finds his children and wife, Jiazhen, living in poverty. He is overcome with joy when he first sees his family but, it is immediately followed by grief when he sees the conditions they have been living in during his absence. This soon becomes the main theme that continues throughout the movie; temporary joy followed by deep sorrow. The film does tell a great story but the deeper part of the story is meant to portray the hardships that come with living in Communist China. Without telling too much of the story itself, Fugui and Jiazhen live out their lives under the control of the Communist Party playing out this central theme of joy followed by sorrow. They are repeatedly told by Communist Party officers that if they work hard for the regime then the regime will essentially provide them with happiness for their hard work. There are even moments in the film where both of the main characters appear as though they are genuinely happy. However, as stated previously, every one of these fleeting moments of happiness are followed by some dramatic situation that leave the main characters in despair once again. The purpose of this repeated turmoil is utilized by the filmmakers to demonstrate how appalling and cruel, life within Communist China actually is. That the Communist Party will promise Chinese citizens with prosperity but the end result is only more suffering. "},{"Title":"masterpiece!","Date":"11 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To live is one of the most heart wrenching,soul stirring film i have ever seen.Its got great acting,great cinematography,dialogues,music and direction which makes it a real gem of world cinema.Even the subtitles didn't look like a difficult task to read considering how brilliant,sad yet uplifting the film was.Its hard to believe that the main protagonist endured and suffered so much pain in the film yet had the heart and strength to carry on with their lives with a smile on their face.A brave film about a family who choose to live under every possible bad circumstance.I am proud i watched this Chinese film being an Indian.Go for it even if you don't know Chinese because this film deserves more recognition world wide. "}{"Title":"The Zhang Yimou quintuplet","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This is a very brief review of Red Sorghum (1987), Ju Dou (1990), Raise the Red Lantern (1991), The Story of Qiu Ju (1992) and To Live (1994), five films by Zhang Yimou. Each film stars actress Gong Li, each works as a companion-piece to the other, and each deals almost exclusively with the oppression of women within early 20th century China.Zhang's debut, Red Sorghum stars Gong Li as Young Nine, a peasant who is sold to a wealthy leper. Things only get worse for Nine, who must fend off a series of rapists, mean men and the Japanese Army itself, all the while running a successful winery. Throughout the film, Zhang uses boxes, deep reds and tight squares to amplify Nine's sexist surroundings. Indeed, the film opens with Nine literally forced into a box, a social reality which she spends the film attempting to break free of or even transform. For Zhang, China wasn't disrupted by the Japanese invasion, it was hell long before. Like most of Zhang's films during this period, Sorghum sketches the cultural and socioeconomic conditions which spurred China, with hopeful arms, toward Maoism.Zhang's next film, Ju Dou, covers similar material. Here Gong Li plays Ju Dou, a woman sold to a violent oaf (When I buy an animal I treat it as I wish!) who owns a fabric dying establishment. After her husband is crippled, Ju Dou forges a relationship with Yang Jinshan, a relative. When Ju Dou and Jinshan have a child together, the kid grows up into a mean brute. Like Sorghum, Ju Duo is a tragedy obsessed with rich reds, boxes and patriarchal violence. Whilst its plot superficially echoes Zhang's own adulterous, then-scandalous affair with Gong Li, Zhang seems more interested in the way Ju Dou and Jinshan hide their illicit affair from other villagers. For Zhang, the duo's tacit submission to social mores merely validates the notion that their love is scandalous and so merely validates the symbolic power of the crippled patriarch, a power which Ju Dou's son must &#x96; as per his mother's very own actions &#x96; thereby respect and avenge.The arbitrary nature of power, and how this power is always symbolic and always unconsciously maintained (via ritual, personal belief and shared delusions), is itself the obsession of Zhang's Raise the Red Lantern. Here Gong Li again plays a woman sold to a wealthy man. This man has several other wives, all of whom begin to violently fight one another in an attempt to win the patriarch's adoration. Is it the fate of women to become concubines? a character asks, pointing to the film's deft critique of feudal relations. Zhang's first masterpiece, Lantern is again obsessed with reds, boxes and sequestered women, though here Zhang replaces the voluptuous colours, camera work and widescreen Cinemascopes of his previous films with something more restrained. Because of this, Zhang's conveying of claustrophobia and oppression, of mind and spirit pushed to madness, feels all the more powerful.Next came Zhang's The Story of Qiu Ju. A near masterpiece, it stars Gong Li as Qui Ju, a peasant farmer who embarks on a quest to avenge her husband, who's had his crotch kicked in by a village leader. More emasculated by this attack than her own husband, Qui Ju's quest takes her all across China, dealing with a Chinese bureaucracy which seems quite helpful, polite and even rational. And yet still this bureaucracy does not please Qiu Ju. It thinks in terms of commodities, monetary recompense and punishment, whilst Qiu Ju (like Zhang Yimou himself, whose previous films were banned, without explanation, by Chinese authorities) seems more interested in acquiring a shuafa, a simple explanation and apology. By the film's end, both the primitive justice of rural China and the civilized justice of modern China are simultaneously mocked, praised and shown to be thoroughly incompatible. Zhang's first neo-realist film, Qiu Ju was shot with hidden cameras, amateur actors, and so is filled with subtle observations, cruel ironies and beautiful sketches of peasant life.One of Zhang's finest films, To Live followed. It stars Gong Li as Jiazhen, the wife of a wealthy man (Ge You) who is addicted to gambling. When this gambling results in the family losing its mansions, riches and status, Jiazhen and her husband are forced onto the streets. Ironically, this set-back saves the family; the Cultural Revolution arrives, and with China's shift to nascent communism, all wealthy land owners are demonised, attacked and killed.Unlike most films which tackle life under Mao's Great Leap Forward, To Live carefully juggles the good and bad of what was essentially a nation shirking off feudalism, monarchs, uniting and then trying, clumsily, to cook up some form of egalitarian society. This quest results in all manners of contradictions and socio-political paradoxes community, solidarity and a simple life save our heroes, but their world is one of paranoia, danger, and in which everyone and everything is accused of being reactionary. The film ends with Jiazhen's daughter dying, a death which is the result of both unchecked consumption (a doctor dies gobbling food) and communist reorganisation (all competent doctors have been killed/jailed for being counter-revolutionary). This jab at communism got the film banned in China (further highlighting the insecurity of the regime). Ironically, Maoism saw massive positive health care reformations, and saw an improvement in mortality rates which at times surpassed even then contemporary Britain and parts of America (life expectancy doubled from 32 years in the 1940s to 65 years in the 1970s). But such things don't concern Zhang. Spanning decades, To Live is mostly a broad account of life, love, loss and growth (the personal and political), all unfolding upon a canvas that is devastatingly cruel. Significantly, the film's title is both adjectival and a command; this is what life is, but one must nevertheless always push on. Gong Li and Ge You in particular are excellent.8.5/10 - See Yellow Earth (1984). "},{"Title":"film review","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To live, the movie is based on an original novel by Yu Hua. In 1994, lifetime was directed by Zhang Yimou. According to Fu Gui's family rough fate as main line to narrate decades of up and sown of the suffering with Fu Gui and his family. These are showing one epitome of time in different the era of encounter. From the war of liberation and great leap forward to the Cultural Revolution, because they are lose too much and, their life have become numb. They are face probably only left lifetimes in their life. The movie is showing a compassion and sad black humor. It would condense the history and personal destiny. And the film showing that people cannot control own fate in history. This film review will focus on analysis the film's narrative approach and Fu Gui's character delineation.The film has clearly structure, and two main line interlaced. The first clue is the development of China's history. It is visible clue. The film would divided into four parts by the director, respectively in the forties, in fifties of great leap forward, in sixties of the Cultural Revolution and in the early eights. The film background is the modern history of China. Get through describe Fu Gui two generations of people's live, reflect to people's state of life in this historical background. According to this structure form of the line, the director would to depict characters into the history background. The director discards a lot of color of freehand brushwork type, and to emphasize feelings of original nature.The second clue is leather silhouette show. It is invisible clue. The leather silhouette show not only impact of emblem character and character rough fate, but also there are very important function in the transition of connection to the plot and scene. It is emphasize background and establish the emotional tone. Leather silhouette show is unique folk art, and has the very high artistic quality. The director is skillful use leather silhouette show in the film. For example, in the beginning of film, when Fu Gui gamble in casino, there is performances of a leather silhouette show. With a tense and fierce leather silhouette show, Fu Gui lost everything, and he was began the turning point of his fate. When he has nothing at all, Long Er gives leather silhouette for his. Fu Gui was began his career of a busk. The film's shot is ingenious transition from he picked up leather silhouette to scene of perform in the streets. Afterwards, he is captured by the communist party. The film's shot from under the bayonet leather silhouette transition to scene of perform leather silhouette show for the communist party. In the ending of film, the leather silhouette box is become chicken nest. The last scene is stand for new power and hope of living. It is the theme of the movie.Environment has a very important influence for character. To some extent, environment can change one person. Fu Gui from wealthy of gambling change to earthy farmers, and from earth farmers change to old man of kind to life. In different life experience and living environment, Fu Gu's character is also changing. He was born in the landlord family in the period of republic of China. Because he has a superiority of living condition, he formed the habit of gambling, and he has not sense of responsibility. However, when he loses everything and he witnessed the death of friend in the extremely cold environment, his survival desire is more and more intense. When he comes back, he is more cherishing reunion with his family. Fu Gui's patience and tolerance is Chinese farmers generally unique culture character. It comes from influences of China local culture and historical heritages. They are live in the misery and predicament, they cannot change life. However, Fu Gui is kind hearted. Chun Sheng accidentally killed his children, he has a passive forgave Chun Sheng. In the Cultural Revolution, he persuaded Chun Sheng to live, this is tolerant mentality, he not only forgave Chun Sheng in suffering, but also he can use with broad mind to accept the reality for his attack and shock and unfair.Living is not Fu Gui's patent, everyone is struggling in the fate. Jia Zhen, Lao Quan, mayor and Feng Xia, their fate is fate of China and fate of the most common Chinese people. Some people alive, and some people died, destiny often refuses to give happiness to kind and menial people. "},{"Title":"A Monumental Achievement","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This film, after multiple viewings, has reached the top of Zhang Yimou's large list of great ones. It is a film which never ends for the viewer. The tapestry of characters, events and scenes is so rich that the viewer wants it to go on indefinitely. The two leads are magnificent and Gong Li is perhaps the world's greatest contemporary actress. She combines Garbo like screen presence and Bancroft like acting range into one sensational performer. Zhang Yimou is quite simply, the greatest living director and ranks with Huston, Fellini, Fleming and Kubrick. This is a film about life and people more than politics and ideology and will be just as riveting a thousand years from now. In the all-time top ten of all films. "},{"Title":"To Live","Date":"9 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Title Huozhe (To Live)Directed by Yimou ZhangReleased 1994To Live is a powerful drama set in mainland China which highlights many of the ills associated with the various changes in Chinese society during the mid-20th Century. The story spans across four of the most dramatic decades of political, social, and economic reform in Chinese history. Each decade encapsulates a particular event of Chinese socio-political upheaval. The film begins during the Civil war, leading into the midst of the 'Great Leap Forward', followed by the Cultural Revolution. The film follows the lives of Fugui, his wife Jiazhen, and their children Fengxia and Youqing, and depicts the manner in which Chinese families had to cope and adapt to the drastic upheaval in order to avoid being labelled a capitalist or a reactionary and suffer retribution. The family have to constantly change and reaffirm their identities in a desperate attempt to avoid reprisal. Sadly, as the story demonstrates this is something that in such a stirring time simply cannot be avoided.The Director, Yimou Zhang, utilizes fade shots to suggest the passing of time, the contrast between rich and dull backdrops to imply certain moods, the grandiose landscapes to symbolize isolation, and puts great emphasis upon the symbolism of the shadow puppetry scenes which are heightened by fire illuminating the canvas screen from behind.Fugui is a gambling addict in denial. He is confronted by his wife Jiazhen, a strong, devoted, and selfless woman, with the choice of either giving up gambling and joining her in leading a simple life with their daughter Fengxia, who after a childhood illness becomes a partially deaf mute, or to continue his current lifestyle alone. Youqing, the youngest member of the family, is mischievous and likable and while his father is away, develops a very strong attachment to his mother and his sister.Throughout the film the couple are forced to adapt to the rapid social changes around them in order to protect their family. Their agency as human beings is rendered down to the point where their foremost priority is to follow the majority and keep a low profile, while the fear of reprisal and becoming a target of the community leads the two to blame one another or themselves for the ills bestowed upon them by the socio-political situation in which they find themselves living. In one such instance Youqing stands up against three children who are bullying Fengxia and wrestles the main perpetrator to the ground. Later at a communal meal, Youqing pours a large bowl of hot noodles laced with a healthy quantity of chilli sauce over the head of the instigator stinging his eyes. Fugui tries to restore calm to the situation but the other boys' father claims he is a counterrevolutionary. Fearing retribution of his sons' actions, Fugui feels compelled to publicly administer a thorough flogging upon Youqing. Fugui was unaware of the events which led to his son acting in such a way, but it is safe to say that regardless of whether he did or not know he would have had to have done the same. Having seen first-hand the hysteria that had gripped the public and how quickly such a seemingly insignificant accusation could suddenly lead to the masses calling for ones' head (the execution of Long'er), there was little else he could do.The two major personal tragedies the couple suffer are the deaths of their two children. The responsibility & circumstances of both deaths can be attributed to the shortcomings of the misguided political regimes during which they each passed. Firstly, Youqing, who at the age of 6 is sent out to work as requested by the government so the township can meet their steel production quota. The boy, having been overworked, has not slept in 3 days and is allowed to have a nap behind a concrete wall. The wall is struck by the district chief's jeep, which then topples over on top of the boy crushing him to death. In a strange twist of fate the District Chief responsible for the premature death of Youqing is Chunsheng - a friend of Fugui's from the civil war and the days of his shadow puppet troupe. Guilt-stricken, Chunsheng frequently offers the couple money as compensation. Jiazhen, out of principle and anger towards Chunsheng, does not accept the money, whereas Fugui does not accept the money in order to maintain his working class appearance. The fear of being labelled a capitalist certainly plays on his mind which could lead to him being imprisoned or even executed.The second instance is decades later when their only remaining child is giving birth to their grandchild. Because of the 'great leap forward' where educated peoples were persecuted there were no doctors at hand to care for their daughter during childbirth. They raise this issue with her husband, a leader of the Red Guard, so he collects a specialist from the detention centre to overlook proceedings. The specialist is visibly weak from starvation and stuffs himself full of steamed buns which ultimately incapacitate him when he is needed most. Fengxia, shortly after the birth begins to haemorrhage, but because there are no doctors in the hospital, and only students, nobody knows what to do to save her, which results in Fengxia slowly bleeding to death, dying silently in her mother's arms.The film makes one question whether these dramatic social upheavals were ultimately worth the tragedies so many families must have suffered and endured over the course of those four decades. Fugui throughout most of the film appears unassured by the direction China is heading, but supports the majority out of fear and for the safety of himself and his family. Towards the end of the film however, despite the horrendous losses he and his wife have suffered, Fugui appears genuinely convinced that society is moving forward and for the better of the new generations. "},{"Title":"There are no proper words...","Date":"27 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" ...to describe how beautiful and nearly flawless this film is. This is like a feast for a person starving for good cinema, good storytelling, and flawless acting. Like THE JOY LUCK CLUB, it is an epic, an emotional banquet.Fugui (You Ge) and his wife Jiazhen (the incomparable Gong Li) are young parents expecting their second child within a few months. They are financially well off and living comfortably, but Fugui has a terrible addiction to all night gambling. Soon enough, he has lost everything the family owns, and they are paupers overnight.Jiazhen takes their daughter Fengxia and leaves Fugui devastated. He also loses his father to a heart attack and his mother is ailing. He is forced to take lodging in a crummy apartment and just try to get his life back together, becoming a street peddler, then a performer of shadow puppetry. Jiazhen decides to give Fugui one more chance, and seeing as he has nothing left to gamble away, things begin to look up.Until one night, during one of Fugui's puppet shows, he and his troupe are caught up in the civil war against the Liberation Army (pre- communism). A prisoner of war for months, he becomes an entertainer for the Army, and then set free to go home. With a new government in power, Fugui and Jiazhen begin yet another attempt to rebuild. This movie is neither pro nor anti communism. It is simply the portrait of a family caught up in times of tremendous change. A decade later, the family has merged into the mission of Chairman Mao, helping with steel production and eating in communist canteens instead of cooking their own meals. All scrap metal is donated to the cause, and even the children are expected to work long, hard hours smelting, lest their families be thought of as politically backward. They live their lives in happy anxiety, glad to be alive and together, but always wary of offending someone who could punish them. Fengxia has been left mute by a fever some years prior, and her younger brother Youquin meets with a heart-wrenching tragedy at this time.Two decades after the film begins, China has taken the Great Leap. Fengxia is growing up, and her family introduces her to kindhearted Erxi. They marry and soon are expecting, but more tragedy is in store. The ending of this film is open to discussion, but basically the point is, life is not a destination, it's a journey. Who knows what becomes of this family after the credits? What are their hopes of the future? They were once a rich family, and it's unlikely they'll ever be rich again. Do they even care at this point? After the tragic losses of their children, how do they have the strength to live on? Perhaps because Erxi, who has stayed near them in spite of his own tremendous loss, and because of their grandson, who lived after Fengxia died in childbirth. Perhaps that precious child, that Little Bun is all it takes to motivate them to keep going. In the face of loss and tragedy, a new blessing makes all the difference. People need something to hope for and dream for, otherwise it would all seem so pointless.For all its richness and tapestry, To Live carries a simple and universal message about the strength of the human spirit and the will to live. "},{"Title":"Communism, Zhang Yimou Style...","Date":"19 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To Live is one of the strongest films by Zhang Yimou. I found it much more entertaining than Red Sorghum, Ju Dou and even Raise the Red Lantern. To Live is an epic story about how people deal with times changing and the consequences of it. It's a story we all can relate to, even if we haven't lived in China.To Live in many respects reminded me a lot of Doctor Zhivago. There are some similar themes and some of the plot points are somewhat similar at times. The story covers the most important events that took place from late 1940's to 1970's. It's great history lesson for those who don't know much about history of modern China or how communism affects people. This story greatly benefits from the fact that there are very strong and smart characters. Their only motivation is to live in peace. They don't seek problems or try to fight the system. All they want is to live their lives and make due with what they have. It also helps a lot that the acting is superb. Ge You and Gong Li carry the film with their strong performances. They have excellent material to work with and bring a lot of emotion and power to their performances. The supporting performances were all around excellent. Hard to complain about the acting.To Live is less impressive visually as the previous films by Zhang Yimou. Yes, it looks great and the period details are great and it's very well paced for the most part. The first 30 minutes are slow and a bit clunky but after that. it never struggles with the pace. I also liked the fact that they found a way how to criticize communism in a way that didn't feel forced. Our characters never outright say that communism is bad or wrong, we just see how they deal with it and it's up to us to evaluate the situation for ourselves.There was only one thing that bothered me a lot. And it's Gong Li... She doesn't age well in this film and it's kind of distracting. I know that she is immortal and never aging but for this film they should have found a way to show that her character ages. That's small problem but can take you of the film sometimes.To Live is a really good film and should be seen by anyone who are fan of foreign cinema and fans of the work of Zhang Yimou and Gong Li. It's more accessible for mainstream audience and offers us a epic story about the common people and how they struggle to find happiness and peace in the ever changing world. "},{"Title":"Life and Era","Date":"14 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Every life is bound to be born and last in a certain period. This film tells a story of a husband（Fugui) and a wife(Jiazhen) and how how they manage to live through China's tumultuous periods.The time line of the story is quite long. It starts from China's civil war to the Emancipation of China and then to the times of great leap forward and finally to the cultural revolution till its end. As for the characters, the status of Fugui and Jiazhen also changes from landlord to peasant.Due to the habit of gambling, Fugui lost all fortunes of the family, which accidentally saves his family as, with the communist party coming into power, they become peasants and avoid the fate of being killed. Later on, their son dies of an accident when melting irons in the times of great leap forward when all metals of every family are collected to produce irons. Their daughter dies of hemorrhoid when delivering her baby during cultural revolution when all the doctors and professionals are criticized and replaced by Red Guards who are not equipped with sufficient medical knowledge.To a large extent, the fate of Fugui's family is beyond the control of themselves. As opposed to an era, one person's life is like a grain of corn in the wild sea. However, no matter how harsh the living environment is, they make efforts to live because only when alive, one can feel hope.As the old sayings goes, it is better to live indecently than to die decently. In one word, what the common people need fundamentally is to live. "},{"Title":"The Bar Mitzvah of a great director","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" While the story might not vibrate with some, this is the entry point in adulthood for this particular director. Starting with his big screen debut he has struggled to reach a voice, a certain signature every important director has in order to have his work recognizable. From a first movie presented as a collage of different famous works and styles he finally reaches the ability to control the composition of a scene or master the use of light to bring a certain depth to a flat screen, thus opening the way for his future works. Too bad that he shows a turn to the commercial side of the cinematography in his last works. But for this one Well done! "},{"Title":"to live or not to live -- not a question","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To live A surprisingly poignant movie of Zhang targeting Mao's mistakes and ruthless personal agenda over people's well being, rendering every individual in China suffering from the results of Mao's sick minded political movements. China, still a land of lack of freedom of speech, albeit much better than Mao's time, Zhang was able to make such a movie rife with hidden and conspicuous messages projecting the ultimate human tragedy at such a scale that no other human histories can match or parallel it, not even the Holocaust or the massacre of Armenians by the Turks, or the Nanking massacre of Chinese by the Japanese troops.This suffering lasted 30 years and beyond. Find out how many people were killed during that era and how that affected the progression of Chinese modernization. The movie portrays in great accuracy the turmoil in China before (don't forget the WWII that Chinese just suffered from the brutal invasion from Japan, then the civil war between Mao and Chiang) and after Mao's victory over Chiang in securing the Thorn as The New Emperor of China in the 20th Century with the aid of modern technology and political ideology which enabled Mao to surpass the sum of all other evil doers such as Hitler, Lenin and Stalin.An image is worth of a thousand words. To be brief, one scene that Zhang crafted to represent the reality of China in the 60's is the limping Red Guard's wedding day. He is all dressed up (not really a true 'dressed-up' in our terms, but just put a red flower on his chest and some minor decorations) and happily walking with a crowd toward the bride's home for the wedding. The moment of seemingly a greatest joy, yet is in fact the moment of the greatest sadness. What we are really seeing is a limping person (representing communism, or the status of China back then) walking joyously with a crowd who have no idea what the outside world is about. They are all very poor, live in shambled homes and dress in old and severely worn clothes and shoes, whereas in Taiwan, Chiang is pushing up the economy with the aid of the US and so are many other countries that are quickly recovering from WWII including Japan and the European countries. People in the US are rapidly back to their normal lives, besides the Vietnam war.But behold, don't think that it is a fairy-tale or distant lives of others. Don't think that Chinese or other ancient cultures are destined for the endless turmoil and sadness. Here in the US is not exempt, that people are all the same, perhaps at a different scale. If Chinese can do so, we can do worse. While every one can become a leader of a nation, once they become a leader, they are no longer one of us, like a transmutation. If you don't trust Chinese government, you shouldn't trust our (US) government either. Don't expect that if the government would really accept mistakes that they made.One thing is for sure, as long as we are genetically built as what we are now, there will be no ideal government. This is as good as you can get. So either we stay out of politics and live our peaceful little lives, or be part of the dirty pot of corruption or delusion, and run for the president. And if you think you are truly a person of great conscience, you will never be a president of any kind. You'd be elbowed out of the game before you even know it. "},{"Title":"Simply the best","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" It is surely ZhangYiMou's greatest movie, even better than the Hero. Based on a very famous book with the same name and after some slight modifications, the movie mercylessly pictures a normal Chinese's tragic life, reflecting almost all important times in recent China. This reminds me of Forrest Gump, but this time there is no any chocolate box and feather -- instead, it is like life is like a box of chocolate whatever you get, you gotta take it yourself. In the society, normal people don't have no choice but to live. That is all! Because of some sensitive contents, this masterpiece still can't be shown in China. What a pity! "}{"Title":"To live is 'too live'","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Really a great story, movie, and history lesson with its own spoonful of sugar all rolled up in one thought provoking and oft times heart wrenching film. It is a journey through time with stops at irresponsibility, estrangement, repentance, reconciliation, redemption, adaptation, loss, loyalty, longevity, comedy, and love. Its final destination? Hope. What a trip! Slow at times, inexplicable at others, but never losing the attention (not even losing my WIFE's attention who will be the first to snooze if she's not into it, and boy was she into it!) Even my (now) 15 year old daughter loved it. But then, she usually likes the same ones I like. Hope you like it too. 10 lines now?) "},{"Title":"Bitter history","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Xu FuGui was a lucky man. At the same time he was an unlucky man. He experienced a few big incidents and survived. But he lost his parents and children one by one. From his painful experience, we could see Chinese bitter past. Especially the later Cultural Revolution hurt greatly the people. I believe that now nobody wants to go back that age. If that happens again, China will become a hopeless country.Although the film just runs 125 minutes, it depicts Chinese modern history with succinct way. Comparing with The best of youth (an six-hour-long Italian masterpiece), it is too short. However it will never lose to TBOY. I Really hope can watch HZ2 in the future.You Ge is one of the best actors in China. His performance made the whole movie livelier. He deserved the Cannes award (best actor). Li Gong is a talented actress. She co-operated with Director YiMou Zhang in many movies. Her show in Raise the red lantern and Ju Dou is impressive.One of the best works directed by YiMou Zhang. 9/10 "},{"Title":"A very good movie,","Date":"10 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To live (HuoZhe) is a very good movie. Even compare worldwide, it is not bad. Initially, this movie was banned by the government, since it 'fails to show the good happy life' of new china after 1949. After several years, we finally be able to watch it in its full length.This movie is kind of sad movie, shows the sufferings of normal Chinese peasants after the revolution in 1940s. At first, people are long for a good life, that within 10 years, America can be exceed. They really do with the same idea.After 10 years, people still not live rich enough, and thanks for Chairman Mao's same eagerness, a new 'revolution' began which brought China in its worst depth in recent history. What a normal Chinese can do during those years was very limited, and sad.The original novel this film based on was even sad. The result is much worse, hence the film didn't adopted that allow us to finally saw the film.If you want to know piece of history of China, it is a must see. "},{"Title":"Real life!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I have just seen this movie today. It is a real movie which move me deeply. If you want to know Chinese life in the 40's to 70's, please watch this movie. The main actor, Ge You is one of the best actors in China. This movie is the peak of him. He and Gong Li were successfully acting the common people in HUOZHE. The movie described the real life of common people in that time. The director Zhang Yimou is very familiar to the rural life and his movies about the rural life always let us think about the meaning of life. To tell the truth, I do not like his movies about city life and his action movies. So I give this movie, HUOXHE (To Life), the highest score 10. "},{"Title":"Fascinating journey","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  The journey on which this film takes you is an interesting, sad, delightful, and realistic view of a man and his family. From beginning to end, I was never bored, and when the film finally ended, I wanted to know what happened next. (= Truly a gem in the culture of movie storytelling.The film begins with the main character gambling, and gambling badly I must say... he does not know when to stop, which leads him to a very low point in his life. The story weaves in and out of several decades, showing the times of the Chinese communist takeover, and it's direct effect on one family. But this isn't the focus of the movie.. the movie tells how people can change if they allow themselves to recognize the need for it.  "},{"Title":"a little masterpiece making you laugh and cry","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  For the viewers who may not be familiar with the Chinese modern history, especiallybetween 1950-1980, which has an important and special effect on the whole generation, may feelit is hard to get into it. But for me, I have to say it is one of few flicks which can make metotally involved, though I was not born and living in that period. (8 out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Keeps you watching till the very end!!","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Huozhe (To Live) is one of those philosophical Chinese movies. Despite its length, it stays interesting until the very end. Even though most movies about life are boring and depressing, this movie has plenty of events, sometimes unexpected. But for people who cry a lot, then this is perhaps the movie to shed a lot of tears upon. Tragedy all throughout the movie, with a war in the beginning, then the loss of the main character's son, then later on the loss of the daughter giving birth to a child.And all of that mixed with a gloomy atmosphere of a rather poor family in China, in once again gloomy times. Well words can hardly even touch the movie, watch it, it's really worth it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful epic","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is a wonderful, historic drama that spans the period prior to the Communist takeover in China until after the Cultural Revolution.  Told through the eyes of one family, it is a beautifully shot, engrossing picture with excellent acting and minimal melodrama.  It is of course somewhat zealous in its political slant, but no more so than what someone from China would consider Gone With The Wind to be.  If you like David Lean type of films, and if you like learning about history of other countries, then this film will not disappoint. "},{"Title":"One of the best films I have ever seen!  Outstanding!!!","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I was blown away by this film.  I've seen most of Zhang Yimou's films, and I didn't think he could top Raise the Red Lantern.  I was wrong.  To Live was amazing.  A perfect film.  I consider Gong Li to be one of the greatest actresses in film history, and this was the best performance I've seen from her.  All the actors were very good in this film, but Gong Li gives Meryl Streep's performance in Sophie's Choice a run for her money.  Zhang Yimou outdid himself.  I'm surprised this film isn't more popular.  It's incredibly powerful.  Some scenes reduced me to tears, and that doesn't happen very often with me.  I'm recommending this film to everyone.Note Even though this is a film covers important events in recent Chinese history, the way the story is told, you don't need to be a history buff or of Chinese heritage to understand what's going on in this film.  Zhang Yimou tells this story in a way that can be universally and cross-culturally understood.10/10 "},{"Title":"Touching, informative, simple, but brilliantly done","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Many of the comments written so far give an accurate summary of the plot and idnetify the creative simplicity of the director. I would like to second the positive things which have been said and recommend the film to those who would like to get a feel for what it must have been like to have gone through some of what the Chinese people who experienced it first hand live through.  Watch it and read Wild Swans by Jung Chang.  Yimou Zhang loves his people and seems to want to serve them in much the same way Lu Xun did in his time.  My 'hats' off to him. "}{"Title":"The Backwards Regime","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Yimou Zhang once again composes a piece of cinematic brilliance that subtlety makes a social statement against the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese government in general.  His instrument is the life of the Xu family and the tragic ironies they encounter in their day to day living within the communist regime. Fengui gambles his family's fortune away.  Despite pleas from his wife and taunts from his father he gambles until the entire estate of his ancestral land is taken.   He is forced to become a low class city dweller.  Fengui soon finds that his amoral behavior is beneficial.  As a poor city dweller he is not an enemy to the communists. They even frame the certificate showing they are poor city dwellers, while anciently this would have been shameful. The man who took his home is shot in five times and publicly killed.  The irony of this situation is that Fengui is being rewarded for his unethical behavior.  This is a statement on the backwardness of the Communist system where prosperity is punished and indolent behavior is rewarded. The reciprocal of this statement is also made.  During the steel revolution the Xu family and community are working around the clock hours.  In an effort to be patriotic towards the revolutionary cause Fengui forces his son, Youqing, to work in the steel factory.  Tragically, Fengui's old friend due to over exhaustion kills his son.  Once again the Zhang protests the backwardness of this party and the tragedy that happened to the common man when they were obedient to the regime.  This theme continues as the death of Fenxia is indirectly caused by the regime.  The lack of experienced doctors who were all considered `capitalist roaders' cause the tragic death of Fengxia. The film ends in an ambiguous way.  The grandson of Fengxia is talking to Fengui and Jiazhen.  They are visiting the graves of their dead children. The grandson talks as if he knows them.  The grandson is a symbol of hope, his understanding of the tragedies of his mother and uncle bring hope that this cycle of backwards justice can be reversed.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointed having read the book","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" As much as I have been transported by some of Zhang's epics in the way he manages to play with that kind of feeling and develops an interesting sense in the beauty of the images through colorful surroundings, graceful gestures and the the sometimes tragic intensity of themes of the ancient mystified past of the Chinese culture. As much as I cherish those attempts, I must say the book, from which this story is profiled, is entirely prominent on a variety of aspects. For a start, the main character shows a completely different behavior throughout the original story. At the beginning, for example of demonstration to the comparison I am making, he shows himself much more arrogant and unconscious. That attitude is an important factor that leads him more naturally to be an easy prey for this gambling that has become a fierce influence. And it heats up his mind in a rhythm almost like a trance of forgetfulness. Also it is said that the head of the gambling house is playing with him in a more subtle way, that the dices were loaded and that the game is set much more viciously against him, that he is on longer run of being manipulated thats it shows on the screen. Hence When he realizes that he's at the end of the road, that he has lost everything, he doesn't start crying like a little boy going oh no what have I done and so on, no, the realization comes on to him like a heavy burden of unspeakable knowledge of the consequences he mindlessly ignored until it fell on him in single overpowering blow, and that is mostly how it happens with a lot human mistakes and which gives a sense reality to it, if you mind my experience on many materials related to this given fact. Even with the necessity to squeeze out the script many events thus making it possible to turn the initial story into a 2 hour film (at least for a challenge such as this one), a lot misjudging was avoidable on that part. I could go on and on about the important details that have been so mindlessly ignored and that washed the essential core of this heart ripping story, and yet it is full of fleeting joy through what seems to be an endless downfall of bitter events that strikes this man and his family. This film is like a bad Walt Disney version of it's original form, it's too much of a sentimentalist view to hook onto the historical veracity to which junctions the credibility of the tale, also the conditions the characters go through by what they confront should show noticeable side effects which a bit light on the screen. Thus the initial dimension of the characters has been sterilized by these severe lacks. If all those components had been more seriously followed then there is no doubt this adaptation could have reached a totally different result on its quality scale and it really is just a shame. "},{"Title":"A unique portrayal of Chinese recent history","Date":"17 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Every person interprets films in his own way, and for me To Live is about economic growth. Before elaborating on this statement, I would like to acknowledge that another visitor of IMDb recommended this film to me, in response to my inquiries. So the message board actually works. You see, economic growth always comes at a price. This is especially clear from the film scene, where the peasants melt down their pans in order to provide steel for the construction of factories (or, less productive, for cannon balls). In fact, the hardship of the Chinese couple is not worse than the life of the Joads family in The Grapes of Wrath. Remember that in Oklahoma and California the Joads family became the victim of agricultural rationalizations. Nor is Chinese family worse off than the Flemish peasant in Het Gezin van Paemel. It reminds us to keep an open mind, when looking at films like To live. The interesting part is its portrayal of Chinese history and of course its Chinese origin. Apparently, Chinese film makers have a reasonable freedom of expression. As a cinematic product, it is less impressive an ordinary story, plain dialogs, scanty acting. But we are fascinated by this enormous country, of which we know so little. In addition we realize our own dismal past, contemplating the imperialist attacks on China of a century ago. In 1900 all western powers contributed to the cruel eradication of the nationalist Boxer uprise. The film starts with the victory of Mao's army around 1948, which was probably a positive development. Note however that it was a peasants revolution and not a socialist one. Being a democratic socialist, I would like to point out, that socialist arrangements are only possible in a fully developed state. For the collective arrangements in socialism require a high degree of civilization and democracy. Unfortunately in his later years Mao began to experiment. First, from 1958 to 1962 he tried to implement a fully decentralized economy during the so-called Great Leap Forward. Interestingly, by that time the American government had prohibited its citizens to enter China (a kind of Chinese Wall). Then in 1966-1969 Mao tried to change the social habits in the Cultural revolution. One of the aims was a high level of equality and the integration of the intellectual class into the peasant class. As an ideology it has its merits, and in fact some of the offsprings in the west still have an exemplary value. On the other hand, in the primitive Chinese society it was inefficient, a waste of talent and an invitation to brutality. It is said that in those years three million people were murdered. I assume that this was not what Mao and his staff had in mind. In 1976 (the year of Mao's decease) Joris Ivens made several interesting documentaries on collective managements, for instance of a pharmacist (La pharmacie No.3 Shanghai) and of a school (Une histoire de ballon). Nevertheless, during the reign of Mao the social indicators were continuously rising, and (considering the poverty) the health insurance and education were excellent. Whereas in 1950 the average life expectancy was 34 years, in 1990 it had risen to 70 (!) years. On the aspect of economic growth, but also on many social issues the collective China has outperformed the more capitalist India. Note also the fundamental quality, that the Maoist system is able to reform itself from within. It is clear that the rule of the Maoist party has had its merits, and these must be considered in the evaluation of the story line in To Live. I guess we have the right to criticize the Maoist policy with respect to human rights. However, it seems out of place to claim a moral superiority. It is certainly obvious, that in a comparison of the contemporary living conditions in China the results of the deep involvement of the western countries in both Africa and South-America looks relatively poor. "},{"Title":"Tragicomedy at it's best","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This was the first film I saw by Yimou Zhang, many years ago when still in the cinemas. Thinking back, it's the movie of all I seen that given me the most lasting impression. Yimou Zhang got a way to make movies that really creeps under your skin in a piercing manner, not just in single scenes, but deeper and deeper per minute unfolded. When you watch his films, you start out with finding the first 10 minutes boring. But the the skin piercing begins, and goes constantly deeper till you can take no more.This movie features hilarious scenes, and a black kind of humour, that takes some of the sting away. But me and many the other in the audience could not bear any more of the tragedy in the end. But in the end, it tells the story so well, like being born in China under surreal cultural revolution wasn't enough, some people are simply more unfortunate than others thanks to fate. You get to know this family, love them, pity and feel with them, and admire them for them for their strenght in no hyped up manner.One of the few movies I have witnessed people raising from the seats and clapping in their hands after the movie was over. "},{"Title":"Life of a family from before PRC to the 70s","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I usually don't really watch movies from China but after watching a few titles such as Not one less and a few more to name including this one I must say I'm moved by movies from China. The movie is about one family life before the communist take over to the 70s where almost end of cultural revolution. The movie is perfectly done and pictures are perfectly shot. The realistic of the movie and the beautifully shot pictures made me stick to my chair without moving and wonder what happen next. This is a master piece indeed. I agree with the previous poster its a shame indeed that this movie is not popular. This apply the same with all other China movie. I suppose the promotion is not hot enough to bring the China cinema to all over the world. People just don't aware that they exist. When you go to the Cd's store, almost 99% of the movies are hardcore action or love and sex movies putting out by Hollywood. I really recommend this movie to all viewer. "},{"Title":"Zhang Yimou does it again ..","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I have seen, The Road Home, Happy Times, Hero, House of Flying Daggers, and Not One Less. To Live is another fine movie by Zhang Yimou.This movie starts just when China was turning to Communism, and is a wonderful history lesson because it is told from the perspective of this family going though all the changes.There is also an ironic type of almost humor in the movie. This is used to show how surreal or bizarre it must have been to go thorough all those changes and basically build a life around it. Sort of situation where you would say, if it were not true, you would think it was a cruel joke. Very interesting movie to watch, you are so in love with this family and really want them to build that peaceful and calm future for their children to live in. The acting and storytelling is simply first rate -- I am in awe.Worth noting is that the pacing is very quick, so if you fear the epic style might just be too involving for an evening &#150; do not worry, it is very entertaining from start to finish; and has so many surprises and interesting situations -- you will be laughing one moment and overcome with sadness the next.Wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"An Absolute Classic of Cinema","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To Live, Huozhe - The Chinese Gone With The WindI saw this film at the Curzon Cinema in London's West End in 1994. A soon as the first frame appeared I knew I was watching a Classic. This Film has to be one of the all time greats. One reviewer called it The Chinese Gone With The Wind and I agree to a point.The central performances in this film are masterful. Li Gong and You Ge are incredible. They age before your eyes with hardly any make-up. It is all relayed in performance. Watch the amazing body movement of Li Gong in the last reel as she convinces us she is an aged woman. Remarkable!!!The emotions in this film are strong and it is hard now to be moved by them. I particularly love the scene when they both unravel the soaking wet letter. This scene is played with such truthfulness that at points you feel you are watching a slice of real life and not a big budget Chinese movie.Yimou Zhang is one of the best Directors alive today if not the best. He consistently produces brilliant films his latest being the exception. Please read my Review of Curse of the Golden Flower "},{"Title":"One of the greats..","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To Live (1994)To Live is a Chinese film directed by Zhang Yimou in 1994, starring Ge You and Gong Li. It is based on the novel of the same name by Yu Hua. Although not the grandest or most epic recall of 20th century China, (that honour would go to Chen Kai Ge's Farewell My Concubine) 'To Live' is the most intimate and touching tale of that dark period of Chinese history. We are taken through the Chinese Civil War, The Great Leap Forward and Cultural Revolution, and never deter from the main focus of a couple who, from prosperity to poverty, struggle to keep a family together through these turbulent times. Masterfully made and matched with a beautiful score, To Live represents one of the finest moments in '5th generation' Chinese film-making.The film opens in a gambling den, an ironic setting considering our characters are made to gamble with their lives time and time again. The destinies of Fugui and Jiahzen are determined by forces beyond their control, which was exactly the case for many peasant families of 60's China. The horrors of Mao Tse Tung's Communist ideology are present in so many moments; the massacre of Nationalist soldiers, the villagers ordered to give up all of their cooking utensils to make cannon balls, the death of daughter Fengxia due to lack of professional doctors (taken away for belonging to the Old Society). As Jiahzen repeats to her husband, All I want is a quiet life together. And despite the devastating tragedies they face, the final scene gives us possibility that this may happen. What the masterful Zhang Yimou manages to do best is not be in any way manipulative and still honor the resiliency of Fugui and Jiahzen in the face of political change, bureaucratic incompetence, and personal loss.'To Live' brings you so close to characters it feels like you can touch them, and as the closing credits roll you are left with such admiration for the brave souls that survived totalitarian rule. Beautifully crafted by a great tale, a remarkable score, and phenomenal characters, To Live is a must-see picture. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The best ever......","Date":"18 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Well, i am not sure if my title can justify it all, but this film truly is amazing. One simply has to watch this film to know its beauty. I agreed with one of the comments which says 'To Live' is very similar to Chen KaiGe's 'Fairwell my concubine', both were epic films, both stories revolved around the same period of time and the same political event that happened in China. However, the 2 movies are in fact very different in many ways, with a very distinctive theme to its own.Fairwell is a movie about love, betrayal and above all, friendship. Whilst To live is about survival, pure survival!! It is almost similar to what we saw in the not-so-long-ago, Roman Polanski's The Pianist, another great masterpiece. The reason why i think this should be the Best Zhang Yi Mou's film ever is because the plot is so simple to follow, in fact, it's almost plot-less; one simply follows those characters along, surviving through the various mishaps in life and the relentless political upheavals which disrupted many people's life at the time. What Zhang provided us was a straight forward story telling, and not less was his trademark, the 'breathtaking' cinematography. I have to say, this movie will make one cherish their life more than ever, that in many ways, we are very lucky to be alive everyday. That, i guess, justifies it all.....It's simply a TEN out of TEN!!! "},{"Title":"Heartwarming! Humorous! Historical!","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" The first and only other review, so far, of this movie says it all eloquently, but I had to second this enthusiastically. I viewed the film last evening and many times cried out, as it was progressing, either in horror or humor or just gasps and sighs of contentment and approbation! It is wonderful. I just love the Chinese people and their goodness and their politeness and gentle care for family, for their elderly, for their children and friends. It is a process for peace and unity among men, to see this film. It brings us all together, all nations and nationalities, in a better understanding and community. I cannot praise the movie enough for the character depictions. I am going to be guilty of just blathering on in the same vein if I don't just quit now, with my seal of approval imprinted on this page! If you read the first review, it says it all and with great care and diligence and style. I second those views expressed! What an art form! Hail, Movies! "}{"Title":"rapturous","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  To Live is an ascendancy to the highest levels of human emotion, like the most beautiful choir music. It offers catharsis without pain Watching this you truly understand what tears of joy are. The film is an experience of oneness with the sea of tragedy, comedy and love that exists at the core of human life.  "},{"Title":"Hands Down -- Best Movie made to date !!","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen to date, hands down.  Gong Li is a wonderful actress and I think this is her best film.This film tracks the life of a family through the years of China's communist take over.  You are there for all their ups and downs and it makes you laugh out loud and cry (literally) as you are caught up in the story as if you are actually there. "},{"Title":"Nearly Perfect","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  My favorite Asian title of all-time and one of my favorites ever.  I found To Live to be an emotional experience that I didn't want to end.  The story, images, and characters are all haunting and beautiful.  This film is in the true tradition of Asian cinema where the story take center-stage and is supported by the visuals.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This is Gong Li's best movie (in my opinion)","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I just dug this movie out of storage after about a year and was searching databases to see if it is available on DVD yet. I am trying to replace many of my favorite movies and this is high on the list. I have been following Gong LI's career as closely as possible (which can be difficult since she is not as big a name here in the US as in China...of course). I find this movie to be her masterpiece, and place it above most others because of it's story. Many of the themes of Chinese movies come in the form of unrequited love as in Red Firecracker, Green Firecracker, Ju Dou, Farewell My Concubine; and although I find these fascinating and beautiful movies, they do not have the scope and history of To Live. This movie takes you through the Communist revolution, without preaching political dogma. The simple lives of traditional people are torn apart and yet they each manage to remake themselves in a new age without losing what they were. Taken through a whirlwind of change they are deposited on the other side, changed in many ways, yet still intact. It has a bittersweet yet fulfilling ending, and I would recommend this film to anyone,...and don't wait until it comes out on DVD. "},{"Title":"Enjoy it to the most","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Well, what can I say. Some of the best films I´ve seen has been made in China or Japan. We in the west world really have something to learn from movies made in for example China like slow pace in the narrative and story... Also so called endings without an end...This film is beautiful, stunning, and entertainment. It moves you, makes you think and the impression can only be this was a superb movie!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Wonderful, and correctly recommended","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A friend recommended this to us, and we're glad he did, as the story and characters are as engaging as one could wish. While the 'action' and 'story' is slow-paced, it allows you to really feel the struggle of the family to re-orient themselves in a constantly changing world.  The scenes are longer than the conventional length of a North American Film's scenes, and that also allows us to experience the reality of the characters' moment. Wonderful cinematography, great art direction (especially the chillingly ironic use of Mao icons), superb direction, and strong acting.  See this film to learn about how life is simple you have a few problems, people die, you find away to carry on -- you find a way to live. "},{"Title":"An epic Chinese film following a family from the 40's to the 70's.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Many people ask me how I liked China, and I imagine a good response would be, It's like watching this film.  For both experiences are difficult, tiring, and confusing, but offer some memorable laughs and an education well beyond that of textbooks.To Live is a film well worth the price of setting aside two and a half alert hours.  Like many epic foreign films (cf. Underground), To Live shoves its viewer through three decades and scores of incidents much quicker than the American cinema would think possible.  We learn about the characters not through their dialogue and actor characterizations, but through their actions in the scores of vignettes we see span their lives.The film begins in the forties, while China was still under imperial control, and follows one couple through the fifties, when communism took over, to the tragedy of the cultural revolution in the sixties.  The well-cast family experiences few joys, and many tragedies and deaths, with the last death in the film one of the greatest ironies I've ever seen in cinema.To Live is infinitely more valuable because it came from the country it talks about.  Although tiring at times to Western attention spans, it's portrayal of Chinese life during its difficult times is invaluable to anyone who claims to want to understand world affairs and human nature and suffering. "},{"Title":"I could spend the rest of my life watching their lives...","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  'To Live' is an epic film that defies definition or genre.  It's the story of the struggle for balance in life.  The life of this family is thrown down from so high, only to come back up to a happy median.  They are so plagued with tragedy and blessed with fortune, as is life.The regret and hope you see in these people makes you just love them.  I could spend the rest of my life watching their lives.Zhang Yimou not only knows how to create a masterpiece on film, he knows where to end it.  Movies should end, not have an ending.  The only appropriate ending for a movie is death or apocalypse, because only then is there no more.  However, Zhang Yimou brought us to a point where the movie ends, and we know that life will continue in the same fashion that it always has  with inconsistencies in joy and pain.This is, by far, one of the ten best films EVER made, and, I feel, Zhang Yimou's best work.10/10 "},{"Title":"Touching Real-life Drama","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  An amazing film that spans decades in the life of one Chinese family. Fuguai starts as a young married man who gambles away his father's/family's house despite his young wife's fears and protests.  She leaves him and while she is gone, he changes his life, working on the streets just to get by. When she realises that Fuguai has changed, Jaizhen comes back with his daughter and young son whom she has nicknamed Don't Gamble.  Fuguai, while doing puppet shows to support his family, is captured by the anti-communist army and forced to fight.  When the army is decimated by the communists, Fuguai and his friends join the communists and entertain them with their puppet shows.  When he is finally able to join his family, the man who won his house from his gambling is shot in a public anti-counter-revolutionary manifestation and Fuguai expresses his gratitude for his poverty.The film then follows the trials of the family through the decades of communism until the son is killed in a freak-accident by Fuguai's childhood friend-turned commissioner.  A very sad time for the family, but they enjoy happiness with their daughter who marries and finally dies in childbirth.  A very tragic tale of happiness despite poverty and tragedy and a film full of courage.  It ends with Fuguai and Jaizhen happy with their son-in-law and Grandson, Little Bun.If you ever wondered what it was like to live in a completely foreign country, what it was like to be someone else, or what it means to be a human being, this is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Epic Filmmaking of the Highest Calibre!","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is without a doubt Zhang Yimou's masterpiece.  I saw To Live many years ago, but it is a film which still haunts my mind.  What most impressed me about this film was its ability to focus on both the intimate story of a family, and the larger historic forces which surrounded this family. Also, the acting, as expected, from Gong Li, was great.  This is a very emotional, sometimes difficult to watch, but ultimately rewarding film about the strength of family. "}{"Title":"A Moving Epic","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  One must have lived through the Communist system to really appreciate the courage it takes to make such a film in a Communist country. History is still in making and there have been many come backs of the conservative forces in China. Creators may pay with their careers, liberty or even life for such a sincere open approach to the history of China in the last fifty years. The makers of this film deserve all our respect for this is probably the most openly critic film towards the system that I saw made in Communist China.But beyond all this is a very good film. The whole history of China in the second half of the 20th century is re-told through the eyes of a couple who live, love, and somehow survive all the dramatic times their country goes through. And although the price they pay is huge - they are losing dear people, they must make terrible compromises, give up their dreams - they keep their humanity and the final message is one of hope. It is not only private hope, but also the hope of a whole people to survive the tougher of the times of trouble, remaining true to its tradition and humanity.The film is very well acted and directed. The story line is a little melodramatic, but there are so many memorable scenes and lines, that make it for the aparent lack of complexity. This is certainly one of the best Chinese movies I have seen, and the Chinese cinema provided in the last ten years or so some of the true great creations of world cinema. 9/10 on my personal scale.  "},{"Title":"Sorrounded by culture and great acting","Date":"18 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Wow, I see a lot of good movies in school&#133;Anyways, To Live is a fantastic depiction of life in China during communism. Although the entrance and duration of the Communist Revolution creates a serious atmosphere in this film, there are still some funny moments due to the well developed characters. In my opinion, Fugui who is a simple and funny man was the best character. He is naturally the head of his family (being father and husband) and was an entertainer during the tumultuous times of war. A very invaluable asset to the movie is his possession of these elaborate Chinese puppets. They are very extravagant and graceful, and he uses them to put on puppet shows. He breathes life into their characters by shrieking their dialogues in a somewhat off-keyed classical tune which would be horrible if the whole intent of these displays weren't for arousing laughter. I loved how those scenes in the movie were an integration of tradition and comic-relief. Therefore, I enjoyed the experience although it carried some tragedy (communism is clearly no good- a purely utopian concept). Therefore, I advise everyone to watch it. "},{"Title":"Life under the Chinese Communists","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I am half way through the eight-film collaboration of Yimou Zhang and Li Gong. They have worked together to make some excellent films, and this is no exception. It won at Cannes and at BAFTA, and was a Golden Globe nominee.It is not a lavish production with brilliant cinematography and splendid costuming as other works. It is more in the style of Ju Dou.You Ge, who won a Best Actor at Cannes for his role, is Fugui. He loses his family fortune due to a gambling addition and is homeless after his wife (Jiazhen) leaves with her child and child-to-be.Jiazhen (Li Gong) returns to Fugui after the birth of their son and he sets off to do a town-to-town road show with his puppets. He soon finds himself a prisoner of the Nationalist Chinese and, when they all run away before a battle with Mao's army, he is their prisoner. He ends up doing shows for them until the war ends and he returns home.This is where the film really gets interesting. First, you have the people's revolution, then there is the Great leap Forward, and finally, the Cultural Revolution. The same people are involved, but the attitudes keep changing. You may be a party official one day and an enemy of the State the next depending up which era you are in. In a sense, it it hilarious, but the people had to live through this and the impact on the lives of Fugui and Jiazhen are what the film is about. The constant fear that you will say or do the wrong thing is always present.The joys and sorrows of this family are celebrated and embraced by the viewer, and you come away with a richer understanding of the people. "},{"Title":"outstanding drama, very real","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" I have read numerous works on China and was a teenager during the truly strange and bizarre times of the cultural revolution when everything had to have a 'revolutionary' spin on it. the authorities decided for instance that house cats were 'bourgeoise' and went about eradicating them. forgetting the 'bourgoise' felines all had part time jobs clearing out the mice from their abode.the personal struggles portrayed are very real to the Chinese people, they are the longest culture and nation still in existence. they invented paper currency (which requires a great deal of political and social stability), huge advances in astronomy and the civil service, all of which we still have today.but for the common folk who do the back breaking arduous task of surviving and triumphing over adversity, there is no glory or accolade, just personal reward and moments of joy. and the will to take on the task of building for the future for the sake of the next generation and the one after that.Gong Li is one of the single most outstanding actresses I have EVER watched on screen. her list of films include Red Lantern and Concubine and she is still exceptionally attractive at 40 years and learning English now which will increase her opportunities.very gut wrenching captivating depiction of a time not long ago that shaped the most populous and one of the most ambitious and hard working nations in history. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" To Live begs it's audience for compassion, empathy and teaches us the meaning of penance, faith and duty. It is a remarkable story of a man who made a mistake at the wrong time and suffers to make it right by his family despite events around him that are beyond his control.I've seen 'To Live' many times. Among Yimou Zhang's movies, I feel it's one of his best, and it is on par with 'Not One Less' and 'Hero'. Beautiful cinematography-as with all Zhang Yimou movies- beautiful music, touching story. 'To Live' always makes me sad, because it is a terrible tragedy. Without the crucial element of bad timing, it wouldn't have been much of a story. That's all I can say without revealing anything specific. "},{"Title":"A simple Chinese life story of the old days can give you lots of feelings and tears...","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  It is a touching story about how a man had tried his best to survive for himself and his family when China was in convulsions.  This is one of those Chinese stories in the old days.  And the protagonist is already one of the lucky ones (he had a time of enjoying wealthy life; without any physical/mental damage).  It is unimaginabale to today's people.  Those days (especially in cultural revolution) were even darker than any other country's dark period.Frankly saying, I rarely get touched by a movie.  But this one is the one that moves my tears every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"A must see.  Great story and beautifully made (sad story).","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  It's so sad but so true. It's just breaks your heart in the way that you don't need to scream for the pain, but you know that, deeply inside, your heart is bleeding.  After seeing this movie, you'll know what's really important in your life and wouldn't be bothered by the unnecessary little things. "},{"Title":"soft but still get the point","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  i've watched the other chinese films that set through out cultural revolution from the other 5th generation director, Farewell My Concubine and Blue Kite, and all i can say is that To Live tell what happened there in more sophisticated way, he tell us softly and gently, but still satire enough, to help us to get the point of what happened without such chaos scene that really rip my heart, how terrified was there at that time.this is the great film, the drama well written..the sad, the happiness, the frightened, the joy.. all perfect!! the character just as it is. Ge You..what so funny face and expression he had. he's good, no wonder he won Best Actor at 1994 Cannes for this film. Gong Li..hmmm i don't know why i really stunned to her. when she's happy in this film, i feel the same happiness too. seemingly..she draw her smile to my smile..)at last, i'm the great fan of Yimou.. hope he can create more film in the future that as good as it made when he was with Gong Li. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie - a must see for everybody","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  wowI saw this movie about three years ago, just old enough to appreciate the magic of foreign and independent filmmaking.  If memory serves me, this was the second or third foreign film I had seen, trailing after the excellent oscar winner (!) Life is Beautiful and another Zhang Yimou film, The Story of Xio Ju (pardon my spelling, im in a hurry.This film is intense, right up there with Traffic and The Silence of the Lambs.  However, this makes it all the more engaging.  In a simple plot summary, the film is about the long steps of the Chinese Cultural Revolution, led by the infamous notorious Communist Chairman Mao.  The film covers every aspect of the amazing point in Asian history through one family's story, starting with the rise and oddly sudden fall of a rich landlord with a strong gambling habit.  The minute you hear Master Fugui, you've lost, one is immediately indulged into the world of China early 1900s.  The film was made during Zhang Yimou's GOOD phase, under the umbrella with The Story of Xio Ju and Raise the Red Lantern.  His direction is amazing, right next to Stanley Kubrick and Richard Kelly (though we'll see how he turns out), even though his style is quite different.  He has a wonderful, character driven tecnique that makes us take a dive into their amazing lives.  Unfortunately, he lost this unique style in the average Shanghai Triad (though eleven may have been too young for that), the lingering and barely decent Not One Less, and the painfully flavorless and dull The Road Home.  Hopefully Yimou can get over his break up with his longtime girlfriend and star (who is in this movie and plenty others, her last being Shanghai Triad), Gong Li.To Live is on my favorites list, and I have strong feeling that it won't ever budge.  If you're in for GREAT movie, go to your local video store (Buckbuster won't carry this one), pop it in the VCR, and be prepared to look at life a whole new way "},{"Title":"Redeeming","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  People who are used to Zhang Yimou's films are probably also used to the endings of his movies not making any sense.  Brace yourselves for the shock of closure without plot holes.  There isn't enough visual work to show off some of the settings (something people who have seen his movies before are also probably used to), including scenes in the gambling hall, of wounded soldiers by a battlefield, and of a local foundry.  It would help viewers to know a little bit about the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution. Also, the edits cut away from some actors too quickly (especially away from Gong Li, the lead actress, in early scenes in the movie), and some of the acting looks bad as a result.  However, Ge You, the lead actor, gives a really amazing performance; he emotes very forcefully and very naturally. Overall, it is a great movie, well worth watching. "}{"Title":"Beautiful & Courageous","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Great cinematography, great music, and Gong Li - who could ask for more? Of course, it's also a powerful story covering a good deal of recent Chinese history, and a great history lesson it is.  One of the things that struck me is how the politically correct forces in China had taken over and frightened the people so much that they dared not speak a word contrary to the party line (which could shift, without notice, at any moment). Political orthodoxy dominated the lives of the Chinese people, whether they had any interest in political matters or not.The fact that this film was banned in China, and Zhang Yimou & Gong Li were punished by their government, is proof (if more proof were needed) that authoritarianism is not yet dead in China.  If we're not careful, the same thing could happen here. "},{"Title":"Another fabulous movie from Zhang Yimou...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This fabulous story of a family in China, before and after the comunist revolution, is full of sensibility. I think that Z. Yimou knows exactly how to tell us the complete changing of vision that the revolution caused in the common people. The final scenes, showing the cultural revolution, are simply perfect, mixing the confusion of that times and also the hope that never dies in the heart of the protagonists. It's also remarkable the work of Gong Li as the faithful wife that always help her family to go on. For me this is probably the best chinese movie I've seen. "},{"Title":"Powerful piece that depicts the struggles of life and to live","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  To Live takes place mid century in China just after the second world war. The story line follows the Xu family and the hardships that befalls them.It illustrates to what lengths people had to adapt and convert  to in order to survive under Communist rule (especially during the cultural revolution). Old friends and even family had to form divisive lines between themselves in order to save themselves from possible prosecution.The acting and the interactions of the three main protagonists Li Gong, You Ge and Deng Fei are masterful and stirring.  To Live is as good a film representing that time period as any other.  Definitely on the same plateau as Farewell My Concubine "},{"Title":"A great movie, both uplifting and really really sad.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  I just watched this movie with a few friends of mine.  Having seen many other Chinese sob-story films, it was no big deal, but my friends (who've never seen them before) were really sad and broken up near the end.  Nonetheless, we all agreed it was a really excellent film.  Definitely one of the best. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, simply brilliant!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Don't waste your time reading this. See this movie instead,  then reevaluate your own life.  I sat enthralled.  I was certain that the movie would attempt to make a political message, but it took the high road and made a far more important life message instead.  The acting and direction was so pure that I never doubted the movie for one moment.  I was a part of their lives.  I will never forget this  "},{"Title":"Breathtakingly Beautiful, Heartbreakingly Personal","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This is as close to a perfect film as I've ever seen, foreign or otherwise. Beautiful photography, and a story that is incredibly heartbreaking and uplifting at the same time. Whether you are Chinese or not (I'm not), this film will give you an appreciation for your own sense of history and place. Be warned, this is also a three hanky film. To this day it is the only movie I have ever shed a tear at and, even though I know what's coming, I still cry like a baby every time I see it. "},{"Title":"Riches lie in simplicity","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Zhang Yimou has painted a pair of wonderful lives that endured the Communist Civil War, the Great Leap Forward, and the Cultural Revolution.  Fugui (Ge You) and Jiazhen (Gong Li) live simple lives, yet those lives are so full of richness.  Sometimes it is painful, sometimes it is humiliating and sometimes it is disappointing, but it is living. All North American Chinese should watch this film to understand our people, our families and ourselves.  "},{"Title":"The changing path of life","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Is our duty to be accountable to the people. Being accountable to the people means that every word, every action and policy as ours, must be consistent with the interests of the people. And if we make mistakes, we correct them.These are passionate words of Mao Zedong, uttered a few years before proclaiming the People's Republic of China following the triumph of the revolution that the same leader. Like all well-intentioned words of all world leaders, these are not fulfilled to the letter, because the rulers represent the head of chess, but many parts of the government stake, but those have to answer for some of his acts. And, middle managers, many mistakes, excesses and violations of the laws, can be committed by ignorance, dishonesty or abuse of authority... Of course, there will be orders that come from the top and that, conversely, are the media employees who bear the responsibility.Zhang Yimou, without doubt one of the most qualified directors of contemporary cinema and perhaps the number one in China, seems to have the best memories of the Cultural Revolution and movies like Ju Dou or Raise the Red Lantern which, as this, critics buried the unfortunate actions of the regime, have cost censorship and close supervision to all their projects. ¡LIVE! is very accurate recreation of the life of a modest family, over several decades that started in the 40'... just on the eve of the People's Revolution. And Yimou accomplished effectively, and with very specific actions that play with feeling, with the freedom of action and expression, and the denial of certain rights, a plea to make it clear that strikes, a full three inches below the breastbone. Gong Li, his muse, his girlfriend and her lover, for several years, Jiazhen embodies the typical woman firm, clear in its objectives, able to survive with courage and fortitude to the worst tragedies. Her husband, Fugui, resembles a bird of ill omen, and the love between them seems born to those who lived no closer. Full of variegated hues, the Xu family life is intense, and she - like any other Family - emerge roses and thorns, while, with great subtlety, Yimou is giving subtle details of the oppression that obscures the legendary, and no doubt significant, under Mao. And if anyone wants to see indirect allusions to what the Chinese now live, you may find something that makes you nod.And there are things like perseverance brings reward, and the good that is hidden in all evil, or as inherent serenity to accept what goes against what is expected, this inspiring film, let us reach for a good reflection.And remember ¡Whatever happens, you must live!, ¡This is the decision of the brave! "},{"Title":"Great beginning...","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  At first I thought this was going to be one of those surprise great films.  The beginning was gripping and taut, and even the first hour seemed full of promise, but frankly I started to feel a bit let down as the story got into the sixties (it's divided up by decades).  There were also a few too many moments that were akin to soap opera for my taste.But on the other hand I got to watch that magnificent photography that seems to be one of Zhang Yimou's hallmarks.  When I watched Red Sorghum several months ago, I marvelled at the scene where the camera tracks a man running at breakneck speed through a field of sorghum.  How in the world did they film that? I wondered, and still do.  Little did I realize that the cinematographer was--Zhang Yimou!  His extraordinary talent as a cameraman certainly shows in every film of his I've seen, especially this one, which has a succession of absolutely breathtaking scenes, notably two panoramic views of a battlefield that are fully worthy of Kurosawa.  Every frame in this movie seems to be composed with careful attention to detail and dynamic composition.  For its visual aspect, I'd rate it eleven!  As it is, due to the tedium the story eventually induced in me--and I admit it's mainly a question of my own taste here--I rated it an eight.I still think this man must be one of the great cinema geniuses of all time.  He can't produce enough films to suit me--occasional narrative tedium and sentimentalism notwithstanding. "},{"Title":"THE BEST MOVIE IN CHINA","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  Well,I love this movie very much.I don't know how to express my true feeling by my poor english.I just want to sayIt's the best movie in China. "}{"Title":"A very well- done historical film","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  This film tries to do many things. It tries to get smypathy for the main characters, it tries to show symbolism, it tries to show the hardships of a certain time in history. And it succeeds in all of these, and on top of it all it is well- acted and well- made. The script is excellent, with very nice settings for each character. The two most notable performances are Gong Li and the main character, whose name I can't quite remember. They both add such an amazing flow to the story and do such a terrific job. The photography, even though this film is supposed to take place in the bustling streets of Communist China, still is used very well. The scene that comes to mind the most is when the CMT is chasing down the two soldiers, it is stunning. The direction also helps out direly, by providing symetrical symbolism, e.g. the puppets. Overall, it's a breathtaking film that is only hurt by the occasional slow pace here and there and the ending. Oh and this film is MUCH better then Ju Dou. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Tragic, Heatbreaking, A must see.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" Spoilers Having watched only 3/4 quarters of the film, I still was stunned by what has happened.The film as I read the comments starts with Jiazhen marrying Fugui. After that, Fugui started gambling and lost everything. His wife left and he had to change his life style. Therefore, in other words he went from rich to poor.He makes a living through puppet shows and when captured by Nationalists (Republic China), he became a soldier. There he, an old soldier and his childhood friend survived through a cold winter night.After their sleep, they realised that the Nationalists fled but it was later on that they all died. In a few moments, Communists captured them. Having only puppet shows to offer, he entertained the soldiers and soon came back to his family.Upon his arrival, he greeted his daughter only to find out that she is a mute. His wife, Jiazhen, cried with joy when he appeared in her doorsteps.The film also depicted China's history and it is effect on Fugui's family. Throughout the 50's Fugui's only son died because, Chunsheng (childhood friend) slammed the jeep against the wall accidentally. After the funeral, Jiazhen blamed herself she should have never let her son go to the school for Steel production.Into the 60's, Chunsheng's wife suicided and Chunsheng himself wanted the same fate. Fugui enlightened him and soon Chunsheng left.Later on in the 60's and 70's, Fugui's daughter was married to a cripple. And she gave birth. During the 60's or 70's, they had the Cultural Revolution and the hospital did not have any doctors. Only scholars. Having acknowledged it, Fengxia's husband, Erxi, came back with Professor Wang. Fugui went to him and asked him a few question, the professor said he was hungry and Fugui went out and bought 7 buns. After giving the buns to Professor Wang. Fengxia gave birth and it was a boy 3.6 kg if I could remember it correctly.When Erxi was congratulated by his Comrades (friends and fellow soldiers) Fengxia had a haemorrhage and the Scholars did not know what to do. Fortunately, there was a professor, but he was sick due to eating the buns quickly. When given water he was even worse.Tragically, Fengxia died. Fugui blamed himself for giving Prof. Wang water. The doctors later said 'One bun and water is the equivalent of 7 buns without water.' Fugui thought' I must have given him 49 of them then. No wonder he was sick.' The nurses thought they could handle the childbirth but was not prepared for an emergency. In addition, when the Professor was bought to their attention before the childbirth, he was treated as if he did not exist. *What irony*. When Fengxia had a haemorrhage, they turned to the Professor for help. *Such Irony*At the end, their grandson and son in law visited Fugui and Jiazhen visited Youquing (her son) and Fengxia's graves. Youquing was given dumplings for offerings and Fengxia was given a photo of Her son every year.Very sad movie and story. One of the movies that came close to bringing me a tear.  "},{"Title":"That's not a true story","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  If you did not read the novel, it's a touching story for foreigners or young people with no impression of the past of China.  If you read the novel, the film told an entirely different story.  I was confused that the author of the novel is also the script writer.  It's a shame for him to do so.I think Zhang and the author changed the story to make possible the movie shown in China.  It's ridiculous that the movie, which was distorted, was forbidden, while the novel which tells a true story ,was not.Zhang is definitely not care for his people, when you watch his most recently movie Hero.Also Gong Li is not a typical Chinese woman, maybe in the eye of western she is ,but not in that of local Chinese. "},{"Title":"Another gem from the team of Yimou and Li.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A sedate political  swipe at the Chinese system is disguised under the pretence of a grand scale soap opera. You may think this film is propaganda but look again. For ever good deed there is a subtle backlash. The performances are controlled and the direction is gentle.  "},{"Title":"marvelous ordinary film","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" This film is an exceptionally well-made film about an ordinary Chinese family from just after WWII until the 1970s. This takes it from pre-Communist China through the revolution and the Cultural Revolution to just before the death of Chairman Mao. All this is shown through the perspective of this peasant family. And, because they are peasants, it is generally non-critical of the government--through it all, they are devoted to the Chairman and don't do a lot of questioning during the country's excesses. However, this really isn't a weakness in the film, as this was pretty much the reaction from the common person.The film excels with wonderful performances, beautiful music (sounding a bit like the music of Kitaro) and cinematography. This was a lovingly made and interesting slice of Chinese life. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, but...","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" OK everyone here did a great job emphasizing the pluses of this movie and they are a lot, and I agree with them. What I didn’t like about this movie is that the main characters (especially the male one) don’t distinguish themselves by anything but stupidity. He was a gambler and did absolutely nothing to stop the consequences that his habit led to. While he was rich, he treated his pregnant wife like trash. She came to the nightclub imploring him to stop gambling but he ignored her and suggested the owner to get her out, and went on gambling until he lost his house. Later, when he was broke, she, for reasons that I cannot for the life of me understand, returned to him. From what I saw he did absolutely nothing to redeem himself. It was somehow suggested that he stopped gambling, but for God’s sake, he had nothing left to gamble, he couldn’t gamble no matter how hard he would have wanted to. Later he learnt to sing in order to earn this living, and this may be counted as a slight achievement, although if you ask me, his performance could have easily earned him an award as the worst singer ever, his alternate whining and squealing, can hardly be qualified as singing, even by Chinese standards. Later he was drafted to war, then willingly became a prisoner, then incorporated in the big communist family. So, apart from gambling his way to poverty, treating his wife like garbage, learning to squeal like a goat in distress, beating his children, and later on stuffing the doctor that might have saved his daughter’s life with buns and hot water to his collapse, he did absolutely nothing with his life. His wife seemed to have a bit of common sense, the only lack of common sense she showed when she decided to sheepishly follow this caricature of a man. So, sorry if I seem to wipe my feet on your favorite film, I am not, as I said, it’s great in many aspects, but this is what I don’t like about it. "},{"Title":"Too Ambitious by Half","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":" My disbelief resisted suspension. For one thing, no wife, anywhere, would be dumb (or masochistic) enough to return to such an irredeemable reprobate. Also, since Everyman's misery was self-inflicted, he never seemed worthy of redemption. The scenes of the Civil War seemed gratuitous plot-padding. I could go on, but to my taste, Japanese movies of the 1950s were much more subtle than this episodic, overambitious oeurve manqué. De gustibus non est disputandum. Line added to meet silly 10-line requirement. Line added to meet silly 10-line requirement. Line added to meet silly 10-line requirement. Line added to meet silly 10-line requirement. "},{"Title":"Chop fooey","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, War","Review":"  A really big chunk-of-Chinese-life flick and open ended narrative, To Live follows a married working class Chinese couple from the late 40's through the cultural revolution into the 70's. Unfortunately the film can't seem to find it's niche as it slips mercurially from comedy to drama never quite knowing when it's serious; a foible with is further confounded by the old school Chinese melodramatic style, characters who do everything by knee jerk, contrived scenes (particularly the war scenes), nebulous political undercurrents, and the no moral or message. Although the film received accolades from critics and public alike, I just couldn't get my head into this silly, wandering tale which I watched on the heels of Xiu Xiu The Sent Down Girl, a much better pic IMHO. Recommended only for those really into Chinese film. (C+) "}]