[{"Title":"Little Women in it's own right","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"74 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Though some may argue that the older classic versions of Little Women with Katherine Hepburn and June Allison may be better because it sticks to the book, this is the only version that captures the spirit of the book.Though the filmmakers took license to cut away certain specifics, the end result is an absolutely gorgeous film that stands on it's own completely. One would be able to watch this film without ever having read or known the book and seen it as it's own film.The film thrives on small scenes and nuances, moments of person to person contact, production design and cinematography, the all important score (which adds a great deal to the film). This delicate and complicated symbiosis between all aspects tactfully and poignantly creates the story, something missing from many movies these days which creates a tangible and effervescent emotional layer. Then the acting of one of the best ensembles to hit the screen in a long time. Keep an eye out for Susan Sarandon and Claire Daines in roles that ought to have been nominated along with Ryder. These actors create people that endear themselves to us, and make the film even more than it could have been.It's a small scale masterpiece that will leave you in tears. The film is honest and true in it's portrayal of human emotion. It went from being an adaptation of the book to it's own story and portrayal of people and their lives. It's beautiful aesthetically and dramatically, and a real gem of a film.  "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and true to the book","Date":"12 February 2006","Score":"43 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women is a gem of a movie, encompassing comedy, drama, and romance into one well-made film that is true to Louisa May Alcott's literary classic. It follows the lives of the four March sisters, from the turbulence of youth, the turmoil and romance of adolescence, the joy of love, and the pain of loss. The quality of this movie depends entirely upon the chemistry between the actors, and it accomplished this with success. The film is a vignette of scenes throughout the sisters' lives, showing their relationships with one another and with the people around them.Winona Ryder is the quintessential Jo, the tomboyish, spirited sister who dreams of becoming an accomplished writer. She brings a refreshingly sweet, human touch to the character, who is as impulsive and headstrong as she is ambitious and loving. Ryder carried the film beautifully, and much of its success is due to her.Trini Alvarado made a very pretty and convincing Meg, the dependable older sister, although she is not so set on marrying for money as she is in the book. Claire Danes as sweet, selfless Beth, really shone in one heartbreaking scene that is impossible not to cry through. For her performance as the spoiled youngest sister, Amy, the very young Kirsten Dunst showed remarkable potential, and brought humor to the character.Christian Bale as Laurie was everything the boy next door should be handsome, kind, and charming. His chemistry with Winona Ryder was considerable, and made their friendship very believable. Susan Sarandon played a wonderful Marmee, supportive and loving towards her girls.Another thing I would recommend is the soundtrack to this movie, composed by Thomas Newman, which has some gorgeous music on it.10/10 "},{"Title":"a triumph","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"34 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I hear it's really hard to turn a book into a movie, and even as a viewer, I notice this. You can keep the book and lose a movie, or you make a movie and lose a book.  But this balances and keeps the essence of the book and creates a miraculous movie that works on every single level.It's depth, it's warmth, it's beauty (from aesthetics to costumes to storyline), it all works. I saw this movie before I read the book, and my mom, a big fan of the book loved it, so did my dad who had never read it.Unlike a lot of period classics that are turned into films, this one has no rigidity or  boring spots, and it doesn't feel like the dime a dozen period films out there that re-use the same costumes and replay the same stories. It flows and invites you into the world of these girls, making the 1860s and the March family intensely real.Fabulous acting by an ensemble cast completes this film. Winona Ryder was inspired casting, and in my opinion makes the best screen Jo ever. She's feisty, strong, tomboyish, but has a warmth and grace about her that I feel Katharine Hepburn and June Allyson (the most famous Jo's) didn't have and suits the character wonderfully. the best thing about these characters is that they endear themselves to you, something many movies lack. Great ensemble as well Susan Sarandon, Christian Bale, Claire Danes (at 14, believe it or not), Eric Stoltz, Kirsten Dunst, Trini Alvarado, Susan Wickes, Gabriel Byrne all of them are incredible, and fit perfectly.And if you can get through Beth's death scene without crying, you're pretty tough. It's a scene that doesn't pull sentimental melodrama, but plays honestly and goes to that heartbreaking sadness of losing someone. And the geranium petals and dolls and Thomas Newman's brilliant score finish off the scene, and I think makes it one of the greatest scenes in any film of the last 10 years (and they didn't even include it in the 75th Oscars montage, tsk tsk). The ending is incredibly lovely, and as James Lipton of the Actors Studio says, only needs those three words to coney everything that needs to be said.This is a beautiful film. It's inviting, but not overly sweet, and though nothing too exciting happens, still very fulfilling and entertaining; it can be very bittersweet, but it is a joyful film, and says a lot about people and our emotions and our lives and yet is not confrontational in the least. It pulled out themes and messages which are often looked over out of one of the world's most famous books and made a lasting work of art that touches your heart. "},{"Title":"I have always loved Little Women this is a wonderful rendition.","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  The actors did a wonderful job.  The wardrobe, scenery, furniture --- everything seemed authentic. I smiled, laughed and cried!!!!!! I really enjoyed watching this movie.   Susan Sarandon was just perfect (as usual)I usually don't like remakes of any movie, but this one was wonderful!!! "},{"Title":"Wow, what do you know?  A worthy remake!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I've seen the original, starring Katherine Hepburn as Jo which was directed by George Cukor in (what seems to be) 1901.  That's an excellent version of this story, a real classic.Maybe the story just needed a 'new coat of paint' to spruce it up a bit because it sure does seem new and worth telling again. Winona Ryder has to carry the movie, more or less, and gives a confident performance as the independent Jo.  Susan Sarandon is not around that much but makes a good Marmee.  Christian Bale is great, as always, and Trini Alvarado and Eric Stoltz round out the cast. You don't see Claire Danes that much, but then it becomes about her quite a bit as the story moves on.  A gift she receives for Christmas from a kindly neighbor could give your tearducts a workout, at the very least.Beautiful movie.  Could even be longer, and how many times can you say that about anything? "},{"Title":"Watching This Yields 'Rich' Results - A Wonderful Re-Make","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Rich is the word I would best use to describe this movie. It's rich   in cinematography with gorgeous scenery and interiors; rich in   characters with all good-hearted men and women of character; rich in   love for each whether its for family or for suitors and rich in   storytelling.    Yes, it's definitely more of a woman's movie than a man's, and not the   sort of thing I would normally enjoy, but this movie was so well-done   that I cannot say anything negative about it. In the modern-era of   film-making (late '60s to today), it is always a pleasure to see a   totally clean and nice movie.    The cast is excellent. It's nice to see Winona Ryder and Susan Sarandon   play wholesome roles, something they don't always do, but they do it   well here. Ryder is the star of this story although everyone gets   decent screen time. Ryder's character - the more independent,   feminist-type thinker - will always get preference anyway in a   Hollywood film. My favorite of the Little Women was Beth, the most   kind and compassionate one. Claire Danes' innocent face won me over.   The real beauty was the grown-up Amy, played by Samantha Mathis. Most   of her role, however, is seen as a young girl and played by Kirsten   Dunst, who has gone on to become a pretty famous actress. The other   sister is Meg, who is a solid, conservative woman and is played by   Trini Alvarado. Her role is the smallest of the four girls.    Sarandon's Mrs. Abagail 'Marmee' March, holds everyone together as   the mother and head of the household while her husband is off fighting   at War. She looks more like an older sister.    I liked the March daughters' suitors in here, too. First there was   Laurie or Teddy as he also was called by the girls. A young   Christian Bale played him. Then there was Gabriel Byrne as Friedrich   Bhaer. It was a bit strange hearing this Irishman play a part that   required a German accent. Eric Stoltz plays Meg's future husband, John   Brooke. He starts off as someone with a very stiff personality but   soon changes into a warm and good husband.    If this film appears slow in the first 20-30 minutes, hang in there   because it gets better and better as it goes along. This is just a   beautiful film with fantastic visuals and memorable story that should   bring a tear or two to your eyes by the end. Great storytelling usually   wins out, and that's the case with this movie. "},{"Title":"Perfectly cast, lovely","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This version of Little Women is lovely. Everyone is perfectly cast, and fans of the novel will be happy that it is quite true-to-book. Winona Ryder is perfect as Jo, quite equal to Katherine Hepburn's performance in the 1933 version. Susan Sarandon is wonderful (though I'm not sure Marmee would talk about 'restrictive corsets' to John Brooke). ) Christian Bale is an excellent Laurie, and Gabriel Byrne is wonderful as our Professor Bhaer. Kirsten Dunst and Claire Danes showed acting ability beyond their years. Trini Alvarado was a very pretty and sweet Meg. Samantha Mathis was a very pretty older Amy, but she could have been more lively. Eric Stoltz was a great John Brooke. I had never pictured Brooke with red hair, but it was nice. The rest of the cast was terrific, especially Mary Wickes as Aunt March. For once, Mary wasn't playing somebody's nurse or maid. )The music and cinematography were beautifully done. It was absolutely wonderful, and I highly recommend it (and the book of the same name). ) "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  When I saw Little women I noticed I had seen my favourite movie, I could not believe  a film where my favourite actors played together in one of the most beautiful stories ever written. Gilliam Armstrong`s adaptation is the best I`ve seen,the performances were incredible, specially, Winona Ryder and Christian Bale. But all of them where great, it also has a wonderful score, one of the most beautiful soundtracks I`ve ever heard, Thomas Newman did an excellent job, the script, made by Robin Swicord,is very loyable to the book by Louisa May Alcott.This film is beautiful in all its aspects, it was excellent the friendship and collaboration between all the actors, and for the first time most of them were played by actors of the same age as their fictional characters. The character of Jo has influenced me a lot, and I adore her, Winona Ryder did the best performance of his career, Christian Bale is the best Laurie I`ve ever seen, he did it great, he was so credible, it is difficult to understand why Jo refuses his marriage proposals, he was her perfect husband. Kirsten Dunst was quite OK like the young Amy, not so well done by  the older Amy, played by Samantha Mathis, who loses the joy and the energy of the young one. Eric Stoltz was incredible, although his role is a very supporting one. Gabriel Byrne was the perfect professor Baerh, he was great, he does perfectly a German accent. Susan Sarandon was brilliant like Marmee, and I think Claire Danes does an inolvidable performance, a bit ignored after the movie was realised. Trini Alvarado  is excellent like Meg. Not only the performances, but all the team that worked in the movie did a great job, the costumes were beautifully designed, the cinematography was brilliant. at least, what I have to say is that this movie has influenced me a lot, all the characters were lovely , the strength of Jo, her dreams of being a writter(I want to be a writer too), her way of think, her beauty,her power. I feel like if I was Laurie lots of times, Laurie is one of the most lovely male characters in the history of literature. And I think this is possible mostly because of Winona Ryder and Christian Bale. I couldn`t imagine a better couple of actors. An incredible and unforgettable movie. "},{"Title":"all time favorite","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I had to give this one a 10 rating. It is the best film of all time. I really love this one. It is extremely well casted. All the young actresses and actors are now megastars. All the colours are great the costumes and the lights and production designs. The PD is a dutchman!!! I listened to the directors commentary and I really learned that this was a project in which the makers put their hearts in. This film is all heart.Warm!To some people it may be a bit to sugarcoated. If you are a macho don't watch it. The rest of you .....don't miss it.If there are 10 things you have to do before you die reading the book and watching the film must be on that list.The title LITTLE WOMEN is nice but gives you the wrong idea. It's not just for little girls. "},{"Title":"This timeless classic pulls at the heart strings.","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  A film so beautiful, lovely, and true that it will remain in your heart long after.  All the parts played flawlessly, a location which is evocative of Alcott's beloved Concord, Massachusetts.  Family life at its best.  I highly recommend this film and the book written by Louisa May Alcott.  They are timeless classics. "}{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Mrs. March (Susan Sarandon) sits down on the floor during Christmas to read a letter and to light candles with her four children. Then they sit around the piano and play Christmas' songs. Outside is snowing as a beautiful music plays (Thomas Newman). And there's a lot of snow in Little Women, but it is not a film about Christmas or snowy weathers; it is about five women and how each of them face that exhilarating journey called life.The letter mentioned above comes from the girls' father, who is in War. At that time, daughters weren't used to say dad; father, they called him. They gathered in a big room and shared their illusions It's not the same without the presents, Meg (Trini Alvarado) explained. I'm desperate for drawing pencils, the little Amy (Kirsten Dust) said. I wish I didn't have to work for great aunt March, Jo (Winona Ryder) complained.Beth (Claire Danes), talented, quiet and always uninspiring, is asked What is your wish for Christmas?. I would like the War to end so father could come home, she replies; and all of the daughters want that too. They do have a nice piano, Beth adds, looking over the window where Laurie (Christian Bale) is playing. Laurie (the captive according to the girls) will be a dear friend of the family and the girls.They will all play together in a secret society that writes articles and carries on plays; they will all listen to Jo's stories waiting for the newest chapter, they will all have a constant smile on their faces, because they are nice persons. The girls, for example, know that they're not classy, but it doesn't bother them. However, they need to be presented in society, and find a man that wants them.A friend of Mrs. March comes one day and they're talking about the girls Meg needs to find a good man, she could; she has to attend to the events. Instantly, Jo runs down the stairs enthusiastically and tells something to her mom. Her friend interrupts And this one is getting wasted with so much reading. In fact, Jo is very intelligent and wise, destined for big things; and knows it and is proud of it.One day she and Meg go to an event and Jo tries to hide from classy boys and finds Laurie. They laugh, they dance, and years later when Laurie goes to college, Jo tells him I wish you didn't have to go. They look at each other and you could swear they are in love, but they haven't even kissed. Again, years later, he asks her to marry him, and she rejects him generating misunderstanding in the family. Life doesn't always go as it is supposed to.So Jo seeks for independence, going to New York, where she meets Friedrich (Gabriel Byrne), an old, humble German teacher. They both share the same interests, and he wishes to protect her. He advises her grandly about her story writing Write from life; from the deepness of your soul. When they first kiss, you can tell that Jo wants it, and you instantly feel bad for Laurie, because you think he is Jo's fate; but many of the girls' fate is betrayed and things don't always turn out right at the end of the road.Tragedies and moments of great happiness follow in the life of the Marches; uncertainties and twists. Mrs. March tries to be the core she always was and keep the family together, and it is Susan Sarandon's task fulfilled in this great portrayal of hers. With very little words spoken and a bunch of understanding looks, we know her character is a woman we should admire and look up to.Personally, I would also admire all of the girls, that fought for the life they wanted; restlessly. Trini Alvarado's Meg is determinedly confident in her decisions and not a quitter at all. Now look at 12-year-old Kirsten Dunst's Amy and 15-year-old Claire Danes' Beth, two performances that clearly show the gifted actresses they are now and what they will be. Same to be said of Christian Bale's Laurie.But it is, without question, Jo's life that was a little more detailed in Luisa May Alcott's novel. However, screenwriter Robin Swicord adapted the story so it could look general and Gillian Armstrong directed it with no focus on any specified character in this wonderful, marvelous movie.Nevertheless, it was Winona Ryder's name the only one before the film's title in the credits, and it was her performance the one that shocked everyone the most. The beautiful 23-year-old (she's still beautiful now) takes the responsibility of an adult and delivers an Oscar-caliber portrayal that will stay in my head for the rest of my life. Brilliant acting for an actress that still deserves an award she never got.The Marches' life is not the happiest of all. They make mistakes, they fall short, they suffer; but don't we all? "},{"Title":"Something that should be treasured","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" There are many, many reasons why I love this version of Little Women. The main one - or at least the most immediate - is the way the film looks. I love the soft lighting, the hair and costumes (I was astounded this year when I bought the DVD to hear on the commentary that Winona Ryder's hair was not her own but a wig! I never would have guessed it at all.) The male characters as much as the females, I do love the period costumes, and I'm impressed by the efforts the wardrobe department made to get everything so accurate. The girls were in impoverished circumstances, so the clothes they wear aren't new and look just as though they've been handed down from one sister to another. There are a few subtle touches in this film that I sometimes find a bit jarring, such as when Marmee is talking with John Brooke in front of Meg and mentions her disagreement with the idea of women wearing restrictive corsets, but that is really the only bit that I don't feel is quite right, and it is there to demonstrate Marmee's liberal attitude. I love the way the characters interact, although there perhaps isn't enough demonstration of why Laurie and old Mr. Laurence disagree. Jo and Amy act just like real sisters - they fight and provoke each other into arguments and disputes, and generally have a chance to make little digs at the other. Meg is the pretty - but yet also virtuous - one, and clearly the most socially at ease with the upper classes of the time, for instance reminding Jo Don't shake hands with people. It isn't the thing any more, and in the end - although she has to wait for a period of time that would seem endless today before marrying the man she loves - she opts for a poorer but obviously happier life. It would be very easy to simply say that Beth is not given anything dramatic or interesting to do, but that is the whole point of her character. She watches those around her do great and exciting things, and there is a sense that she herself is happy with that. Susan Sarandon's Marmee clearly holds this family together - the ideal mother figure, she is comforting, incredibly wise (I wonder if anyone has ever met anyone with all the wisdom she seems to have) and always on hand to encourage her girls in their quest to do as they please. The male characters are also interesting. John Brooke is stable and compassionate and sensible. Laurie (also known as Teddy just occasionally) can be quite an intense figure and I was amazed to find that Christian Bale was only about twenty when this film was released. It is as interesting to see the changes his personality goes through as it is to see those the girls go through. The Professor is a slightly unorthodox character and yet he complements Jo perfectly.I have watched this film many, many times now (so many, in fact, that I have sometimes been known to say the lines along with the characters as they say them) and I know I will watch it many more times in the future. It might perhaps be a bit of a holiday film but it's certainly worth watching for the feel-good factor it generates. "},{"Title":"This was a lot better then I thought...","Date":"20 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" When I was about 8 or 9, I got this as a gift for Christmas. Well, I thought I wouldn't be into it, but as soon as I actually took some time to watch it, I found that I was very wrong, and pretty soon, I wanted to show it to all my friends and family.It's just one of those movies that will stay in your heart forever. The acting was spectacular, and the story, which came from the original novel by Louisa May Alcott was enjoyable.Probably one of the things I liked best in this film was watching all the girls grow up, getting married, and one, eventually having children. There are some happy moments, then there are some that are quite sad, but either way, this is a very good film that I would recommend for just about anyone who is looking for a great family movie, or just something to watch on your own. "},{"Title":"If this film doesn't take your heart...nothing will!","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" And no I'm not exaggerating! I have been a Winona Ryder fan for many years and think this is her best performance, she persists with the character with great dedication, Jo March is one of literature's most famous heroine's and you get the idea that Ryder knows that fact very well. Susan Sarandon plays the saintly matriarch and keeps together the kind of family that you would gladly die for. Trini Alvarado, Claire Danes and Kirsten Dunst are admirable as Meg,Beth and Amy - Alvarado in particular giving grace and elegance to the responsible Meg. The score alone should be praised to high heaven because it's as beautiful and heart-warming as the film itself, Thomas Newman's 'Orchard House' is like listening to a brass band in a shopping mall at Christmas! A wonderful treat for the ears! Christian Bale was a good choice as the loyal but secretly lovesick Laurie. Gabriel Byrne is dignity personified as Professor Bhaer who proves the suitable match for Jo who is forever searching for something extraordinary - helpful to hopeless romantics when she eventually finds it in the very last scene. One which every upcoming writer (including myself) would almost sell their souls to experience! A marvellous film....WATCH IT!! "},{"Title":"Good movie about sticking together through thick and thin","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" LITTLE WOMEN, in my opinion, is a good movie about sticking together through thick and thin. If you ask me, the March women (Winona Ryder, Trini Alvarado, Samantha Mathis, Kirsten Dunst, Claire Danes, Mary Wickes, and Susan Sarandon) did a good job of doing just that. I don't think I could handle living in those days of war and poverty. It's hard for me to explain why. Well, it would probably be because I'm used to today's modern technology and whatnot. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was ideally cast, the direction was flawless, the production design was spectacular, and the performances were top-grade. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this good movie about sticking together through thick and thin. "},{"Title":"Magnificent!","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Overview Plot Excellent Characters Excellent Reasons to Watch Louisa May Alcott's Greatest treasure was Little Women, even though she declined writing the book at first. This film is a great treasure, beautifully done with an all star cast featuring academy award winner Susan Sarandon, Wynona Ryder, Kirsten Dunst, Claire Danes and Christian Bale.Basic Plot During Civil War America, Abigail Marmee March (Sarandon) and her four Daughters, Passionate Meg (Trini Alvarado), Spirited writer Jo (Ryder), fragile musician Beth (Danes) and Romantic artist Amy (Dunst and Samantha Mathis) try to get by while learning the lessons of life's agony and love's magic.Favorite Character Jo (Wynona Ryder), because she is an independent writer who is never afraid to speak her mind.10/10. Beautiful, touching and merry, Little Women is a triumph to all. "},{"Title":"A journey to adulthood","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I watched Little Women last night and for the first time in a very long time I viewed it as a film in it's own right, without being preoccupied with comparing it to the book. The first thing that struck me was the music. It makes one think of childhood, and I guess, for me, that is partly because the movie was released when I was a child. But it is beautifully melancholy score, evoking the nostalgia that is the true meaning behind this film. Jo is the main character, and the movie is truly the story of her growing up. When we first meet her she is an ambitious young writer, longing for transformation, to escape the confines of her family life. But at the same time Jo loves her family deeply, hence a conflict that rages in her for the better part of the movie, best shown in the scene where Mr. March has arrived home and Jo is sitting on the stairs watching the family, cut off from them by her fear of change, namely Meg marrying and leaving the family home, and in the scene where Jo explains to Marmee how trapped she feels. Meg and Amy are both desperate to grow up and leave home, but once they do, they feel closer bound to their family then ever; Amy brings back from Europe a painting of the family home. Beth never has this conflict - since neither desire nor ambition drive her from home and, in fact, she never actually grows up. Laurie is the love of Jo's childhood, Friedrich of her adulthood. Hence, on the cusp of adulthood, Jo rejects Laurie even though she loves him, rightly divining that they would live to regret marrying each other. In fact, Jo rejects her childish loves - Laurie and travel and family, in pursuit of an adult identity. Meg's journey is one from false dignity, a misguided idea of what is 'proper' and 'grown-up', to embracing true maturity. The girls do their best in a world not made for women's betterment. JoI'd commit murder to go to college Armstrong infuses the movie with more pro-feminist feeling than Alcott did in the book, but this seems to lead to the sad diminishing of the characters of Mr. March and Mr. Lawrence as if the title Little Women means the only characters that could possibly be of importance are the women and their love interests (yes, I'm back to referencing the book) The acting is good (except Samantha Mathis, who brings none of the life and sparkle to Amy that Dunst does) , the design beautiful, the directing faultless. All in all, a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"A worthy remake","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" In general, I don't like film remakes of books, but this is a great exception, because this movie is a complete masterpiece. It follows the March girls - Amy, Beth, Meg, and Jo - through their lives and loves.Kirsten Dunst's performance at a young age was brilliant for someone so young, and she was perfect to play Amy. She was a clever and funny girl in the book, and this came across really well in Kirsten's acting. Clare Danes, Winona Ryder and Susan Sarandon were also excellent in this, especially Clare and Winona. They are exactly as I can imagine Jo and Beth.It takes a lot to make me cry, and I absolutely sobbed at the scene when Beth died. It was so heart-wrenching, and I feel that the petals on the bed were a good touch to it.The whole story of Little Women - whether it be film or literary - is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The best version by far...","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  What can I say that hasn't been said before?  I simply love this movie.  I could watch it ten times in a row and still cry when Beth is gone.  I use to hate Claire Danes as Beth.  It infuriated me to no end that she was bigger than Jo, but as I got older and watched it with fresh eyes, I got over it.  I actually think Danes is the best cast Beth so far.  What I really love about this movie is the musical score and the costumes.  The hair is perfect as well, as the frizzies were allowed to be free.  I am offended by period movies where everyone's hair is perfect since they did not have hair spray back then.  I am glad Gillian Armstrong let the frizzies come out naturally! One flaw of this movie is when Jo yells at Amy using today's terminology.  I don't think the real Jo would say I'm going to kill you!  I hate you!  That seems very 1990's to me.  But other than that, this is the best Little Women you can see and it is destined to become a classic if it isn't considered one already. "},{"Title":"a real tearjerker","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  i'm not much for chick flcks or tearjerkers but i love this movie...i cry everytime beth getys the piano ,,and ive seen it a dozen times.. claire danes did a great job for a then 15 year old..... all the young actors in this movie did a great job.. "}{"Title":"Brilliant, brilliant! Praise behold!","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Little Women is, without a doubt, one of my favourite books. And this movie is, without a doubt, one of my favourite movies. It really makes the March house seem real! Winona and Clare are brilliant! Jo is one of the best characters in the entire cosmos. Amy could use a bit of work, because the older Amy was too different in personality. I know that the character changes, but Amy just seems like two different people. Oh, and Meg was wonderful - just as sweet, beautiful, and proper as I imagined! I might have chosen to film Amy's striking in more detail, perhaps inside the actual classroom, but they did it well too.And how could I forget - Beth drying! It was so sad! It always makes me cry! Extra, extra fantastic acting from Ryder and Danes. The music there is just so...moving.  The scene that rips my heart out is Laurie's proposal to Jo. It just makes me want to step in there, and MAKE Jo accept it! 10/10. No, scratch that, 11/10. "},{"Title":"Holiday Favorite","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  It has become a holiday tradition in my house to watch this movie. It ranks with It's a Wonderful Life although I know it doesn't center around Christmas or Thanksgiving. Perhaps it's because of the strong family message it sends. This is ideally what family is about - pulling together through thick and thin in order to stay strong. It is also a shining example of sticking with your convictions, even if you have to sacrifice. A must-see movie. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie for Girls of All Ages","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Jo March of one of the strongest female characters ever to hit the screen. Winona Ryder had a lot to live up to taking a role that was previously played by Katherine Hepburn and June Alyson (In a 1949 musical spin off). A movie that truly captures the spirit of American girls as they grow up and discover themselves and their strength.  In Little Women the March sisters Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy move through their lives in post Civil War Concord to coming out parties, New York City, Europe, marriage, and the great hereafter. Great performances by all involved including Susan Sarandon as Marmee, Christian Bale as Teddy, and Gabriel Byrne as Professeur Bahr. A beautifully shot movie with elaborate costumes and sets leaves this movie at the forefront of new classics.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I think this movie is an excellent version of Alcott's novel. I have never seen any of the other versions, but I would certainly say this one doesn't stray very far from the novel. I have read the novel and seen the movie, and found both very captivating. All of the actors do great jobs portraying their respective characters. I especially enjoyed the performances of Claire Danes and Christian Bale. I thought only people who had read the novel or enjoyed chick flicks would like this movie, but that isn't true~~my cousins watched this movie and liked it. I would certainly recommend that if you have never seen this movie or read the novel, please do. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I liked the fact that this movie was very true to the book.  The actors and actresses did very  good portrayals of the characters. Especially Christian Bale, he made Laurie so utterly endearing that you are begging Jo to say yes to his proposal.  Great job! "},{"Title":"magic made because of the great cast","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I remember I first watched this movie with my mother when it came out on video. Of course at the age of 13 I was unimpressed and uninterested, but now having watched this classic several times I can now take full appreciation of its beauty in all angles and measures.  This movie could have been pathetic and sappy,but instead it draws from the book beautifully the characters and attitudes that made the book one of the greatest of all time.  But I think the real magic is not in the script but in the cast.  Sarandon(marmy), claire danes(beth), and ericstoltz(john brooke) do an admirable job here, but I believe the true stars that make this a classic are first winona ryder(jo) who here plays her characterunlike any I have ever seen her play.  She plays it with such passion andfierceness.  Kirsten dunst(amy) is wonderfully sweet.  A little girl longing to fall in love and she does it with a grace and ability not very often seen in movies.Christian Bale(Laurie) does almost as great a job as winona ryder as hischaracter is one searching for purpose in life and love as well.  A life full of lessons is what he has but his rich upbringing and longing for Jo blinds him till its taken away from him and the veil is dropped for him to see what he has to learn.  And of course Gabriel Byre(friedrich) also does a great job and has a great chemistry with ryder that is unmistakable.  His soft hearted character plays well to jo's fierceness and the movie is better for it.  This movie without this cast would have been terrible but with it became one of the better adapted moviesfrom a novel in maybe forever.  The magic of it lives on through these actors and children who never heard of it will hear of the name Little Women and maybejust maybe will be compelled to read the book after seeing the movie. "},{"Title":"A beautiful written novel is turned into a timeless movie.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love the story of Little Women by Louisa May Alcott. This movie is a wonderful rendition of the book. I thoroughly enjoyed watching every moment of it. The acting was superb as were the sets. It followed closely to the book's script only leave for a short moment to add a romantic twist here and there.Very well done! This movie is a must see classic. ) "},{"Title":"Enchanted Remake A Perfect Classic for All Ages!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Director, Gillian Armstrong's 1994 rendition of Little Women is quite a show. This time around the film stars winsome Winona Ryder as Jo March, the pivotal heroine of Louisa Alcott's novel. The role was originally played by Katharine Hepburn in 1933, then June Allyson in 1949. Ryder's take is far less demonstrative and opinionated than either of the previous interpretations, but engaging nonetheless. The cast also includes Trini Alvarado (Meg), Kristen Dunst/Samantha Mathis (both playing Amy &#150; the first as an unscrupulous child, the latter as a matured young woman), Claire Danes (as the ill-fated, Beth), Gabriel Byrne (Prof. Baher &#150; to whom Jo eventually gives her heart), Christian Bale (Theodore Laurence, who originally falls for Jo, but settles on Amy), Eric Stoltz (as tutor John Brooks, who eventually marries Meg) and Susan Sarandon as Marmie.Despite my own affinity for the classics, I must admit that out of all the screen incarnations of this perennial favorite, this contemporary rendition most closely mirrors Alcott's plotting and character development. Director, Armstrong weaves all of the character's stories into one cohesive narrative that develops almost all the plot entanglements on an even footing &#150; unlike the 2 previous versions which were much more centered upon the exploits of Jo and her maturation into a woman of substance. Not that Armstrong lets us forget that Jo is of central importance to this version of the story. It's just that there's so much more to sink your thoughts into here. One is allowed the good fortune to revel in the understanding that develops between Meg and John, for example; or to explore the intimacy that develops between Lawrence and Amy, and the bittersweet epiphany that permits Jo to step out of her cloistered family existence and persevere at a life of divine independence for herself.Columbia's Special Edition DVD is a reprint of the movie only version &#150; this time loaded with extras. In brief, the transfer of Little Woman is near reference quality. Colors are deep, nicely balanced and richly saturated. Blacks are solid and smooth. Whites are clean. Flesh tones are always accurately rendered. Fine details are evident throughout, for an image that is at once sharp and crisp without becoming digitally harsh. The audio is 5.1 and engaging throughout. Extras include an isolated, music only track, director's commentary, several featurettes and a time line for historical novel and film developments. This is an outstanding DVD to own and one that will quite easily become a perennial Christmas favorite. It comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A total downgrade from the 1933 release","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This modern remake of Little Women is simply no match to the 1934 classic. Winona Ryder was pale, uninspiring and unnatural compared to Katharine Hepburn. It is utterly beyond me how Ryder was nominated for an Oscar for her role while Hepburn was not. Maybe this just shows how much movie-acting has degenerated -- after all, the year Ms. Ryder was nominated was the year of Forrest Gump. The four girls in this contemporary version appeared mostly chubby and mellow and looked perfectly like the middle class offsprings from a suburban family of the '90s. They even spoke the accent of the 90s! Except for the music score, it is very hard to identify any part on which the new film improved upon the old one. The supporting roles, played brilliantly by the likes of Edna May Oliver (aunt) and Henry Stephenson (Mr. Laurence) in the old version, were mostly succeeded by bland and uninteresting performances. "},{"Title":"Beauty","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a beauty.With Winona Ryder as Jo March, Trini Alvarado as Meg March, Claire Danes as Beth March, Kirsten Dunst as the younger Amy March, Samantha Mathis as the older Amy March, Susan Sarandon as Marmee and Florence Patterson as Hannah. All these actors were great in this movie. I think it was hard making this movie because most of the movies what are books retold in to movie are very hard to make and they are usually bad like when I saw Little Women I was like well look at the next bad movie in the world but then I watched it and I loved it I told all my friends about it and they liked it too. HERE IS THE STORY LINE Spirted Jo loves writing stories and usually Meg, Beth, Amy and Jo loves acting them out. Jo's ambition is to be a author so she moves to New York to show her books to the (I do not know what this is called but i think it is this Person who decides if the book should be published) then he says thatsheshould not make fairy tales and girly stories and he says to write about what she knows so that is what she does at the end. Meg (Trini Alvarado) is the eldest girl who is beautiful. She has long pretty dark hair with a magnificent pale face. She goes to all the parties like you see her in the dressing room of Belle Gradener's party. She get married to John Brookes played by Eric Stoltz. Fragile Beth March (Claire Danes) wants to be just like her big sister Jo she tries to write stories but can not exceed. She is a shy 15 year old who then gets scarlet fever and dies. Amy ( Kirsten Dunst Samantha Mathis play the young and old amy and the older Amy marries Larrie (Christian Bale). I loved this movie and I think gillian Armstrong (director) put this movie together very well. I thought Winona Ryder made this movie special playing jo and Claire Danes did as well playing Beth. Susan Sarandon played perfect as Marmee and Florence Patterson played her last movie very special. THIS MOVIE REALLY IS A BEAUTY!!!!!!!!!!!  "}{"Title":"The Rosepetals, the Dolls","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film is proof that sentimental drama is not necessarily a waste. Melodrama is when the characters are driven by the situation and that's certainly not the case here. Gillian Armstrong impressed with `Oscar and Lucinda' which sculpted emotions far beyond what any actor might. And so here as well with lesser emotions.The story is essentially about itself, a film about a book about writing itself from a recalled, probably invented memory centered on roles and role-playing. The book is about ideas and is disguised as simple drama. The film is more squarely a simple drama without the ideas, so the viewer should be warned that the journey isn't worth it unless you know the books -- at least `Little Men.' In watching, you have to know what Bronson Alcott though about the relationship of schools, writing and life. But if you do, this becomes more than a family portrait.This is the best period for both Dunst and Ryder, the rest are treacley, especially Sarandon. But the real star is Armstrong, whose eye is all about bringing frames to what is pictured as life. There are lots of books and plays in the story, but Armstrong also uses the metaphor of flowers for books (or potential books) throughout. The best shot is after Beth dies the grandmother crushes roses to get their petals and sprinkles them on the deathbed, then a collection of dolls on a chest. This is terrific stuff, a lasting image. The next scene has Jo putting the dolls in the chest and discovering the childhood writing. Everything before and after revolves around that moment, which is when the writing of what we are watching begins.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"An adaptation that would make Alcott proud","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women remains one of my all-time favorite films. I first saw it as a child (after having loved the 1949 version) and this film completely opened up the world of the March sisters for me. Not to knock the previous two big screen adaptations, but they don't come close to conveying the happiness, heartbreak, and nostalgia that Little Women of 1994 does. What is so refreshing about this film is the truth and realism of the book. The actresses don't wear makeup, they don't speak in melodramatic tones; the men aren't playboys or Rhett Butlers. The writing and acting feels natural and true to Alcott's novel - which makes the sisters' victories and losses all the more authentic to the viewer. This is a wonderful movie to watch with your family to teach them values of love, friendship, and loyalty. "},{"Title":"Little in title and big in heart and enjoyment, that's what this film is","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" In Concord, Massachusetts, the March girls and their mother, Marmie (Susan Sarandon) are celebrating another Christmas without their father/husband, who is off at war. The young ladies are all quite lovely and talented in their own ways. Elegant Meg (Trini Alvarado) is the oldest and on the verge of womanhood. She laments the fact that her clothes are not as smart as ones the wealthier families' girls wear but she is sweet and giving. Next in age comes Jo (Winona Ryder), a consummate tomboy with a mad passion and skill in creative writing. She earns a few pennies by offering companionship to a wealthier older relative and pens plays for all of the girls to put on for their family. As for third sister Beth (Claire Danes), she is a shy, good-natured gal with a large talent for music, especially as a pianist. That leaves youngest daughter Amy (Kirsten Dunst/Samantha Mathis), who is a reluctant schoolgirl and aspiring artist. Oftentimes, Jo and Amy mix like oil and water, so Meg is inclined to befriend Amy while Jo and Beth are very close. After the holidays, the girls meet their neighbor, a wealthy young man named Theodore Laurence (Christian Bale) and his tutor, Mr. Brook (Eric Stoltz). Teddy, aka Laurie, and Jo strike up a close friendship, although he is attentive to all of the girls. Among the milestones this tale relates are Meg's first coming out dance, Amy's troubles at school, Beth's serious illness and Jo's rejection of Teddy/Laurie's well-intentioned romantic advances. Soon, Meg is courted by Mr. Brook, Jo travels to New York to tutor and meet with publishers, and Amy goes abroad to study art. Only Beth remains at home, where sickness comes again to her frail self. Through laughter and tears, the little women are becoming adults. How will it all end? This beautiful story, written by Louisa May Alcott more than 100 years ago, is a perfect film for families, especially those with daughters. The spunky, resourceful March girls and their loving mother are wonderful role models for females everywhere. The actors of the film are all quite fine, although Ryder, exhibiting nice acting skills, seems a bit too beautiful for Jo. Alvarado, Danes, Sarandon, Stoltz, Gabriel Byrne and especially Dunst are complete joys. As for Bales, he is extremely handsome and, ladies, he smiles, too.....so many of his future roles would be so much darker. The sets, costumes, and camera work are very beautiful, making a gorgeous movie and the direction is solid and worthy of praise, although the pace lags from time to time. In short, there are several versions of this classic on the market but this one can stand up to the rest of them. Why not begin with this very enjoyable film and move on to the Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor and other versions sometime in the near future? You and yours will be very glad you did. "},{"Title":"Pleasant film for years to come..","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  One of the films that simply grab your heart's attention.Starring Winona Ryder, Susan Sarandon, Christian Bale, Clare Danes, Kristen Dunst...  An inspirational movie about the March Sisters living and growing during their father goes to post-Civil war.   You can easily see their close bond to each other. Sensible Meg, Wild-hearted Jo, Quiet Beth and Sweet Amy..   All perfomances are great...especially both Winona Ryder and Susan Sarandon.   I highly recommend this movie to watch either with your sister/s or mom. ;)8.5 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Gets better each time","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I saw this lovely film at the movies when it came out in 1994 and a few times since on video. But tonight I watched it for the first time with my daughter, now 8. It made the film resonate with more depth adn moved me to tears. I first read Little Women when I was away at Girl Scout camp when I was not much older than my daughter is now. This film to me does the book proud.   "},{"Title":"A touching film that you cant forget!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this film only a few times, but still it manages to totally take over my thoughts as i get involved in its world. I especially love the music which is touching and so emotional. It truly is a great film that deserves to be watched over and over again, and it never ceases to make me cry! "},{"Title":"Jo is one of my fave characters... and Laurie! Cutie!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS When I first saw this movie with my mom in 94, I instantly fell in love with it. Since then I have fallen in love with Alcott's follow-up book, Little Men which was made into a short-lived tv series.Jo is one of my favorite literary characters because of her attitude and views of life. Like her, I am fairly outspoken, I love writing fairy stories (as the mean editor on the movie said), and I feel the same way about life and love as she did.Winona Ryder was a different Jo than others I've seen, but she portrays a different side of Jo that you don't really see with the others. She's a confused, angry, lovely, awkward you girl just like real people.Christian Bale is a miraculous Laurie. In other movies, Laurie seems like a grown-up before he is, and is so sure of himself, has no real complaints on how he lives, and is a perfect gentleman. Christian Bale shatters that image in this movie. He is stubborn, makes mistakes, makes complaints, and you can see his emotions through his eyes. The words he says and how he says them when he proposes to Jo still pulls at my heart. And after Beth dies and Amy is alone in the park and he comes to see her - I only wish I knew someone who cared about me like that! He's so sweet! I enjoy watching Christian Bale so much that yesterday I watched Little Women just because of him. I also watch Swing Kids, Empire of the Sun, and Reign of Fire (great job in that one!) just because he's in it.Claire Danes as Beth is perfect. She is a natural beauty, but she acts in such a way that you see inside her more than just what her face looks like. Her acting in her last scene is impeccable, and I want to cry every time I see it.The only thing I wish was really different was that we could see Mr. March more after he comes home. We only see him that scene and once at Meg's wedding and a small time at the end. He hardly speaks, but he was a big part of the March girls' lives.All around, this is one of my favorite movies ever! I recommend it to anyone who likes period dramas with a bit of love and even some comedy. "},{"Title":"It's hard to please a fan  but this does it, kudos","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I've read all the 'Little Women' books, a few times, and I really loved this adaptation.I can't fault it, as if I would really want to!Winona Ryder makes a wonderful Jo, even though she's not that tomboyish. I think where she really comes to life as Jo is in her facial expressions. She has such a look of merriment, the way her eyes twinkle with hope and fun is great, and she embodies that ambition and desire for freedom perfectly. No other young actress could play Jo as well I think.All the others were great. Sarandon, Alvarado, Danes, Dunst, Mathis and Bale are terrific and make the film a treat to watch.But I'd really like to focus my attention on Gabriel Byrne as the professor for a minute. I agree with some of the other comments that he may be seen as too handsome and perhaps young for the part but I don't think it would have been as successful with an older, less attractive man in the role.I mean, come on, it's okay for all the guys to have young, beautiful love interests but what about us poor girls? We need a little eye candy too you know! Anyway I don't think Jo fell in love with him because he was handsome. In the book she fell in love with him for his kindness and generosity and I think it's the same here. I wouldn't say no to someone who looked like Gabriel Byrne but I thinks his kindness and altruism are the best things about the professor. Byrne portrays that very convincingly.I think the best scenes are the ones between Jo and the professor but Beth's scenes are great too, particularly her last. It's easy to see that Danes and Ryder are friends.I love the ending. And by the way, I'd love to see a sequel. "},{"Title":"A Delightful Indulgence in Alcott!","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is a delightful adaptation of two of Louisa May Alcott's novels -'Little Women' and 'Good Wives'. When I first saw the film, I wasn't too thrilled about the fact that they had compressed both the novels into one movie. But I've seen the film several times now and I must say, it's an excellent effort by Gillian Armstrong! The 2 things I liked most about the movie were the sets and the music. About the former, I think they did a remarkable job at bringing mid-19th century Concord to life! Having studied American literature of that century and especially Transcendentalism(the Alcotts were Transcendentalists), a theory that sprang in Concord, it was nice to see this film and relate that to it. Not that the sets are an exact recreation of the Concord that was, but I guess they come close. Even the March house and it's surroundings are lovingly created, I almost got the feeling that I was in the March house. About the music - it's again a masterly rendition from one of Hollywood's most gifted music directors - Thomas Newman. From 'Corrina Corrina' to 'American Beauty', Newman's music is distinctive and atmospheric. If you've been watching films with his music, you can almost trace his musical genealogy! In 'Little Women', the now familiar strains are there and there's also a nostalgic aural theme of the film that's just another one of Newman's wonders!The cast is rather impressive. Best suited for her part is Trini Alvarado as Meg. She has the quintessential look of Alcott's Meg! And she's rendered her part really well. Kirsten Dunst is a surprise as Amy. She's done an impressive job in bringing out the comic elements of Amy's character! Christian Bale is always a treat to watch. He's one of the most versatile actors today, having played such diverse characters as that of Jesus Christ and the psycho in 'American Psycho'! He's quite endearing as Laurie, if not perfect. I don't think anyone can really be perfect as Laurie. Laurie is one of those eternal literary characters who's best left face-less, because he's unique to the imagination of every person who reads Alcott's novels... Winona Ryder also does a good job. She and Bale share a good on-screen chemistry. One dialogue that I really adore in this film is when they talk to each other for the first time at a ball. Ryder/Jo says, If I weren't going to be a writer I'd go to New York and pursue the stage. Are you shocked? Bale/Laurie says, Very. Bale's indulgent Very is just perfect! Both their expressions during this exchange are aptly humorous!I think Eric Stoltz and Gabriel Byrne were slightly miscast, especially the latter. Stoltz didn't really have much of a role. But as far as Gabriel Byrne went...well, Mr Bhaer is not supposed to be as handsome as Byrne is!! He's not supposed to be handsome at all! In the novels he's much older, almost like Jo's father. Byrne is great actor, but he's rather young...and as I said, dashing for the role! Susan Sarandon - otherwise not a period-film actress is a treat to watch. She renders her role with a depth and an amazing screen presence. She breathes fresh life in the character of Marmee! Altogether, this film is a treat, an indulgence in the unforgettable world of Alcott!       "},{"Title":"Nearly perfect","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie more and more every time I see it. I completely lose myself in it, just as I did when I read and re-read the book as a young teenager. I've seen both the 1933 filmed version of the story and the 1947 version, and although I like both of them this is by far my favorite. Before seeing the movie I thought the pretty, delicate Winona Ryder was an odd choice to play Jo, but the character's strength, fiery temper and independent spirit came across perfectly in her acting. Kristin Dunst was both bratty and adorable as the younger Amy, and Susan Sarandon was ideally cast as Marmie. In a film with so many great roles for girls and women it would be easy for the men to be overshadowed, but Christian Bale as Laurie and Gabriel Byrne as Professor Bhaer were just wonderful. I had a hard time understanding how on earth Jo could refuse to marry Laurie, but I had no trouble at all understanding her falling in love with the professor, despite the age difference (OK, I admit, that may have something to do with my finding Gabriel Byrne incredibly attractive.) The only thing I thought was rather jarring about the movie was Eric Stoltz as John Brooke. He was NEVER portrayed as nerdy in the book! As for the '90s feminist slant in the movie, I don't think it was inappropriate at all. I mean, isn't it perfectly in character for Jo to be in favor of women having the right to vote? I really love Thomas Newman's score, particularly the main theme that is played over the opening credits, and at several other times in the movie. It captures both the time period and emotions of the movie perfectly. The costumes and set design were beautiful too. I simply cannot recommend this movie highly enough.  "}{"Title":"A most stunning film!","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have enjoyed this movie tremendously.  It has become one of my favorite films for several reasons 1) The excellent cast. Winona Ryder really gave a shining performance. I really enjoyed her sunny and winsome ways. 2) The gorgeous costumes and hairdos that looked so authentic even though the hair they were wearing were wigs.  I can say more for this part of the movie than for the 1949 version where it looked like they didn't even change clothes. 3) And finally, but not least of all, the music. Of all the wonderful elements that go into movie production, to me, the music is one of the most important because it sets the mood of the entire film.  The music in this film just touches your heart and is so well orchestrated!  I listened carefully and discovered that each of the sisters had their own special tune--like their own love song with each of the scenes they were focused in. Now that's art! However, the ONLY thing I was terribly disappointed with is that Jo refuses Laurie's proposal and instead marries a guy that looks like he could be her dad!  This wouldn't be so bad if either Jo or Laurie was not so good-looking and complimented each other so well.  But since BOTH of them were, I think it was really too bad they didn't get together!  Nevertheless, I think this movie is a hit. "},{"Title":"All good - except for grown-up Amy      SPOILER","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women (1994) is one of my favourite movies ever. It has a star-studded cast including Winona Ryder, Christian Bale, Kirsten Dunst, Claire Danes and Susan Sarrandon. Although I'm not sure of the name of the actress that plays Meg, the oldest sister; it is clear that she too is a great actress.When, however, the film goes further into the future of the girls' lives, the actress that plays Amy quite ruins a fantastic film. The brilliance of everyone else, however, manages to save the film from calamity.Christian Bale, as Laurie, a very close friend to the March family is fantastic and the Professor Baer (I think his name is), is great too, but I think that Laurie and Jo should have ended up together.Anyhow, this film is still fantastic, and even though I am a great fan of literature and spend most of my time reading, I found the film to be much better than the book (this rarely happens).Also, don't be put off by any earlier Little Women films made; this one tops them all. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation, but for...","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Gillian Armstrong did a great job adapting this classic novel. Of course there always is that delicate task of sorting out what to put on screen and what to leave aside. Overall, the choices were good, but most importantly, she kept the spirit of the novel, this attaching and unique spirit. The characters are brilliantly acted, especially in the first part of the movie. Now my only regret is the insipid performance of Samantha Mathis as grown-up Amy, which terribly contrasts with the lively young Kirsten Dunst. Here Mathis fails completely to show that Amy turned into a fine lady not only in appearance but also INSIDE. Another thing is how Laurie goes from Jo to Amy without real transition, when there is one in the book. This quick change of heart is a bit misleading in the perception of Laurie's character. Other than that, one of my favorite movies, not to mention the absolutely great soundtrack by Thomas Newman, which perfectly fits the movie! "},{"Title":"full of feeling (some spoilers ahead)","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I saw Little Women for the first time ten years ago and still watch it occasionally. I guess this is one of those films that keep the cruel world outside and is at least for me above all criticism (there are some of these and I won't listen any objections). I still think that Jo should take Laurie and still hate Amy. And the winter scenery is still the best I've seen on film (living over half of the year surrounded by snow this always catches my eyes).Even though the whole plot is very over romantic this adaptation made in the 1990's has also some more modern ways of thinking pulling through. (Jo's fight between her ambitions and family).The cast (especially Winona Ryder, in her surprisingly best role to this day) is great and the director gives all main characters space to breath and evolve without losing the thread. The film is visually very beautiful and the three words to describe it would be full of feeling. "},{"Title":"This movie is a beauty.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Based on the novel by  Louisa May Alcott, Little Women is of  my favorite stories and movies. I especially love this rendition with actresses and actors of our days. I identify with the characters and see my three sisters and myself in the March sisters. I am the second of three sisters as Jo March, Winona Rider (How to Make an American Quilt ) is in the movie because I write, I am very outspoken,  and thrive much for perfection,  this is definitely a movie for me.  I love the beautiful scenery, the love between the four sisters as children and as adults, and find little Amy Kirsten Dunst (Wag the Dog) very amusing as I always found my baby-sister very wise and fun. I love Susan Surandon (Dead Men Walking) as Marmee March  because she teaches their daughters to be honest and decent people, not because they are women but because they are human beings.  This movie is an absolute ten. This is a type of  story that will always be loved because people can identify with it. I also like Denise Di Novi's (The Nightmare Before Christmas) productions and that is one off her best productions.  My favorite scenes When Laurie Christian Bale (A Midsummer Night's Dream, Empire of the Sun) is accepted as a member of the girls acting club, where they reveal their most appalling secrets and bear their souls.  Laurie promising to kiss Amy in case she is about to die without been kissed.  Beth March Claire Danes (My So-Called Life, To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday) saying that she will be homesick for Jo even in heaven. This a very sweet moment!  Meg March Trini Alvarado (Paulie) wedding  John Brooke  Eric Stoltz (Jerry Maguire). When  Friedrich Bhaer Gabriel Byrne (The Usual Suspects) tells Jo that his hand are empty and she says that his hands are not empty anymore, by holding his hands.  Favorite Quotes Jo  I find it poor logic to say that because women are good they should vote. Men vote because they are male and woman shouldn't vote not because they are angels and man are animals but because we are human beings,  and citizens of this country. Mayor You should have been a lawyer Ms. March! Jo I should have been a great many things Mr. Mayor. "},{"Title":"a  breath of fresh air with wonderful performances  all around and an easy 10 of 10.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I absolutely adored this remake of the classic story Little Women. I thought the whole movie was superb and perfectly cast and am really glad this remake was done. It was a great night at the movies.Watching this movie made me enraptured with this time period and made me also want to know these people. The story wasn't changed and the movie's warmth and gentleness were still as luminous as ever. No flashiness at all just magnificent storytelling and it was really superb to see. With so many movies oriented toward violence, anger, brutality etc Little Women is a breath of fresh air. I love all types of movies but where would we be without an occasional heartwarming, uplifting(at times) classic like this?Everyone was flawless in this but I must single out Danes, Sarrandon and one of my favorites Ms Winona! (Who else but Winona could have played Jo?).If you haven't seen this yet you certainly should. Little women is another classic that never gets old. This remake is Absolute perfection, a 10 of 10 easily, so kick back, grab some ice cream and watch! "},{"Title":"An Earnest And Worthy Remake","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This 1994 adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's evergreen classic novel is a valiant and very workman-like effort that tries very hard to match the quality of the great 1933 production. Obviously technical aspects of this most recent version leave the old war horse in the dust, especially in the sound and editing departments. Although the new film doesn't obliterate memories of the wonderful art direction and costume design of the early talkie , it does a remarkable job of recreating the look of post Civil War New England, with meticulous attention to detail. As with the 1949 effort, this one is in color, and as photographed by Geoffrey Simpson it is by far the most ravishing Little Women to look at. Imagine a hand-tinted Christmas card circa mid 1800s and you'll have some idea of the visual beauty this film offers the viewer. As the story of Marmee March ( Susan Sarandon ) and her four spirited daughters unfolds, the screen is brilliantly awash with each successive season, winter and spring being most memorable. The Currier and Ives facade of the old sound film is magnified tenfold here. A note on the acting  Katherine Hepburn's Jo March dominated the '33 movie to such an extent that she nearly overwhelmed some excellent supporting performances; a lot of this was due to her unusual mien  lovely but far from the standard look of the era  and Bryn Mawr educated diction. The new picture boasts two outstanding portrayals  Winona Ryder's Jo is a luminous creation, less tomboyish and more introspective than Hepburn's characterization. Jo's thunder is nearly stolen by Claire Dane's brilliant interpretation of the kind hearted, sickly Beth. My one gripe is the tad too cute acting of the angelic looking Kirsten Dunst as the younger Amy ; It's a respectable performance but it suffers at times from a tendency to ape the precious mannerisms of the 40's child actress Margaret O'Brien  who ironically played the older Beth in the '49 release! . Australian director Gillian Armstrong has gained a solid reputation for eliciting strong female performances in her collective work, much like George Cukor 1933's director achieved with his films. Is this new LITTLE WOMEN one for the ages? I think the Hepburn version still reigns, but the new film is an earnest and worthy effort ; it should endure. "},{"Title":"A Surely Brilliant Movie.","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women was and excellent movie. The acting was terrific, and the story adapted by Louisa May Alcott was brilliant. Winona Ryder, Susan Sarandon, Claire Danes, John Neville, and Kirsten Dunst were spectacular. I give Little Women a 10 out of 10!!!!!!  )  "},{"Title":"Was the book really that good?","Date":"4 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I haven't read the original book, but based on the movie it is hard for me to understand why it was so famous. Not having read it though, I will give it the benefit of the doubt. Regarding the movie now, the cast is amazing, I like 90's movies feel and directing and it was interesting to see young Christian Bale, Wynona Ryder and Kirsten Dust. I certainly liked the warmth this movie emits, as well the leading performances. However, the plot seemed a little bit boring and disconnected to me. With the exception of one or two scenes it failed to provoke either my thoughts or feelings. Finally, something that I always seek in movies is good inspiring soundtracks and in this movie were mediocre at best. "},{"Title":"Great telling of Louisa May Alcott's classic story","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Great telling of Louisa May Alcott's classic story.The story of four sisters - Jo, Meg, Beth and Amy - told through Jo's eyes. From the bitter days of the Civil War until years afterwards, we see them growing up, their lives, dreams, loves and losses.A wonderful, moving, bitter-sweet story. There is a great sense of family and belonging.Great performances by an all-star cast (just some of them weren't stars yet) Winona Ryder, Susan Sarandon, Claire Danes (14 years old at the time), Kirsten Dunst (11 years old), Christian Bale, Eric Stoltz and Gabriel Byrne plus Samantha Mathis and Trini Alvarado. Winona Ryder received an Oscar nomination for her performance.I do however, prefer, the 1949 version a bit more. It felt more earthy and more focused. That could be because I saw it first, thus the plot is less predictable, or because it is older, thus has that rougher, less pristine, feel to it, which helps the sentiment. This said, the 1994 version is still a great movie. "}{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I saw this with a very good friend on New Year's Eve when it first came out. It is such a wonderful version of the book. As good as the performances are, and they are VERY good (If Claire Danes doesn't bring you to tears, you are a cold one!), the direction and score are even bigger stars here.This movie is beautiful and heartbreaking and life-affirming. I have watched it at least every holiday season since its release. I can't believe that Thomas Newman did not win the Oscar for the score and what fun to see Mary Wickes! Really a great family film. "},{"Title":"A more modern cast in a classic of Americana","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women is one of those stories that movie makers are drawn to film anew after some time with a cast of modern actors. It probably has been done as many times as any other classic novel. The challenge always seems to be to make as good or better film with better technology for production values; and with a cast that is able to portray the film as believable for the time it takes place. Three TV movies gave the story short shrift, and a fourth was a mini- series with nine episodes of 25 minutes each. But all three of the full length movies for the silver screen in the 20th century are well done. They all have very good production qualities and sets. Each, by itself, is worthy of the novel by Louisa May Alcott. Yet, there are differences. I compared the 1933 and 1949 films in my reviews on them. So, now I match the 1994 version up against the other two films. My review focuses on the story as presented with the cast in the film. How well does this film overall reflect the mannerisms, customs and idiosyncrasies of the time the story takes place &#x96; as opposed to the time in which the actors are living? I thought the 1933 and 1949 films were well situated in the time of the novel &#x96; the 1860s. But this 1994 film has a modern feel to it. For instance, the pouting and very marked mood and expression changes by Winona Ryder as Jo are how we see people acting, and behaving in real life, at the end of the 20th century. She seems to overact. But people weren't that given to such expressiveness in the mid-19th century. At least not by any means we can tell from novels, studies, family stories and other accounts. In the 1933 film, Katherine Hepburn's Jo seemed forced in her feigning a tomboy by male mannerisms in her play and dialog within the film. But in the 1949 film &#x96; without words, we see the tomboy in Jo quite clearly when June Alyson jumps the fence, falls on her face in the snow, and then gets up to go around and jump the fence again &#x96; this time without falling. At the same time, Louisa May Alcott wrote her different characters with particular traits. In this 1994 film, we see more of Marmee &#x96; here played very well by Susan Sarandon, than in the earlier versions. She seems to be more of a doting mother here. But that is a considerable change from the earlier films. They seem more true to the book and the times. Marmee is gone quite often to care for other needy people &#x96; especially Mrs. Hummel and her family. So, the girls are alone more and have somewhat of a responsible nature in being able to do things by themselves in Marmee's absence. The roles of Beth, Laurie, John Brooke, Aunt March and Mr. Laurence especially were all better portrayed by the respective cast members in the 1949 film. So, in general then, this 1994 version of Little Women is very good, but is not the best. It comes close to the 1933 film with Katherine Hepburn, Joan Bennett, Henry Stephenson, and Douglas Montgomery . But neither this nor the 1933 film can match the 1949 version with June Allyson, Mary Astor, Margaret O'Brien, Janet Leigh, and C. Aubrey Smith. In my review of the 1949 film, I noted all the roles that I found to be better over the 1933 film. Those differences all stand in comparison to this film as well &#x96; although for different reasons in some cases. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming Version of a Classic","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Viewers expecting a faithful adaptation of Louisa M. Alcott's novel are likely to be disappointed. However Gillian Armstrong's film is a charming piece - beautifully photographed with a strong sense of seasonal change and how the March family react to such changes. The lighting - both natural and artificial - is soft yet atmospheric, the use of music unobtrusive yet significant. Yet Armstrong does not want to produce a heritage film, prompting viewers to admire the historically accurate sets and costumes; on the contrary, her approach remains strongly character-focused, with the attention paid to nuances of performances. Winona Ryder gives perhaps the best performance of her entire career as Jo; her command of gesture and facial expression is impeccable, especially at those moments of extreme disappointment (for example, when she is told that her first book manuscript is actually no good). A young Kirsten Dunst is both childlike yet mature as Amy; someone who wants to act grown-up yet yearns for her father to be around. Susan Sarandon turns in a winning performance as the matriarch of the family; someone who is incredibly fond of her offspring, yet well aware of their individual faults. The ending might be sentimental, but Armstrong is nonetheless well aware of the economic hardships experienced by the March family as they struggle to survive while their father is away fighting. Definitely one of the best classic adaptations to appear during the Nineties. "},{"Title":"Great young actors","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The March family has fallen on hard time during the Civil War without the father. The four sisters (Winona Ryder, Kirsten Dunst, Claire Danes, Trini Alvarado, Samantha Mathis as older Amy) struggle to find love and their way in the world.There are some great actors here. I wonder if Claire Danes would make an even better Jo. If this was filmed a few years later, Danes would have been the choice. This was an embarrassment of riches acting wise. When you add the young Christian Bale and the veteran Gabriel Byrne, the talents are all there. All except maybe an overarching first rate directions. Gillian Armstrong has made a life of these intimate movies, but this needs a splash of grandeur. The tone of the story never really changes like the music. It's that sweet melancholy that persist throughout. It needs wisps of excitement to break up the monotony of sadness. But it's still a great watch to see all these fine actors. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little WomenThe key to raising daughters is ensuring you find a nanny who lost a daughter of her own to raise them.However, the sisters in this drama will have to settle for their own mother's nurturing.Amid the turmoil of the Civil War, the March Sisters - Meg (Trini Alvarado), Jo (Winona Ryder), Beth (Claire Danes), and Amy (Kirsten Dunst/Samantha Mathis) - learn lessons in love from their many suitors (Eric Stoltz, Gabriel Byrne, Christian Bale).As Jo, Meg and Amy pursue their fancies, Beth remains at home with Marmee (Susan Sarandon).The sisters grow so distant that it takes a great loss to bring them back to Massachusetts.Although their lives unfold over years, this fifth and first-rate adaptation of the novel has a holiday spirit that rings throughout its family-centric plot-line.Incidentally, the highlight of the 19th century holiday season was always the annual ugly Christmas petticoat ball.Green Lightvidiotreviews.blogspot.ca "},{"Title":"Wonderful Classic","Date":"10 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I read Little Women many times growing up. It is a wonderful book with memorable characters and great writing. It has been made into a movie three times. The first time, Jo was played by Kathryn Hepburn, the second time she was played by June Allyson, and this third time, she is played by Wonona Ryder.This is the story of the four March sisters who are growing up in Concord, Massachusetts. Their father is away serving the North in the War of the States. The family has undergone the hardship of losing their former money and must now struggle to maintain their genteel lifestyle.Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy become so real that they leap out at you from the book and on the screen.Their various mishaps and adventures are well done, touching and at times hilarious.Each sister has her distinctive personality, but it is Jo who is the real star. She is Louisa May Alcott's, the author, alter ego.Winona does a credible job playing her. A young Christian Bale plays Laurie, the boy next store.This is a beautiful movie which the entire family will enjoy especially at Christmas. "},{"Title":"heart-warming and drawing","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" This movie, which I watch every Christmas, is a wonderful movie in so many ways and for so many reasons. The aesthetic qualities are very appealing the snow in Civil War-time Concord, Massachusetts was very beautiful, as is the grass in the spring time. As for the acting, the cast was superb. Susan Sarandon, who could act well the part of a rough southern girl, adapted herself well to this part of a proper New England lady who meets well the challenge of raising her four daughters (the little women). While you hated Christian Bale in Shaft, he made a very positive impression in this movie as Teddy. Mary Wickes was convincingly crabby as Aunt March, and you felt for Claire Danes as the fragile Beth. Winona Ryder was excellent as the beautiful and high-spirited Jo. The story was a portmanteau there were three different love affairs which were resolved at the end of the movie. The final scene was very touching. All in all, it was a superb production which was magnetic again, I'm drawn to it every Christmas, though it is good entertainment for any time of the year. Definitely a favorite of mine. "},{"Title":"A great family classic","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I bought my mum this film for Christmas as I remember loving it as a young girl 10 or more years ago and wondering which March girl I would grow up to be most like- I was a hopeless romantic like young Amy but envied Meg's grace, Beth's serenity and Jo's zest for life. It's interesting watching it again and being able to appreciate fully the vivid characters and relationships and fabulous screen play. Now I'm 22 and relate to the girls from a new perspective but with just as much empathy and adoration. I'm so glad i sought this film out again. A lovely, heartwarming film for all the family with great acting by some of today's leading names. Only criticism is that I found the ending a little abrupt but overall, much enjoyed. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Adaptation","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Director Gillian Armstrong brings the story of the March sisters to life in this heartwarming adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's beloved novel.Amid the gorgeous scenery and breathtaking sets the sisters are brought to life by a team of talented actresses. Winona Ryder shines as Jo, Trini Alvarado is demure and beautiful as Meg, Claire Danes breaks your heart as Beth while Kirsten Dunst is a star in her own right as mischievous Amy. Susan Sarandon makes us all wish she was our mother with her heartwarming portrayal of Marmee.From sisterly fights as girls to family bonds as women, this movie will make you laugh, cry and every other clich in the world. The girls will touch your hearts as they overcome family trials, broken hearts and the difficulty of growing up poor amongst the backdrop of the Civil war. It's wonderfully written with amazing cinematography and beautiful direction. The girls share great chemistry that makes their on-screen relationship as sisters believable.While fans of the novel may be disappointed by the changes made to some of the characters and situations overall the movie brings the core values and emotions from the book to the screen. Ultimately this is a movie about family and even the most cold-hearted person will be touched by this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Absolutely delightful!","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Although I am a big fan classic literature, I've never read the book, but I can say in the least that this film is a sheer delight to anyone who has since many fans of the book loves this film. It's a brilliantly portrayed coming-of-age story of four sisters, free-spirited Jo, charming Meg, shy Beth and dramatic Amy. Each girl is unique in their own way and their journey through life is beautifully told through a beautifully written screenplay. The performances, particularly those of the wonderfully spirited Winona Ryder and the adorable Christian Bale, are nothing short of stunning and I found a great joy in watching the sisters with their Pickwick meetings, much so that my friends and I have enjoyed our time making Pickwick meetings of our own. The costumes and set design are beautifully authentic and as a Canadian, I find much familiarity in the film as to how much it reminds me of Prince Edward Island's devotion to Anne of Green Gables. There's a little something for everyone in this story as it can be funny, sad, sweet, bitter, and above all rather touching. It's a true masterpiece that Alcott would have been proud of. "}{"Title":"Your heart understood mine","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Louisa May Alcott wrote the story of the four sisters of March family in 19th century. Next year will become 200 years since the death of the beloved author. Still today her amazing story of the Family March is luminous and very interesting. Gillian Armstrong directed Little Women again in 1994 with talented cast including stars like Susan Sarandon, Winona Ryder and Kirsten Dunst.The story begins when March girls are getting ready to celebrate Christmas without their father who is at the battle in Potomac. The family is having a rough time financially because of the war. Nevertheless the March girls are strong but different. Jo (Winona Ryder) wants to become a writer and is very strong-headed, Meg (Trini Alvarado) is the oldest and wants to find a husband, Beth (Claire Danes) who is plays piano and likes to stay at home and Amy (Kirsten Dunst) who likes to draw and fantasies of having a rich man someday. The girls meet Theodore Laurie Laurence (Christian Bale) who is a grandchild of wealthy Mr.Laurence who are living on the next door. The story is multi-layered and touching. Armstrong has found the essence of Alcott's novel. The talented cast is a cherry on the top of a successful film. There is love, drama and difficult relationships - working combination, indeed. You will laugh and cry and co-live the story of Little Women.Winona Ryder was on the edge of her career and her Oscar-nomination was very well earned. Other cast supports brilliantly.One fact is so odd I have to mention it. Isn't it peculiar that Louisa May Alcott died at 6th of March and in the March family there were six family members... Perhaps just good timing but I'd like to think it is magic. "},{"Title":"A must see tale of growing up, following your dreams and unconditional love","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little women was set in the 1800's. It is the tale of four sisters who are all very different. Meg the eldest, wants to get married and settle down. The second eldest Jo, is a bit of a tom boy and defying all the grounds of traditional life in those days she wants to become a writer and decides to chase her dream. Then there's Beth, she is kind hearted and shy, she wants to help everyone in need and always listens. The youngest Amy wants to grow up too fast and argues with Jo (partly due to Jo's feisty and impatience personality). The story is mainly based on how Jo sees things, however all characters are shown equally which gives us a feeling of the real diversity between them. All of the girls bicker like most sisters do, but when their father goes to war and they are forced to live a less well off life, they realise that they must all make sacrifices.There are many men in this film who love the sisters and throughout we are given a sense of continuous friendship as well as love. Teddy is very important to the tale as he helps Jo to grow up and become more aware of life. Although this tale is one which seems on the surface to be one of family life, it deals with love, loss and growing up. Throughout this film the audience is left with a sense of innocence about the world and hope that innocence still exists. In modern day films we aren't often able to watch a film without there being explicit or violent content, so this is perhaps a much wanted refreshing look on life.This film, even twelve years later, is still regarded by young audiences as a good watch as it is entertaining, funny, enjoyable and sad. It is definitely an American classic. "},{"Title":"little women, big quality","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Louisa May Alcott's classic novel gets brought magnificently to the screen. Everyone in the movie does a great job. There is one scene that might make you cry (you'll know it when you see it). I guess that any 19th century story set in New England is destined to make a great movie. If absolutely nothing else, Little Women is a very good spot in the filmography of Winona Ryder, Gabriel Byrne, Trini Alvarado, Samantha Mathis, Kirsten Dunst, Claire Danes, Christian Bale, Eric Stoltz, John Neville and Susan Sarandon. Truly something that everyone should see.And to think that I'd never even heard of Susan Sarandon before this movie came out. "},{"Title":"Watch for the kittens","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" A few years after this film was made, I was working on the TV movie TITANIC, with the then less famous Catherine Zeta-Jones, and there were a few animals on the set (not including the director). I said to one of the trainers how my wife and I had been looking for a cat. She had one, she had starred as a kitten in Little Women but hadn't done much else since. So we adopted her. A year later, thinking (somewhat erroneously, if you know cats, you'll know what I mean) that she might like company, a feline companion, I again happened to be on the set of the Leslie Nielson comedy Wrongfully Accused, and there was the same animal trainer, this time with an eagle, I think. ANyway, did she have any more cats for adoption. Yep, she brought in two Polaroids. Unfortunately they were brothers, and we only wanted one more cat. We chose the one with crazed eyes and lots of attitude. It turned out that he, too, was one of the kittens in Little Women! I have a screen capture shot of the two of them being held by Winona Ryder. I don't know why I thought you'd find that interesting, but obviously I do. "},{"Title":"little women, Big Hopes","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Little Women is a heartwarming tale is about a mother and her four daughters living in a time of hardship.  It was 1862 and their father was off fighting in the Civil War.  Despite the quarrels, tragedies, and poverty, the March family holds together.  As the March girls grow older, we see them take interest in men and set out to achieve their goals in a time where it was hard for women to do anything that they choose.Gillian Armstrong, the director, based this movie on the novel Little Women by Louisa May Alcott.  Armstrong tries to show how a family is held together with morals, values, and beliefs through the tragedies in a time of war. The March family held together despite the tragedies and obstacles which came their way.  Armstrong also wanted to show how women in the 1860s struggled with their rights and identities while the men were off at war. While in New York, Jo sits around a group of men discussing voting, and she has an opinion of her own  I find it poor logic to say that women should vote because they are good... women should vote, not because we are angels and men are animals, but because we are human beings and citizens of this country.  Seventy years went by were women struggled to find their role in society and it wasn't until 1920 that women were given the right to vote. This passage clearly shows that women were trying to find their identity in society.The most appealing aspect of Little Women is the director's usage of metaphor.  The movie mostly takes place during winter.  Winter is a metaphor for trapped inside.  That is how the little women felt; that's how all women felt at that time.  Women were to stay in the house bent over their needlework.  The other metaphor is when the little women put on plays and play as men.  They want to be men so they can have the role of men.  Men were the ones who made the decisions and who were important in society. Women were to stay inside and be quiet.  These metaphors help make this a wonderful movie that has so many levels.  "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Among all the classics and legendary films in the movie industry, this one is my ultimate favorite. It may come as a surprise, but the art of simple but beautiful story-telling in this version of the classic book is hard to top. There is nothing abstract or metaphorical about the direction of the film but it still captures the sense of reality and morals that were so pivotal during that time period and really shows you how much of that lacks today. I may only be saying this because i am stickler for period pieces. The performances, especially those of Winona Ryder (who was nominated for an Oscar and should have won) and Claire Danes were incredibly moving and played with such understanding to their respective characters. Christian Bale was the perfect choice for Teddy's character. I don't want to include any spoilers because that will just ruin the whole experience of the film. Its a superb masterpiece that cannot be missed. "},{"Title":"moving film","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  A moving film, if not a little bland at times, this is a kind of movie, that makes you wanna go AAAAAH AAAAAH, all the time because of its sweetness, a brilliant performance from Winona Ryder, but not enough of Susan Sarandon, she was cast as the mother a fantastic role, but really didn't have enough storyline to carry it through, most of the time she was just carrying logs or hovering in the background, but the fine acting and moving storyline about a group of sisters growing up during the civil war was enough to rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This version of Little Women was pretty good.  The acting was great,Winona Ryder is a great actress. However, she is just far to glamourous to portray Jo.  I must admit out of the 3 main versions the 1949 version is my fave. But this version is right along side it. "},{"Title":"Big Vocabulary..where's the subtitles??","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"                    **********WARNING....SPOILERS AHEAD!******************I heard about this movie from all of my family and friends. I wanted to see it because I was told of how much of a romantic fairy tale it was. I was pleased with it, although....What was with the whole beard thingy that Teddy grew in the end? And why did he have to marry Amy? It's like he was only using her to be part of the family, because he truely was in love with Jo.The beginning of the movie was fantasticly created with all the old-fashioned dresses and such a tight family bond. Everything was great until they used a different Amy March. I know they had to, but I don't think the actress fullfilled her duties as Amy March. Don't get me wrong, she's a great actress, one of my favorites. But she just didn't fit it as Amy.As the movie progressed, it began to get unsatisfactory. Everything just sort of zoomed by, and I thought it wrong to have Laurie and Amy marry. And I also thought it wrong for Amy to go to Paris. It just didn't click.Claire Danes gave a spectacular performance, as did all the little women.This was a great movie, all in all, but I didn't like the ending. The acting was incredible, but toward the end, unsatisfactory.                        **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Very touching drama","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful movie that gets to your heart. All the actors -specially Winona Rider- are almost perfect. The story is not new, obviously, but this version has a special freshness which makes it a valuable object of cinematographic art. If you are able to get out of the world of this film, pay close attention to the music, the art direction and the design. Perhaps it should have been a little longer so I could have enjoyed it for some more minutes. My rating is 8 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Little Women is a feast for the eyes and the mind.  The story of coming of age during, and after The Civil War, is one that brings forth emotion.  It is one of very few movies where you actually care about the characters and the choices they make.  You follow them through their lives and what they lose, you lose.  What they gain, you gain.  You believe in the characters and the story.  And that is what makes this movie so special. "},{"Title":"A brilliant adaption of one of the most beloved classics ever.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Little Women is perhaps one of the beautiful story ever told.  The story of the March family living amidst the Civil War is one of my favorites ever. The characters don't seem made up at all, instead they become part of your family and part of your life.  That is why, the performances of Winona Ryder, Claire Danes, Kristen Dunst, and Christian Bale was so moving. This group of talented young actors brought to life the lives of Jo, Amy, Beth, and Laurie.  They do such a convincing job playing these characters that, Ryder is no longer Ryder, instead you see her as the real Jo.  Claire Danes performance as Beth was so hauntingly beautiful.  The death scene was acted with such genuine emotions and true brilliance, that you can't help but break out into tears.  Bottom line is this is a definite classic and great for the whole family.  I love this film.  9/10 "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Without a doubt this is a very enjoyable film.  I have never read the novel so I can't comment on how well the actors played their parts but I felt they all did a good job.My only complaint, and it's mainly a trivial one - the replacement of Kirsten Dunst with Samantha Mathis 2/3 of the way into the film.  Although it was impossible for Dunst to play the older Amy (she was only 11 when it was films so she was clearly too young) it was still a fairly major distraction for me because Amy had become my favourite of the 4 girls and to suddenly jump to another actress at that stage in the movie was a bit annoying.  Because of this the later part of the movie involving Amy I had a hard time identifying with her as I did the other 3, but since the last 1/3 of the film is dominated by Jo anyway it wasn't too much of a hassle.4 1/2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The best movie i have ever seen.","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Definitely the best movie I have ever seen. I have shown this masterpiece to almost every one of my friends and they all have loved it, even the ones who don't usually watch drama. Winona Ryder makes her best performance in this one (although she is veeery cute in Reality Bites) and you wonder why she didn't get awarded for this one. If you think dramas can be slow or just boring, watch this movie and you'll be surprised how this one can change your life but be warned that you might fall in love with Winona and can't stop until you have watched every single movie she has made ) "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'm amazed at how great this movie is. I'm even more amazed that this movie was not praised or honored more highly. This is a fascinating movie about a family of four sisters. There are many reasons why this movie is so great. From the very beginning to the very end, this movie is elegant and radiant--even the opening and the closing credits are regal. The movie's music score is fantastic--I loved it. The cinematography is awesome; it did a lot for this movie. The shots captured the landscape beautifully. In spite of the fact that a large portion of the movie takes place in the wintertime, the movie is very colorful. The costumes are spectacularly beautiful. The performances are extraordinary. Winona Ryder gives one of her greatest performances as the leading character, Jo March. She's marvelous in this movie. Claire Danes is remarkable as the frail Beth. But my favorite performance in the movie is that of Kirsten Dunst as Amy, the youngest of the four daughters. Her performance is a delight to watch. She completely steals the show. Furthermore, the ending is terrific. Gillian Armstrong, the director of this movie, did a magnificent job. A movie like this one serves as testament to why I like movies a lot. This is a movie that anyone can enjoy and be entertained by, whether you watch it alone or with someone you love. If you haven't seen this movie, rent it and let this movie dazzle you. This movie is perfection. Absolute perfection. **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"fantastic recreation of the classic novel","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This film is a wonderful adaptation of the Little Women novel and provides enjoyment for both men and women, boys and girls. The young actresses in the film provide a tremendous strength, and Christian Bale (who is always wonderful) is the shining star of this film. Perfect family film and for teachers needing a film of a literary story to share with a class. "},{"Title":"Not a single false note from any actor","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"   A really fine show. Not a single false note from any actor. I enjoyed this much more than the 1933 version by George Cukor. Maybe it's the color photography and more attractive actresses, I don't know. Being a guy, I haven't read the book, and so didn't know that Jo was not supposed to be beautiful. If this is so, then I can see how the casting of Katherine Hepburn for that part was a better choice than Winona Ryder. But I just loved Ryder's performance here, along with the entire cast, particularly Trini Alvarado.   The only criticism I can muster for this film is the emphasis on 1990's style feminism in a film set in the 1860's. Maybe this came from the book, too. I don't know, but I sort of doubt it.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely incredible!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is by far one of my favorite movies of all time!!  It easily switches from funny, to sad, to romantic.  Some of the scenes are simply so moving, I break down crying every time I watch it.  The cast is top-notch--perfectly cast!  This movie is great for the whole family or for anybody who just loves great tales of romance or family! "},{"Title":"Excellent!! What more can I say (See below)","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Last Christmas, I finally saw this extravagant film and I fell in love with the characters.  I'm glad that a film like this can be made in this age where actors want higher salaries, special effects take over a pointless and plotless movie, and a film's performance at the box office is more vital than the film at all.  Anyway, all the principals, including Ryder and Sarandon, fit their roles.  one minor exceptionMs. Dunst and Ms. Mathis portraying the same character.  Regardless, please do not overlook this film like the Oscars did.   "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have had this movie sitting collecting dust for a few years and a few weeks ago i wanted to watch something different, so i grabbed little women and put it in the vcr.....i have to say it is the best movie i have every watched in my life....and i made a mistake by not watching it a few years ago....it is sad and happy at the same time. And the actors and actresses are sensational...christian bale(the finest guy)...is great in this movie....and of course winona ryder. And i suggest they make a sequel with the same cast it would be wonderful to see how laurie and amy made out....and meg and joe and fredrick....please someone make a sequel! "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  wow!! to sum it up. However i feel that it is the performances by all the actors and actresses that deserve most of the credit.  Being a great fan of Winona Ryder i bought the video to see her mainly but it surprisingly i did not feel that she was the best out of all of them but rather Claire Danes as poor Beth who almost made me shed a tear.  Even though she did not have a great part i felt that she played it perfectly and successfully stirred up my emotions.  The ending is the usual happy ending but i felt that the loss of Beth still remained in your heart by the end which was unusual for a film.  credit must be given to everyone but i feel especially Winona Ryder and Claire Danes.  This film is well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Story","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is such a beautiful Story, filled with warmth and happiness and also sadness and great grief. Very well done, good story, great actors and actresses. This is a movie you laugh at and cry at and absolutley recommend it to all people. "},{"Title":"Falls prey to the Jane Eyre syndrome","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Everything about this movie is beautiful, a fact that works both to its advantage and disadvantage. The cinematography is breathtaking, yet never too big for the story. Many of the most memorable shots are quite small, for want of a better word, particularly the image of Hannah scattering rose petals over Beth's empty bed.Unfortunately, Winona Ryder as Jo is also very beautiful, a complete departure from the tomboyish, ordinary-looking creature she is described as in the book. Was the screenwriter out of their mind to give her the line, No wonder Aunt March doesn't like me, I'm ugly? Sorry, that doesn't work. If someone looked like that, it wouldn't matter how awkward or forward she was. Men would be falling all over her.It's as if the filmmakers fell prey to the age-old syndrome affecting Jane Eyre, a story that has been filmed numerous times with actresses far too attractive for the part--Even Joan Fontaine played her at one point.    I ask you, Joan Fontaine!? Only the latest Jane Eyre dared to break from that pattern.I must also admit that I did not care for Winona Ryder's acting. She has always struck me as mannered, especially in her period pieces. The only exception so far has been The Age of Innocence; in The Crucible she was almost painful to watch.Claire Danes' performance as the angelic Beth is probably the best in the film, believable and endearing, actually somewhat better than Susan Sarandon as Marmie. Sarandon does her damndest (and that's pretty good), but her character is such an utter paragon of maternal virtue and love, that at times she's a bit grating. When little Amy burns Jo's beloved book, Marmie tells Jo, you have every right to be put out. But don't let the sun go down on your anger. Forgive each other. A spanking for Amy would be more appropriate than that platitude; no wonder the  girl is so spoiled.To end on a positive note, Mary Wickes' Aunt Marsh is a delight. She speaks not a single word at Meg's wedding, yet manages to clearly portray her utter bewilderment over how anyone could willingly marry someone so poor. Her confusion is so complete, so endearing, you just want to give her a hug. It's okay, Aunt Marsh, you'd reassure her, Meg's happy.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's not one of my favorites, but it's a good movie. It's the kind of movie you should watch by yourself when you're sick, or stuck alone inside on a snowy or rainy day. If you're in a sad/love-story mood it's even better. Guys probably won't like it though. My family owns it, and we've had the old version from th 40's with Elizabeth Taylor forever. I still always get mad at Jo when she refuses Laurie, but it's even harder to take in this version because Laurie's so cute. (In the old one he's pretty ugly) The actors are great, especially  Winona Ryder & Claire Danes, some of my favorite actors.  "},{"Title":"Remakes are never as good . . .","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This is the third movie version of Little Women that I've seen and it does nothing to break the Hollyood rule &#150; re-makes are never as good!  True, this is a decent, watchable and engaging movie.  Gillian Armstrong has made a touching, well cast version of the story with Winona Ryder really snapping up the chance to shine as Jo.  Nice under-playing by Susan Sarandon, and it's great to see Mary Wickes still going strong.  But the fact is that George Cukor did it best of all back in 1933.  Of course, he did have an unfair advantage &#150; HIS leading lady was Katharine Hepburn . .. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This movie was by far one of the best dramatic films I've ever seen. Christian Bale was outstanding as Laurie and the acting by both Bale and Wynona Rider superbly emphasized the relationship between Jo and Laurie. This will be a holiday classic for years to come. "},{"Title":"enjoyable film","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  A very enjoyable and entertaining film.  It does a good job of walking the line between being too sentimental and not showing concern for the characters. "},{"Title":"A story about four brave women putting the world to rights in their own way","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I love this film. It is a classic adaptation, quite close to the original novels. It will make you grin, cry and always make you want to watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Stunning film, and a great adaptation of a wonderful book","Date":"13 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Other than this version, the only other version I have seen of the beautiful book is the 1949 version with June Allyson, Margaret O'Brien and Mary Astor. While that version was very good, I think I marginally prefer this version. It is a little too slow at the beginning, but other than that I had no problems with this version of Little Women.The film looks wonderful, the scenery is lush, the costumes are lovingly rendered and the cinematography is fabulous. Plus I loved The Laurence mansion here, so imposing yet beautiful. The music score is a real jewel, really poignant and soothing, and the screenplay is honest, funny and touching. In terms of adapting, the film does a very good job, all the crucial elements of the beautiful story are there and have the same effect here than they do in the book. The 1949 film may be a little more nostalgic and perhaps more cosy too, but this version is truer to the book.The direction is adroit as well, and I loved the acting. Christian Bale is dashing and handsome as Laurie, and Trini Alvarado is a beautiful Meg. Claire Danes is a touching and compassionate Beth, while Kirsten Dunst is great as young Amy, likewise with Samantha Mathis as her older self. Mary Wickes in one of her last roles before she died, was suitably fussy and formidable as Aunty March, and John Neville gave a very good performance as Mr Laurence. Two performances in particular stood out though. One was Winona Ryder, who is a revelation as Jo, she is tomboyish yet ambitious, headstrong and well-meaning and I felt Ryder was better than Allyson at showing these traits to Jo's character. The other is Susan Sarandon, whose Marmee is less sincere yet more maternal. I also felt Gabriel Byrne was an improvement as Mr Bhaer- Rossano Brazzi was charming yet too Italian for my tastes. Byrne was an initially curious casting choice but he does very well.Overall, I loved this adaptation, and as a film it is pretty much stunning. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"I love this movie, but....","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Okay, I love this movie SO much. I watched it like 10 times this summer and every time I watch it my heart is torn out! There is however, a major problem with it Jo doesn't marry Laurie! What was Louisa May Alcott thinking?? Am I the only one who thinks that the old, German professor was completely wrong for Jo? And Amy gets Laurie! How absurd. The first half of the movie is just magic. I have to agree with Jo. Why do they have to grow up? Can't the story just be about their fun times as little women? The acting is superb for the most part. Winona Ryder was perfect for the part of Jo March and Christian Bale made a more than perfect Laurie. Kirsten Dunst did a great job playing the part of young Amy, although she was a little too likable. Samantha Mathis on the other hand didn't do a very good job at all playing older Amy March. As I said, the story should have ended with them in their younger years. I guess I love and hate this movie. "}{"Title":"Contains Spoilers","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I think that this a great film for all ages. It has some really touching parts like when Beth dies.I like the part best when Lorie proposes to Joe and I don't like it when she rejects him either. I don't like Amy becasue she is really mean to Jo by throwing her manuscript in the fire and taking Lorie. I really hate it whem Beth dies though. I love all the romance in it and I don't think that Jo should have married the German guy. Her and Lorie blong together. The song that they sing at the first time they show Christmas gets stuck in my head alot though. The sound track is very beautiful and overall this is a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Rough going at first, but it got better","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  That's right, folks - I saw this movie.  Moreover, I saw it in a movie theater at the time of its release, so I paid the full price of a ticket to see it.What can I say?  I wanted to see Pulp Fiction, but my date had other ideas.  Being the gentleman I am, I agreed to see what she wanted to see.  And for the first half hour or so, I regretted it bitterly.  Oh, marmy, I love you so much! (<kiss, kiss>).  Marmy?!?!?!  How disgusting!!But I hung in there, and the movie got quite a bit better as it went on.  This is probably due to the fact that, unlike everyone else in the theater, I had never read the book, and therefore had no idea was going to happen next.  That tends to add a good deal of dramatic suspense to one's movie-watching experience.  Add to this the fact that the movie was undeniably well-made and well-acted.  I even forgave the movie for its cloyingly sappy beginning as I realized it was some kind of dramatic device (I guess) to show why the girl spends so much of the movie longing for home.I was also intrigued by Gabriel Byrne as the stuffy German professor dude observing that Transcendentalism is just German Romantic philosophy, an observation I was actually qualified to confirm, having just read Copleston's A History of Philosophy.  But I digress, as usual.I guess what I'm trying to say is that the movie was pretty good, I guess.Incidentally, I saw Pulp Fiction not long afterward, and I liked it better than this movie.  Sorry. "},{"Title":"heartwarming movie","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  this is a wonderful re-make. what a delightful movie. this is the type of movie you watch on a cold winter's night or for a holiday movie. it shows what family is all about. if you like family oriented movies, then i suggest that you watch this. i have watched it many times and i never grow tired of it. every casting was just absoulutely perfect. 9 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"A competent piece of work.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little women has a well wrought script, a spectacular first-rate cast and delicate performances, but it still fails to transfer the original sense of the book completely. Since no novel has ever been one hundred percent faithfully adapted onto the screen, I had been fully prepared for any expected disappointment before I sat back and watched. Comparatively speaking, the script is indeed one of the successful adaptations I have ever seen, although there are some other touching scenes are cut off and some are added into the movie. Personally, I can't understand why Jo refused Theodore his sincere proposal since they both loved each other and traveled all the way to search her new life of writing supported by her future husband Fritz. The success of the movie mostly comes from the great performances of the cast, including Winona Ryder(Jo), Susan Sarandon(Marmee March) Kirsten Dunst(Younger Amy March), Gabriel Byrne(Fritz), Christian Bale(Theodore).They helps to elevate the whole movie to the highest level of Oscar nomination for best picture in 1994.Winona Ryder(the one I have adored very much) is perfect for Jo , whose passion and enthusiasm for writing is completely displayed by her natural acting. Susan Sarandon, who is one of the masterful actress in Hollywood, successfully acts out Marmee March,who is responsible for the whole family and considerate and liberal towards her daughters and encourages them to find the world of their own. She is their mother as well as their guide in their lives.  Kirsten Dunst, after her shocking performance in interview with the vampire, again demonstrates her marvelous acting skill as the youngest sister, who is so naughty and jealousy. If there is any weakness in the cast, that is Christian Bale(Theodore). I enjoy watching him doing the killing in American psycho but here he does not quiet well match up with these women with distinctive characters. By the way,Gabriel Byrne(Fritz) is surprisingly good with his well mocked German accent and his candid respect and support for women,for which he wins Winona Ryder's love.   "},{"Title":"Excellent Adaptation of Alcott's Book","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Many film enthusiasts will always prefer the 1933 George Cukor version with Katharine Hepburn, but this version is - I think - better scripted and acted overall. It is also the least conventionally sentimental. The Hepburn film is wonderful in it's way, but is sometimes undone by the more primitive film (and acting) techniques at the time. The other candy-cane MGM color version from 1949 is pretty mediocre, and downright dreadful when it gets serious.Back to this film.  Some may quibble with Winona Ryder's version of Jo (she's not Hepburn's equal, to be sure, but who is?), but I still found her believable and affecting.  Susan Sarandon's somewhat feminist Marmee is out of context with Alcott, but done with enough subtlety and grace to make sense dramatically (or perhaps it's just the effect of contemporary sensibilities).Christian Bale is the best Laurie ever, and frankly entire cast is wonderful with one exception Samamtha Mathis as the grown-up Amy is quite flat compared to the excellent Kirsten Dunst playing the younger Amy.  However, my favorite is Clare Danes as Beth.  This is a role that tends to get lost as Beth is not the most vibrant character.  But Danes plays her with such honest conviction that you pay more attention.  And her death scene with Ryder is truly heartbreaking - it gets me every time. Danes leaves Jean Parker (1933 version) and Margaret O'Brien (1949 version) in the dust.Kudos to director Gillian Anderson, who made a terrific film My Brilliant Career - with a similar plot line about a rambunctious young woman who gives up a suitor to become a serious writer.  Judy Davis played the lead there, and I must say that she would have made a superb Jo had Armstrong made this film at that time. Ah well....Special mention to the cinematographer and the score by Thomas Newman.  The music does get a bit sentimental at times, but it is gorgeous just the same. "},{"Title":"Jo and Laurie","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I completely agree with the comments noting that Winona Ryder looks entirely wrong for this part!  She is too pretty and graceful; there is none of Jo's brave mannishness here.  This would be acceptable, except that it makes the platonic relationship between Jo and Laurie (the unbearably beautiful Christian Bale) entirely unbelievable! The sexual tension between these two is one of the most stirring aspects of the movie.Otherwise a super-enchanting loveable film!  "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful film! One that has no swearing, sex or violence that the whole family can enjoy! Every character is perfectly cast, with Winona Ryder the standout as Jo March. I still cry when she turns down Laurie's marriage proposal. However, I loved her romance with the German professor better. I think Claire Danes' turn as Beth is her best acting perfomance to date, even though she seems a bit too old and too sturdy for the role. The story is wonderful. If you're family oriented and/or a romantic, you'll love and cherish this movie! "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I was surprised at how good this movie really was. I like Winona Ryder and think that she is a very talented actress besides beautiful. The only part I didn't care too much about was the ending. If only the guy she ended up with looked a little younger, the one in the movie could pass for her father. I thought for sure she would end up with Eric Stoltz. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous Production, Excellent Adaptation","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This film is, without a doubt, gorgeous.  Gillian Armstrong does an amazing job.  Everything is so detailed and bright and colorful.  There are wonderful moments when the camera does a close-up shot of a pair of hands shaking sugar powder over a cake ... or of red rose petals being spread over a row of worn dolls.  These are very little, but memorable moments.I've read the Little Women series several times - before and after seeing this movie.  I've also seen two other film versions; this one is really a superb adaptation of Little Women and Good Wives.  It's also modernized (and pretty much de-Christianized) but in keeping with the original sentiment of the novels.This is one of those movies that I watch and ... as the minutes pass I dread arriving at the conclusion.  I just want it to go on and on.Kirsten Dunst, Susan Sarandon and Christian Bale are really the stand outs in this picture.  Christian Bale is the absolute best Laurie imaginable. His proposal scene to Jo (I'll let you win every argument) is great.  Kirsten Dunst is perfect as the spoiled, self-absorbed (but still sweet and lovable) youngest March sister. Every time I see this movie I want Susan Sarandon to be MY mother.  She is just like Marmee in the book.Winona Ryder as Jo is, of course, the central character - and she plays her well, but I found it a little hard to accept her because she is nothing like the Jo in the book.  I mean, Jo wasn't really supposed to be so pretty and petite as Winona Ryder.  One of the reasons Jo is such an enduring and beloved character is the very fact that she WAS an ordinary-looking girl - but she had an extraordinary spirit.  Thousands upon thousands of girls could relate to her.By casting Winona Ryder it felt silly to hear her say things like I'm ugly.  If she was supposed to be ugly, what about the rest of us?  Well, in any case, I can forgive that because Ryder really does do a good job and the rest of the casting (except for the somewhat distant Samantha Mathis) was right-on.All in all, the movie is great family entertainment. It's a nice portrayal of old-fashioned feminism, and the bonds of family (especially sisterhood). Maybe it won't strike such a strong chord with the male sector but I haven't met a woman yet who didn't love it. "},{"Title":"Harmless Enough, But Just Not for Me","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Eh, whatever.I've never read the Louisa May Alcott story nor seen any of the previous film versions, so I have nothing to compare this to. It's a fairly enjoyable film, warm-hearted and full of girl power. I can see why mothers enjoy watching this with their daughters. I don't know that it's a story that will ever speak much to me, a 34-year-old male.Winona Ryder plays the spunky Jo, and rode the wave of her brief period of success to a second Oscar nomination in two years. She's fine, but hardly Oscar worthy. Some young actors and actresses who we know very well today -- like Christian Bale, Claire Danes and Kirsten Dunst -- appear here before anyone knew who they were.Grade B "}{"Title":"Missing the point","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" There is so much that is good about this film, the scenery, the costumes, the fact that it incorporates parts of the book missed by other versions. Most of the cast play their roles well. But I cannot help but feel it somehow misses the spirit of the novels. For example when Jo and Friedrich kiss in the theatre i sit shaking my head. Amys sniping at Laurie in the gardens lacks so much compared with her clever criticism seen in the book. I do not normally witter when films are not exact replications of the book, really who can expect that? However I do believe they ought bring the characters to life not modernise them as if they fear the audience will become bored when Jo and the prof do not instantly leap into bed. The innocence, an integral part of the characters is lost and with it most of the charm of the story. What are we left with - yet another period drama. "},{"Title":"Loved the first part, but can't watch the second","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The entire movie is an incredibly good and seemingly realistic story of what life was like back in the late eighteen hundreds to early nineteen hundreds. Winona Ryder as Jo is phenomenal as is the rest of the cast, apart from Samantha Mathis who I believe did not suit the role of bratty Amy as well as Kirsten Dunst did. The entire movie is captivating and mostly flawless, at least the first half or so.It does not go down hill due to acting, writing or anything else that is by the fault of the actors or director, but it is the story written as is that is a punishment. From here on out there will be spoilers. In the book there is a basic understanding as to why Lawry and Jo were not meant to be together, but all throughout this film not only do Ryder and Bale have incredibly good chemistry, but the story is believable.Jo states that they would be fighting all the time, though not once in the movie do we see a genuine argument between the two, apart from during the proposal. She is affronted when people consider Meg and Lawry to be together, and does as Amy says 'hog him'. Every action, every glance seems to be pointing to the two of them being in love, but then she flatly refuses his hand. In Louisa May Alcott's book it is made clear that she sees him as a brother and nothing else and even has aspirations for he and Meg, which is perfectly understandable. However, this film is not the book!When Lawry proposes and eventually marries Amy, it truly seems as though he is settling for anyone related to Jo and becomes involved with Amy much as Mr. Wickham does with Lydia in Pride and Prejudice. In this adaptation I cannot understand why the two do not end up together. This is a movie, a completely separated object from the book. One is not expected to read a story before watching the film, and that is the only way you can truly understand what is going through their heads.Ever since I first saw this in full, I always stop it after Meg's wedding, knowing that I have fallen in love with Lawry/Jo all over again and can't stand to watch it happen again. The character development is nearly flawless so that I can relate to the two and am upset when they do not get married.7/10, love the beginning, the last half is painful for me to watch. "},{"Title":"Dreadful version","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The only reason this dreadful version of a much loved book even garnered a four from me is because the scenery itself was beautiful, and the actual Orchard House where the Alcotts lived was incorporated into the filming.This in no way touches on the depth of character from Louisa May Alcott's book, in fact it's so bad that when certain important events occur...don't want to give anything away here concerning the plot...one is left wondering why they should care. The acting itself was wooden--Winona Ryder makes a horrible Jo, and Claire Danes as Beth was truly pitiful--the script did not flow or introduce any of the wonderful aspects of character that was found in the book, or the movie version starring Margaret O'Brien, Elizabeth Taylor, and June Allyson. Watching this film, one does not know that Meg pines away for riches because the family used to be wealthy, and she has never forgotten having the little luxuries. One does not know that Beth spent a great deal of her time next door at the Lawrence's and was such a beautiful piano player. They don't even introduce the fact that Amy is ashamed of her nose, which was most amusing. And Jo, it's miserable the way they butchered her character. Instead of holding her head high above her sorrows and troubles, this film portrayed her as a oh-woe-is-me type of character who just felt sorry for herself.Please don't waste your time on this. If you wish to see Little Women in film, rent or buy a different version. The version with June Allyson was infinitely better than this one. Or better yet, spend some time and read the book. "},{"Title":"Wino Ryder Excels","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The March sisters live and grow in post-Civil War America.I cannot say I am a huge fan of Little Women, though this adaptation is excellent. We have some strong characters with strong messages (Transcendentalism and women's suffrage) with some incredible actresses filling the roles Winona Ryder, Susan Sarandon, Samantha Mathias and Kirsten Dunst, to name a few.We also have Christian Bale in a role prior to his huge explosion of fame. Yes, Bale existed in the early 1990s, and yes he did appear alongside various actresses of the day. He had a life before American Psycho and the Batman films. "},{"Title":"Choppy and forced","Date":"13 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" As a movie I find it to be sub-par as compared to the 1949 version. I'm torn, I do not want to rate it purely as a comparison but having been so familiar with the second version I can't entirely help it. Being honest with myself, were this the first time I was watching Little Women and this was the first version to be introduced to it I'd have stopped watching or completely lost interest. It was choppy, the acting didn't carry through all too well and it just seemed to be trying too hard to stick to a novel. Because of this I suspect it may be closer in accuracy to the novel than the '49 version. For that reason I am now interested in reading the novel that much more. Ryder did not play as strong a Jo as I found June Allyson did. Claire Danes was not a very warm and loving Beth nor was she very memorable a character as the '49 carried. I now simply must see the '33 version to compare as it is considered even better than the '49 version. "},{"Title":"Lovely Film","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I love rewatching things after not seeing them in a long time and just falling in love with it all over again. And that's what happened here with Little Women. I was a young girl myself when it came out in theaters and I enjoyed it then, though honestly I don't recall if I had ever read the book before then. I don't have any sisters so I don't know the true relationship between sisters but I imagine it's a lot like brothers and I have three of them so I could relate in many ways to the relationships between the four of them. I think that Jo and Laurie would have made a great couple, but Jo was right. Laurie needed someone more like Amy than herself. Jo and Laurie were too much alike. The combination of Laurie and Amy matched together similar to Jo and Fredrick.Amy was calm and Laurie outgoing and Fredrick was calm and Jo outgoing. I can't think of anyone I know who has seen this movie and not cried when Beth passes away. A scene that sticks in your mind even days after watching it. Cuddle up in a blanket with your popcorn and enjoy this wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A moving, beautifully acted and photographed adaptation.","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Christian Bale is great, Winona Ryder is the best she's ever been, Susan Sarandon brings tremendous complexity to what could have been an overly familiar character, Gabriel Byrne is terrific and very different from anything else he's done, etc. right down the line through the whole cast. Gillian Armstrong's direction is seamless and invisible in the strongest way, getting the best from her actors, cinematographer, designers, and the story itself, while never making you conscious of all the style and tone she's bringing to it.While it threatens to feel to Hollywood/sappy/ period-stogy for the first few minutes, stay with it., It quickly warms up and comes to vibrant life, turning into a wonderfully winning proto- feminist story, very touching, and full of unexpected moments and twists. One of my very favorite period family films. "},{"Title":"Probably the ultimate American classic","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" It has been years since I first read Louis May Alcott's celebrated novel Little Women. It would come to represent what it is good about America, or at least for me. Gillian Armstrong's adaptation of Alcott's novel of the same name is the next best thing, considering I was not born when the previous three adaptations came about.The film adaptation surrounds the story over the four March sisters during and after the American Civil War Meg (Trini Alvarado), Jo (Winona Ryder), Beth (Claire Danes) and Amy (Kirsten Dunst, with Samantha Mathis playing the older version). Then there is of course their mother affectionately known as Marmee (Susan Sarandon) to the March sisters, taking care of the family while the father is out on the front.Like any family, they have their ups and downs with the squabbles (like between Jo and Amy, where it would be after a skating accident which befell on Amy drew the sisters closer), but never dismiss it as yet another film to be considered forgettable because the beauty of this enduring American classic is despite the various differences in the March household between the sisters, what binds them together is their sense of togetherness (it showed when Beth came down with scarlet fever and how everyone came round together, right till Beth's last days). Then there is of course their wealthy but kind-hearted neighbours in the Laurences in especially the high-spirited grandson of Mr. James Laurence (John Neville) in Theodore 'Laurie' Laurence (Christian Bale).As the March sisters grew older, with the exception of piano-loving Beth who would die from scarlet fever after first taking care of the Hummels children, the sisters would come to discover what lies ahead for each of their separate lives. Meg got married first, Amy accompanied her relatives to Europe where it opened her horizons, Jo moved to New York City to pursue her writing ambitions after turning down Laurie's marriage proposal. It would be while working as a governess to Mrs. Kirke's (a friend of Marmee) daughters to finance her writing ambitions when Jo eventually found her happiness in the form of the German professor who also lives in Mrs. Kirke's boarding house in Professor Friedrich Baher (with Gabriel Bryne in his excellent German accent, despite he is actually Irish).There are not many films which can always warm the heart for even the most cynical of us all, but even for those who has not read Louisa May Alcott's novel, will be heartened at the fact that the film adaptation stay true to the spirit of the celebrated novel. "},{"Title":"Pure Romance!","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women is a gorgeous film with great actors! I only recently heard of the film through a friend, and I have fell in love with it. I want my life to be like the life in Little Women! However, Little Women isn't all light and joyful, it is emotionally sad as well, when Beth (Claire Danes) died I admit I cried, It was so emotional and sad that she didn't have the chance of a life. I love the romance between Jo (Winona Ryder) and Friedrich (Gabriel Byrne), and I wish I was Jo as he is gorgeous, loving and seems to understand Jo and he is romantic! My favourite scenes are when Jo and Friedrich go to the opera and he translates it for Jo, and you see his deep feelings for Jo. Also, I love the very last scene when Friedrich drops off Jo's published book and she runs after him to try and make him stay with her...Oh my I LOVE this stunning film and it is a classic, plus I've fallen in love with the characters, the place its set and music, beautiful! Louisa May Alcott wrote an amazingly stunning novel and it has been perfectly presented by Gillian Amstrong!! 10/10 no question! "},{"Title":"The Truest and Best of the Bunch","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" In 1933, Katharine Hepburn portrayed Josephine Jo March in Little Women. The picture was re-made in the 1950s with June Allyson as Jo. Then in 1994, the best of the 3, starring Winona Ryder as Jo, came to the screen. This version, which is true to the book, is lush, realistic, tender and just plain,old-fashioned wonderful. I LOVE this movie! It may be said that the sign of a truly great actress is how far and how deeply she dives into and becomes her character. In real life, Susan Sarandon is a liberal, political activist as well as a mother and the (newly separated) partner of actor Tim Robbins. But in this movie, she is a warm, maternal, kind-hearted, wise mother of four different daughters. While hints and sometimes downright statements of feminism - are peppered throughout the movie, Ms. Sarandon maintains her identity as Marmee very convincingly. But the wonder of the movie is the performance by Winona Ryder. Of all the actresses whoever portrayed Jo, Ms. Ryder is perhaps the most convincing. Her scenes with Laurie (played so well by Christian Bale) and later, Professor Bhaer (played by a personal favorite, Gabriel Byrne), are marvelous. A childhood love becomes a deep friendship with Laurie. And a real, maturing passion develops between her and her professor. The last scene --- oh, I still cry when I see it, is so good (and I won't be a spoiler). I recommend this film most highly. My only complaint is that, while Jo, Meg and Beth were played by the same actress, Amy is played by two different actresses. The March girls were all children in the beginning and they became women as the novel progresses; why didn't they have younger actresses for the parts of Jo and Meg especially? It was nice to see a couple of real veterans besides Ms. Sarandon. John Neville as Mr. Laurence was, as always, brilliant though the part was small. And Mary Wicks - I remember her from Now, Voyager! This movie has aired quite often on cable. If you've not seen it, then by all means, do so. And, oh, yes, the music is also lush and beautiful RUN, don't walk, to buy the DVD. You'll be prompted to read the book again. Always a delight! "}{"Title":"A moving and heartwarming adaptation of the classic novel","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women is directed by Gillian Armstrong, is based on the novel by Louisa May Alcott and stars Winona Ryder, Gabriel Byrne, Trini Alvrado, Claire Danes, Kirsten Dunst, Samantha Mathis, Eric Stoltz, Christian Bale, Mary Wickes and John Neville.Winona Ryder as the spirited and independent Jo March. Little Women tells the story of her and her sisters life from girlhood to adulthood. In addition to Jo there's the patient Meg(Trini Alvrado),shy Beth(Claire Danes)and fun loving Amy(Kirsten Dunst and Samantha Mathis). The centre of the girls world is their loving mother(Susan Sarandon)who tries to encourage her daughters to just be themselves and find a path in life that's right for them. The film shows their loves, hopes and shared tragedies.There's fine support from Christian Bale as Laurie who falls in love with Jo and becomes a firm friend of the March family. Eric Stoltz plays his tutor Mr Brooke who falls in love with Meg.Gabriel Byrne is wonderful as the Professor who befriends Jo and may be the one who she is meant to be with for the rest of her life. There's good comic support from the fantastic Mary Wickes as Aunt March and John Neville gives a poignant performance as Laurie's grandfather. The entire cast are superb but the standout performance is Claire Danes as the fragile and kind Beth.If you like this version check out the June Allison film from 1949, it is well worth a watch too and is just as lovely as this film is. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm.....","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I have never read the book, and seeing this screen version of Little Women certainly didn't make me want to.  So little happened in such a long space of time, interspersed with cloying images and angst. In short, a boring sentimental supposed tear-jerker which works wonders as a sophoric. What  more  can I say? "},{"Title":"Good beginning but ending isn't so good","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  At the beginning of this movie, I thought it was really good. A little slow-moving, yeah, but that made it more in-depth. However, I was disappointed by the ending. It wasn't because I didn't expect it - it was because it changed the whole course of the movie. It was flowing so well, but the ending just sucked. The acting's all really good, especially by Winona Ryder and Claire Danes. This is a good movie with a good storyline, but the ending is a bit of a downturn. "},{"Title":"Missed the Bar","Date":"30 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Many flaws and not enough true romance. First and biggest problem is the film spends well over half of entire 123 minutes in the Concord House Where nobody had grown, or changed or learned. Then suddenly before the end, main character Josephine left for New York and young Amy went to France to paint?. Much of the Concord house is old and full of dark wood and did reflect the reduced circumstance of the family, where upon their neighbors were healthy and worldly. How does that happened ? The oldest sister Meg is married off and basically had no lines for the rest of the film. That left high-spirited,tempestuous Jo to fill much of rest of the movie. Susan Sarandon, normally a high-powered actress, had nothing much to do except appeared matronly. The long-returned father was much older than everyone else and strangely had no war stories to tell, or any gifts for his daughters. Young suitor Christian Bale and Jo seemed a natural couple but inexplicably Jo rebuffed his proposal, only to meet up later with a generation-apart German professor in NYC. When Jo went to the boarding house, the book has her taking the duty of governess to the proprietress's children. There wasn't a moment's footage suggesting anything of the kind. Wynona Ryder did fine work here and some argues the 1940's version with Kate Hepburn as Jo was more spirited. It is easy to imagined that but Ryder is more attractive and therefore easier to accept, while the most memorable performance belongs really to Kirsten Dunst's young Amy, the little sis. She was perfectly puckish and adorable. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Little Women.","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Little Women has always been a favorite book of mine. I think I've seen every film adaptation at least once. I can't resist costume dramas. All that having been said, is it any surprise that I love this movie? I enjoyed this movie more than all the other adaptations. It has depth that the others lack. It does not play the novel out scene by scene or have the cast reciting big chunks of the book itself. You are drawn into the very lively world of young women as the grow up. You cheer for them, and cry with them.All the characters are very well played. Here, the biggest, and best surprise is how fully realized male characters are. Laurie gets his due as a fifth lead, and John Brook steps out of the background to become someone the audience really likes.This film works as well as a film as it does as a story. Everything looks beautiful, and the music is great. "},{"Title":"Historical girlie fare","Date":"11 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I suspect that the average Brit isn't half as exposed to Little Women as the average Yank. It has existed on the outside edge of my awareness since I was a kid, and I have caught odd tasters of various versions over the year without ever encountering the full works. So this 1994 movie version is the first version I have ever experienced all the way through, and I am considering it on a stand alone basis.This is an historical piece, telling of four sisters growing up in fairly cushioned circumstances in Concord Massachusetts. Father is away in the Civil War and money is tight. Each of the sisters is strongly drawn, but the story belongs to Jo, strong-willed, independent, and rather progressive (and, I suspect, also author Louisa M Alcott's alter ego).It is also rather soapy, much of what happens being fairly ordinary - money problems, boyfriend problems, births, deaths, marriages and so on. It's all fairly comforting and mildly entertaining.It comes alive when it hits moments of high emotion, and also when it follows Jo into an adult life in which she chooses to quietly challenge convention. She is also the sister who has the least obvious love life, falling in love (though neither of them are minded to face it) with German Professor Baer.This film is beautiful to look at and presents attractive performances from all the principals. The story is, frankly, a bit drippy for your average ageing British bloke, but it passes the time reasonably well. I think women will enjoy this a lot I enjoyed it well enough. "},{"Title":"It grew on me","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Never having read the novel nor seen any of the previous movies of Little Women, I decided to give this a shot. The beginning, which has Abigail March raising four young daughters while her husband is off fighting in the Civil Was, is a bit treacly. The family is so wholesome with such little real conflict that Alcott must have been far enough removed from her childhood that she could present the autobiographic material with such sunny nostalgia.After the personalities of the four girls had been established and they started going their separate ways I became more interested. The period settings (Concord, Massachusetts) and dress seem authentic and were large contributors to my enjoyment. The lighting and musical score lend a certain coziness and in general the filming and acting is of high quality and indicate a dedication to the effort by all concerned.All of this is not to say that I did not have some serious problems. Beyond the fact that the family on rare occasion gets mail from Mr. March recounting his status, we have no other indication that the United States is engaged in the most costly and gruesome war in its history. The Marchs complain that they are poor, but any serious privations are not apparent. They live in a beautiful, spacious house that seems to be well heated during the cold winters and they attend lavish dances. They live next door to a wealthy man whose grandson Laurie becomes a suitor to Jo, the independent daughter who wants to become a writer. All events lead to Jo and Laurie becoming an item, but when Laurie proposes, Jo refuses. She gives the excuse that they would always be fighting, even though their relationship has never been presented as anything but harmonious. After the four years later break Amy has changed into a distinctly different woman, both physically and personally--from a playful and extroverted child to a somewhat remote painter. I felt this was a major disconnect.But, in spite of my misgivings I found it hard not to be won over by this heartwarming, sentimental story and the excellent production values. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Three","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The most interesting thing about the three film versions of Little Women is comparing them to each other or comparing each of them to Alcott's book. What makes them so difficult to choose between is that the casting of the four title characters is the critical element, and each film featured at least one actress whose performance was clearly superior to her character's portrayal in the other two films. This all star cast would include Jean Parker (Beth) in the 1933 version, Janet Leigh (Meg) in the 1949 version, and Winona Ryder (Jo) in the 1994 version. The 1994 version also had the best Amy, if only because they wisely split the role into a younger Amy (Kirsten Dunst) and an older Amy (Samantha Mathis). Since Jo is pretty clearly the most important of the four sisters (to the story), the 1994 version gets my nod as the best of the three films. The 1933 version pulls in as a close second as Joan Bennett and Katherine Hepburn are the second best Amy and Jo; and Francis Dee's Meg is as good as Trini Alvarado's. Neither Margaret O'Brien nor Claire Danes come even close to Parker's portrayal of Beth. The biggest casting problem all the productions had was in the age of the actresses. With the exception of Beth, all three characters must span a five year period. The casting process typically addressed this by selecting older actresses and getting them to play (with varying degrees of success) much (June Allyson was 32 years old) younger versions of themselves during the first half of the film. At least the 1994 versions managed to get the birth order right. The 1933 version had some problems in this area, as Hepburn was two years older than Dee and Bennett five years older than Parker. While this still causes many Alcott fans to cringe, it is nothing compared to the 1949 version where Allyson was ten years older than Leigh and Elizabeth Taylor was five years older than O'Brien. Taylor should have played Jo, which would have saved viewers from Allyson's embarrassing portrayal and from Taylor's attempt to pass as a blonde. Few actresses (even in black and white) were less suited to a light hair color. While Taylor's portrayal of Amy is painful, she would have been well suited to the Jo role. Critics frequently point out that both Hepburn and Allyson were much like Jo in real life, so there is a certain irony that Ryder's portrayal of the character (one so dissimilar to herself) was far superior. But Ryder and Jo have a similar level of intensity so maybe it was not as much a stretch as it seems. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"Movie is Boring with a capital B","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" With their father away fighting in the Civil War, Joe, Meg, Beth and Amy grow up with their mother in somewhat reduced circumstances. They are a close family who inevitably have their squabbles and tragedies. But the bond holds even when, later, men friends start to become a part of the household.If you haven't read the book, you might enjoy this slow-moving, wholesome film. However, if you have read the book, do yourself a favor and do not see this film. You will be greatly disappointed.This is one of those movies where the book was far better than the movie. Quite disappointing. The movie moved very slow and did not hold or grab me as a watcher. They really downplayed the richness and colorfulness of the characters and it was not dramatic, funny or that entertaining. It totally missed the mark, and it shouldn't have.Filmmakers have been able to capture the spirit of Jane Austen's novels in a wonderful way, however, this can not be compared to that. It's like comparing apples and oranges. The classiness, humor, drama and entertainment of the novel is not portrayed in this film. "},{"Title":"Sentimental of course, but still an enjoyable, professional and polished film","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" As the Civil War ends, life is hard for everyone and even the wealthy March family find themselves struggling. The sisters and their mother live in their large home as their money runs low but their spirits remain high. Filled with kindness and love the girls all have different challenges &#150; Jo wants to be a writer in a world that is dominated by men, Meg longs for a man while Amy just wants a different nose. Their play and games continue as a result of their solidarity in the face of harsh reality, but can the family withstand the challenges of time?Those sitting to watch this film will probably ready be prepared for the fact that it is rather sentimental and highly likely to turn to mush with the slightest touch, so complaining about this is a bit unfair and it may be a matter of buyer beware in that regard. Having said that though, the film does just about manage to avoid becoming unwatchable mush and remains polished sentiment thanks mainly to the writing and development doing the work rather than relying solely on rising music and easy weepy tricks. You do need to be of a certain mood to enjoy it but the stories of the March family are engaging and manage to be of interest to modern audiences while also being well set within the period.Another major reason it succeeds is the work of the roundly good cast. Ryder is a solid narrator and has the plum role of being the feistiest of the sisters, a character she takes to well and seems to have been the foundation of the film. Danes and Alvarado play much more ordinary characters and although they are good, they have less of the limelight as a result. Dunst is suitably precocious and when she is replaced by Mathis, it is our loss. Sarandon is hard and she greatly helps drive out the mush in some scenes but occasionally her wisdom-spouting gets a bit old. Stoltz is quite uninspired; Bale is good but seems too old for the role, while Byrne is OK but often seems to be putting more work into his accent rather than bringing out a character &#150; but his chemistry with Ryder carries him.Overall this is a fine version of a story that was always going to at least a little sentimental. It never goes so far as being mushy and manages to be an engaging and enjoyable tale as a result. The cast are mostly good but the women naturally dominate the men, some of whom seem ill-suited to their roles. Worth seeing for being a polished and professional version of the famous story. "}{"Title":"i had to do this for a project..","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I chose for my A level media project to compare rep. of women in Little Women and another film. God, how much did I HATE this film?! I'm sorry, I appreciate that a lot of people enjoy that kind of nostalgia, but I found it utterly painful to have to watch and later analyse- it is pure schmaltz of the worst kind. I can only applaud Susan Sarandon's efforts for producing the most realistic character. I cannot bring myself to watch it again, for fear of death of boredom. "},{"Title":"Little Interest","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Well, I confess I did not read the book. And, as a person who retched at every one of Margaret O'Brian's performances, avoided that movie. Sooo, I watched the 1994 version basically ignorant of who and what should have been.The colors and historic feel of the film are wonderful. I am still pondering, however, the fact that Amy had quite a growth spurt and the rest of the family stayed physically the same. Wynona Rider never changed physically or emotionally.And let's be honest, Claire Daines stunk (stank?). She was a Concord Madonna if there ever was one, born to be martyred. Boring! What an insipid nonentity! And here's a question; why didn't the father TALK? He was just furniture who hung around. How that man could have produced children is a miracle.Oh well, I've seen worse movies. This one reminds me of Coke that has been shaken in the can and lost its fizzle. Flat. Colorful, but flat. "},{"Title":"Deeply annoying distortion of the novel.","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  This version of Little Women ranks right DOWN there with the most recent remake of A Little Princess for its deeply annoying distortion of the novel. Three examples Contemporary feminist ideas that hold little in common with Alcott's feminism turn the character of Marmee (Sarandon) into a plastic caricature of the original. John Brooke is turned into a pert cartoon of a 1950's beatnik, both in physical appearance and in his speech mannerisms. Professor Bhaer (impossible here to consider in his early 40's, as in the text) makes a mild sexual pass at Jo in the theatre which is fully at odds with his abstemious, classical German temperament. .. . I easily could continue with examples of how irritating I consider this film. I never shall waste the money by purchasing a copy. RATING = 0 stars  "},{"Title":"Where is the love?","Date":"12 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Let me just say that i have never read the book nor seen another adaptation, so this is my first Little Women experience... I am a huge fan of period dramas and usually figure that they are going to be soppy and romantic and usually i am correct. Usually.I thought the acting in this movie was great, it was just some of the plot that made this film impossible to enjoy. I am sure in the book things flow a lot nicer than they do in this film..Basically i thought that Laurie and Jo were meant to end up together, and for some reason when he proposes she says no! She says they would fight too much but they didn't fight at all in the movie.. I couldn't understand when they seemed to have such good chemistry. I've come to an understanding that in the book she considers him more as a brother but i only found this out AFTER watching the film and getting mad at her rejection of him.When Jo's love interest is introduced all I could do was shake my head and say no no no no There seemed to be no chemistry there compared to what Jo and Laurie had previously.So when they kiss at the end, It all feels wrong.Then finally, when Laurie sees the older Amy and suddenly likes her? how long has actually past since Jo's rejection of him? To me it seemed as though he was on the rebound. Their marriage wasn't romantic at all.. I just didn't feel the romance in this film they way other period films show it. It was disappointing. The rest of the story was fine.But if you're looking for romance watch something like Wives and Daughters or North and South (Gaskell) or something Austen. They are all better than this. "},{"Title":"Outdated movie","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in the theater years ago and liked it very well. However, because it was adapted for the time it now appears dated. The book is a true timeless classic and the movie would have worn better had the director stayed true to the book. Kirsten Dunst and Christian Bales are wonderful in their parts. I enjoyed seeing Orchard House however the interior looked Victorian. Descriptions of the decorating done by the Alcott parents are described as light colors, open and simple. The outdoor photography was lovely and the costumes seemed right. The characters were not well rounded and my husband and I laughed out loud at several of Marmee's lines. She seemed to be working hard to send her daughters into therapy. Marmee in the book was much more balanced and thoughtful. "},{"Title":"A nice movie","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  Surprisingly, I enjoyed this movie.  I thought it stuck nicely to the spirit of the books - even the Women's Suffrage lectures that I don't remember reading in the original Alcott fit nicely into Alcott's own tendency to pedagogy.  )All the actors were lovely - although I would have liked a bit more from the girl who played the older Amy and there were times that the girl who played Beth kind of annoyed me.I would have liked to see more emphasis on the Beth/Mr. Laurence story near the beginning, which they pretty much all but ignored.  I was also a little disappointed in the way the whole Amy/Laurie/Jo/Professor Bhaer thing was done, which took out some of the charm of the original book.  They tried to make it too much of a soap opera, and the innocent charm of the Jo/Professor Bhaer thing definitely suffered.  (That said, I did enjoy the guy who played Bhaer... I've never much liked him in the books, but here I actually sort of liked him.)Is there no movie version that will dramatize the dance at Nice?I had something else of vital importance to say, but I have forgotten it. This is a nice movie for a rainy afternoon, and a relatively good book adaptation.  Not one of my top ten, though.  "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of a classic","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  I really did enjoy this version of 'Little Women.'  It was charming, funny, sad-- everything you want it to be.  Don't recommend it if you need a quick action-fix, though. Winona Ryder was a wonderful Jo-- there are things going on in this girl's face that, seriously, can only be captured on film.  That _ugly_ line was very, um-- untrue? Kirsten Dunst was a fabulous Amy, but Samantha Mathis was too cool and insincere.  Susan Sarandon was great, but as someone else said, her lines as Marmee were just platitude after tired platitude.  Claire Danes was a sweet sad Beth (I cried!  I cried!)  Christian Bale was a hot Laurie.  Gabriel Byrne was wonderful but well his German accent was off.  (Or am I just too used to his own Irish brogue?) When I first watched the movie in the theater, I remember walking out, heartbroken, that Jo did not find Laurie to be her soulmate.  Now, though, having grown up _a little_, I totally understand her attraction to the German professor of philosophy.   "},{"Title":"Satisfactory version is better than the dated '33 classic...","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" WINONA RYDER makes an impressive Jo in Louisa May Alcott's LITTLE WOMEN, tomboyishly charming and persuasive as she matures into a fine young writer. She won a Best Actress nomination, but strangely, her career never took off as strongly as it should have after this success. Except for GIRL INTERRUPTED, she hasn't had a recent string of hits nor has she been as busy at her craft as one would expect.A good Jo is essential for the story to work, and since everyone else is well cast this is no problem. SUSAN SARANDON does a nice job as Marmee and the priceless MARY WICKES (in one of her last roles) is a formidable Aunt March. Christian BALE (who went on to much better roles in the future) makes a completely acceptable Laurie, and the sisters are well played by KIERSTEN DUNST (especially good as the young Amy), CLAIRE DANES, SAMANTHA MATHIS and TRINI ALVARADO.Filmed in Canada, there's a genuinely wintry look to the New England landscapes and a warm glow to the interior scenes that is perfectly in keeping with the story. In fact, all of the technical elements are in fine order.But somehow, it never quite reaches the grandeur of Alcott's beautifully written tale and, for a film based on a classic novel, doesn't linger in the memory as it should when the distance of a few years have passed. It should have been a minor masterpiece, but misses the mark, although it's considerably more worthwhile watching than the sweet George Cukor version with Katharine Hepburn which now seems awfully dated in style and conception. There are some modern sensibilities written into this LITTLE WOMEN (thanks to Susan Sarandon's observations as the mother) and, in general, it plays more believably than the '33 classic. "},{"Title":"A very fine movie","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":"  'Little Women' tells the story of the four sisters March and their loved ones. The one we follow constantly is Jo (Winona Ryder). The other three are Meg (Trini Alvarado), Beth (Claire Danes) and Amy who is played by Kirsten Dunst when she is young and by Samantha Morton when she gets older. They live in Concord, Mass. and the story starts during the Civil War.Their father is in that civil war and the sisters live with their mother (Susan Sarandon). They make friends with a guy named Laurie (Christian Bale). Especially Jo is very fond of him. We also learn to know Mr. Brooke (Eric Stoltz) who will become very important in Meg's life. Gabriel Byrne plays Friedrich Bhaer who is the man in Jo's life during her time in New York. Why she ends up there and what happens exactly, also with Amy and Beth, is not for me to reveal.Everything in the movie looks beautiful. The costumes, the production design, everything. The score from Thomas Newman is perfect as well. The performances are pretty good. Winona Ryder, Christian Bale and the little Kirsten Dunst in particular do a very good job. That leaves us with the story. Sometimes it is a little predictable, but so was the book and in that way the movie stays close to it. With some interesting surprises and a second half that shows us some real emotion it still is very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"second time lucky","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw this I thought - tedious, Ryder and Byrne miscast, just out of its league and out of its time. On a second viewing I changed my mind. Compared to K Hepburn and J Allyson, Winona is a different Jo, but not one you can dismiss easily. The sequences after Beth's death and after she sells her hair are particularly affecting, and there is more about her uneasy relationships with the growing Amy and with Laurie. Susan Sarandon is fine as Marmee, as is Claire Danes as Beth. Gabriel Byrne I'm still not sure about but he's OK to look at so whatever reservations I have about him in the role I'll set aside.This film isn't essential and I'd rank the '30s and '40s versions above it - however it is entertaining, sticks very closely to the book, has a quiet confidence and charm you can buy into if you're in the right mood, and is a fairly decent film. "}{"Title":"Little Women","Date":"6 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" I recognised the title of this film as being a period costume drama, and I knew a couple of the stars, I just didn't realise how many big stars were in it, so I gave it a try. It is basically about the growing up of the March sisters Jo (Oscar nominated Winona Ryder), Amy (young - Kirsten Dunst, older - Samantha Mathis), Beth (Claire Danes) and Meg (Trini Alvarado). Their father is away fighting in the American Civil War, and the film follows the girls, as well as their mother Mrs. Abigail Marmee March (Susan Sarandon) and Aunt (Sister Act's Mary Wickes), as they laugh and squabble through the many situations that come their way. Also, as they grow up, the girls and family as a whole are joined by more male company Friedrich Bhaer (Gabriel Byrne), John Brooke (Eric Stoltz) and Laurie (Christian Bale). Also starring Matthew Walker as Mr. March, John Neville as Mr. Laurence and Florence Patterson as Hannah. Not much happens in this film, there are no big twists, turns or anything to make you react in any big way, but it is not too bad peaceful (possibly more girly) viewing. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Costume Design and Best Music for Thomas Newman, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Costume Design. It was number 65 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"hmm...","Date":"17 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Romance","Review":" Well I don't know where to start with this movie. I don't like it. The problem with this movie is there are no little women. There is one played by the mediocre Kirsten Dunst. Next, who names their child Jo. Jo is a man's name. If you want a butch in the movie, just name her Jo. She crushes on like a 40 year old man anyway. That explains the marital situation in the early 1900's. I didn't understand the point of the movie. The title was named for Jo's book that she wrote? Apparently i need to read the book... NOT. I wouldn't dare read this book. This movie maybe a classic for past generations of women with heart warming fun about lovely girls' lives in the early 1900's and how they deal with relationships. That in my opinion is the WORST. STORY LINE. EVER. Even if I appear to be sexist. I laugh at this movie every time Christian Bale appears with such a gross Fu Man Chu. It's gross and no one wants to see that. I think i got a little gayer watching Christian(Laurie)prance around like a little boy off the Newzies.(hey oh!) I mean he took my breath away! And not in a good way. In conclusion, if you're a girl, enjoy watching.) If you're a boy and like this movie, you have major issues and keep watching gay boys dance around... "}]