[{"Title":"finally saw the film I was an extra in","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Poorly plotted, plenty of clichés, sadly as an extra in the film, trying to locate a copy to see it took longer than I intended. Unlike the guy rehearsing lines in the BMW, My face, at least one side of it, did make the film, if only for a second. The star, without top billing was clearly not great at the English language, the scenes I was involved with were instantly recognizable if not filmed exactly how I expected. Gleason was wasted. Paul was a forgettable character. They had plot elements that made very little sense. For several hours of filming in a downtown Toronto bar for 1 second of screen time for a movie I bought for $0.99 it will at least have a small degree of likability with my appearance. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I was in this...","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What's worse, it's my only feature film credit. I was the guy behind the camera reading the lines while the actors auditioned for the director. The director liked my line readings so much he gave me a part. It's the same way Harrison Ford got the part of Han Solo. I just wish my career had a little more in common with Harrison's. My sister (who plays the forensic scientist at the crime scene early on) went from being a production assistant to assistant producer to line producer on this turkey. My fondest memory of being on set (other than accidentally being set on fire) was sitting with the hero in the BMW giving him phonetic line readings since he barely spoke English. Hey, at least I was in a movie with the vice principal from the Breakfast Club.People should probably avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"I WAS AN EXTRA","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie, which lasted about a day at Toronto Eaton Centre cinemas, was shot mostly in a downtown Toronto bar. I know this because I was one of the extras (unpaid no less) in the dance floor fight scene, and a voice in the background during one of the stage fights. Is this a spoiler? I think not, having never seen the film I took part in. If you have seen it, or know where to find it, I want it. In case anybody remembers the dance floor brawl, I am the cowboy boot wearing guy he falls in front of several times. Our chant during the brawl was for the opponent (Chinaman) and you may hear me yell Ref! "},{"Title":"Mike Gazzo's last film.","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gazzo who is good at playing gruffy old italian bad guy looks very ill in the film.  The film basic plot is a street fighter's family is wiped out by Gazzo, so he goes on a revenge by destroying his drug operation.  Alexandra Paul is wasted as a social worker, and Gleason is cast in a diffrent role as a hard edge cop.  Some intresting moments and not too many killing in this canadian shot action film.  It's too bad Gazzo, Gleason, and Paul couldn't be in a better film. Not recommended. "}]