[{"Title":"Streep rides the rapids and has Bacon for breakfast","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"41 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Meryl Streep plays a part out of her normal range in Curtis Hanson's 1994 actioner, as an expert whitewater rafter, who has to save herself and her son - eventually with the aid of hubby - from a couple of desperados, who insist on being taken through some awesome rapids. I don't know how much was Streep, how much stunt-double, and how much effects, but her character emerges as a convincing woman of action who is also an anxious mother.Kevin Bacon is very effective as a regular guy, who just happens to be a psychotic criminal in his off moments; John C Reilly plays his weak, shifty sidekick; and Joseph Mazzello is the son, who initially finds Bacon more fun than his dad. It is David Strathairn, though, who for me takes the male acting honours, as a distant, serious-minded husband and father, who gets going when the going gets tough - though luckily, through thick and thin, he never loses his glasses! There is more than a touch of Deliverance, and the ending is pre-ordained; but the film is entertaining and gripping throughout, and is aided by some breathtaking Rockies scenery, beautifully shot. (There's a faithful dog too!)    "},{"Title":"Well-done and well-acted family thriller","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  River Wild is not really great or thrilling, but it's very entertaining due to the good acting by the entire cast and the beautiful nature scenery. I thought the relationships between all the characters and how they gradually change was the most believable and interesting part. How Kevin Bacon's character first strikes a bonding with the son, in order to win Meryl Streep's trust, and how this friendly atmosphere slowly glides to threat was very realistic. The only really annoying scene was the last one, where one police officer asks the son What did your father do?, to which he replies My father saved our lives. What a heroic, pathetic conversation after having survived such a life-threatening nightmare! All in all, this movie is recommendable, but you shouldn't expect too much.  "},{"Title":"Streep Braves the Rapids...and Succeeds.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  No, I didn't say Gail braves the rapids...but Meryl Streep, not only literally, but metaphorically.  Streep is definitely the actress of our time, and in no small part to her ability to tackle difficult roles of many colors, and do them without breaking a sweat.  Such is true with The River Wild, a predictable, but entertaining river rapids adventure/hostage drama.  Streep incorporates her role with strength, humor, and even a bit of vulnerability.  Backed by the menacing Kevin Bacon and the refined David Strathairn (the ultimate everyman...that's a compliment), Streep holds her own in a genre that one doesn't necessarily think of when her name comes to mind.  One tremendous scene involves Streep reminding her captor (Bacon) of the dangers of the upcoming waterfall/rapids system known as The Gauntlet...Streep whispers determination and threats, promises of anger and doom, directly into Bacon's ears with a quite rage, only to be turned to an edge-of-tears monologue when her family comes to mind.  Bravo to Curtis Hanson's pre-L.A. Confidential film (1997's SHOULD HAVE for Director and Picture).  The plot itself may have holes, but with the talents of Streep, backed with the reliable cast, The River Wild packs quite a punch of entertainment and thrills. "},{"Title":"Nothing too special but an enjoyable little thriller nonetheless","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  To celebrate her son Roarke's birthday and help build his relationship with his father (and her), Gail takes the family unit up to where she used to work as a river guide for a bit of white water rafting. Once there they meet another group heading down river and, when Wade and Terry lose their guide, Gail agrees to let them follow them in their own boat. However when Gail and Tom begin to feel uncomfortable with their guests they try to slip away unnoticed &#150; only for Wade to pull a gun and insist that Gail will help them proceed downriver and cross the legendary Gauntlet.I first watched this when it came out in the cinema and I remember enjoying it. However noticing it back on television recently I couldn't help but be a little uninterested in it and wondered if I had just false memories of how good it really had been and so decided to watch it again and see. After a slow opening the film gets down to business with the two boats getting together and gradually going to the conclusion that we know is coming but enjoy heading towards anyway. The film delivers its straightforward plot well in the early stages, using the father-figure conflict well (even if it ignores the heavy feminist subtext) to generate the tension, while the later stages is more of a simple hostage thriller sort of affair. This aspect is still quite enjoyable even if it is not as tight as it really needed to be and, as a non-rafter, I wasn't sure how intimidated I was meant to be by the load of water that was the gauntlet.As a result, the film is a little talky but the cast are able to deal with it and it is really only the clunky, slow start that suffers as a result. I'm not a big fan of Meryl Streep and I didn't think she was totally fitted to the material given her but mostly her performance was natural enough to be convincing. Strathairn plays second fiddle to Streep but he is still enjoyable as he delivers an insecure character. With these two big names in the lead it would have been easy for them to dominate but it is Kevin Bacon that steals the film with a charismatic performance that he easily turns into menace &#150; hardly his greatest performance but he makes more of it than others have in the past. Mazzello is a typical 'cute kid' American actor but he is good enough for this material and he is pretty good in the first half when he is given the material. Reilly and Bratt add some well-known faces to the mix but really neither has that much to do.Overall this is not a great film but it is good enough to be worth seeing once. The action is not typical for this genre and the novelty value of it makes it seem more interesting. The film looks good and it is tense enough to do the job while the plot gets past the slow start to deliver an interesting set up and a solid enough series of set pieces with a good cast and director onboard (sorry!).  "},{"Title":"For The Most Part A Credible Thriller","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" THE RIVER WILD is not the most original thriller ever made , it's premise is  a clean cut family bump into a couple of desperate criminals in the sticks and their lives are now in serious danger  but it deserves some credit in not trying to paper over its flaws with ridiculous action sequences or other type of melodramatic plot twists . Perhaps the producers of the recent Jodie Foster thriller FLIGHTPLAN should have watched this to see how a family based thriller should be made ? Some people may be put off by the fact that there's not much in the way of explosions , car chases or a massive body count and that there's a lot of talking but when you've got a thriller where Kevin Bacon is the bad guy ( And no 1990s movie was complete without Bacon as a bad guy ) if you do have a film that is watchable at the very least . And let me just repeat that this is a film where credibility takes precedence over action . There is a slight flaw where towards the end where one of the characters starts making devices out of stuff lying around ala MCGUYVER but for the most part this is an enjoyable thriller "},{"Title":"An interesting adventure's movie","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Gail used to be an expert rafting. Years later, during a family excursion in a wild river, she finds out the nightmare. Two cruel bandits, in the same river, try to escape and need her to help them. The pictures of the river and the open country are magnificent and we don't really have violent scenes in this movie. I appreciated the zoom on the heroes' faces, as we can see their emotions and reactions. They all were good. Kevin Bacon, much younger than the experienced M. Streep stands by her equally and proves once more his great talent. "},{"Title":"Decent thriller with several good performances and terrific scenery","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I watched The River Wild mainly for two reasons. The first one was incredibly talented young actor named Joseph Mazello, while the second was Kevin Bacon, also very good and underrated actor in my opinion. I expected just an average thriller or something like that but this movie managed to surpass my expectations. Though it wasn't a great or Oscar-worthy movie I found The River Wild mostly good and entertained, worth seeing movie. The story is concentrated on average dysfunctional family with workaholic father, who have almost lost a contact with his wife and two kids. They undertake a raft journey on vacation to celebrate their eldest son, Rourke birthday and in the same time trying to save their dying marriage. This at first calm and beautiful journey gets unexpectedly dangerous when the family meet on their way two strangers (played by Kevin Bacon and John C.Reilly), who also for their own reasons go to a journey with the same route. The story is not flawless and has some plot holes but overall it's not bad written. Well, maybe it's quite predictable but I don't think that such predictability harmed the movie too much. The acting overall was pretty good. To my surprise somehow happened that Meryl Streep became a weakest part in this excellent cast ensemble. I think she was a bit unconvincing as careful mother as well as a strong rafter. Another problem is that her character (Gail) is not developed as much as the movie needs it. For unknown reasons she got even a Golden Globe nomination for this movie but anyway The River Wild definitely is not among her best works. David Straithairn is much better playing Gail's husband and Roarke's father. Kevin Bacon is brilliant as evil, psychotic villain, while John C.Reilly gave decent performance of his diffident, weak-willed sidekick. And finally Joseph Mazello, the most talented actor among entire casts in the movie. His part didn't give him many opportunities to show his talent but in those short moments his acting was beautiful and he was able to overshadow others. Despite all these very good performances the most exceptional thing about The River Wild is not the good acting but a beautiful scenery and excellent cinematography that have captured it. Even only this terrific scenery, filmed somewhere in Oregon, is enough to make this movie worth seeing. It's simply beyond my words. Finally, it is worth to mention nice score, written by Jerry Goldmith, with excellent main theme.In the conclusion The River Wild is not great but quite a good movie, with good casts, acting and one of the most beautiful scenery I've ever seen. My grade 7,5 or B. "},{"Title":"I'll never forget Kevin Bacon after seeing this","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'm not sure, but I don't think there is a bigger compliment that you can pay any actor but to say that his/her performance was bigger than the movie itself. It seemed to me that Kevin Bacon was not acting. That Kevin Bacon IS as mean and cruel as the character he portrayed. I cannot see Kevin in any movie without thinking of his performance in River Wild because I really think you're seeing the real deal. Because of that, Kevin was one of the most terrifying movie characters that I have ever experienced.Seriously, in real life, Kevin Bacon may be a nice guy, may be a sweetheart, may do volunteer work, may go to church regularly, may be a good dad, may be a coach for his daughter's soccer team. I really don't know, but I tell you one thing, if I ever meet Kevin Bacon, I will tell him he gave an outstanding performance in this movie. And while I am in his company, I will NEVER turn my back on him. He just spooks me out and will always do so. what greater compliment is there? I thought this movie was extremely well cast. I know the ending is predictable, but the best thing about this movie is that it is believable. Anyone of us could have been stuck in that situation. Ever go up an elevator with a person who you feel uncomfortable with? If the elevator gets stuck... what do you do? This is basically the same as the movie. Most movies either have a totally unbelievable theme or something happens in the movie that is totally illogical. In this movie, however, every thing that happens is believable and could have happened to you.still Bacon scares the hell out of me "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie!  Primarily because I love movies where girls kick ass! This is the only action flick I've seen Streep in and she holds her own. (Rumor has it she did a lot of her own stunts.)  But I'm also a big fan of sleeper actor David Strathairn, and he does a great job, as always, and proves himself a superb supporting actor.  Kevin Bacon is great as a creepy bad guy, it's a natural role for him.Sure, the plausibility gets a little thin in spots, but hey, it's a movie! Sit back and enjoy the action and some really good acting. "},{"Title":"Great action movie with beautiful scenery","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The best actress of them all was in this exciting film. Admittedly, the story was an old one with the usual predictable ending, but I love just about anything with Streep in it. She is so believable in her parts. Kevin Bacon acted the part of a psycho very well. The sequences shot at the waterfalls kept the adrenaline flowing in this fast paced thriller. "}{"Title":"A Family's Wild Ride Down The River","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The River Wild (1994) Starring Meryl Streep, David Strathairn, Joseph Mazzello, Kevin Bacon, John C. Reilly, Victor Galloway, Elizabeth Hoffman, Benjamin Bratt William Lucking, Diane Delano...Director Curtis Hanson..Screenplay Dennis O'Neill This 1994 Curtis Hanson film followed the more successful Hand That Rocks The Cradle in 1992. It stars Meryl Streep as Gail Hartman, an expert camper and white-water rafter who is stuck in an increasingly stale marriage to Tom (David Strathairn). For her son Roarke (Joseph Mazello) 13rth birthday they decide to go out into the wild for a weekend. They come across two other rafters, Wade and Terry (Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilly) who take an interest in the boy. At first, it appears they have an agenda- they provoke Tom's jealousy as Gail is drawn to Wade, possibly because he reminds her of herself as a young girl. But Wade becomes a menace. He's a wanted theft and he forces the family into a precarious situation. They must cross extremely dangerous waters to get to their destination and fight off these baddies. This hard experience ultimately brings the family together. Tom, who changes from a weak father to hero, is a rather interesting transformation to see on film and he is played well by David Straithairn, a fab actor who is unfortunately underrated. Meryl Streep appears to be doing a film she would normally not attempt. She proves her versatility as a cool nature-loving mother and does not possess any of the Hollywood-fed glamour for this role. She is convincing as a middle-class American wife. The cinematography is stunning. The rapids are gorgeous and exciting to look at, the grand scenes of mountains and forests, rocks, steep cliffs. The music score is also lovely. A great film from the 90's by a director who's had fine and different-themed films in his repertoire. "},{"Title":"Strong Performances Elevate This 90's Thriller...","Date":"22 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Curtis Hanson's box office hit 'The River Wild' is well-shot and even gripping in parts, but what really stands tall in this thriller and balances the film even when it dips, are the performances by it's talented star-cast. The story involves a family on a whitewater rafting trip, who encounter two violent criminals in the wilderness. 'The River Wild', which has been written by Denis O'Neill, offers some gripping moments, that truly manage to hold your attention. The characters, are nicely presented and executed. But, I would like to point out, that, the writing in the latter hour tends to drag a bit. The film surely could've been shorter by at least 10-15 minutes. And I believe if it had been trimmed, it's impact would have only enhanced. Curtis Hanson's direction, like always, is efficient. Cinematography is Striking. Editing is fair. Performance-Wise Meryl Streep is superb, as expected. She carries the film on her shoulders and delivers with ease in each and every scene. Kevin Bacon makes a really interesting bad guy, and proves his potential as an actor. David Strathaim is first-rate. John C. Reilly is good. Joseph Mazzello supports well. On the whole, A decent one-time watch, that offers strong performances to sail it safe. "},{"Title":"Not the most exciting movie due to its restrained concept and settings but a well made movie nevertheless.","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The River Wild isn't among the best or most exciting thriller/action movies ever made but it's a very well made one by acclaimed director Curtis Hanson and with a great cast.A movie set entirely on a river, with as the central piece of the movie a family, complete with kids and a dog. How exciting does that sound? It sound like a 'based on true events' Hallmark type of movie. But don't be fooled. The River Wild is a movie that has plenty to offer, despite its very restrained concept and settings of the movie.The movie is also more original than you perhaps would expect. The movie also does a fair job at keeping things sort of a mystery for a long time. I especially like how 'the bad guys' try to set up the family against each other to create disorder and different camps, of which they can profit from for their own benefit. It's perhaps not as good and prominently executed as it could had but nevertheless the movie gets points for the attempt, that also I must say mostly works out due to Kevin Bacon's fine role.Watching this movie sort of makes you think what a shame it is that Bacon doesn't really play villainous roles anymore. He only played these sort of roles in the early '90's, though he had an obvious talent for it. Not that he plays crappy roles now but nevertheless it remains a shame he doesn't play more often the bad guy. He is perfectly good in his role in this movie. He knows to portray a likable character that you're also able to hate at times. A real achievement. But also credits have to go to Meryl Streep, who plays a fine strong female lead and other great actors such as David Strathairn, Joseph Mazzello and John C. Reilly.Despite that it's not the most exciting movie in its genre it still is one that is always fast going and never boring to watch. The movie mostly features nature action, set on the river. So it's a pretty original movie in its genre but I don't know, movies set at mostly the same locations are just never among my favorite or most exciting ones to watch, such as for instance in my personal experience also was the case with movies such as Speed and Phone Booth.The movie is of course a great looking, thanks to its nature settings. Also the musical score by Jerry Goldsmith is really worth mentioning.It's just a fine movie, that is perfectly put together and has a great cast but it's just not the finest exciting genre movie thinkable and it perhaps is also a bit too simplistic, also due to its restraints.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"The Ride of your life","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The River wild Is an amazing film!! There's action all the way when they finally get into the boat, And from then on, Its breath taking!! A family go on a boating holiday with their dog but it soon turns out to be a nightmare, as they pick up two robbers who killed their guide. The robbers want to go down stream, but that means they have to ride some rapids which no-one have ever survived riding. Its a winner. "},{"Title":"Photography Was Outstanding","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" If you love the wild outdoors, fishing, camping and riding a raft down rapids like Niagara Falls, this is definitely your kind of picture. Meryl Streep,(Gail Hartman), earned her salary in this film, not just acting but having to take part in some of the water scenes. Gail Hartman every year visited her parents home and enjoyed camping and water sports. However, Gail's husband was deeply involved with his work and some what disappointed his family the last minute. Kevin Bacon,(Wade) meets up with Gail and takes a great liking to her, as well as, her son and it looks like things are going to work out for a great vacation. What appears like a great story becomes a horrible situation that you will have to find out. "},{"Title":"Good old fashioned crowd pleaser","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Gail (Meryl Streep), brings her workaholic husband Tom (David Strathairn) and son Roarke along on a white river rafting trip for a bit of family bonding and partially to salvage what's left of her declining marriage.The family vacation turns awry however, when they stumble across two mysterious strangers (Kevin Bacon & John C Reilly) who are in need of help as, so they claim, they are stuck in the middle of nowhere and need Gail to help them get out. Gail previously having worked as a guide on the river agrees. This is their story which differs somewhat to the actual truth as to what they are up to and soon husband Tom gets suspicious of the pair, as well he might! What follows is a roller-coaster ride of thrills, splashes, action and tension which successfully make this 90's action thriller a force to be reckoned with. It manages to keep the audience entertained and enthralled as Streep goes head to head with the two villains and of course the gushing river that cuts through the movie. The River Wild does what it says on the tin, all the while refraining from hiding behind any CGI effects, instead just using good old fashioned stunt work and great acting.Directed by Curtis Hanson who had previously directed 'The Hand That Rocked The Cradle', he uses his previous skill in pumping up the tension successfully and there are some great moments that make you wonder what is going to happen next.Meryl Streep is great as usual and plays the strong, level-headed female lead well, yet still with an air of vulnerability at the same time. Kevin Bacon is an excellent primary antagonist as Wade, along with his dumb partner in crime Terry. It's actually fun to watch as he uses his superficial charm to gain the trust of Gail and her family and then switching to a malevolent bad guy as soon as his motives are exposed. The scenes between Streep and Bacon are tense and dark which increases the pace even further.There are strong supporting characters too, including David Strathairn's serious yet underestimated husband role. Joseph Mazzello, from Jurassic Park fame, is Gail's son who puts in a good performance here. Benjamin Bratt also makes a small appearance as a guide on the river. John C Reilly appears in an early career role and has since had stronger roles in film.I have rated this film highly as it kept me entertained throughout. This is mainly due to the acting and direction which keep the pace going at break neck speed.Good old 90's action thriller. "},{"Title":"Superior Action Flick","Date":"24 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is a pretty good action adventure which is enhanced by the against-type casting of Meryl Streep as the woman who finds herself held hostage by a couple of robbers on the run while on a rafting family with her near-estranged husband and difficult son.Although Streep is good she is matched by David Strathairn as her city-type husband who initially looks so at odds with the outdoor setting simply by the way he moves - and even sits. He doesn't have any emotional scenes but still manages to superbly transmit his awkwardness with both his surroundings and a wife and son who are slipping away from him. And while Strathairn matches Streep, Bacon surpasses her as the initially charismatic Wade, one of a trio of criminals on the run after robbing a cattle market.The robbers, their numbers reduced by one after a spat, smoothly invite themselves to join the Hartman party and it isn't long before Wade is slyly exploiting the cracks he spies in the relationship between Tom (Strathairn) and his son Roarke (Joseph Mazzello). The film focuses as much on the psychological aspect of the interaction of the four main characters (John C. Reilly as Wade's sidekick is a bystander for the most part) as it does on the action scenes, which is probably why it was more enjoyable than the straightforward action pics Hollywood normally produces. Even the finale is as much about psychological cat-and-mouse games as action set-pieces - which isn't a bad thing in my book. "},{"Title":"Rare adventure movie for Streep","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The River Wild (1994) Streep plays a family woman on holiday enjoying some white water rafting when who should appear, but nasty old escaped convict Kevin Bacon. What ensues is your classic innocent-victim-held-captive-by-mean-old-criminal enlivened by the movie's action taking place on the river wild. Streep gets to flex some muscles (literally) and gets to show the audience that she's just one of the girls and can be in an action picture along with the best of 'em.Not a great movie, but certainly not one of the worst Streep's been in. If you like Streep or Bacon, you're probably going to enjoy the film. Otherwise, I'd advise the viewer to stick with Streep's better-known hits. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining and well made.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I've must have seen this film about 20 times, Not because It is such a quality movie, but mainly because it's so fun!!! I mean, the script could have been better and less predictable, but the psychological battle between Gail and Waid is always fascinating. With all due respect to Meryl Streep and Kevin Bacon, the one who really steals the show is young (at that time anyway) Joseph Mazzello as Roarke. I've been following this young amazing actor for years and it's amazing how a kid who is basically my age (born in 1983) can act better than most adults. He is the best in this film. The scenery is great too. Watch this film. It's not perfect, but it's very fun and interesting! "},{"Title":"A Good Entertainer.","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" What To Say,LOVED IT! Kevin Bacon's Role Was Bit Of Creepy As For The Role Of A Villain. Meryl Steep- Pure Natural in The Movie.Extremely Non-Twisted And Easily Understandable. May not be such a great one for the once who can't afford to waste time listening to long dialogs.. Some Scenes Maybe Intense for people who can't watch psycho movies. Overall Great One. My Verdict 8.6/10 Is It Okay To Watch While With Family? OK. Sexual Content- 0%|Lip-lock Kissing-2%|Profanity 10%|Violence(action)-39%|Grotesque Violence And Gore- 3%|Drug Use- 0%A Review By SidharthSKumar "}{"Title":"Thriller of Remarriage","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There is a sub-genre of the romantic comedy known as the comedy of remarriage. Such films generally deal with a divorced or estranged couple, or a couple whose marriage has been going through a difficult patch, rediscovering their love for one another. They were especially popular in the thirties and forties, but there have been a number of recent examples such as Sweet Home Alabama and Did you Hear about the Morgans? The River Wild can be seen as a thriller of remarriage. Like Did you Hear about the Morgans? it deals with a big-city couple whose marriage is in trouble but who manage to save it while on a trip to a rural part of the American West. The difference between the two films, apart from the fact that the motive for that trip is quite different in each case, is that Did you Hear about the Morgans? tells its story in the form of a comedy, The River Wild in the form of a serious thriller. Tom and Gail, a middle-class Boston couple, are having marital problems. Gail, a teacher of deaf children, feels that Tom, an architect, spends too much time at work and neglects his family. Gail is originally from Idaho, and decides to take her young children Roarke and Willa on holiday to see her parents, who still live in that state. Gail is also an expert at whitewater rafting, and before her move to Boston worked as a rafting guide on a local river. (The river wild of the title; the film-makers may have chosen this unconventional word order to avoid confusion with Wild River, the 1960 film directed by Elia Kazan). She decides to take Roarke on a holiday rafting trip down the river, Willa (who stays with her grandparents) presumably being too young to come along. At the last minute Tom joins them, and the three set off on their trip together. Near the beginning of their trip, the family meet two other rafters, Wade and Terry. At first the two men appear to be friendly, but Gail slowly becomes suspicious of them, and she and Tom decide to leave them behind. The attempt fails, and Wade pulls a gun on them. It transpires that the two men are criminals who have just committed a robbery and are using the river as a means of escape; they need Gail's rafting skills to get them past the Gauntlet, a particularly dangerous stretch of river. The rest of the film tells of the family's efforts to thwart the robbers and of how their shared danger helps to mend the relationship between Gail and Tom. The film marked something of a new departure for Meryl Streep, previously often seen as a rather serious, cerebral actress. Although she had made occasional ventures into comedy, in films like She-Devil and Death Becomes Her, this was her first appearance as an action heroine. It is not the sort of role which she has reprised since 1994, but she makes the most of it here; she even, apparently, performed most of her own stunts. David Strathairn, more often seen in supporting roles, here achieves leading man status as Tom. There is also a good performance from Kevin Bacon, generally a reliable villain, as Wade, at first friendly and plausible, later a raging psychopath. (John C. Reilly's Terry seems almost likable by comparison). Curtis Hanson is not a particularly prolific director; in a career lasting nearly forty years he has only made fourteen films. Some of those, however, especially in the thriller genre, have been good ones, such as The Hand That Rocks the Cradle and the excellent neo-noir L.A. Confidential. The River Wild is another example of Hanson at his best, even though there are occasional implausible moments; some of the characters- especially Tom, the bespectacled, nerdish-looking architect- occasionally perform feats of strength or agility more often seen in superhero movies. The basic story- family menaced by violent criminals- may be an over-familiar one, but it is certainly handled in an exciting manner here. Curtis's direction is brilliant; this is one thriller that is genuinely worthy of the name, moving along at a cracking pace. The scenes on the river, especially when Gail is taking the raft down the Gauntlet, are heart-stopping. The cinematography of the beautiful wild scenery of the Pacific North-West is magnificent. The River Wild must count as one of the best-made thrillers of the nineties. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Meryl Rules","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A different role for Meryl Streep, as a former river guide with domestic problems. Her husband is always at work and their marriage is on the rocks. She decides to take a trip with her young son down the safe part of a river. At the starting point she meets three men; Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilly are the two main protagonists. They claim to be on a fishing trip and off the merry threesome go on their way. Her husband shows up unexpectedly; played perfectly by David Strathairn. A short time later, the family meet up with Bacon and Reilly, who claim that the third guy had to leave because of an emergency. All is well at first, but the good times turn bad rather quickly, as the two buddies are revealed as criminal types who have committed a robbery and are on the run, and need Streep's expertise to make it through a treacherous pass on the river. The water and its' surroundings are beautiful, and an awesome Yellow Lab ads to a great cast. The story becomes a bit far fetched, but hey, just sit back and watch Meryl having a ball as she navigates a raft down the river. "},{"Title":"Clean but entertaining family adventure","Date":"31 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" For a conventional Hollywood adventure story, THE RIVER WILD isn't bad at all. While it lacks the rawness of similarly-themed independent fare and the kind of twists and surprises you'd expect from the best this genre has to offer, it tells the story it sets out to tell with a large amount of success, mainly thanks to the lean script and no-nonsense pacing. Much of the action comes from a series of spectacular white-water rafting sequences in which the stunt team are really put through their paces. These mark the film's highlight. The human plot, involving a couple of hostage-takers, is less spectacular, but the film still gets by thanks to the calibre of the cast.Meryl Streep, although a little too earnest in some places for my liking, takes plaudits as the outdoors expert who has to use her wits to survive both nature and the evils of mankind. Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilly are fine as the no-good criminals, and Benjamin Bratt bags a nice little role as a good-guy ranger. Youngster Joe Mazzello is a more mature presence than in the previous year's JURASSIC PARK, and David Straithairn (THE BOURNE ULTIMATUM) gets to have some fun as the straight-laced father forced into becoming a hero. Okay, so you know the outcome from the outset (and in a 12-certificate family adventure nothing THAT bad is ever going to happen), but this is nonetheless a mildly entertaining little movie. "},{"Title":"Meryl Streep makes a great action hero, and the movie's good too","Date":"4 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" If you go through the film library you'll find an abundance of action and adventure films. 'Raiders of the Lost Ark,' 'Die Hard,' and 'Gladiator' just to name a few. All of these and more feature a male in the lead role of the hero, which is often the case. Not that this is a bad thing, far from it, but even today there aren't nearly as many female action heroes as there are male ones. Sigourney Weaver kicked lots of butt in the 'Alien' series and Angelina Jolie held her own in the 'Tomb Raider' films. In between is this film, starring Meryl Streep, whom many consider to be the greatest living actress. In this film she proves once again she is a treasure. She enters territory that Schwarzenegger and Stallone have been in many times and rocks it! Pros Fine performances from the cast. Breathtaking scenery and cinematography. Excellent score from the late great Jerry Goldsmith. Charges along at a good pace. Some great action sequences. A great villain that you'll love to hate. Director Hanson and writer O'Neill do a good job of keeping things from getting too predictable.Cons You really have to suspend your disbelief at times.Final thoughts Maybe not the best or one of the 10 best of it's kind, but this blockbuster is still must see for fans of big action and thrills. It's perfect viewing for the summer and with a small group of your family and/or friends.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"Deliverance meets The Hand that Rocks the Cradle","Date":"2 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Meryl Streep gets a totally different kind of role in The River Wild. She and her husband (David Strathairn) and son (Joseph Mazzello, of Jurassic Park) go on a rafting trip and encounter some guys (Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilly) who turn out to be not what they seem.The obvious similarity is Deliverance, but I also detected a similarity to The Hand that Rocks the Cradle, the way that Kevin Bacon's character turns the boy against the mother. I once did a boat trip down the Snake River, and some of the rapids here look like what I remember (although the movie may have exaggerated the rapids).Overall, it's a pretty fun movie. A real jolt of nature, if I may say so. Also starring Benjamin Bratt. Director Curtis Hanson also directed L.A. Confidential, Wonder Boys and 8 Mile. "},{"Title":"Up The Creek...","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Kevin Bacon is definitely one of those good-guy actors who can pull off a sinister performance when called upon by a lusterless script. In THE RIVER WILD, he white-waters into mediocrity as the Bad Bacon, holding a family hostage to help him navigate Montana rapids after a heist. Is it TOO much of a coincidence that this movie is set on water and his name is &#133; uh, Wade? I've never considered Meryl Streep hot. Until now. Something about her unkempt hairdo and the fact that she's the muscle in the raft. She's shot the unshootable rapids called The Gauntlet before and Kevin needs her hotness for the plot to wend its way toward the whitewater climax.Writer Denis O' Neil and director Curtis Hanson aim for DELIVERANCE and get John C. Reilly as Ned Beatty (the slovenly henchman), David Strathairn as Jon Voight (Action Hero) and the annoying kid from JURASSIC PARK as The Annoying Kid From Jurassic Park.Since I am no rafter, I can't comment authoritatively on whether the rafting sequences are authentic. For thrills, it was mundane, for direction, it was adequate, for plot, it was necessary, for hotness, Meryl shouting orders at the men and getting all wet &#150; was priceless.Strathairn works from the Plot Convenience Playhouse script of finding everything you need to rescue your wife and kid whenever you need it. "},{"Title":"one big trash!","Date":"20 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I don't like films that make idiot of you - spectator, and this is one of that sort. The story is fine, the plot is dramatical, but all the other things are unbelievable - lot of luck for the family, lots of coincidences, and insoluble situations. What I mean1, i don't know anything about guns but is it possible that a revolver squelched 15 times (at least) is still able to shoot??2, how can a wounded man climb a mountain, then fall down from it, swim across quite wild river, run through thick forest to follow a pretty quick raft - all this without disinfectant and food and in his sopping clothes.. - and finally build a sophisticated trap! Well, great performance - but the man in the film was not Chuck Norris -D3, was the ranger blind? he managed to find a small camera somewhere in mud and driftwood, but he didn't notice a cut-up raft.4, smoke signals must have been pretty secret! Seen only by mother and her child, not by villains.And so on.. Btw, in my opinion a 12-year-old child would end up with psychical trauma and nightmares after seeing a few murders in the flesh.Just one plus for the film I don't know if it was camera, dramaturgy or good acting - from the very beginning I knew that there was something wrong with Wade, that he was bad. I didn't know anything about the film but I felt it'd be thriller ) The character was well performed i think. However, the film was another US junk. "},{"Title":"Dreadful waste of fine scenery and a fine actor","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of those films that makes you wonder why?Why, if Streep's husband could *run* past the dreaded Gauntlet rapids, couldn't the bad guys just *walk*?? Why did the cop turn up for no apparent reason except to provide someone expendable for Kevin Bacon to shoot?? Why did that gun fire first time after (repeatedly) falling in the river??? Why did the dog reappear only to play no part whatever in the plot? And why did Streep give even a second thought to the cheesy character of 'Whitewater' Gail??And why didn't the critics pan it more thoroughly? "},{"Title":"Plot goes down the river","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  (spoilers herein)You can tell that a movie has some problems when less then halfway through it you can recite the rest of the plot word for word. This was the case for The river wild. The overall gist of the movie was not displeasing, but the plot was horribly predictable. Average, everyday family with parents not quite getting along on vacation meets friendly strangers who begin to seem slightly creepy, and surprise! They turn out to be convicted criminals who need the experienced rafter mother in the family to get them across the river to their getaway car. The father tries to protect his family, but is shot at and presumed dead. (but he's not! He just has the extraordinary ability to hold his breath underwater for 5 minutes!) The rest of the cast continues down the river until later on, when the father makes a surprise appearance, saves his family, the main bad guy gets shot (conveniently by the mother, who earlier in the movie swore to kill him, and after doing so shows absolutely no emotion of any sort. Hmmm...) and the hapless henchman is taken to jail. The family now lives happily ever after, with both parents now getting along marvelously (with lots of kissing, too!) and the young, impressionable son agrees to not talk to strangers anymore.The plot is fiendishly predictable and boring, and the characters are ones that are often used as well the athletic, courageous, intelligent, protective, and pretty much flawless mother (Meryl Streep), her loser husband (David Strathairn) who later on in the film gets to show that he does have some good qualities as well! (including some pretty impressive fighting moves! Was this guy a boxer in college, or what?) Then there's their young son, (Joseph Mazello) who says that he's not afraid, then proceeds to scream a lot. And the villains the main criminal (Kevin Bacon) who runs the show and manages to pass himself off as charming and likable, despite the fact that he's secretly a very evil pervert, and his bumbling, uneducated and much friendlier sidekick, (John C. Reilly) who tries to make friends with the kid, says that he 'don't wanna go back to jail,' and that he 'never knew anybody was gonna get hurt!' Yawn.This movie is riddled with thoroughly average acting, with the exceptions of Kevin Bacon as Wade (he's so good at being villainous!) and, despite his age, Joseph Mazello as Roarke, giving a similar role, but much better performance than in Jurassic Park. Nobody else's performance stood out that much, although nobody did that bad of a job; just nothing spectacular. Personally, I would have expected Meryl Streep to have done a better job; she's renowned for being an excellent actress, but I wasn't particularly swept away by her performance.The setting was perfect, and the scenery was beautiful - it really complimented the movie, and the camera work showed it off perfectly, with lots of zooming out to demonstrate the whole scene, then zooming back in to focus on the actors again. Definitely a high point. Unfortunately, this was ruined by the theme song to the movie, which although started out beautiful, was terribly overused, and started to really grate on the viewer's nerves after it was replayed (sometimes by different instruments, which didn't really do much) for the 50th time, or so. It would have been much better, (and more successful at keeping the audience awake) had they varied the music a little bit.Overall, it wasn't a bad movie, and it was handled well enough, but they were stuck with a storyline that had been used way too many times before which flattened the mood. Although there was some decent acting which helped, excellent scenery and cinematography and a good climax, with the passengers of the raft struggling through the 'gauntlet'. For all you nature lovers, Kevin Bacon or Meryl Streep fans out there, this is for you! For everyone else...leave this one wallowing in the shadows, before it drags you under with it's tedious undertow.-6.5/10  "},{"Title":"illogical and pointless","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" ****CONTAINS SPOILER**** This film has no point whatsoever. Basically, this is about a family that goes on a rafting vacation...They meet these bad guys that end up kidnapping them so that Meryl Streep's character can take them down this very dangerous river as their guide so they can escape far away. She insists that it's too dangerous and that they're most likely going to die. Things happen, the father, believed to be dead, escapes. Very predictable, but at this point things get worse. The dad escapes in the mountains and walks all the way to the end of the rapids his family and criminals are about to go through...to save them...Of what? Who knows? Seeing as the main thing threatening their lives at the moment is going down those damn waterfalls...anyway, they do it and survive and go WOW we've done it, we're alive! Yay!. But the question is, If the father could so easily walk his way there, couldn't the bad guys walk there as well instead of pointlessly risking their lives rafting???. And how the father got there before them shall stay a mystery (and he got there WAY before them). So what's the point of this film? This is an unforgivable mistake. Awful. "}{"Title":"Quite an oar deal","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The River Wild stars Meryl Streep as Gail, a young woman whose holiday rafting trip is hijacked by small-time criminals. Despite a poor last act, the film is functional, unpretentious and boasts fine cinematography. It was directed by Curtis Hanson.Today, The River Wild screams 1994. Here's an action film with no CGI, with the obligatory Spielbergesque marital problems, with the typical 90s son, architect father and Jerry Goldsmith score, and which proudly rides a then new trend the extreme sports/wilderness action movie (Cliffhanger, Pointbreak, Drop Zone, The Edge etc).Where River differs from its siblings is in its casting of Meryl Streep, who imbues the film with a seriousness not often found in such pictures. Streep wants you to believe that her Gail is a REAL WOMAN, REAL MOTHER and REALISTIC/NATURALISTIC ACTION HEROINE! The River Wild's script never really lets her achieve this, but watching Streep insert her brand of forced naturalism into what is essentially a big studio action movie, is nevertheless fascinating.7.5/10 &#x96; See The Sand Pebbles, Herzog's The Wrath of God and Elia Kazan's Wild River. "},{"Title":"Washed Up.","Date":"30 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The River Wild (1994) Dir Curtis Hanson / Cast Meryl Streep, Kevin Bacon, David Strathairn, John C. Reilly, Benjamin Bratt Toned down inspiration from Deliverance minus the common sense. And who thought up that stupid title? It sounds like fancy wording for a non fancy film. It regards a mother who was a former river rafter who takes her son and husband rafting only to encounter two sinister males who force her to raft the Gauntlet. Familiar plot contains its share of suspense including an effective climax but much of its credit goes to its leads. Against it are stupid situations such as the meathead ranger who cannot detect the obvious. Directed by Curtis Hanson handles the action with excellent photography. He previously made Bad Influence and may have had a few himself with the screenwriter on this film. Powerful performance by Streep who is positioned to risk all for the sake of her family and does so with guts and brains. Kevin Bacon makes for a superb sinister villain. Unfortunately to these two great performances comes the under performed. John C. Reilly is basically a sidekick thug to Bacon. David Strathairn is weighted down as stereotypical dad who seems able to outrun a raft. Benjamin Bratt plays the stupidest law enforcement officer since anyone in a Police Academy film. Survival theme cannot prevent lame situations within the screenplay from becoming washed up. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"The River is the star","Date":"10 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Not a great film by any means, but what a river! The river is the true star, and I suppose you have to put that down to good photography and camera work. At no point in the film did I doubt that the people were actually in the boat, on the river, and in danger. There are few surprises. Nothing in the film is unexpected. I won't go as far as to tell you whether the family escaped the villains, or what happened to them, so you will have to find out for yourself. Meryl Streep's performance is adequate, but not exceptional, and occasionally annoying. I found myself wanting Kevin Bacon's character to shoot her on more than one occasion. There is a little tension generated by the fact that the criminal is more manly than the wimpy, hard working husband and inattentive father, but that is soon cleared up, and the sides are clearly drawn. The father eventually shows himself to have an alternative identity as some kind of Indian Super-Brave, smoke signals and everything. I kid you not. Worth watching if you want to watch a family film along Disney lines. "},{"Title":"Guys too obvious villains","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Tom Hartman (David Strathairn) cancels on his son birthday once again. Gail (Meryl Streep) takes the kids on the trip by herself. Gail is sure that their marriage is over. She's a former river guide, and takes her son Roarke rafting down to their family home. They meet Wade (Kevin Bacon), and his friend Terry (John C. Reilly) at the river. Then Tom surprises everyone by coming.It would be better if the guys weren't such obvious villains. It could be a better surprise. And the reveal could be done earlier. With the obvious twist coming, the tension isn't really there. It just doesn't have enough intrigue. It is always a matter of tones, and how obvious the clues should be. It would be much better to concentrate on the flirting instead. The biggest problem is that it makes Gail look stupid especially with all her giggling. It is however interesting to see Streep take on something physical and really stretch into unknown territory. "},{"Title":"White Water Rafting","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Curtis Hanson directed this exciting thriller that stars Meryl Streep and David Strathairn as Gail and Tom Hartman, who are taking their son with them on a white water river rafting trip in the mountains while on vacation. Gail is the real expert rafter, which will come in handy as they are intercepted by two men named Wade and Terry(played by Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilly) who at first pretend to simply be lost and inexperienced rafters. Wade even bonds with their son to an extent, and appears charming to Gail, but they are both really crooks who kidnap them at gunpoint and force Gail to lead them over the rapids, where they will meet up with their accomplices. How can Gail get them out of this mess? Good film with solid direction and performances, especially Streep and Bacon. May not be entirely original, even routine, but so skillfully presented it doesn't matter. "},{"Title":"The Trials of a family and the river","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The River Wild is classed as an action movie but I would say that it has aspects of horror in it as well. I would not say that it is a pure horror movie, especially since people expect horror to have nasty creatures in it, but there are elements of it there. This movie is about a family who decide to take their son, Rouke, on a rafting holiday down a river. The wife (Meryl Streep) is an expert rafter and rower and she used to be a ranger in the park where they are rafting, but now she has moved to the city where she rows in much calmer waters. At the same time, three men are also rafting down the river, but their guide supposedly leaves after a fight and they must join up. The family soon begin to distrust the two men and it soon turns out they they are armed robbers and very violent ones at that. They want to go down river so that they might escape the police and live on the spoils of their heist.The horror of this movie comes out with the dominance that these men have over the family. They are in the stituation where they have absolutely no choice but to follow the orders of these men. Everything that they try to do fails because these men are both armed and physically stronger than the others. The husband is an architect who is on his first rafting adventure, and the wife, though she is quite fit physically, is incapable of fighting the men. Thus they must bow to these men's every demand or face the consequences.In true Hollywood fashion, they defeat the bad guys and none of the good guys die. The dog escapes and the husband, who flees in the night, narrowly misses being shot. In the end this movie is thin on theme and plot. The men are suspicious right from the start as they look rough and are very impatient. They begin friendly but behave in a way the is quite unfriendly. This is a horror because we, living in a world where we believe in our freedom, do not want it taken away from us, and in this situation the men have done that. They live by no law and serve nobody. They are unpredictable and dangerous. Still, I was not scared and found the movie reasonable. The journey through the Gauntlet at the end of the movie is the best part and it is worth seeing for that only. "},{"Title":"Decision before Drown","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is a good drama, set to nice scenery and enough action to keep it afloat on a river Wild of course.Three bandidos (sounds cooler than bandits, so I'll say it) are on this river wild, as are a man, his wife, and their son.Issues arise between the couple, and when the two groups meet, one of the bandidos is dead, and the husband becomes weakened, which of course you know, because Meryl Streep has to be the star.This is all leading up to a final confrontation with the psychopath played by Kevin Bacon.So what makes this interesting is the wild card. The accomplice, played by Reilly, is not any of the stereotypes we are used to seeing. He is not the sicko, killer, maniac, or complete low life. Neither is he the good hearted kid who means well. He is the one we don't know throughout the movie, and that plays a key role in its ending.It ends with a decision that must be made by Meryl Streep, when she has one bullet for two men. One with the physical force and power of the knife. The other with the mental control. It becomes a throwback to the bad guys from Rope in a way.Does she make the right decision? Does she miss completely? I won't spoil that. "},{"Title":"Under-rated action thriller","Date":"8 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Gail (Meryl Streep) is a white water rafting guide. She, husband Tom (David Strathairn) and son Roarke (Joseph Mazello) are kidnapped by robbers Wade (Kevin Bacon) and Terry (John C Reilly), who see rafting down the river as an effective escape route.It's pretty easy to understand the casting decisions for Bacon, Reilly and Strathairn, but Streep isn't the most obvious choice for action Mom Gail. Yet, as usual, she is superb (as is everyone else). The underlying marital problems give her a great deal to get her teeth into, but she also excels as the woman called upon to be a protective mother, a defiant hostage and someone on whose expertise on the river everyone's survival depends. Bacon is gloriously evil, a happy-go-lucky psychopath who is always a credible threat.And the action is terrific - lots of it, spectacular, beautiful, and clearly involving the actors a lot of the time, it makes this film a most enjoyable roller coaster ride (or white water rafting ride, I should say), and a movie which should have a higher profile than it has. "},{"Title":"A movie that lives up to its title","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I've been canoing down rivers all my life, so watching a movie about something similar is something I met with great excitement and anticipation. Curtis Hanson's The River Wild lives up to the challenge, even for someone who knows a thing or two about going down rivers like these (albeit not as violent).Storywise, it's pretty much your stock story from the genre A family with a crumbling marriage goes on a trip where they meet up with some seemingly nice people who turn out to be criminals of some sort. That's the story in a nutshell. What elevates this story from being routine is a smart script and terrific performances.There are two reasons in which The River Wild is more successful than the other members of the genre (not counting the performances), and both have to do with Denis O'Neill's script. One, he knows the ins and outs of whitewater rafting down a river and uses it to his advantage, and two, he has an intricate knowledge of family dynamics. By themselves each one of these qualities would elevate the project, but together they make it great. And it helps that Curtis Hanson's direction compliments the script nicely.Meryl Streep may have top billing, but while she is excellent in the quiet scenes, she's less impressive as when she turns into the action heroine. She seems miscast in an action movie, and unfortunately that's what she does for most of the movie. Still, she's not bad. And in the quieter scenes, she shines as only Meryl Streep can. To her credit, she has excellent chemistry with her costars, especially her on-screen husband, David Strathairn. Their conflict is a routine one (she's the wife while he's the workaholic husband), but the script explores this conflict in a deeper and more refreshing way, and both Streep and Stratharin are both so endearing that it works better than one could have hoped.Kevin Bacon is the real scene stealer here. His performance as Wade is top-notch. He's charming in the beginning, and creepy later on. He has perfect chemistry with young Joeseph Mazzello as Streep's son, Rourke. He's charming enough that the audience has no trouble believing that Rourke would be won over by Wade, especially because he acts like any child in his position would act. And he's very creepy later on, but loses none of his charm. Before seeing the movie, I thought John C. Reilly would have been miscast, but this role just shows his range and versatility.The River Wild isn't perfect, but when it comes to an adventure movie, this is a great trip. "},{"Title":"The River Tamed.....by Streep and Bacon","Date":"14 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I was browsing through this site and just got led to this link. I saw 'The River Wild' a few years back. Reading about it now still gives me the thrill and edginess I felt when I saw this movie the first time. I loved it - didn't know which way the movie would go and what would happen in the end. A roller coaster ride across the river indeed. Kevin Bacon gave me the creeps while Meryl Streep made me desperately hope that all will be fine eventually. I guess this itself speaks about their acting here. The supporting cast suitably filled in the remaining blanks of the characters.It's been ages...I am going to watch this movie again. "}{"Title":"Twisty screenplay ahead! But Streep keeps it on course","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The River Wild is a film that's definitely inspired by that infamous backwoods survivalist tale Deliverance. But its not the carbon copy it first appears. Its got more depths than that. First off, it was directed by Curtis Hanson, and he always manages to incorporate much needed intelligence into any scenario. This is the man who directed the classic LA Confidential, one of the most superb attempts at modern film-noir I've ever seen. And secondly, his direction is nearly always first-rate. And so it is here.Gail (Meryl Streep) is a teacher for the deaf who takes her family on a white water rafting trip for her son's birthday. Not only a holiday, but its also an opportunity to help smooth over relations between her husband Tom (David Strathairn) and her son Roarke (Jurassic Park's Joseph Mazzello). Tom's a workaholic who has just about destroyed any chance of having a relationship with his son.This family is on the brink of flying apart. What they need is a good crisis to bring them back together. And the screenplay by Denis O'Neill has just the thing. While heading downriver, Gail & Co come across two strangers, Wade & Terry (Kevin Bacon & John C. Reilly). Saying they lost their guide, they need Gail's help to get down the river.Of course naturally these two men are not what they seem. And it isn't long before the family's travelling companions take them all hostage. Because they're really a couple of bank robbers, and they need Gail to get them through the Gauntlet, a treacherous set of rapids, the only sure way to escape from the law.As is usually the case with any of Curtis Hanson's films, his direction is excellent. And he keeps the plot moving so quickly that you hardly have time to notice any glaringly obvious plot holes. But they are there.The Gauntlet is supposed to be the only way to get down the river. But much later in the film, Tom manages to escape, and he gets around the Gauntlet on foot. Why can't the family do the same? Because it would be a pretty limp ending that's why.Still, for any shortcomings the film might have, it more than makes up for that in its performances. The River Wild is not exactly a stretch for an actress of Meryl Streep's talents. She could do this kind of part in her sleep, and she deserves some credit for not coasting her way through the role. She allows a wonderful range of emotions to play out over her beautifully expressive face. Which is what makes her such an effortlessly engaging screen presence. And she's up to the strenuous scenes too. She could give Sigourney Weaver a run for her money.The one other actor in the film that vies with Streep for impressive screen time is Kevin Bacon as the sleazy Wade. And its quite an interesting role. Instead of the gun-toting lunatic that would have been so much easier to play, Wade becomes almost like a perverse sort of father figure. Roarke doesn't get along with his dad, but gets along great with Wade. Wade enjoys spending time with Roarke. He gives him plenty of attention. As well as lavishing some on Gail too. Something that doesn't escape Tom's notice.Its quite a nicely modulated performance on Bacon's part. He's always been an actor overdue worthwhile recognition. I'm not saying his work in The River Wild is Oscar worthy. But he delivers the goods. Alternately sinister and light. Like when he gets along with the wife and kids. And suddenly spooky like spying on Gail while she's bathing. The other performances are merely adequate. Tom gets to play a bit of an action hero. Climbing embankments. Swimming in the river. Amusingly he never loses his glasses. Even when he's getting knocked around. Terry is only Wade's sidekick. And that's about it really for him. And Roarke is just the obnoxious brat who gets them into trouble.The River Wild is Curtis Hanson's first attempt at an action film. And he does quite well. The film's ultimate setpiece is the Gauntlet. And its a thrilling 10 minutes. Crashing waves. Dizzying camera angles. All shot with a real immediacy. And the sight of giant rocks coming right at you is terrifying. I'm not sure where those scenes were really filmed but special commendation should go to the filmmakers, actors and stunt doubles for putting themselves at such great risk.The River Wild is not Curtis Hanson's finest hour. That honour goes to LA Confidential. And some of the film's plot points are a little contrived. But it delivers a quite rousing adventure. And it may put you off any white water rafting trips in the future. "},{"Title":"Well made, but we've seen it all before","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  THE RIVER WILD holds no surprises as to its content. The cast work well together (although I found Bacon unusually wooden), but the entire movie sets itself up in a matter of minutes. With very little of the film actually involving white-water rapids, I couldn't help but feel a little cheated. Also we were given no background to the killers motives, so it was very hard to really get involved with the situation. One for TV only. "},{"Title":"Tight direction and good acting keep the suspense flowing","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Curtis Hanson (LA Confidential) directs this little thriller with style and Meryl Streep keeps the audience riveted with her excellent portrayal of a woman whose family rafting trip has turned into a nightmare. The River Wild co-stars the two most underappreciated actors in all of Hollywood, Joseph Mazzello and John C. Reilly. Mazzello, while not given any scene-stealing moments here, was unbelievable in The Cure and Simon Birch, but why wasn't Reilly given a larger role. He was also underbilled in the '95 drama What's Eating Gilbert Grape? and deserves better than his current rolesKevin Bacon (Who has never had a really BIG hit) also helped out The River Wild be as good as it is. The music and lush scenery is another reason to rent this sleeper hit.+ (GOOD THINGS) 1.) Performances from Streep and Bacon 2.) Curtis Hanson's direction 3.) The nice scenery 4.) Performances from Mazzello, Reilly and David Strathairn 5.) The suspense 6.) The music- (BAD THINGS) 1.) Benjamin Bratt's character 2.) The slow beginningTotal 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"I'm the Mother.....","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Gail is a professional at water rafting.She twigs every day, and she is in a very good shape. She takes her family, one day, to a rafting trip down the river, but she has no idea that the planned trip is about to become a nightmare.Two escaping robbers with a handgun, meet the family in the way, and join them to the trip.Only later Gail realises that their new friends are dangerous criminals, but it's too late.The two men force them to stay together, and to keep cruising down the river.The family's life are risked not only by the two men, but also by the river which becomes more stormy and wilder....Thefirst thing that you notice about this movie is that it's the first time since 'Aliens' that a woman has taken the lead in a Hollywood action movie. Streep is an odd choice, but as the heroine, she really brings a vulnerability to her character which makes her wholly believable.The story isn't up to much, but thanks to such good direction and brilliant rapid sequences, this becomes more than an average thriller.Bacon is as sinister as needed, but he too has his vulnerable side. Sub plots involving marriage break ups and Benjamin Bratt are an added bonus, and Joseph Mazello proves he wasn't a one trick pony in Jurassic park, he's just as annoying in this.It's a shame it's not a well remembered movie, because it is a thrilling movie with some wonderful performances. "},{"Title":"The River Wild","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In Meryl Streep's astonishingly awards-packing filmography, this film has no chance to be singled out (not even among top 20 maybe), it actually botched the chance of Meryl's Oscar nomination that year (after a surprisingly gratifying Golden Globe nomination), I think it is its skin-deep kernel and the entertainment-first priority sabotaged it, if only speaking of the cast, Meryl's acting is completely Oscar-worthy. From A to Z, this intense adventure thriller holds one's breath tight with its suspenseful aura and splendid river torrent scenes, however the throwaway adrenalin-thrusting doesn't guarantee the same amount aftertaste, there are a touch indelible plot-holes emerging into my mind, which I assure you it is not a pleasant feeling (still, it's much better than most annoying pop-corn movies which I cannot even fluently commit myself to the moment). Meryl proves once again that she is the most versatile actress if not in the world, at least in Hollywood. The sports/action area is a rare attempt, yet she did most of her stunts, which is surely not able to be learnt from acting classes I suppose.With respect to the fore-mentioned skin-deep kernel, I have a hunch that both feminist and non-feminist would feel offended on account of in one hand the female protagonist's tough prevalence over her husband would exasperate man's ego, in the other hand, the inward- for-no-reason husband eventually resurrected his role-model father/husband image would be too obvious to feel empathetic (especially after a ludicrous rescue ploy). Poor David Strathairn, he had tried his best to save this badly-designed character. As for poor Kevin Bacon, he has been vying for an Oscar nomination since then, still in vain. (I would have taken Susan Sarandon's nomination for THE CLIENT to Meryl and also given one to the viciously- charming Kevin Bacon). "},{"Title":"There is a reason for this title","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is like a Summer blockbuster. Only a more predictable kind of blockbuster. It isn't too groundbreaking and doesn't reserve many surprises, but it should please those who can live with that. In theory, its plot doesn't sound especially promising, but in practice it works reasonably... if you give yourself (and the movie) a chance, of course.Mostly this is adventure, but there is acceptable amount of suspense and thriller. Plus, the ending (to be more precise, the last 20 minutes or so) is a roller-coaster of intensity, thanks to the breathtaking (and very dangerous!) rafting scenes in the most fierce part of the river.Overall, this is a decent Summer movie - good to be watched anytime of the year, but particularly in hot weather.True, the plot has a certain lack of strength but it's still okay. Besides, the beautiful cinematography compensates any plot flaws. That alone makes this movie attractive and refreshing to the eyes and mind.Kevin Bacon makes a convincing lead bad guy. Meryl Streep, despite her versatility, isn't often seen in this genre of movies (at least I don't remember so), which makes this movie a different attempt for her. Her performance isn't as solid as in 'Kramer vs Kramer', but she still makes it fine.Joseph Mazzello, as usual, is fine. Joseph Mazzello even has an awesome name here, if not particularly pretty Roarke. "},{"Title":"The river is the hero","Date":"13 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" A beautiful film about the Colorado River. The hero is the river and the nature it crosses, the gorges and the rapids and the falls. And you will go down the river in a light boat. Beautiful indeed. Then the film sets a plot on that river of a nice vacationing family held hostage by the surviving thieves of a cattle auction robbery who try to escape the police after the robbery by using the river and the expertise of the mother of this family. This adds some family tension with a father who is working too hard as an architect and neglecting, in a way, his family, and yet he will save his wife and his son from the grip of the thieves after having escaped them before. Courage, for sure, tenacity definitely. And the beauty of this river all over and always. This plot is multiplying the beauty of the river just as if it took a lot of courage for the river itself to go down this valley and its gorges.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon's finest performance!","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I rented it because my dad said he had saw it and he recommended it, in which I did and I was totally surprised and blown away by the performances in this movie. This movie had a decent plot about a family taking a vacation in the Rockies and happen to meet up with a friendly guy at first but when the family tries to run out on him during the trip because of a couple of conflicts, he takes matters into his own hands and takes them hostage, along for the ride. Wade (Kevin Bacon) as the bad guy scared me because you would never know what he would do next, even though he mostly focused on getting out and being cleared of trouble then killing a lot of people, like some guy on a rampage and his sidekick Terry (John C. Reilly) really was a ignoring sidekick, not much dialouge with his character but he was really a klutz in standing guard and how to control the family.The family played by Gail (Meryl Streep) the mom, Tom (David Strathairn) the dad and Roarke (Joseph Mazzello) the son showed a very good performance in this movie and had the brightest concepts of escaping danger, things from sign language to swiss army knife and to smoke signals really kept the movie alive and it was spectacular.I do recommend this movie to anyone who is a Kevin Bacon fan, I have been for a while and I love his movies, this movie is very suspenseful and will keep your heart beating to the end, It was worth renting a good adventurous thriller set in the Rockies, Just a very good 112 minutes of sitting on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Bacon doesn't seem like  a psycho","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Meryl Streep, is brave, courageous, and likeable in the film,and has a great sense of humor, in her first action thriller. Her workaholic husband (David Strathairn-The Firm, Simon Birch) was calm, serious, and kind of a boring father, like he later was in Simon Birch. He evolved as the film picked up pace. Joseph Mazzello was so cute, precious, and enamorable looking, it was a significant up to the movie.I like how The movie was totally modern 90's ish,for example, we hearing about and hearing rock music from groups like Ministry, and showing the hat. Bacon and Reily, two fugitive bank robbing killers, don't even seem like what you'd call psychos, but there are some tense, violent fights, and some murders, they just seem to be keeping th family hostage, and doing whatever they can do escape down the VERY dangerous river. The first thirty or forty minutes seem to be just happy ,leisure family fun. During that time the bad guys just stalk the family, and Roarke (Mazzello) thinks their more fun than his dad, but they seem to scare the family, after several strange things happen, and they try to run off, where there's a brutal fist fight with a gun, and they're forced to take them down the River. There's more violence and suspense than rapids. "},{"Title":"It's a must for Streep fans!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" It may be one of Meryl Streep's most daring performances as a river rider. With Kevin Bacon as a sleazy robber and murderer. He is awfully good at being bad. Overall, the movie is a good thrill ride. It lacks swearing and the violence is minimal too. It's just so predictable but not unbearable. This is a Curtis Hanson film before L.A. Confidential. It's a good film because we see Meryl practice her sign language. Meryl never gives more than 100 percent even in this role as a woman. David Straitharn plays her husband from Boston in this film. He would later get nominated for his role in Good Night and Good Luck. Kevin Bacon is fun to watch as the evil robber and murderer. You will just have to wait and see the ending as predictable as it is. It's still a thrill ride. "}{"Title":"It Slowly Meanders Along","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I'll grant that the last 15 minutes or so of The River Wild are a pretty exciting and suspenseful white water rafting adventure. The unfortunate thing about it is that these are only the last 15 minutes or so. Up to that point what we have is a pretty slow moving river journey, with the added complication, of course, being that the troubled family on the trip finds more trouble as they pick up a couple of guys who robbed the local cattle auction. In the end the movie turns out to be pretty formulaic, with movements and plot points that we've definitely seen before - many times, in fact.Meryl Streep was an interesting choice as Gail - mother and white water guide - and while she was interesting (basically because this isn't what you'd think of as a normal Meryl Streep role) I didn't find her convincing in the part, either (which is probably why it's not a normal Meryl Streep role!) Kevin Bacon was somewhat more credible as Wade, the guy apparently in charge of the robbery, who decides to take the family hostage in order to use Gail's rafting expertise to run a particularly deadly river in the hopes of escaping the law. Along for the ride were David Strathairn as Gail's husband, John C. Reilly as Wade's sidekick and Joseph Mazzello as young Roarke, Gail's son.It's a decent enough cast. The story isn't especially original, though, and I just didn't find the movie to be all that exciting. Watching a rafting trip (which is essentially what we do for the bulk of this movie) with a few bits of drama thrown in as we become gradually more suspicious of the two strangers doesn't exactly make for a gripping two hours of viewing. There is, of course, the requisite ending as it seems that all the family's troubles are solved by having gone through this adventure together. (3/10) "},{"Title":"Kevin Bacon gets what he deserves!","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The generally poor reviews for this one when it was first released discouraged me from seeing it at a multiplex, where its spectacular use of scenery, mostly in Montana, would have been a definite plus on the widescreen.Today it was shown on a TV cable channel with loads of commercials, probably heavily edited to fit the time slot, and, of course, formatted, massively reducing its scenic advantages.  Thus the plot's incredible contrivances and its other shortcomings (Meryl Streep as a champion whitewater rafter...PLEEZ!) became glaringly obvious.  I was unexpectedly disappointed in the normally reliable Jerry Goldsmith's score, succumbing to the turgid grandiosity of too many film composers these days...trying to take advantage of digital THX sound systems, perhaps?Anyway I watched it through to the bitter end in order for that final gratifying moment when Meryl shoots Kevin Bacon, loathsomely and all-too-convincingly playing a murderous villain.  What is it about this actor that people like?  He gives me the creeps and his casting in this picture was intensely appropriate.  How pleasurable it was to have legitimate reason for my dislike, as he menaced the vacationing family and their faithful canine companion.  You can send his dead carcass down the river in all of his pictures as far as I'm concerned! "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The River wild is a fantastic movie which shows Kevin Bacon at his best as a psycho. The plot is interesting and the movie always makes me glued to the TV. Plenty of action and it's quite intense as well, with the river making the film more exciting. You must see this movie! Go out and rent it now!89% "},{"Title":"Stoopid","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  OK, so get this -- the husband walks faster than the raft travels on the river. That means he gets ahead and sends smoke signals to his wife and son who have been raft-napped. Then he races ahead and constructs an elaborate underwater trap AND paints hand signs on a rock face explaining the plan to his wife. (And when he sees an unmanned canoe floating down the river, he says Oh no ominously, as if he knows exactly what happened to the canoe's onwer.) So, she maneuvers the raft into the exact spot for the trap, which flips the raft, tossing out only the bad guys. Then the husband manages to tip the giant raft again by hand. Meryl Streep shoots the bad guy with the gun that still works even after being repeatedly dunked in the water. And did I mention that the gun has conveniently fallen to a place on the river bed where she can stil see it?Look, I can handle implausibility in my action movies, but there comes a point where implausible because ridiculous, and a point still after that where it becomes insulting. The River Wild is truly insulting.  "},{"Title":"The Magnificent Streep","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  God Bless Meryl Streep.  Only an actress sure of herself would tackle a role like this in a movie like this.  And she is successful, as the movie is. She can do anything, and is the best American actress of the last twenty years.  It was also refreshing to see Straitharn in a role where he was not the psycho.  John C. Reilly and Kevin Bacon do great villains.   "},{"Title":"So much better if Streep were not in it","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  If Meryl Streep were not in this movie it would have been much better. She is seriously talented but badly miscast in this role and did it indeed badly.  Kevin Bacon is good as the psycho and David Strathairn is his usual excellent self in a supporting role.  But we see way too much of Streep doing her I'm a great actress so this must be good routine dragging down the story.  See Glen Close in Fatal Attraction to see a great actress working the role rather than a good actress ruining the piece as Streep does here. "},{"Title":"One Viewing Was Good Enough","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This was a pretty interesting suspense movie that was entertaining and fun to watch - ONCE. After that, it got increasingly annoying, thanks to the snotty kid, Roarke (Joseph Mazzello). The irritating kid, and a husband (David Strathairn) who unfairly was the object of scorn for much of the film, made me lose the enjoyment of watching this on subsequent viewings.If you haven't seen it, it's definitely as good adventure story of a woman (Meryl Streep) and her family terrorized by a wacko (Kevin Bacon) out in the wilds. There's some pretty scenery in here, too, especially if you like the rapids and mountains. "},{"Title":"A film that will insult your intelligence","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" That is everything you'll get from this turd named 'The River Wild'. Awful piece of trash. Meryl Streep did very well, but for what? Character development was awful. I couldn't care for the characters any less, and everything was black and white (either good or villain). In the end I was rooting for Kevin Bacon's character, but since his character was also poorly built and unbelievably dumb I couldn't care less for him either. But calling his character dumb is not very fair. The whole film is about events that will challenge your mind, but not in a good way. I could start talking about how unconvincing the entire thing was, like, for example, how many times the family could've escaped from the bandits but didn't because of an utterly dumb move. And the Deus Ex Machine moments too. But would be a pointless exercise. There is also some clich scenes that are cringe worthy. But pointless to go further. Just take my words for it. This film is a mess. Weird for a project with names such as Kevin Bacon, John C.Really and Meryl Streep in the cast. 4.6/10 "},{"Title":"So-so.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  There are times when I agree with the people who bash this film, and then there are times when I agree with the people who think this movie is one of the best action films ever (which it isn't by the way).Meryl Streep acts decently here, but there are a lot of things that just don't flow right. The plot is good, but the pacing isn't all that great. Meryl Streep acts too 'action hero-ish' for my tastes, and considering it is her first shot at a thriller, she should have taken it slower. Like other action films, Meryl Streep just doesn't seem to understand that she isn't the one calling the shots. Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilley take on the roles of the bad guys here, but Streep doesn't know that. Bacon wasn't really good at playing bad guys yet (his later improvements with HOLLOW MAN and TRAPPED were good). Streep does not do a very good job of acting out scenes where they are going to be in danger. She's just bad at those.Joseph Mazello, however, did a fine job, after getting plenty of experience with action films from JURASSIC PARK. Director Curtis Hanson (8 MILE) does pull off another effective and well-done movie, just not as good as some of his other works. THE RIVER WILD 3/5. "},{"Title":"Watered-down and predictable Deliverance wannabe","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie, and don't get me wrong, It's an entertaining way to kill two hours. But I found it very predictable. *SPOILER* Ok, so the gauntlet can't be run. IT CAN'T BE DONE, IT'S IMPOSSIBLE! Gee, what are they going to do at the end of the movie? Why was it so necessary for the two criminals to risk their necks going down the rapids, when the husband got to the same place on foot in half the time? And without attracting unwanted attention from a park ranger?And that whole cable-upsetting the boat thing the hubby jury-rigged was a bit far-fetched.  I liked the scenery, and the rapids sequences were about as exciting as one can make them. I liked Streep's performance. Bacon could have added a bit more personality and color to his character.  It just seems like the movie was trying to come across as a 90's Deliverance.  Sorry, this one won't make my top-ten list of suspense/action movies. One perk we can now connect Streep with Bacon in one step! "}{"Title":"This film i would not recommend","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The Plot is thin, the action is unconvincing, and worst of all Meryl Streep is a tough woman with muscles??? A real thrill doesn't build up because of the bad acting and the predictability of the story. I was pretty bored and don't recommend it at all. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"title says all","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  The River Wild is a very entertaining and suspenceful film, even though I am not big on Meryl Streep or Mazzello aka Jurassic park boy. Kevin Bacon deserves the most praise of any of the actors in this movie, his work as Wade is classic. This movie is pretty good despite some bad choices for the roles so that is saying a lot if a film can still be good despite subpar actors. The River Wild is worth your time, 7 outta 10. "},{"Title":"Good action, but could have been much better","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Meryl Streep does an action heroine turn as Gail, a river guide in an unhappy marriage to David Sraithairn.  For a change of pace, they hit the waters, where the family is forced to aid two runaway criminals (Kevin Bacon and John C. Reilly).  This is a very different role for Streep, and she manages to make it fit and seems very believable.  Bacon is somewhat threatening, and the river action scenes are all very good.  BUT, this movie gets bogged down by the hokey plot contrivances (their dog who happens to magically appear at precise moments, Ranger Johnny (Benjamin Bratt, before Law & Order) and other plot holes.  Good, but could have been a much better story.Vote 6 "},{"Title":"Corny but intermittently gripping","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Curtis Hanson made the excellent 'L.A. Confidential', and Meryl Streep has a fine reputation as an actress, but 'The River Wild' is generic adventure fare. Streep plays the ex-rafting guide kidnapped by two criminals on the run, one stupid and one psychopathic (the latter resembling Beavis off MTV, but actually Kevin Bacon), who plan to use her to escape down the rapids her cute child, neglectful husband and Lassie-style heroic dog are also part of the package. Although manipulative (the family are given a deaf relative just so they can communicate in sign language at a crucial point in the plot), the film's corny set up is still occasionally compelling, although the conclusion is plain daft. And the true climax (that actually precedes this final act), the riding of the rapids, is actually one of the least exciting moments of the film. The use of music throughout dispels any atmosphere of natural terror, and the ordeals that the characters have had to endure until this point are such that although the preceding plot has attempted to prepare us for what is to come, it in fact overshadows it, and the sense of the falls as a place of incomparable terror is thus dissipated. It adds up to a watchable tale if you have some time to kill; but also a forgettable one. "},{"Title":"The river is the star!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This film should be reserved for when you have nothing better to watch. The star of the film is the river itself and the beautiful surrounding scenery. As usual Meryl Streep plays a very convincing role and her efforts should be commended, however, the plot is very predictable; and I don't know about you but I'm getting fed up with the good old American hero saves the day film. Johnny the rangers' no good at pretending! Deliverance rules - please can we have less predictable plots and endings?Thanks. "},{"Title":"wet and wild...StrawDog Delivered","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Stolen from Straw Dogs, this script is out-right plagiarism. There is however good action ala Deliverance, some nice acting from Meryl, even better acting from Kevin, and great scenery. On the whole, a predictable Hollywood couple of hours with good production values. And what might make the viewing rewarding in the end...a super performance from an outstanding blonde Lab. Whoever she/he is, thanks for a job well done!! I don't recall if he/she appeared in the credits, but in any case every scene he/she was in was a winner. So for all you fans of the breed...check out this film. There is even a chance to see her/him swimming, which Lab Retriever lovers know is in and of itself worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Streep sinks","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Not even the estimable Meryl Streep can save this waterlogged thriller, sort of a cross between Deliverance and..oh..I don't know..Up the Creek. Kevin Bacon is not exactly threatening as Ms. Streep's number one nemesis, and David Strathairn makes no impression at all.  "},{"Title":"River Tamed by Lousy Script","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This A-list big-budget movie is doomed by an incredibly predictable script. The premise is good.  A trio of bloodthirsty bad guys go on the lam after a robbery by rafting out of the area.  On a very wild and dangerous river of course.  Unfortunately the bad guy who was the river guide dies prematurely so the remaining duo falls in with Meryl's family of Mom, Dad and young son. Meryl's an ex-river guide who is trying to save her marriage to wimpy architect Straihorn.  Nice possibilities, heh?The problem of the script is twofold.  First, the familial frictions are never explored (as it would have been nice for the bad guys to exploit them).  They're never explored because once on the river Meryl's family becomes a cohesive, god-fearing slayer of evil, and the bad guys lose all grip on reality and almost beg to be found out.  And secondly every thing that happens is telegraphed from a mile away.  It's so bad that you actually start to believe that you've seen the movie before.Not even Streep can save this movie....only recommended for die-hard Streep or Bacon fans.   "},{"Title":"The River Wild","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is a really good adventure thriller which keeps you gripped, as much as they were in the raft, and at any point you could fall off. Basically white water rafting expert Gail Hartman (Golden Globe nominated Meryl Streep) takes her family, son Roarke Hartman (Jurassic Park's Joseph Mazzello) and father/husband Tom Hartman (David Strathairn) on a trip down the river to go to their house. They have no idea who they are going themselves involved with though when they are accompanied by Wade (Golden Globe nominated Kevin Bacon) and Terry (John C. Reilly). They soon reveal themselves, after a short friendship, to be bank robbers with a green bag with thousands of dollars. The family trip turns into a nightmare as they travel down the river with the armed men, and encounter the dangerous/wild/stormy river stages, e.g. rocks and rapids. Gail and the other two are obviously trying to think and do anything that can get rid of the two men. Also starring William Lucking as Frank and Benjamin Bratt as Ranger Johnny. Very good! "}]