[{"Title":"Incredibly Moving Performance by Toni Collette","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"82 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Where do you go and to whom do you turn, when it's time to emerge from adolescence and get on with your life, but you find yourself incapacitated from having had your self esteem methodically peeled away year after miserable year by a brutal father who has convinced you that you're worth less than a piece of garbage a dog wouldn't touch?  That's the story of Muriel Heslop (Toni Collette), a young woman who, along with her brothers and sisters, has been mercilessly and ceaselessly denigrated and publicly humiliated by her father, Bill Heslop (Bill Hunter), seemingly since the day she was born, in `Muriel's Wedding,' directed by P.J. Hogan.  Bill Heslop is a local councilman in the less-than-thriving city of Porpoise Point, Australia.  In the eyes of those who don't know him, he's a great man, a hero even; and he's definitely a legend in his own mind.  But in his own home he doles out psychological abuse relentlessly-- and the sad thing is, he does it seemingly without realizing what he's doing.  Muriel, out of school, but so unsure of herself that she's unable to wrench herself free of the dominating Mr. Heslop, escapes into a world of ABBA songs and daydreams of her own wedding, which she perceives as being the ultimate reward-- the thing that will finally bring her happiness and give her life meaning.Not surprisingly, Muriel has some problems to work out before she can even think of making a change that will turn her life around.  Her lack of self esteem has rendered her socially inept, overweight, slow witted and incapable of making a decision.  And as far as the wedding that will change everything-- well, Muriel has no boyfriend, never has had one, and there are certainly no prospects on the horizon.  Her dream of being ABBA's `Dancing Queen,' is about as remote as pigs that can fly.  Muriel does have friends, however; four girls she knows from school, one of whom just got married, into whose lives she basically imposes herself in a last ditch effort to find acceptance any way she can.  Then one night, even they tell her not to come around them anymore, that she is an embarrassment.  And for Muriel, it's the final straw that drives her to do something desperate.  Something that will ultimately change her life forever.That it is billed as an `Hilarious comedy about friends, fun and unexpected surprises' and `Hysterically funny,' makes you wonder about the marketing machinery of the entertainment industry.  Is it a funny movie?  Yes, it is; just as life is often funny, even when it's at it's worst.  Hilarious?  Yes. All of which seems contradictory to the story that is at the heart of the film.  And yet, it's those very contradictions, those same multi-layered complexities of which life is made, that makes this such a wonderful movie. On one hand, Bill Heslop is one of the most despicable characters you'll ever encounter in a film; and on the other, Muriel is one of the most sympathetic.  The humor of this film is derived from the natural and very real situations in which the characters find themselves.  And just as there is something within us all that at times allows us to laugh at the misfortunes of others (perhaps occasionally born of a `better you than me' mentality), there are things you're going to laugh at in this film.  But as you sit back and watch as one misery upon another is heaped upon Muriel, you'd have to be either an unfeeling person or a sociopath not to be crying at least on the inside, even if you're laughing on the outside.  There are times when you just want to reach out to Muriel and let her know that one way or another, everything is going to be okay.Toni Collette (in her second film) gives an incredibly moving performance as Muriel, making her about as real as a character can get.  She conveys so much through her body language and facial expressions alone, that you can feel the torment and the turmoil she keeps bottled up and buried deep within herself, without ever having to hear her speak a word.  Anyone who's ever known even a moment of misfortune in their life will be able to relate to her.  Unwittingly, she wears her feelings on her sleeve; not that she wants to, but when your cup of adversity finally overflows, it's going to show. And it takes a special actor to play a character like this and make her so convincing, without taking it over the top or into the gray planes of melodrama.  And Collette is that actor.  She's perfect in this role, and she had to be for this film to work.  Anything less than a perfect counterpoint to the character of Bill Heslop would've quickly derailed this project, and the humor alone wouldn't have done the job.  All of the tricks, jokes and funny lines in the world wouldn't have been enough to overcome that very real sense of loathing Bill Hunter brings to the role of Heslop.The supporting cast includes Rachel Griffiths (Rhonda), Sophie Lee (Tania), Rosalind Hammond (Cheryl), Belinda Jarrett (Janine), Pippa Grandison (Nicole), Jeanie Drynan (exceptionally effective as Betty, Muriel's mother) and Daniel Lapaine (David).  In one of the most uplifting scenes you're ever likely to see in a movie, Muriel and Rhonda lip-sync to ABBA's `Waterloo,' which in the screenplay probably came across as something fun but rather insignificant in the grand scheme of things.  But on the screen, it becomes a moment that is absolutely transporting.  And that's the magic of `Muriel's Wedding.'  It takes you into the dark, but never allows you to languish there; ultimately, it takes you into the light, and when it does, it's brighter than anything you could imagine.  I rate this one 10/10. "},{"Title":"So Much...Better...Than Advertised!","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"60 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You gotta love the Hollywood marketing hacks.  Outrageously funny...you'll stand up and.....cheer!  Did they even watch the movie? Or was this a cynical ploy to try to make Muriel's Wedding into a more commercially viable film?Either way, the marketing for this great little movie deserves an award for Most Misleading. In misrepresenting Muriel, they reduced it to a fun chick flick in the minds of people who hadn't yet seen it. It's so much better than that.A few years back, my then-girlfriend begged for this on one of our trips to Blockbuster, so I gave in, resigned to a night of gritting my teeth through a silly, formula-written, semi-feminist movie about a couple girls who have fun while getting even with their boyfriends or finally landing the big job or whatever the ending was gonna be.Well, I was FLOORED by what Muriel's Wedding was, as well as what it wasn't.The film is profoundly psychological and satirical. The person who sees Muriel, powerfully played by Toni Collette, and cannot empathize with her is a heartless, brainless schmuck indeed. Collette's performance and writer/director PJ Hogan's screenplay take Muriel through pretty much the whole range of emotion. Much of this emotion is negative, and it's really painful (but beautiful) to watch at several points. To watch Muriel's harrowing journey toward self-acceptance is to relive painful moments in your past, whether you are a man or a woman.Muriel is also FULL of satire. It has a lot to say about marriage and family life, and little of it is good, although I believe it leaves plenty of room for redemption for Muriel and her abusive father (well-played by Bill Hunter).Muriel's Wedding isn't a perfect movie, though it's pretty damned close. The scenes of Rhonda's and Muriel's life in Sydney, in particular, seem rather episodic, without strong threads to bind them. But this is almost quibbling with a great, great film.That's the way Muriel's Wedding is. It affords you no escape, if that's what you are looking for. I think that's why most people are so p***ed off about it. They want to be entertained, not depressed by a film that has to do with real life. Well, I can't be too hard on these folks. It's really the marketing department's fault for their false advertising.But if you want to see a very powerful film and are willing be really touched by a it, then see Muriel's Wedding. "},{"Title":"Kind of a Revenge of the Nerds Down-Under","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"61 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is a feel good movie for the outcasts of the world.  That means most people of course.  At some time in our lives we all feel like the one who is left out of everything.  Muriel's life is like that.  Her friends put her down constantly and her father reinforces it by telling her how useless she (and every other member of her family) is while boosting his own ego by bragging about his connections.There is no life in Porpoise Spit for Muriel.  So after a couple of catastrophic embarassments and a chance meeting with an old school chum and fellow outcast she moves to Sydney. There she reinvents herself and discovers that despite what has been said about her and some pretty bad things she has done she is still a good person.  Muriel stumbles on the way but finally frees herself (as does her mother) from the oppression of her hometown, her father, and her life.Muriel isn't a totally likeable character.  She steals, lies, and at one point does a perfectly terrible thing to her only friend.  In the end however, Muriel recognizes that despite her shortcoming, physical and spiritual, she isn't the worthless creature her classmates and father have told her she is.  To the credit of the filmmaker's they didn't do a complete remake of Muriel in the film to make her a beauty at the end.  She gets a better hair cut but for the most part the improvement on her looks comes from within.Muriel's father on the other hand is a completely despicable man.  A local politician who tries to impress everybody with his connections he also put considerable effort into the degradation of his wife and children.  His motto, the same as the town of Porpoise Spit, is You Can't Stop Progress but he manages to stop the progress of everyone in his family except for Muriel.This is a very enjoyable film and a good example of the idea that a movie doesn't have to be a big Hollywood production to be great.  I'm glad that it was produced in Australia.  If it had been done in France then Hollywood would have done a remake in English and probably ruined it.  "},{"Title":"Great movie as the Aussies can only do!","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"60 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A dark comedy it is but it really touches the heart and it can be quite sad at times. There are many levels that you can watch this movie on and many do say there is a superficialness to it. However, there are core human elements that clearly ring through in this movie. Friendship, compassion, empathy. Toni Colette and Rachel Griffths both make this movie stellar. It is heartbreaking at times to watch Muriel (Collette) wanting to be someone of value. Her feelings are so true to her heart and I am sure many can relate. Griffith's character is portrayed with such humor and honesty. She also has some of the funniest lines I have heard in a movie in a long time.Please watch this! It does offer meaning and you certainly can't go wrong with the music of ABBA! "},{"Title":"a glorious celebration of freedom","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i still remember joining the neighbors to go to the movies to see a new Australian film that noone knew much about, except that it featured the music of abba...just as i still remember walking out of the cinema aglow with such immense joy.this is a wonderful film, that begins with a shy, needy, shrinking-violet girl and ends with a strong, honest woman aware of her own power to change and control the world around her. this film is full of laughs, full of smiles and, towards the crescendo of the last few minutes even full of tears. one can't help but want to stand up and cheer, or dance, or both, as muriel escapes everything that her 'life' has pushed on her and rides into the sunset, with such happiness radiating from her face.you're terrible, muriel... she is, and you can't help but love her for it. see this movie!  "},{"Title":"pathetically fabulous","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"36 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" a fat girl with an obsessive/compulsive dream of marriage + her grotesque family + her shallowest of the shallow so called friends + her cheeky & crazy sidekick and the music of ABBA. How could any movie sound more irritating? But, uh-huh, it's not.What makes this movie unique is the performance of Toni Collette and the thin line between the protagonist/antagonist qualifications of the characters. You can not just like them or hate them because you can not decide where to put them in your personal moral scale. Although the story itself is pathetically sad, the film could still make the audience laugh out loud in some specific scenes.I believe this film is one of the pioneers of 90's indie movies and obviously it has given great inspiration to the newcomers of Ecole Sundance. "},{"Title":"Dancing Queen","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Toni Collette wants to have Muriel's Wedding in this 1994 Australian film, directed and written by P.J. Hogan. Muriel is a social outcast living with her dysfunctional family and fantasizing about a better life for herself, as exemplified in Abba music. She wants the excitement the music has, the fun, the prettiness, the glamor. Most of all, she wants a fabulous wedding. Her dreadful father (Bill Hunter) constantly puts her down and constantly elevates himself. He's a councilman. He asks a friend, Deirdre, who has a cosmetics company like Mary Kay, to give Muriel work. He gives Muriel a blank check so she can buy what she needs and start selling. Muriel takes the blank check to the bank, cleans out her father's bank account and heads for a resort where four girls from the in crowd - who don't want Muriel around - have gone. There she meets Rhonda (Rachel Griffiths) and starts to have some of the fun she's dreamed about. From there, she moves to Sydney and takes a job in a video store, rooming with Rhonda.All of Muriel's dreams eventually come true, but she loses what makes her special and what she has always devalued - herself.This is such a splendid film, made all the more magnificent by the performance of one of the truly great actresses of this century, Toni Collette. Collette belongs right up there with Streep, Helen Mirren and Cate Blanchette. She's not there because she's a character actress who disappears into her roles so that she's unrecognizable from film to film. Here she embodies Muriel - overweight, badly dressed, with low self-esteem who, in the process of finding out who she is, emerges as an attractive person who knows what's important and what it is she really wants.Muriel's Wedding is not a raucous comedy. It has many layers - ridiculous characters, such as her supposed vain friends, and then it turns around and gives you a complicated character like Rhonda, who loves life and lives it with complete abandon until tragedy strikes. Griffiths gives a beautiful performance. Hunter, the man we loved to hate in Strictly Ballroom, is even more hateful here, but in the end, seems to have learned his lessons too.Muriel learns what we all learn - life isn't what goes on on the outside, it's what happens inside. What's valuable isn't the wedding dress and all the pomp, but the souls and love involved and the real meaning of marriage. Then you're a Dancing Queen and you can really feel joy.Such a great film, made possible by Collette and Hogan's excellent script and direction. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Quirky, Uneven Film with Outstanding Lead Performances","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"26 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film has a biting satiric edge to it & offers a refreshingly unsentimental, non-judgmental portrait of a young woman deemed a loser by both friends and family. Toni Collette is magnificent as Muriel, capturing the character's wide range of emotions, from the oblivious to the gushingly enthusiastic. Collette is solidly paired with Rachel Griffith; the two come across as long-time buddies. The open-faced surrealistic sarcasm of the film is in key places undermined by melodramatic tragedies (reminding me of the turkey Terms of Endearment), but at least these solemn moments are treated in an un-Hollywood, non-mawkish fashion. This is a fascinating, memorable film.  "},{"Title":"Very Uplifting!","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yes, guilty as charged - I am a huge ABBA Fan. And while that was certainly one of this movie's prime attractions, I do think 'Muriel's Wedding' is one of the best movies I've ever seen! Muriel's character is very identifiable... We all go through the same insecurities, phases of demoralization at some nor some point of our lives. Played with disarming honesty by Toni Collette, Muriel is snubbed by her so-called friends who call her an embarrassment because of her weight and because she listens to ABBA. Muriel's idea of getting back at those who snubbed her is to get a guy to marry her. This she manages quite successfully by roping in the perpetually sulking National swimmer who wants a wife merely as a tag. Muriel gets back at her friends but at the cost of nearly losing her real friendship with Rwanda(excellently portrayed by Rachel Griffiths). Her mother's suicide compounds to her sense of futility and she gracefully separates from her husband to return to Sydney and get her life back together, caring for Rwanda, now wheel-chair ridden and making a living without all those superficial aspirations she dreamt of and the vain people whose companionship she so much wanted. This is a great romantic comedy with the kind of emotional honesty not often in movies of the genre. It deals with issues of self-esteem and the universal need for love and friendship and yes, it has great music! But of course! "},{"Title":"A fun Aussie comedy with a message","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"30 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is all about a young Aussie woman who bears the scars of a dysfunctional family as she sets out in life in search of happiness. Very much an Aussie film, rough as a day old beard but with a heart of gold and a visceral sense of humor, MW is one of those few movies which can accurately be called a gem. Buoyant, coarse, and poignant, MW tells a story of personal conquest as we watch a courageous Muriel struggle with low self esteem from patriarchal abuse while looking for love in all the wrong places. A roller coaster ride with a feel good ending for anyone into movies with morals and/or Aussie films. (B+) "}{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"30 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i know it's a great movie because it made me cry and i don't cry while watching any movie, of course some would say it's not a good enough movie i would say just watch it and full in love with Toni Colette and Australia as she made it the warmest place on earth. you would think it's a comedy movie or a drama but it's more than that it's a call for life and seeking freedom and real love and friends it will make you recheck your list of friends to see who are the true ones, it will make you recheck your life to make sure you'r living it right and for the right reasons and Toni oh boy she's a miracle. just watch the damn movie and you won't regret it, IT'S A MASTER PIECE "},{"Title":"Coming-of-age story that is both comic and touching","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the hallmarks, and one of the strengths, of the Australian cinema, is originality, the ability to produce films quite different from anything in the Hollywood or British mainstream. This ability dates back to the days of Walkabout, Picnic at Hanging Rock and Crocodile Dundee, and the offbeat comedy Muriel's Wedding from 1994 falls within the same tradition. It also falls within the recent Australian tradition of films satirising life in the provinces while retaining a certain affection for those that live there. (Sweetie and Opal Dreams are other examples). The film was written and directed by Paul J. Hogan, not to be confused with his namesake Paul Hogan of Crocodile Dundee fame.The main character, Muriel Heslop, is a young woman in her early twenties from the fictitious Queensland seaside town of Porpoise Spit. Her life is dominated by her tyrannical father Bill, an ambitious and corrupt local politician, whose family seem crushed by the weight of his expectations. Muriel's mother Betty is a downtrodden, subservient wife and her siblings are lazy, unambitious and permanently unemployed, with no interests in life other than watching television. She herself is overweight, naïve and socially gauche; she is mocked by her contemporaries, even those she considers her friends, for her weight, her lack of social graces, her lack of fashion sense, and her obsession with the music of ABBA, regarded as hopelessly untrendy by the mid-nineties. (Several ABBA songs feature on the soundtrack). Although she has never had a serious boyfriend, her one great ambition is for a glamorous wedding.Muriel's life changes when, while on holiday, she makes a friend named Rhonda who, unlike her Porpoise Spit contemporaries, is prepared to accept Muriel for what she is. Muriel leaves her family to set up house in Sydney with Rhonda and eventually achieves her dream of a big white wedding, although the circumstances are rather unusual. Muriel's husband is David, a handsome young South African swimmer, whom she hardly knows but who needs an Australian passport in order to swim for his adopted country in the Olympics. (This plot line suggests that the film was originally conceived several years earlier, when South Africa was banned from international sport because of apartheid).Toni Collette was relatively unknown in 1994, but this was the part that first brought her to international attention, and she gives an excellent performance, making Muriel an appealing heroine despite her social awkwardness. There are some other good performances, such as from Bill Hunter as Muriel's autocratic father, but I was less taken by Rachel Griffiths as Rhonda, even though I have admired Griffiths in other films such as Hilary and Jackie. Although she is supposed to be a likable character, Muriel's one true friend who loves her for what she is and who copes bravely with illness and disability, I found the foul-mouthed, promiscuous Rhonda a bit too abrasive to be sympathetic.Although Muriel's Wedding is a comedy, and in places a very funny one, it also deals with some serious themes, and avoids Hollywood sentiment. (Hollywood would doubtless have made Muriel slimmer and prettier, would given greater prominence to David and would have turned the film into a rom-com in which the two young people end up falling madly in love). It is essentially a coming-of-age story, what in German would be called a Bildungsroman. It is the story of the heroine's discovery of self-confidence rather than self-loathing, of how she learns to accept herself for what she is. It is notable that for much of the film she insists on being called Mariel, only to revert to Muriel by the end. Behind the humour and the satire the film is often touching and poignant. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Star rating 4 out of 5","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is an Australian gem that perhaps suffers somewhat from being earmarked as a 'comedy'.  Certainly there are plenty of laughs, but this film is no mere cheap and cheesy crowd-pleaser.  As well as dealing with the insularity and cattiness of her hometown, Porpoise Spit, Muriel also must face the suicide of her mother and paralysing of her best friend.  Yet, despite these tragedies, Muriel manages to come out on top, and at the same time strike a blow for anybody who has ever been snubbed by the in-crowd.The characterisation in the movie is brilliant, particularly that of Muriel's family of no-hopers.  Hoping to shed the title of useless bestowed on her by her father, Muriel (Toni Collette) absconds with the family's savings to an island resort, where she meets vivacious, straight-talking Rhonda (Rachel Griffiths).  Rhonda is the catalyst for Muriel to become a new person, but unfortunately Muriel takes her obsession with weddings one step too far and marries just for the sake of it.  She thinks she has finally made it, but comes to realise that there's more to life than public image.The soundtrack is a gloriously appropriate ABBA symphony, although both Dancing Queen and the film's original theme tune are over-utilised.  It is surely partly due to ABBA's pleasant familiarity that it is so easy to become emotionally involved in the film, and the viewer will likely experience the whole gamut of feelings during its course.  The finale, whilst upbeat, fortunately doesn't stumble into the realm of saccharine moralism (which so many filmmakers seem to think it is necessary to conclude with).  Instead, we feel the triumph along with Muriel and Rhonda as they bid a raucous farewell to Porpoise Spit.  "},{"Title":"WOW---This is a MUST SEE and has landed on my top ten of all time","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Folks, this is a winner. It has been on one of my movie channels this month and I have watched it no fewer than seven times...and it just keeps getting better. It doesn't get any better than Toni Collette. She gives me chills, goosebumps, and brings me to tears throughout the whole movie. She is unabashed in her acting and the audience really forgets they are watching a movie. Catch her in the very last scene of the movie---after she and Rhonda shout their farewells to their hometown, the camera zeroes in on Muriel...the expressions on Collette's face are beautifull intense. And Rachel Griffiths---I am now officially a fan. She is utterly believable in her role as Muriel's one true friend who has a bout with cancer and becomes paralyzed. The supporting cast is nothing short of wonderful. Jeanie Drynan brilliantly portrays Muriel's dutiful but painfully submissive/subservient mother. Sophia Lee is over-the-top hilarious and very convincing as the blond popular girl whom everyone wants to be in high school, but whose life turns out to be less than fabulous in the long run. Muriel's couch potato sibs are also chillingly realistic...I could go on and on. The cast is a jewel. And don't get me started on the ABBA soundtrack...what a genius choice of a band for Muriel to be obsessed with. I'm getting on Amazon and ordering ABBA's greatest hits. What I love about Muriel's Wedding (and what the previous reviewer did not appreciate) is that it very much resists falling into a genre. It could, I suppose, be at home in the romantic comedy category, but it's also a seriously dramatic movie, with some tragic moments. It's funny, depressing, inspiring, and bizarre at once. I adore this movie and encourage you to see it more than once!!! I'm completely obsessed with it after a month of watching it.  "},{"Title":"Another Great Reason To Watch This Film","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I would rank Muriel's Wedding in my 10 Best of all time, and just wanted to add one thing to the comments.One of the great things about this movie is being able to watch Toni Collette and Rachel Griffiths do star turns at the beginning of their careers. Colette was already a star in Australia, though unheard of elsewhere, but both of these amazing actresses demonstrate in this film the qualities that have shown them to be among the most accomplished and versatile actresses in film and television today.One more thing, I caught Toni Colette doing a star turn in the Broadway musical The Wild Party. This woman is a great musical performer. I would be willing to bet her band is terrific. "},{"Title":"3 or 4 terrific movies rolled into one","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Amazingly self-assured combination of satire, personal drama, and gentle comedy that marks the emergence of several great talents.  Viewers who particularly identify with the main character view this as almost a religious experience.  I think of it more as a comedy; the dramatic elements are emotionally compelling as well, however.  The virtuoso performance of Toni Collette cements the disparate elements into a unified whole.  The joy with which Dancing Queen plays at the end is infectious and well-earned--this is a film for everyone. "},{"Title":"A 1994 sleeper that everyone should see!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this absolutely captivating film at 5 AM Sunday morning, and feel great! It's just that kind of a film; one that by the title I would never have watched, but being an insomniac, I happened to be up and started it about 15 minutes into it. Toni Collete is beautiful, captivating, and if she's half as sweet as Muriel, she must be a marvelous person, This movie is almost a throwback to a bygone day when you have a Josephine six-pack heroine who leaves her hometown to go to the big city, but comes back down to earth when her friends really need her. It's a first rate film, and I was glad to see on IMBD that she won Australia's Academy award for her performance; it is so richly deserved! See this film-It's a winner all around "},{"Title":"One of the best of the 90's","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I throughly believe Muriel's Wedding is one of the best films ever made. All the performances are wonderful, especially Toni Collette who without a doubt should have been nominated for an Oscar.  Don't believe anyone who tells you this is a romantic comedy. It is actually a very warped tale of unlikable characters only interested in themselves manipulating, lying and scheming to each other to see who'll come out on top. In the end, one decides to reform and another loses the fight and decides to do the only action she can think of. Basically, it is funny a lot of the time, but with a very depressive underlying moral that undercuts everything. Those who like to observe films will appreciate the message and relate to it more. Those expecting a nice palatable bit of fluff like My Best Friends Wedding should keep away.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"7 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm so happy I was lucky enough to revisit this splendid film. i remember seeing it when I was younger. But now it feels like a different movie. it's even better than I remember it and that may be because I can truly appreciate the films message more prominently. The film centers on a young woman named Muriel played by a young Toni Collette who gained 40 lbs. for the role. She's sort of an odd duckling whose friends don't appreciate her and constantly put her down. And that goes the same for her verbally abusive father as well. After her friends decide to break up with her she finds an old acquaintance from high school while on a vacation and they become best friends. She tells a lie and than it leads to another and another. Her dreams of getting married consume her completely and I'm sure you can guess what ultimately happens. Let me say that this movie is hysterically funny but it does move into a very depressing stage but really has some very important things to say. About self worth, following your dreams, society's impressions on how we should live our lives, friendship and finding a way to truly be happy. I'm sure it sounds a bit corny but it's all handled with an unexpected grace which really make it the one of a kind film it is and one of the best movies I've ever seen! "},{"Title":"A thoroughly recommended tale of self-discovery","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Muriel's Wedding is the story of a young woman's journey from self-loathing to self-loving. Her family is plagued with low self-esteem, depression, deception, and recrimination. Muriel escapes to a fantasy world, culminating in dreams of marriage that she believes will help her escape the self that she loathes. It is only through tragedy that she sees the shallowness of her own deceptions, and the importance of being her genuine self.Muriel's Wedding is a wonderfully written and acted film. Some parts tend to caricature, yet this is entirely appropriate given that the people portrayed are themselves so superficial and cliché. The principal characters of the story are finely acted we feel both their despair and effervescent joy. Toni Collette and Rachel Griffiths are perfectly cast. The quality of both the script and acting is proved through our love of such a flawed protagonist.Muriel's Wedding is a great Australian movie, and a thoroughly recommended tale of self-discovery. "}{"Title":"Funny, with an underlying sense of sadness.","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's wedding is a solid work of Australian comedy, with great acting and a funny script, however I also found it a touch sad.The film kept taking emotional turns, from hilarious to depressing. The main character, Muriel Heslop (Toni Collette), was funny in a very human way. She shows the audience a quirky, yet believable example of human fallibility, as the girl who never quite meets the standard. Muriel's character is defined by her inability to fit in - despite many attempts. She has a dysfunctional family and weird obsessions with Swedish pop group ABBA, and getting married.All the characters play emotional roles, and the acting performance by Collette and Rachel Griffiths (as Muriels best friend), are inspirational.I laughed a lot, but came away with a general sense of sadness about the emotional cruelty of human beings, and the suffering some people endure. I found the character of Muriel's mother particularly sad, but well acted.Many people I've talked to hated this film, but it remains one of my favourite comedies. As someone who really enjoys Aussie films, I think this was one of the better ones. "},{"Title":"Still an excellent film","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film again after several years. Still believe is drama, a dark inner film. I never considered as a comedy. Characters are very well put on scene, that even a man can identify himself with some of the performances. Music also makes the point. ABBA is so out of fashion today, that's close to a classic. "},{"Title":"Modern-day Cinderella story (with a touch of ABBA)","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  For anyone who likes to see the underdog come out on top, Australia, ABBA, and weddings, Muriel's Wedding is the right  movie for you.  This 1994 P.J.Hogan movie stars Toni Collette  (2000 Academy Award nominee for The Sixth Sense) as Muriel, a  painfully awkward and misunderstood girl who finds solace in ABBA tunes.  It is her dream to be accepted -- and getting married is her vision of the ultimate acceptance.She lives with her dysfunctional family in the deliciously tacky Australian  town of Porpoise Spit, where she is taunted by the popular  girls of the town.  She soon befriends another outcast (played  masterfully by Rachel Griffins), and the two move to Sydney,  where they try to start over.Toni Collette gives a flawless  performance -- sometimes humorous, sometimes painful, sometimes poignant.This quirky comedy is not for everyone, but is definitely one of the best movies  "},{"Title":"A movie that will make you laugh, cry, and cheer","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the simple story of a girl who like her father, despises what God has given her.  She tries to be in, but just can't it off.  But she has plans and soon is given the means to realize them.   This movie is my absolute favorite.  It turned me onto ABBA, but aside from that it does so much more.  The faces and emotions tell the story so well that even without sound you can get a lot of the story. *******SPOILER ALERT*******You will cry for her mother who must take a bus and taxi to be at her wedding when her face falls from her pride and happiness for her daughter to a heartbreaking sad, but blank look which she holds until the end.  This is probably the most endearing moment I have ever seen in a movie and perhaps even real life.  I cry every time I see it.  Especially when you how her mother continues her life with this deep disappointment.  And pay attention to Deidre's being called Mrs. Heslop.  *******END OF SPOILER******Another part to watch for is change in her face the two times she listens to Dancing Queen.  I think these two scenes are crucial to understanding the movie and Muriel/Mariel.  This entire movie is a deep look into not a Cinderella story as shallowly mentioned below, but rather a girl who searches for her niche in life through the eyes of her peers, losing her family and friends in the process, and finds out she has so much more insight for her own life the hard way.  I love the ending because it gives so much hope that Muriel is truly happy with herself but has more to do. "},{"Title":"A charming reprieve from American cinema","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I haven't seen many Australian films, but I have always been struck by their proclivity to grotesque characterization. This film was no exception. From her careless and unfeeling father to her deliciously shallow and beautiful, popular friends, Muriel is surrounded by the ugliest of humanity. Even our heroine has elements of the grotesque about her until her eventual awakening late in the film. Muriel's friend Rhonda is the only character who lacks the touches of grotesquely, and it's no mistake that she is the character to whom Muriel learns that she can turn.Muriel's wedding tells the story of a girl who was brought up to believe in her worthlessness. She wants nothing more than to be married to prove herself a success at life and get away from the life she's known. In the midst of all her bad decisions (and in the light of one of the most moving tragedies I've seen in a comedy or drama in a great while), Muriel comes to realize that she is going about success all wrong. This film is wonderful and charming, a true comedy, but without the saccharin Halmark ending and obligatory romance so prominent in American movies. This is the story of a real hopeless case, who realizes she's not hopeless and has had everything she needed all along.  "},{"Title":"...it's important to know who we are as individuals and try to have confidence in ourselves","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" priceless movie magic the end of the movie with Muriel and Rhonda in the taxi on the way to Sydney. the look on Muriel's face...ahh, only a great actress can accomplish that, there was so much emotion running through that look, to me it was so bittersweet and that look summed up the whole movie. finally got to see this movie 20 years after its release, and i'm a big fan of Toni Collete. i gave this movie an 8 out of 10 and it is probably a little underrated at 7.2 although that is not shabby at all. the movie feels like it was made on a micro-budget(for sure under a million dollars) and it just shows you that you can still create movie magic with-out a big budget. the movie feels so real, i know families like that and it takes a major effort to break out of surroundings like that and at the end of the movie i think Muriel did accomplish that and was able to feel confident in her own skin. this was by no small feat accomplished by her far-out there real friend Rhonda. these 2 characters made up the whole movie for me. what happened to Muriel's mom was so heartbreaking. not counting what she did to herself at the end, plenty of women live through what she lived through and in a blink you are old and unfulfilled wondering what happened?great movies take you on a trip without you even noticing it and this movie certainly did it for me...a well spent 100 minutes of my life. Toni Collete has got some serious acting chops and is one of my favorite actresses.again to me it is not a feel-good movie, it is really bittersweet and oh that look on Muriel's face at the end...this is going to be one of those timeless classics and if call yourself a fan of movies this is a must see...Enjoy! "},{"Title":"One of the better chick flicks out there&#x85;","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of the better chick flicks out there&#x85; I first saw part of this movie when I was little and was so intrigued&#x85; it wasn't until later when I looked it up that I realized that it was Toni, also known as Tara of United States of Tara&#x85; I love her as an actress and this film just brings out her naively dopey side. Though, most might find her character annoying she's just so lovely.This movie follows Muriel a lower than average girl who believes that getting married will complete her life. She takes her family's saving to start her life in Sydney while living with her friend. There's a lot of mishaps among a variety of things that happens when her dreams come true. But Muriel is smarter than we give her credit from in the beginning.For the outcast in all of us who do not have a hidden talent, who are just the way we are&#x85; I believe that this takes a semi-realistic look at how life goes, even when you get hit with the strike of lightening. One of the better chick flicks out there for certain. "},{"Title":"Simple Aussie girl seeks the glamorous life","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In my top 5 movies of all time...and I have seen everything. Such a simple storyline but perfectly executed with incredibly talented actresses. The type of movie you can watch over and over and never get bored.It doesn't matter if you're an ABBA fan or not. After seeing this movie, you will be. The music is so very important in the movie yet it doesn't impose on the plot or any certain scene. It's just there and it fits so well.Also important to note is the amount of weight Toni Collette put on to play Muriel. When you see her in other roles, you'll be surprised how thin she is. Also for Toni Collette fans is another Aussie movie I highly recommend - Cosi. Released in 1996, it's a much more subtle performance but still highly impressive. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this film a thousand times and I have always loved it! Originally I watched this movie because I'm a big ABBA fan, but I found out it's not all about ABBA!This film makes you feel happy and sad at the same time. The acting is superb, especially the mother of the main character.Just great!10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious Dark Comedy","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is just pure fun!Toni Collette is perfect as Muriel and Rachel Griffiths is great as her best friend.The movie is very inspiring because the character of Muriel has had such a bad life until she changes it.This is my favorite comedy ever!10 out of 10***** "}{"Title":"A hillarious and also moving film","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is one of the best films of the 1990's. The film had an excellent cast with brilliant talent. Muriel's Wedding is set in Australia and starts of with showing a bit of Muriels life. She's incredibly shy and doesn't fit in. Her father is a cheating horrible politician and her mother is a down trodden house wife. She lives in the family home with her brothers and sisters and they are all unemployed layabouts who just sit around the house watching televison. Muriel desperately wants to be married. She also hangs around with four other popular town girls who are huge bitches especially to Muriel. But they soon tell her that they don't want her hanging around with them anymore. So Muriel trying to get back in with them follows them on Holiday on Hibiscus Island but instead of becoming friends with them again she meets up there with Rhonda a girl she vagely knew at school. On the holiday they become best friends. Then Muriel moves to Sydney with her and she wants a whole new life. But then Rhonda gets a tumouron her spine and she's condemed to being in a wheel chair. But Muriel still desperately wants to be married to she marries a famous african swimmer so he can stay in the country. Then her mother commits suicide through neglect and sorrow. This makes Muriel release the mistake she's made by marrying the swimmer so she goes back to her home town where Rhonda now lives with her mother and is extremely unhappy. So Muriel takes her back to Sydney. The End. "},{"Title":"Just enjoyable!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie several times and enjoyed it a lot.Toni Collette, Rachel Griffiths, and the rest of the cast were fantastic.The music was as funny as nostalgic, the story very touching and funny.When I went out of the movies, I felt energetic, happy, and hopeful. Muriel's wedding has been the best comedy I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Life as good as Dancing queen","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fantastically strange comedy about an Australian small-towner and career-dropout Muriel in pursue of true happiness and life of her own. Obstacles on the way include the completely out of order - please use another one -family, bitchy manhunting galpals, lack of money and serious illness of a friend. But none of these trivial misfortunes prevent Muriel from heading towards the ultimate goal of her dreams to get married! No means are too immoral nor any price too high when headed towards the purpose so sublime! Characters are wonderful and the plot takes you to places you simply don't anticipate. Well worth checking out - you don't find comedies this black too often! "},{"Title":"A favourite","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reading through the negative reviews here makes me disappointed that some people just don't understand what this film is about. I think that many people have unfortunately been so brainwashed by the Hollywood style of comedy, that they cannot understand that humour can permeate every aspect of life - including tragedy. For example, when Muriel's bitch friends tell her they don't want her to be in their group anymore, Muriel cries. This would seem to be quite sad and it is, but it is funny at the same time, because Muriel's crying is so gratingly over-the-top (also, the bitch friends facial reactions are hilarious). Another example is when Muriel's family is having dinner at the Chinese restaurant (or RSL or whatever) and Diedre Chambers arrives. You feel sympathy for Muriel's poor mother, as we know that deep down she knows that Diedre is her husband's mistress and it no doubt makes her feel even more useless and unwanted. However, the way the father turns the arrival of Diedre into a 'coincidence' is funny. The classic line for me is the sister and her 'you're terrible Muriel!'. This film is a cleverly constructed comedy with a very real-life feel to it and with some seriously deep messages about society today. If you want totally unrealistic light entertainment (Hollywood-style) see 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding' or something. "},{"Title":"Complex movie","Date":"15 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From the pictures and descriptions, I was expecting a light, feel-good romantic comedy. Muriel's Wedding is most definitely not that. It has some romance. It has some comedy, mostly dark. It also has characters who are very cruel to each other, situations that are gut-wrenchingly tragic, and a main character who is dishonest and pathetic as often as she is noble. That being said, the movie does have texture and unpredictability. It's original and mostly believable, unlike most feel-good romantic comedies. But it is not cinematic wedding cake. In fact, it's more like fruit cake, with some sweetness, some unexpected bitter bits, more than a few nuts. I came away with the same impression I get from fruitcake, appreciating the complexity, but not really having enjoyed the experience. "},{"Title":"lovely film","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this film, not because I love ABBA, but because of the poignant story about an overweight woman in her journey to self-acceptance.As a gay man, I can somewhat relate to Muriel.  Her struggle to fit in despite being different and to gain respect from her verbally abusive dad reminds me of myself.For those currently undertaking a journey of self-acceptance, this film will move you. "},{"Title":"Collette shines in fine film","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've always been a fan of Australian films and I love the unconventional way Australian filmmakers tell their quirky stories. Here's the story of a fat and lonely young woman named Muriel (Toni Collette) who dreams of getting married and thinks she'll be a real somebody when that happens. Her father is a local politician who criticizes his family as worthless at every turn. Muriel's friends are very shallow and finally tell her that they don't want to be friends with her anymore. Muriel steals money from her father and follows her former friends to a resort and runs into Rhonda (Rachel Griffiths) who use to go to high school with Muriel and soon become fast friends. They both end up in Sydney living together and talking about never going back to Porpoise Spit, the city where they are from. The story is both funny and sad and even the humor sometimes rides a very thin edge of seriousness. Muriel decides to marry a South African athlete who is competing for the Olympics and wants a visa. Muriel thinks this is her time to change and be a different person. Overall message is pretty clear but the writing and directing are presented in a fresh manner by P.J. Hogan who despite some very serious character flaws in all her characters maintains a sense that she likes and cares for them all. This makes the film more absorbing and the personality flaws allow for each character to have they're own special moments. Griffiths exudes pure energy on the screen and she has that special quality that just cannot be taught in acting classes. She's interesting and exciting and you just can't take your eyes off her when she's on screen. Seeing Toni Collette now makes her practically unrecognizable in this film. She really is overweight! Collette is terrific as Muriel and her performance is the core of the film. As good of a script as this is and as exciting as Griffiths is its still Collette's picture. Her casting was pivotal to the film. Collette has never been better and that includes her performance in The Sixth Sense. Collette adds just the right blend of pathos and unusual charm that Lynn Redgrave gave in Georgy Girl. Her performance resonates both pity and smiles all  during the course of the film and thats not an easy feat. Message is simple but the characters and the performances really lift this fine film to a must see!     "},{"Title":"Why is this not in the top 250?","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Believe it or not there are actually reviews of this film that criticise the lead character (and subsequently the film) for being too socialy unaware etc. and in doing so become the spiteful shallow types that the writer was brilliantly sending up......talk about missing the point. Muriel's wedding is a masterpiece of writing and acting. How many of us identified with Muriel's quest to be someone else and how many of us identified with the pack mentality of the friends Muriel aspired to be? You're either one or the other. It's a thought provoking and honest look at the frail human need to be accepted and even adored. Toni Collettes performance is outstanding, as someone pointed out she wasn't acting Muriel, she WAS Muriel. One of the best portrayals ever on celluloid. The crunch in Muriel's life comes as she attends the funeral for her mother and the eulogy refers to the high point of her mum's life as being Muriel's wedding......(she hadn't even spoken to her mother that day). She then discovers a scrap book kept by her mother with press clippings about the wedding. Brilliant story by P.J.Hogan. See this film if you haven't already done so. A definate 10 "},{"Title":"Not what it seems to be","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I actually get irritated when I read summaries for this movie.  They make it sound like this Wacky comedy.  It is more than that.  It has drama, comedy and even some tragedy.  Like life, this movie is complex and deeper than just a dateless-girl-gets-married kind of crud we could expect from the American movie industry.  I hesitate to reveal too much of the movie because although it isn't a thriller, you must go into the movie fresh. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants a laugh, but wants a comedy with more depth than the average American romantic comedy.  Additionally, this isn't just for women, my husband loves this movie, too. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film has been one of my personal favorites! I honestly thought this movie was going to be some sort of chick flick by the title but to my wonderful surprise was anything but. Muriel, an outcast by both her family and friends, is someone most of us can relate to. We all go through personal struggles at some point in our lives. Dubbed useless by her unimaginable father, Bill, Muriel feels she is worthless and that there is no point to her life. Her friends feel she is not up to par and disown her because they feel she's overweight, unattractive and unpopular. Muriel feels that if she can get married she has changed, and is a new person, and she eventually marries someone she doesn't even know. In summation, Muriel finds out that the key to happiness in life comes not from trying to impress society, but derives from the self confidence and satisfaction that comes from within. "}{"Title":"The Aussies Have Made A...","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The Aussies have made a chick flick, a comedy, a tragedy, oh what the hell, they've made, in 'Muriel's Wedding' a lovely film that defies, quite exuberantly, genre-typing. Toni Colette is scrumptious as Muriel, and Rachel Griffiths is gutsy as Rhonda in the end, which I liked a lot for its genuine goodness about two genuine friends having each other's genuineness in a bloodsucking and shallow world, they're both scrumptious and gutsy women.Nine of ten (and I'm not even remotely fond of ABBA's recordings). A 'don't miss' film that's made my all-time top twenty. 'Muriel's Wedding' is 'Thelma And Louise' in and for the REAL world. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorite movies!!!","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I cannot even begin to fathom why this movies did not become a comedy classic of the '90's. It's hilarious, has great music, and has a good message behind it. This movie revolves around mixed up Muriel and her best friend Rhonda as they move to Sydney. Muriel's biggest goal in life is to get married, so she desperately answers an ad looking for someone to marry a South African swimmer who needs a green card. This movie is the epitome of something great!!!!!Toni Colette does an absolutely superb job playing Muriel. This is the role that made Toni Colette one of my favorite actresses. This movie is a 10/10. I wish they still made fun movies like this! "},{"Title":"Sweet and sour fairy tale","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cinderella-styled Australian comedy-drama has echoes of the British class comedies of the mid-to-late 1960s (Georgy Girl in particular). Overweight, unloved young woman strikes out on her own, dreaming about having the proverbial big fancy wedding despite the fact she has no boyfriend. From writer-director P.J. Hogan, who's ultimately too fond of nasty put-downs and ugly-acting supporting characters (Muriel's family members are beyond dysfunctional). However, when the writing is focused, the film is rather savvy and has some snap. Toni Collette's lead performance is warmly astute; she helps the narrative over some uncomfortable bumps, and almost makes the end result more than just another pity party. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent movie.","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are disappointed, if your life becomes sad, if you are feel yourself unnecessary in this crazy world, or if you are just  tired a bit from life - this movie can help you to take some rest and makes you more powerful against problems. Try to became your favorite hero in this movie. Try to live with thems, take their problems as yours - and you'll be satisfied. "},{"Title":"You're terrible, Muriel.","Date":"16 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Muriel's Wedding is one of those films for the downtrodden, the rejects, the less than attractive members of the student body, the ones who never amount to anything. It is for the Muriels who would rather be Mariel, pretty and famous and successful. Do we know how much of Muriel's failures are a result of her neglectful and emotionally abusive upbringing at the hands of her prideful father? P.J. Hogan never gives us a straight answer - it isn't nearly as easy or simple in real life. What is rather wonderful is an early Toni Collete's blossoming performance. She is one of those people where you can almost make out the scars of acne (not quite literally), braces and bullying of high school. Before the glamour and acclaim there was this girl, the slightly chubby underachiever who sloppily applies too much red lipstick and has carved out a happy place comprised entirely of ABBA songs. And Collete's performance is so painfully naive and oblivious that even as she gets soullessly married for money and prestige she has a huge grin on her face. It's big enough to ignore her mother. The great thing about Muriel's Wedding is that it takes its story to that expected end - the high powered couple, the glamour wedding, the middle finger to the high school bullies. But it also realises and accepts that this isn't something that Muriel is fit for at all. There is the crazy, pixie-haired punk Rhonda whom has actually broken out of the mould in a much more natural and independent way - she has the intelligence to know that high school doesn't really matter anyway, and that long held grudges and deep-seated desires to one-up those bullies and prove you are better than them are silly in the end. She mouths them off in the reunion, but it's not some defining, cathartic moment it would be for Muriel. It is billed first as an offbeat comedy - and it is funny too, maybe funnier for the non-Australian audiences who will relish the way these characters cruelly and frankly cut straight to the chase, and the heavy, outrageous accents which do not give away a hint of sympathy or false pretense. But it is also dark in some spots, and painfully real. Muriel's father has long aspired to run for government, and bullied his children for never ever reaching his (rather mediocre high) achievements. We see how this has been internalised and normalised; after cruelly announcing his divorce and lamenting his shambles of a family, Betty lets off an agonising STOP DISAPPOINTING YOUR FATHER because she has been trained so diligently to deflect the blame away from her husband. Admittedly it does take a few wrong turns in getting there. The whole Van Arkle Olympics plot is pretty ludicrous and it takes a horrid sex scene for Muriel to actually come to her senses and for him to... fall in love with her? The whole tone of broaching that physical barrier is pretty ridiculous in fact; Muriel doesn't really know how to react when a boy actually shows her attention, so she bursts out in laughter while making out and in a rather crass bit of comedy, shrieks at her first sighting of a penis. But of course this sort of stuff comes with the package. You reap what you sow. And Muriel's Wedding recognises that a big, lavish wedding may indeed not always be the solution or the path to the happy ending. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"5 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you are looking for a fantasy movie then this is it, base mostly in Australia this movie will take you on an adventure. A young lady loving ABBA tries to find her dream wedding, problem is she has never had a date or really good friends.she deals with love, dreams, family, heart break and friends problems a long the way,she moves to the city with her best friend to change her life, when she is in the city she has a job, a home and she finds a guy she likes but that isn't the end of it at all, she will do anything to have a dream wedding. Throughout this movie there will be lots of laughs and some tears. Personally it is one of the best 1994 movie I have seen in a while, grab your best friends this movie some food for a night of laughter. "},{"Title":"Hitting a nerve","Date":"8 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is truly a great Australian film, and still holds up after all these years. The film has always hit a nerve with me in terms of the Heslop's family dynamics (Mum, make Dad a cup of tea!). I can only speak for myself but I grew up in Queensland around the same time (I am aware this was made in New South Wales) and my experience with my family definitely resonates with that of Muriel's with her family. I really thought at the time this came out that this type of family dysfunction was 'an Aussie thing', but I know better than that now that I am older and wiser. I've never thought of this as a comedy although it has some very funny moments. Even now, I have to be in the mood for Muriel's Wedding due to it's brutally harsh treatment of it's characters. The film is vicious and unrelenting and has made me cry more than once. But it's also a cathartic experience, about a person with flaws like all of us, who is trying to find her own identity, and, despite what she has been conditioned to believe, that she is worthy. "},{"Title":"great wacky black comedy","Date":"13 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Muriel Heslop (Toni Collette) is the fat ridiculed girl. She catches the wedding bouquet and all the girls pressure her to give it up. Her family is a bunch of lay-abouts. Her father Bill is a bully and her mother is a pushover. Bill is a corrupt local politician in Porpoise Spit, Australia. Muriel daydreams, lies and steals. Deidre Chambers offers a job and her mother gives her a blank cheque to be paid to Deidre. Instead Muriel uses it for a vacation and finding a husband. She is spotted by Rhonda Epinstalk (Rachel Griffiths) from her childhood. She decides to run away to Syndey where she lives with Rhonda. Bill walks out on the family and is under investigation. Rhonda becomes a paraplegic from a tumor.This is such a quirky funny Australian indie filled with dark wacky characters. It is such an odd unique movie. The humor comes from anger and mostly unlikeable characters. Muriel is not a normal character. She's insanely clingy, secretly bitter and outwardly delusional. The only normal character is Epinstalk and she faces some real darkness. The whole movie has a lot of darkness. There is a good deal of both laughing at Muriel and along with Muriel. There is also something ABBA that fits the craziness. It is both cheesy and upbeat. It keeps the movie from crumbling under the weight of Muriel's behavior and the small mindedness. Things get quite dark but it never succumbs to it. The last half's tone turn dark and ends in a very uplifting feel. "},{"Title":"Best Aussie film!","Date":"10 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen Muriel's Wedding so many times. I know the dialog word for word. It's a great Australian film that really shows Aussie culture and lifestyle. Toni Collette is amazing as Muriel and the ABBA songs fit so well with this film. I think Muriel's Wedding is definitely one of if not the best Aussie movie of all time! My favorite scene is the ABBA karaoke at Hibiscus Island that Muriel and Rhonda perform. Also the scenes where Muriel tries on all the wedding dresses for her imaginary wedding to 'Bill'. If you want a good laugh or good Aussie comedy then i would recommend this film. There are many great Aussie actors including Bill Hunter and Rachel Griffiths. "},{"Title":"A loser finds her way . . .","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the more you recognize Muriel Heslop the more you will identify with her journey. Muriel has insecurities, tries to fit in with the 'in crowd' and lives with her indifferent family in which her father looks down upon her and her lazy siblings and growls 'You are all bloody worthless'.Muriel has dreams but doesn't know how to approach them. She sits in her room in the dreamy swirl of white wedding dreams and the music of ABBA (their songs seem to act as a Greek chorus for Muriel's plight). No one is ever convinced that she will ever get married so it's no surprise that when she catches the bouquet at a wedding the other girls complain 'Just give it back Muriel, you'll never get married'.Stalking a group of snobbish, spoiled, unhappy twentysomethings who don't want her around Muriel is tries to be friends with them. She follows them to an island resort where she meets up with her old friend Rhonda who really DOES like Muriel and in fact tells Muriel's husband hunting 'friends' where they can go.With a new sense of self-esteem Muriel christens herself 'Mariel' and moves to Sydney with Rhonda. Still caught up in the idea that marriage will bring her happiness 'Mariel' decides to marry a South African swimmer so that he can get on the Austrailian Olympic team. Her wedding is a sham and everyone knows it, they all stand around looking disgusted or horrified or both.I can't go any further without spoiling it. At this point several things happen that we have no reason to anticipate. I love it when you are sure the you know exactly where a movie is going and then it turns on you and comes up with new ideas. I love movies that you can't anticipate.Muriel's search for true happiness is not laid out in a series of sitcom plots and lame misunderstandings. We watch a girl who is misguided by how to find true happiness and has to learn some hard lessons. At one point Muriel tells Rhonda 'I use to sit in my room and listen to ABBA songs, now my life is as good as an ABBA song. For Muriel this is a loving compliment. "}{"Title":"I don't think any actor/actress has come as far as Toni Collette...","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I always find it fascinating to see the early performances of well-known actors, like Dustin Hoffman in The Graduate. However I don't think any actor/actress has come as far as Toni Collette has since Muriel's Wedding. It is almost impossible to see the same actor in both this and something recent, like The Way, Way Back, but both performances are demonstrations of how great an actress she is. Collette, playing the title character, leads this movie effortlessly, with a hilarious and heart-breaking performance. It's a film about love, being the odd-one-out, and Australia.The film gives a strange view of Australia, similar to the one Baz Luhrmann presents in Strictly Ballroom, with a lot of wacky characters and odd places. The town which Muriel grew up in and eventually deserts is called Porpoise Spit, and the view of the country is a very unromantic one. It is almost fitting then that the main character is desperately seeking a husband, having been ousted from her group of friends for being a loser. She runs into an old school friend and moves to Sydney with her. Both are looking for love, and Muriel eventually finds it through David Van Arkle, a South African swimmer in need of Australian citizenship to compete in the Olympics. Her love is unrequited, but she doesn't realise this as she is too focused on finally getting married.Apart from Collette, the film is made up of a lot of great characters, each of whom have some form of running joke. The line you're terrible, Muriel, spoken repeatedly by her sister, is always funny, as are the constant 'surprise' appearances by Deidre Chambers, who is having an affair with Muriel's father. Bill Hunter's politician-in-trouble character allows for some fantastic scenes, and as an audience, you really enjoy hating him. There is a lot of visual humour in the film, from Muriel's own appearance, to set pieces like the bean bag scene, which gets more and more absurd as it goes along. The serious side to the film occasionally feels forced, but Collette manages to pull it together with a convincing performance and a look into Muriel's mindThe movie would not be the same without the soundtrack of infectiously energetic ABBA tracks, and their constant appearances are often really funny. (They could have adapted this into a proper musical, and there would have been no need for Mamma Mia to exist). Despite being slow at times, Muriel's Wedding is great fun, and manages to keep you laughing throughout. "},{"Title":"You are the dancing queen, young a sweet, only seventeen","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Living in Porpoise Spit, Australia, Muriel (Toni Collette) is fat, plain, and utterly hopeless, thanks to her father who calls her a 'useless lump.' Her only activities are listening to ABBA music and watching reruns of Princess Diana's wedding. Desperate, she takes a bold step to change her life, moving to the big city to look for love.I love this movie, which is equal parts comedy and tragedy and is definitely a chick-flick. The sparkling Ms Collette is instantly likable and I was rooting for her from the start. (She gained so much weight for the early scenes that she is almost unrecognizable before her swan-like transformation.) Muriel is passionate and sensitive and smart enough to know that a true friend is worth more than a fantasy. The supporting cast is excellent, with Bill Hunter as her horribly abusive father and Jeanie Drynan as her pathetic mother.This touching story of a young woman's search for happiness is full of life and loaded with great ABBA songs. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"It's not a romantic comedy, it inspires people to chase their dreams","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a girl with low self esteem trying to win her happiness back by marrying someone.Muriel's Wedding is not at all the formulaic typical comedy I thought it was. It's not about an innocent girl looking for his prince charming. It's about a domineering father who makes her children feel they are nobodies. It feel very sad for the wife, because she is portrayed to be a disrespected puppet. I thought to myself, she bore you 4 children, could you just respect her for just a little? It's only natural that Muriel needs to escape from her life. She dreams about a wedding, which will transform her into a new different person. She moves to Sydney, and the story goes unexpectedly from there. The plot is refreshing and different.I feel very much for Muriel's ego-crushing experiences. I admire her strength to stand up for herself and her determination to start over. She does not give up, and lives positively. The moment she stands up against her father feels liberating.Muriel's Wedding is not a romantic comedy. It is a celebration of one's own will and independence. It inspires others to chase their dreams. "},{"Title":"Magic in Ozzyland","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   You don't have to be crazy about Australians, or live there to love this show, (though I'd love to). Muriels wedding is magic from the get go. There's something about it that makes me watch it again and again. Toni Collete is perfect, and Rachel Griffiths is more explosive than a 6 pack of shook up soda's. The acting never seems like acting, and the characters are a kick. It may seem a simple premise, but it's allot more than that.fiannor "},{"Title":"Toni Collette first starring role.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Toni Collette plays Muriel/Mariel who is a fat girl hopeful meeting a man to marry and listen to Abba on tape player. She encounter an old classmate lead her move to Sydney with the classmate, change her outlook on life and marry an athlete from South Africa for convenience. Muriel's Wedding is a nice movie to watch about hoping to find the answers, but you must find them for yourself to be happy.  "},{"Title":"I saw this movie and I hated for it to end. I hope there is a sequel","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked the movie. I hope they make a sequel. Maybe in this one the character VanArkle realizes he loves Muriel and wants her back. I would love to see a happy ending. Toni Collette was the only actress that couldve ever played Muriel. Shes great. "},{"Title":"Toni Collette and Rachel Griffiths were superb","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A heartfelt story about a young woman who mistakenly feels that marriage will make her a success. Her journey to the alter and to her final awakening is heartbreaking and funny. Toni Collette is probably one of the best actresses on screen today.  "},{"Title":"You're (not) terrible, Muriel!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Outrageously funny and immensely entertaining, 'Muriel's Wedding' is one of the best films to come out of Australia! Romantic... comedic... pathetic... wicked!'Muriel's Wedding' is all about pathetic loser-in-life Muriel Heslop (who loves everything about weddings, and the band ABBA, and can be seen listening to their tunes on a little pink radio). Her friends hate her, she doesn't ever have a boyfriend, her family is screwed up - and they hate Muriel, too!So, she heads over to the bright lights of Sydney (after living her life in the small town of Porpoise Spit) where, her and her best friend Rhonda, share an apartment. Re-naming herself Mariel, she vows to take on life differently. And what follows is nothing short of laugh-out-loud hilarious!!!Toni Collette ('The Sixth Sense', 'Clockwatchers') is absolutely fantastic as loser Muriel/Mariel, and this is a wonderful story that's well-scripted, well-acted and well-presented. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Who of us hasn't wanted more?","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was not what I expected, but it was still very enjoyable.  It had plenty of funny moments (Muriel walking down the aisle to an ABBA song was priceless) but also several poignant scenes and characters that really made you think about the human condition.  I could've done without some of the graphic language and sex scenes, but overall it was very good.  Every character was working through their own set of problems and it made you see the many ways people handle trials in their lives--some are in total denial, some blame others, some live in a fantasy world and some face their problems head-on.  Definitely a multi-dimensional movie that will have a lasting impression on most any viewer. "},{"Title":"More dramatic than it was billed... very refreshing","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The world needs more movies like this; with genuine pathos and pain combined with touching moments of clarity, and very real characters( I have a friend like Rhonda, and she saved my life from becoming too much to take she gave me normalcy when I felt odd.) Watch this movie with someone who has taken you for granted, and watch things turn around. "}{"Title":"A truly great movie!!","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is a truly marvelous picture. There are some great comic moments; Waterloo with the girls fighting in the background, Trying on the wedding dresses... everything in this movie is great. Toni Collette is a truly gifted actress, and you love to see her transform from the frumpy, useless Muriel to something better. Throw in a dedicated cast and a hilarious script, not to mention a fantastic soundtrack by 70's band ABBA, and you have a winning combination. If you are ever feeling down about yourself, rent Muriel's Wedding, it will cheer you right up. A must for any ABBA fans. All in all, this is a great feel-good movie. "},{"Title":"Muriel finally wised up","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a nice movie for an afternoon-- Muriel was funny and easy to like- and her predicament very common among women-- but the father was a real pain... liked the music- disliked some of the stereotypes--  but okay as films go "},{"Title":"ABBA fan obsesses with getting married.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A delightful, entertaining and enjoyable Australian film.  Muriel (or Mariel) 'borrows' some money from her father and leaves her dysfunctional family for Sydney with an old school friend.  Muriel answers an ad to wed a South African so he can stay in the country.  Laughable moments change into dramatic moments with her friends health problems and her mother's depression.  Great music and supporting cast. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good drama comedy about an overweight girl who desperately wants to get married. And when she finds a way to do it, far different then usual she goes for it. Toni Collette is excellent as is Rachel Griffiths who plays her best friend. Some scenes make you laugh out loud especially the parts where Rachel tells the bitch clique off. Recommended "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie!!!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Muriel's Wedding is by far, the greatest chick flick ever! I rented this gem on a whim when I couldn't find anything else that looked interesting. Boy was I surprised! My sister and I rented it so many times that we finally bought it. I make sure all of my friends have watched it and every time they tell me how much they loved it. While it could be called a chick flick, it really could just be for anyone who has ever felt down and out. The acting is excellent, very genuine and real. The story is inspiring and there is a particularly hilarious scene where Karma is definitely payed back! All in all, this film is one of the best you will ever find. It has it all- tears, laughter, and a fabulous ABBA soundtrack!!! "},{"Title":"Uproarious character-based comedy with a dark hinterland","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film with great reluctance, but I was pleasantly surprised, not only by its uproarious comedy but also by its willingness to explore the dark emotional and cultural hinterlands of its complex characters, a double coup that few film comedies attempt, let alone master.Muriel is a girl lost in a dysfunctional family, misled by her domineering, adulterous father, who not only neglects the emotional welfare of his family, but is also a monomaniac sucking the life out of Muriel, her submissive, put-upon mother and suppressed siblings. Adding to the misery of her uninspiring background is the philistinism and aggression of her small-town 'Aussie' society, from which she retreats into a world of ABBA-supported fantasy.She escapes from this sorry situation by fraudulently using her father's credit card. She becomes like a bird, set free, with the encouragement of her worldly friend, small-town-girl-made-good, Brenda.But it's not all plain sailing. Muriel changes her name and sets out to make the most of her new, fantastic life, but she and Brenda find themselves in crisis, a crisis that can only be solved by confronting the ghosts that lurk back at home.All this sounds hard going because director PJ Hogan and his main actors, the outstanding Toni Collette and Brenda Griffiths, are committed to pursuing their characters emotional truths. However, while achieving more artistically than most high-minded dramas, Muriel's Wedding also succeeds as a highly enjoyable comedy, because the former and latter go hand-in-hand. "},{"Title":"A classic with a moral","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is classic story most people can identify with. The characters, while simplistic, are ones we all can relate to. Murial, who just wants to be loved. Rhonda, who needs a friend, and mother Beth who is under appreciated and abused. The kids who are beaten down by an egotistical and belittling father. And, of course, the superficial friends. This movie is both hilarious and sad while using the period music of Abba to drive home the morality of being true to oneself and, indeed traces the path and the journey of finding oneself in a challenging and difficult world of love and friendship coupled with a suppressing family environment. "},{"Title":"What we are searching for can be missed in the searching.","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful independent film with big picture talent and emotion. The cast is deep in convincing performances. The location is beautiful and the sound track is ABBAsolutly wonderful. Great film to watch alone late at night. The supporting actress has moved on to many successful roles, including a major role, done extremely well, on HBO. Recommended for guys who are not sensitive to women. This film will help in their education. I have seen the film several times, and in another year, if I catch it on cable, I would enjoy renewing myself to the people in the film. This is not a polished production, but there isn't anything bad enough to distract you from getting into the lives of the people in this story. "},{"Title":"...To help us view the errors of our ways","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Haven't we all known the one person, who can show us the error of our ways. Did not someone EVER exist in the lives of the normal person, who needed inspiration? In MURIELS WEDDING the answers are all yes. I was , myself, in an hour of need, shall we say, when I first saw this, years ago! It is the perfect inspiration flick. Toni Collette is well cast misfit, holding on to her dreams with the grace of all those terrific ABBA songs! Along comes Griffiths one weekend, and the two are off together, as friendships tend to go. The two come accross many problems later on as the outgoing Griffiths is hospitalized, and will never walk again!, then Muriel must change. Hogan directs this one with almost too much style, but the film only takes itself seriously when needed. The movie made me realize what I could have been doing wrong, and thats a cool thing when movies do that. It gets one thinking. Toni Collette is absolutely devine in the title role, but Racheal Griffiths heats things up as soon as she comes on screen. Filled with the best of ABBA and great acting, plus the script, the message does not fail to be shown through by the end. A delight for all to see, much love and inspiration with this one! "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's been very interesting reading the comments of other people from throughout the world on this movie.  It's hard to know if the humour will translate across the globe, because even within the English-speaking world there are huge cultural differences.  To an Australian (i.e. myself), this movie is wonderful.The thing about Muriel's Wedding is that it's absolutely spot-on in its portrayal of so many features of Australian life.  You have the corrupt local councillor taking kickbacks from developers, the lonely guy working in the video shop, the vicious gang of clubbing young women making hell for anyone who doesn't fit in, the wannabe's losing their dignity trying _to_ fit in, etc. etc. etc.  If you want to know what life is truly like living in coastal Australian towns, this is it.  (Not that this is a bad thing, necessarily, it's just that this is how it is.)What makes this movie great, apart from its accuracy of portrayal, is that fact that it is so multi-layered.  There are moments of supreme hilarity, pathos, triumph and sadness, and they work so well within the total package. As another reviewer pointed out, the moment when you see Mrs. Heslop at the church is truly heart-wrenching.Highly recommended - one of the best Australian movies ever. "}{"Title":"Winner","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the other comments, I can only assume those of a negative nature come from people who don't watch a lot of films or who prefer the Terminator genre. Someone called this a 'chic flick'. I've never understood what that meant...really. A movie or film is either good, you like it...or, it isn't and you don't. I find that men in this country tend to use that term more than in other countries. This is a film about feelings we've all had (maybe that's why some people can't handle it) and had to deal with anyway we can. Toni Collette, Bill Hunter, Rachel Griffiths, the entire cast are so 'dead on' with these characters...whether we like it or not. Toni, especially, is an incredible actress who lets every emotion wash across her beautiful (yes, beautiful) face, and pulls us into her world. I'm a huge fan of Australian Films and this is one of my favorites along with all of Peter Weir's. You guys should stick the macho junk in the closet for two hours and watch this with your wife, girlfriend, lover, whomever. It might scare you, however, to find you identify with a lot of the feelings. These feelings aren't just female...they're human. "},{"Title":"Laugh, cry, think and feel inspired","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie makes my (ever-evolving) personal top 10 list--not because it will change the world, but because it is just so thoroughly enjoyable.  You will laugh, cry, think, and even feel inspired.  It is a version of an ugly ducking story about a young lady (Muriel) in Australia who lacks self confidence, has hardly any friends, and suffers from a hapless & quirky family life.  She spends her time listening to ABBA (yes, ABBA) tunes and fantasizing about getting married, which she believes will turn her life around and end all of her woes.  She then embarks on a journey of self-discovery that results in an affirming lesson--that the real meaning in life is often found in the most unlikely of places.  Toni Collette is priceless as Muriel.  I truly respect actors who take chances with their performances.  Toni did.  Rachel Griffiths as Muriel's best friend and the rest of the cast are wonderful as well.  This is another one of my rainy day favorites--the perfect movie to watch to help you feel more inspired.  Good music too. "},{"Title":"Simple, but unique","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is certainly one of the best movies I've ever seen. It made me laugh and cry at the same time in a very special way. It's a movie about how hard life can be when you're not prepared but easy if you know how to deal with tough situations. And if you like ABBA I'm sure you'll love it!  "},{"Title":"Mirimax misadvertises again!!! (spoilers)","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Mirimax, for all the good movies they have distributed, are the king of misleading trailers and false advertising. Muriel's Wedding was so depressing instead of the light-hearted romantic comedy I had expected.Make no mistake, Muriel's Wedding has some very strong points. Toni Collette, of course, is terrific, and so is Rachel Griffiths, who is wonderful as the quirky and brave Rhonda. I just wish she'd married someone that loved her, even though he did start to come around by the end. I can see where they were going though...Muriel and Rhonda were strong enough to be their own people without men.The plot that I found utterly depressing was that of Muriel's doormat mother and cheating father. I really wish the mother would have given the father all she had, like a good verbal knockout. But she didn't, too bad.Muriel's Wedding is not a laugh fest, but there are quite a few humorous moments. Toni Collette, Rachel Griffiths and the ABBA soundtrack are worth renting the movie for! "},{"Title":"Gee, guys, it's not Adam Sandler . . .","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  But that's why I love it.  It's sad to me that this movie is so underappreciated; however, I guess at the same time I am glad it's not a mainstream movie.  It's appeal is limited to those who enjoy cleverness over gross-out humor, intelligent dialogue over bad language and bad one-liners, and in general, people who love brilliant cinema rather than Hollywood fluff.  If you haven't seen it, don't expect Something About Mary or the likes.  It is a WONDERFUL, truly brilliant movie that is as sad as it is clever.  A DEFINITE 10 of 10!! "},{"Title":"A great remedy for those lonesome days.","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is another delightful comedy to see from down under.  If you're ever blue then this movie is a good remedy for it. The real beauty of the film is not the fact that she(Muriel) wants to be a success ,but how she is able to realize what a great person she really is as she continues her quest.  The soundtrack really enriches this movie, even if you're not a big ABBA fan, you'll enjoy it's charms. "},{"Title":"Fantastic, funny, feel good film.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first watched this movie, I loved it...Having watched it countless times since, that hasn't changed.  The heartwarming story of this modern day 'Ugly Ducking' tale has yet to lose its charm with me.My only complaint or gripe?  That after all the c**p that Muriel (that's MARIEL!!) takes, you wish she would give back as good as she gets come the end.  She doesn't quite kick a** like you may like, but then, I guess that would be out of character for her.Eitherway, if you like movies that can make you laugh, make you cry, and make you think, before making you laugh all over again, this is the one for you.Fantastic. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Excellent movie for a day when your self esteem is in the dumps, it always lifts me up whenever I need it.  Highly recommended!!  Also refer to Strictly Ballroom, it is a great companion to this movie.  "},{"Title":"A Fun Story with a Deeper Meaning and Great Music, ala ABBA.","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Toni Collette and Rachael Griffiths are wonderful (if I spelled their names right) and I am glad that their careers have come along so well! Movie is about several issues but mostly about self respect and acceptance. For those of us who were not the QB on the football teem in HS or the prom queen, you'll get is in a heart beat. The man who platys her dad, who I have seen over and over again (Priscilla, Queen of the Desert), is a marvelous pariah and A**hole in this film. The mom we pity and the kids we feel a contempt and pity, for. Her friends are yutz'a and just the girls we all knew and pretended that we liked in HS! Just an all around good film with great music, especially if you were a kid in the 70's and 80's with ABBA in the menu! Definitely give it a chance! Remember when the film is do to LIVE LIVE LIVE! Sorry for rotten typing. "},{"Title":"Who Wouldn't Do Anything To Get Out Of Porpoise Spit?","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Thank God Australians can make movies without Hollywood calling the shots, otherwise we would never be blessed with such real and moving films that pounce out on us like stalking prey from the big down under. I love Australian movies and this is one of the best! Nothing wimpy about this magnificent coming of age movie that also happens to be an anti-Cinderella story. It's  one of our favorite `mommie-and-me' movies...movies my teen daughter and I delight in watching together. There is something so magical about `Muriel's Wedding.' We have watched it many times and still love it.It difficult to express exactly what's so special about this story...it's not just terrific acting by Toni Collette, Rachel Griffiths, and Jeanie Drynan. These are award worthy performances by women who make you think their characters are so real they could be someone you actually know...maybe even yourself!  It's not just because it's soulful and laugh out loud funny at the same time. Nor is it the brilliant  throw back to ABBA music that help to make the lonely life of a girl who grows up in a dysfunctional family in coastal Australia even more poignant as she takes refuge in the romantic lyrics. It's also a gripping slap in the face to back stabbing teenage girls and a wildly right on jolting look at evil in corrupt local politics. This movie is not feel good plastic Hollywood  fare but hard fought self examination and the young Muriel ends up believing in herself and we cheer for her all the way! Perhaps, the reason I like it so much is that  her self appreciation is not dependent upon friends, family, or a husband...it's purely Murial taking charge of her own life. "}{"Title":"This movie will make you both laugh & cry!!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you've ever been unhappy with your life & you long for something more then this movie is for you.  Muriel's Wedding is the story of an lonely, overweight, unhappy girl & her quest for a 'real life' & a marriage. EXCELLENT movie!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"It has it all laughs, tears, a great story, and the perfect end.","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is the wonderful story of a depressed young woman who transforms into a beautiful, independent woman through her various misadventures.  We feel for her throughout the film, but only those who connect with her will truly appreciate the end of this film.  Many of us would have made a different choice, but Muriel is Muriel and we have to appreciate her for who she is! "},{"Title":"Some highlight offset by a dull central character","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Uneven comedy-drama from writer-director P.J. Hogan offers some proof of Hogan's emerging talent, but never really reaches its potential due to the flat central character. Toni Collette plays Muriel, a bored dishrag from Porpoise Spit, Australia. She aimlessly spends her time listening to ABBA music and fantasizing about a wedding day that may never be, while enduring the company of her undisciplined siblings and a gaggle of catty female friends who keep her around as a verbal punching bag. Her father is an obnoxious philandering local politician who takes his family for granted and her mother is a zoned out manic depressive, who only barely seems to realize that the glamour puss cosmetic saleswoman that keeps crashing family night is her husband's mistress. After Muriel steals money from her parents to go on a vacation, she hooks up with a free-spirited old acquaintance and embarks on a journey of discovery that changes her life and might bring her the wedding day she longs for. Marketed as a comedy, the film has some funny moments, but a lot of what goes on is surprisingly somber. Many of the people that inhabit the landscape of Muriel's life are either mean-spirited and nasty or colorless victims worn down by the ordeals. The film perks up substantially with the arrival of Rachel Griffiths as the free-spirited friend, but then her character is somewhat sidelined by being stricken as a paraplegic. Director Hogan keeps things moving along and gets lots of mileage out of the ABBA soundtrack, but his shifts between drama and comedy are clumsy. Worse, the film can do nothing about the fact that its central character of Muriel is just not that interesting or worthwhile an individual. We initially have empathy for Muriel in the opening moments having to cope with her monstrous family and frenemies. Unfortunately, she spends the majority of the film floating from one misadventure to another without really gleaning much in the way of knowledge or wisdom. Following the crippling of her friend, Muriel moves on with barely a look back, leaving behind both the woman who enabled her to strike out on a new life and a nice guy who genuinely loves her. She changes her name to Mariel and finds herself the recipient of a deal to marry a hunky Olympic diver Daniel Lapaine, who needs to solidify his Australian citizenship, and gets her wedding day. Collette is normally a fine actress, but she does very little with Muriel here. She spends much of the film blank of face, as though shell-shocked at life. She does better with some of the comical moments &#x96; the scene where she bursts into joyous laughter when she gets her first glimpse of her fiancé of convenience emerging from the pool in a tiny Speedo is funny both because of her uncharacteristic reaction and Lapaine's look of terror when he realizes this is his future wife. Unfortunately, Muriel never seems to become very decisive and even the film's closing moments have her seem like a drifter. We are apparently supposed to be content that Muriel has grown as a person because she changes her name back to Muriel, tells her dad to be a better father to her siblings after her mother's suicide and returns to help Griffiths. While the latter particularly shows some promise, one cannot overlook how Muriel has treated Lapaine in this process. When Muriel's mother dies, Lapaine reveals himself to be a genuinely nice guy and stands by her in her hour of need and even starts a physical relationship with her. But when Muriel decides that she needs to change her life again, she reneges on their business deal, keeps the money and cavalierly leaves him much as she did her supporters earlier in the film. She never does re-establish contact with the other guy whose heart she broke and who keeps lingering around the edges of the film, and one cannot help but think that in another month she will decide to change her life again and abandon Griffiths for a second time. The film launched the international career of Colette and has a staunch following, but while there are highlights, some directorial promise from Hogan and some good supporting acting, the average viewer may wisely wonder why Muriel is worth much consideration. "},{"Title":"Another Great Australian Film!","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Oh, what more can I say about this gem of a movie? Another movie that I just love and watch over and over with many laughs and cries. Muriel's Wedding is so funny, yet poignant and true to life. Toni Collette was excellent in this film (and this was the first of many great film performances I have seen her in). I can so identify with Muriel and Mariel. Well... my family was not dysfunctional like that at all, but rather her self-image and fantasy life, the mean and shallow clique at school, the love of ABBA music (!), and I even had a friend like the Rachel Griffiths character. Overall a delightful and refreshingly different movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Murel's Wedding'","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is another kind of strange Australian movie out about this time, like Strictly Ballroom, with good color, colorful characters and a different type of story. I believe women would like this story more than men, but it has an odd fascination to it that should attract anyone.The major negative to the story, for me, was that the characters were not very appealing. The lead character in this Cinderella story is a big liar and has a stupid, immature laugh that gets grating. Her best friend turns foul-mouthed and bitter.The movie has a good mix of comedy and drama and there are some very strong moments in here, so very dramatic ones. The soundtrack is comprised of old ABBA songs, and they sound pretty good. This is a story that makes you reflect on it. If they had nicer characters, I would have bought the VHS. "},{"Title":"Wow, Toni Collete is amazing in this movie!","Date":"30 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this movie so much! The acting is superb. Toni Collete really embodies Muriel in this movie.I'm bedazzled that she didn't get nominated for an Oscar. This movie is just amazing! I highly recommend you watch this movie. Trust me, you'll love it. You'll laugh,you'll cry. I also love Muriel's mother Betty, she is played by Jeanie Drynan. Her performance was Spectacular.Rachel Griffiths also played very well as confident Rhonda. Bill Hunter plays very well as a bully in this movie. If some of you out there easily cry in a movie. I guarantee if you watch this movie, you'll cry. This movie is a roller coaster experience. You laugh then you cry.Overall I loved this movie. Very Enjoyable 10/10. "},{"Title":"Best summary of female relationships EVER","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This should and will be a classic. It is seriously one of the most hilarious movies ever made, and yet every woman can recognize the deep and painful revelations Muriel has about herself and her treatment of the women in her life (her mother in particular). And yet, she emerges victorious and full of life. I rarely watch any movie more than once, and yet I see something new every time I watch this. Whenever I need to be cheered up, I watch the scene of Toni Colette and Rachel Griffiths lip-syncing to Waterloo.... you need to watch the whole movie to understand its meaning, but it's a riot even if you don't. It also has one of the best lines ever You can't talk to me that way! I'm MARRIED! I'M BEAUTIFUL! "},{"Title":"Reflects everything that's Aussie","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderfully Australian from start to finish is P.J. Hogan's Muriel's Wedding. Muriel Heslop is a frumpy, be-freckled young girl with no true friends and no job prospects. Cursed too with a dead-beat family and a politician father who tells everybody she's useless, life doesn't hold much hope for Muriel, until she steals $10 000 from her parents, and takes off.Toni Collette escorts us delightfully through the excitement and the heartbreak of Muriel's misadventures in life from her meeting with Rhonda (a strong performance from Rachel Griffiths) to her big day. In fine support are Sophie Lee, most effective as bitchy school friend Tania, Jeanie Drynan, spot on as Muriel's dotty, non-plused mother, Gennie Nevison, Matt Day, Daniel LaPaine, Chris Haywood and a marvellous Bill Hunter, whose Bill the Battler is both politically hard nosed and brilliantly ocker. His response to his daughter's offer of a beer is a great example  That'd be lovely Joanie. Be with ya in a sec. Director P.J. Hogan handles his very humorous script most assuredly, and he mixes in the drama with surprising effect. On the soundtrack side there is some great music from the 70's super group ABBA, whose recent revival is at a definite crescendo (they never went out of style if you ask me). In fact Muriel's obsession with ABBA is almost as strong as her fixation with marriage.Even though some harsh language and adult themes make Muriel's Wedding a show that shouldn't be recommended for children, it does come recommended for all other Australian audiences who appreciate home grown cinema which reflects everything that's Aussie through and through.Tuesday, November 1, 1994 - Balwyn Cinema "},{"Title":"Muriel's Wedding － interesting film","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This little comedy is starred by then unknown actress Toni Collette, it's a brave and interesting character, so is Toni, She gained quite a lot weights for this role, She's really great as this fat, naive girl who is also virtuous and strong.In this film, it's like a Cinderella story, but in the end Cinderella does not become a princess, she's still a poor Cinderella, but she has eventually known the right path to choose for her own life. Not everyone can be beautiful swan, even if you are an ugly duck, you can still enjoy your life as a duck. That's the right attitude to life.The story is quite funny and sad too, Toni Collette again really is worth praising for her performance, you can taste her bitterness, happiness and facetiosity vividly, and Rachel Griffiths also gives a very powerful performance as Toni's best friends! And I feel really sorry for her mother's suicide, this poor woman is betrayed by her husband, ignored by her daughter, disrespected by her son one after another, at last she chose to kill herself, not wise but still shocking, I didn't expect this happening! We always tend to hurt the closest people usually our families to release ourselves, but sometimes we just need to think it over, although families usually are united firmly, but it doesn't mean then we can try to challenge this unity. So no matter what happened, never take out your anger upon your families.Also don't forget ABBA's songs, I love them very much, it's the most interesting part when Toni & Rachel sing Dancing Queen in this film! "},{"Title":"There is more here than meets the eye","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The plot of the movie, while light, is sharp. Sometimes we try to be who we are not and in the process, we make ourselves miserable. The sub-plot with Muriel's mother and her mother's relationship with her family was excellent.  The writer and director both have you caring about this woman; genuinely sorry for what she is caught up in.Bill Hunter follows up a great performance in Priscilla, Queen of the Desert with this gem as the uncaring, absent and adulterous father.And enough can't be said about the performances of Collette and Griffiths. There is something in both of the characters they play that we can all relate with (akwardness, outside).And who doesn't like ABBA????!?!8 stars out of 10. "}{"Title":"A Great Movie!!!","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life in Porpoise Spit is difficult for Muriel Heslop (Toni Collette).  Her father Bill Heslop (Bill Hunter) is making it increasingly difficult for everyone without even realising it and all Muriel wants is a bit of normality, a nice family, some real friends and a dream wedding.  Sat up in her room day by day, listening to Abba music, she gets more and more fed up and decides to take off to Sydney to find her dream.  Things don't turn out exactly the way she planned and she is soon faced with the reality that is life.Muriel's Wedding is described as a comedy but I found it more like a drama with a few comical bits in it.  The film itself has got quite a simple plot to it really.  It's just about a girl who's been driven mad by her family and has decided to run off to Sydney to find her dream man and have a marvellous wedding that will be remembered by everyone around her for the rest of her life. If she could do this it would be a real dream come true&#133;But at what expense?Muriel's life is pretty unfortunate.  She is pretty much an outcast back at home and her so called friends don't want to know her because they say she embarrasses them all the time.  She finally meets her one true friend, an old school buddy called Rhonda (Rachel Griffiths) and the two of them get through life as best they can..It's not a very funny situation that Muriel is in and the things that happen in this movie aren't exactly funny either. But it is what is known as Black Comedy and if it's not taken the wrong way, it can be quite entertaining. I find it very hard to write a review of the characters in this movie without sounding insensitive or insulting to the kind of people these actors and actresses portray.  The truth is each person has a problem, whether it is mental or physical.  It is very difficult to play a character that is mentally challenged or disabled and the people in this movie have done a wonderful job.  The character that probably stands out the most is Rhonda who is played by Rachel Griffiths and she is fantastic in her role.  Understanding the mental and physical problems of somebody in her character's position is not something that can be done easily but Rachel has managed to portray a very convincing and sincere character. She deserved her AFI award in every way for this role.Toni Collette is amazing as Muriel.  It takes a great actor / actress to pull off this kind of role and reduce themselves to such a low, unappealing outcast. I think she did a marvellous job and was yet another actress from this movie to rightfully earn an AFI award. Jeanie Drynan is good as Muriel's mother Betty and the supporting cast are also very good.We've had some pretty bad movies in the past about people getting married.  I mean let's face it; it's not exactly the most extraordinary event of the century. People do it every day.  But this team of people have managed to take this every day situation and turn it into a lovely story with lots of ups and downs.Overall, this movie is quite funny, quite sensitive and very entertaining.  The soundtrack, full of Abba classics, is very good and will have you walking away humming the likes of `Dancing Queen' and `Fernando' to yourself for ages.  I think the awards really speak for themselves where this movie is concerned. It is truly one of the greatest movies of it's time. "},{"Title":"Favorite foreign film","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Toni Collette is so incredibly talented that it's beyond words. This movie is incredible! Her Abba obsession is hilarious! There is backbone to this story, a woman who is overweight and in love with love. I can't believe how true it rings for so many. And I can't believe how funny they make it seem. ) I laughed till I practically cried (especially the Waterloo song and dance and the first date scenes). If you like comedy at all, rent it! GREAT JOB TONI! "},{"Title":"Another wonderful Australian film","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Don't watch this film if your mind has been reduced to thinking Die Another Day is a great work of art. This is a film...not a movie. It's performances are multi-layered and it's story very easy to relate to if you're willing to admit the fact you've experienced feeling like these characters. Toni Collette is just amazing. "},{"Title":"Huge part of the renaissance of Australian cinema","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This little Aussie gem from P.J. Hogan was a box-office smash here in Oz, and with good reason.Muriel's Wedding is extremely funny, sad, thought provoking, yet always enjoyable. The tale of Muriel, a dowdy teen from the 'burbs wanting to make good in her life is an uplifting tale that makes for a worthy inclusion in the top comedies of world cinema in the years to come. "},{"Title":"Huge part of the renaissance of Australian cinema","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This little Aussie gem from P.J. Hogan was a box-office smash here in Oz, and with good reason.Muriel's Wedding is extremely funny, sad, thought provoking, yet always enjoyable. The tale of Muriel, a dowdy teen from the 'burbs wanting to make good in her life is an uplifting tale that makes for a worthy inclusion in the top comedies of world cinema in the years to come. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perfect movie. Impressing role of Toni Collette. It seems to me, that she did not act Muriel, but that she WAS Muriel. The nice mix of true emotions and humor did me enjoy this movie, and I am sure I want to see this movie more than once.  "},{"Title":"The Aussie's Have It","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was (and still is) a great movie.  By American standards, it's a bit quirky, but that only makes the comedy that much more fulfilling.  Toni Collette does a fantastic job as the confused and directionless Muriel/Mariel.  My only complaint was that Brice was out of the picture too fast.  For pure comedy, advance to the sex scene between these two characters - could it get any better? "},{"Title":"An if-you-only-see-one-Australian-film film","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  P.J. Hogan has said that he made his main protagonist a woman simply to disguise the fact that her story was based on his own.  Does this mean that he -I don't want to know.Hogan's simple trick was an inspired one, for it makes Muriel accessible and human while showing us her life entirely from the outside - what we see is NOT some self-obsessed teenager's diary.  This is more remarkable when we consider that Muriel is, objectively speaking, a deeply unattractive person.  Hogan even has to remind us of this every so often, since it's impossible not to like her - even before she reveals herself to be physically very beautiful.  And, of course, Muriel ends up learning from some of her mistakes.  As the film ends she's much the same doofus she's always been, but it's obvious that she's changed just enough for her life to be on a steady course.  I must class myself among her admirers.  She's one of the most intriguing and lovable characters I've ever encountered in a cinema.Apart from Muriel the characters are cartoons, but they're only JUST cartoons - and moreover, like Hogarth's drawings, they're serious cartoons.  I defy anyone to put a finger on any one detail and call it inaccurate.  (Porpoise Spit, for instance, although probably meant to be in New South Wales, is the scarcely at all exaggerated image of a hideous, corrupt, Queensland coastal shire.  The very name is just right.  It sounds like the kind of name a Queensland tourist trap might have, but examine the words closely and one gets the image of a dolphin being roasted over a fire.)Like most people under the age of thirty I have no exposure to any Australian film made before the date of my birth, so if I were to say that `Muriel's Wedding' represents Australian cinema's finest hour, my claim would ring hollow.  But it's not a ridiculous claim.  I was surprised at how well the film held up, revisited a few years later after all the fuss had died down.  It has already acquired indefinable magic halo, and it's becoming apparent that no-one at the time of its release - not critics, not audiences, and least of all the people who created it - realised just how good it was. "},{"Title":"I Wanted to Shoot Myself","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A very good film but incredibly depressing...I was expecting something light and kitschy but this is a very dark film, about loss, disappointment, broken dreams. Ultimately, it's also a film about redemption and love but it's a long, tough slough through some heavy emotions. Recommended but possibly a bit heavier than one might initially think. "},{"Title":"Don't let the high school Dancing Queens rain on your parade!","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel suffers from a number of problems she's not attractive (ok she's fat), she's depressed (yeah, so?), and she competes with Four Weddings & A Funeral.Except that Muriel's Wedding is all about love, hope, dreams coming true without the plastic hype from Hollywood.  With a decidedly Oz Abba tie-in (you didn't know Australia made Abba the worldwide group did you?), love gained and lost, and found again, with a Down Under poke (more of a jab!), be prepared to laugh.  Cry I didn't but that's not what this film is about. Toni Collete scores again and as her later films show, quality never goes out of style.  Toss the jerk Muriel; I'll take you!!  "}{"Title":"Excellent movie!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding has to be one of the best films I have ever seen.  I have felt like Muriel my whole life and it made me feel so much better to see someone who can get out of that rut.  It helps that the movie combines comedy and drama in an even balance to have you laughing and crying in the same scene.  If anything, you have to see this movie for the zipper scene. ) "},{"Title":"A Movie For The Underdog","Date":"28 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie for anyone who was ever picked last for sports, ostracized for wearing strange clothes, picked on for being homosexual, discriminated against because of color, etc.  Muriel represents the underdog...and you can't help feeling a bond to her because there is a bit of everyone in her. Check this movie out! "},{"Title":"One of, if not the best, Australian films","Date":"29 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Toni Collette gives a grandeur performance of Muriel Heslop, the fat girl from Porpise Spit who is seen by everyone around here as a loser. Our sympathies lie completely with her no matter how ridiculous the situations were PJ Hogan (writer/director) put her in. She doesn't rely on stereotypes and for that matter neither does the rest of the cast. Highlights including this year's oscar nominee for 'Hilary and Jackie' Rachael Griffiths as her best friend and Bill Hunter who plays her dad. This comic drama is the pinnacle of original Australian cinema it's Australian without denying that it is or by relying on Aussie stereotypes too much.  "},{"Title":"Terrific film....Great soundtrack!","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel, an overweight outcast, longs to fit it and dreams of marriage as the only answer.  Muriel is somewhat pitiful at the beginning but her experiences in the film cause her to grow emotionally and re-evaluate what in life is truly important.  At times hilarious.  Other times heartbreaking. This film is a gem that is made even better with the addition of some great ABBA songs. Highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"My favourite film","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A truly inspiring and educational film. I think everyone could identify with the girl that has been constantly left out from the group and the girl who think she is useless.I sympathise with Muriel completely as I believe there are many Muriels in the world.This film underlines many issues especially the issue of bullying and how damaging it can be to someone BUT everyone can be somebody and make a go of their life.Muriel Heslop is an inspiration to all escaping her old life and starting afresh again. "},{"Title":"Intelligent comedy from Oz","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a quirky comedy from Austrailian director/writer PJ Hogan that makes for a pretty good movie. Muriel comes from a dysfunctional family and tries to fit in with a group of friends who really aren't her friends. Overweight, plain and dowdy and seemingly simplistic she doesn't seem to fit in anywhere so she spends a lot of time in her room fantasizing about getting married and listening to her favorite group ABBA surrounded by pictures of brides and pictures of ABBA. Problem is she doesn't even have a boyfriend let alone a fiancé so her wedding day seems nowhere in sight and her favorite band is long broken up and their music hopelessly dated so she seems forever stuck alone in this escapism world she has created for herself. She gains a friend and ally in Rhonda and things began to change. Toni Collette gives a Golden Globe nominated performance as Muriel in her third film and second leading role and Rachell Griffiths is great as Rhonda in her film debut. Among the all-Austrialian cast are Bill Hunter, Jeanie Drynan and Chris Haywood. The release of the greatest hits album ABBA Gold in 1992 sold a lot of copies as people scooped them up and listened in guilty pleasure to the defunct 70's Swedish pop group which set the stage for an ABBA revival of interest in their music and this film solidified and helped launch that revival and the renewed interest in ABBA hasn't waned since. This is an intelligent comedy and one of those small but odd and quirky films that you end up liking. I would give it an 8.0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"On My Short List of All-Time Classics","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A great movie, so good that I was shocked to actually find even a few negative comments. Apparently there is a small segment of the population that watches movies, has no sense of humor, and are clueless about the concept of a theme. Or maybe they just missed all the great details, little things like Rhonda calling Tania's husband Turkey instead of Chook (Aussie slang for chicken). Muriel's little sister Penelope constantly scratching herself in the background and the Japanese interpreter choking when Diedre speculates that their wives must be geisha's. Like its obvious predecessor Georgy Girl (1966), the film is nicely bookended. Early on a there is a tight shot of Muriel in her room after being brought home by the police for shoplifting. The walls are covered with Abba posters and photos of brides, Dancing Queen is playing. The closing sequence has an identical shot (also to Dancing Queen) inside the taxi taking Muriel and Rhonda away from Porpoise Spit, but first the editor cuts back and forth between the two friends before holding on a close up of Muriel's face. That is because Muriel has grown since the beginning of the film, discovering what's actually important to her vs what she thought was important to her. Pretty basic stuff but sadly absent in most stories.The Bridal Shop scene with the instrumental version of Dancing Queen was simply one of the best movie scenes of all time. The cuts to the cymbal were absolutely perfect.Why, that's Deirdre Chambers, what a coincidence. "},{"Title":"Region 4 DVD Comment","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For fans of this terrific, heartwarming film, the R4 DVD (10th Anniversary Collector's Edition) is the one to get.Best available aspect ratio (1.781 anamorphic); some detailed interviews with cast & crew (filmed on-set), a TV snippet of a Rachel Griffiths interview, and a bonus CD with some of the music from the film. Also, a B Roll, picture gallery and the usual filmographies/bios.Unfortunately, the audio commentary (ft. director P.J. Hogan & lead actress Toni Collete) is a bit of a waste. Toni can't remember anything & PJ tries too hard to be entertaining, making bad jokes, etc. The film deserved better...why don't these people ever prepare stuff to talk about?! Overall, though, a worthwhile purchase. "},{"Title":"mandatory chick flick","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Great movie. Every girl should see this movie, just to find out how important your own values in life are in comparison to those of the people that surround you. Muriel finds out the hard way what's important to her and what she thought was important to her. Very good casting, very good acting. I've seen this movie 10 times now and every time I see something new. Favourite scenes Why, that's Deirdre Chambers, what a coincidence. When Muriel and Rhonda do Mamma Mia, and you see that Muriel opens up. When Rhonda tells Tanja about razorblades (don't we all want a best friend like that). This movie is great for Abba-fans too. "},{"Title":"Australian Brilliance","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After 9 years and going on 10 years since this aussie production  splashed itself on screen it still grabs my attention and lets me appriciate a well written, directed and produced work from Aussies.This movie encoporates comedy, drama and at the same time tells a story about a girl who has her dreams, her desires and all with a smile. The phrases not only give you a laugh but lets you see that looks can be decieving and that a person should not be judged on their apperances or even what type of music they like. We're made! phrase that Muriel excitingly says, enhances you water works with a tear of laughter and also a tear of emotional exhurts.The cast, works extremely well to portray every character and they do this very well. Muriel's wedding is a rare Aussie comedy and Drama that can be both at the same time.Bill what a coincidence! Well done! "}{"Title":"One of my all time favourite films ever!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Where can I start when commenting on 'Muriel's Wedding?'  I only ended up watching it in the first place because some friends were quoting it and I was intrigued! This film is usually billed as a romantic comedy, but it also has it's sad and serious moments. It is one of those films that can have you crying one minute, and laughing the next.  The characters are all important, all have their own personality and are well acted out, even the fringe characters such as Joanie or Brice. The music is the most enjoyable aspects of the film. There are a few Abba songs, which are used to create the mood of the scenes, even before anything happens. All in all, a great film. All that stops me giving it a 10 is that no film is perfect! "},{"Title":"Funny and annoying","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie 'Muriel's Wedding'. I didn't like Muriel very much, she was a little annoying, although in the end she gets a bit better. I think this means the performance by Toni Collette is very good because I did like her in other movies.The whole movie is filled with terrible people. I felt pity for Muriel's mother. She is not completely right in the head and everyone is taking advantage of her. Her father (Bill Hunter) is a terrible man, her friends who are only friends when they feel like it are the worst friend there are, her brothers and sister are useless as their father says. The only likeable person, and you will like her, is Rhonda (Rachel Griffiths). With her Muriel goes away to start a real life in Sydney. The only thing she really wants is getting married because she thinks that means happiness.The performances are all pretty good but like I said the only person I could care for was Rhonda. Of course you hope things will be better for Muriel but sometimes she just is annoying. The reason you will still like her is because other people are even more annoying. Because all those characters a lot of funny moments are easily created. The first sexual experience Muriel has is hilarious. After a while you are used with the characters and you can fully enjoy the jokes. "},{"Title":"exceptionally good","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Collette and Griffiths won awards for this, I hear.  I'm not surprised!  They are quite substantial here (in Collette's case, of course, physically as well as thespianically -- is that a word?!).  I knew nothing about the movie when I saw it; I'd heard the title before, but that's about it.  I never knew where the story was headed, or how any particular character would turn out.  (Gee, about like real life....)  The other reviews here that I just read did a good job of covering most of the main points I would make about the film so I'll only mention two I didn't see in those reviews.1. The events in this film are not slathered over in a stirring soundtrack (the occasional Abba tune is almost tongue-in-cheek).  The significance of each event, both for the story and for the characters, is allowed to simply be whatever it might happen to be for the viewer; we're not hand-held to like or dislike or laugh or cry.  I really, really appreciated that.  Combined with the way almost every character had their good moments and bad moments, the effect for me was to make this fictional world very believable.  Even a few obviously over-the-top moments couldn't break the spell.2. The title led me to think of this as a light-hearted, feel-good movie.  It's not, really, though neither does it try to play up the emotionally vivid elements of the plot.  In retrospect, I suppose the title fits; the problem is, it's titled in a spirit unlike most movies are titled, which is why I was expecting something else.This is a really, really good movie.  Not quite perfect, but I give it 8/10.  It would have been 9 with a better ending.  Some of the flaws it does have seem to me to be such that correcting them would alter the feel of the movie unacceptably, so, while I might agree, for instance, that the consequences of Muriel's lifestyle aren't entirely dealt with, I'm not sure I would want them to be entirely dealt with within this movie.  I like this one a lot. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 90'","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Really Muriel's Wedding is one of the best movies of the 90 '. Is a film about the dreams that we have and we want to carry out.Muriel, a quiet and shy young girl that constantly lives in a dream to know the man of her life and to marry with him. Muriel lives with her family her father, a future councilman, but put in the corruption, her mother, put in her own world and her four vague siblings. She had everything, until their friends decide to take it to her out of the group because her not this in the level of certain girls. She doesn't know how to get dressed, she doesn't know how to put on makeup, and she listens music of the 70 ', in fact, it is fanatic of ABBA. For that reason their friends expel her of the group.  But in a trip of vacations, Muriel finds her old friend of the high school Rhonda, a young girl most happy and nice that Muriel. Thanks to Rhonda, Muriel changes her personality, now she dressed very well, she uses very well the make-up and she is most sociable now. But Muriel still dreams of finding that man of her life. But one day, she reads those magazines of where one search to know people, and she finds him.... for to know what will happen you must watch the movie.Muriel's Wedding is an amusing, fascinating and wonderful movie, with an excellent script, with excellent actors, mainly Toni Collette like Muriel, and Rachel Griffiths like her friend Rhonda, and an excellent soundtrack composed in their majority by music of ABBA, like Waterloo and Fernando, among other. There are very funny scenes, mainly when Muriel's sister always tells her You're terrible Muriel One of the best australian movies and one of the best movies seen in the 90 '. My opinionHighly I recommend it for everybody and to see it any day. Excellent!!!!! A wonderful movie!!!!!  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie! 9/10","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie because I loved Toni Collette in The Sixth Sense and expected it to be a pretty good Australian flick, but it was much, much better than I had ever expected. One thing I have to complain about, though, has nothing to do with the actual movie I have to make a complaint about the box. Miramax made this film look like a goofy Aussie romantic comedy. Every critical comment on the box lauded its humor. I even think they made Collette look skinnier on the cover. These people are utter thugs! This is a drama with some funny moments. I cried more than I laughed. There are so many beautifully drawn characters here. I never wanted this film to end. And it was wonderfully written. I have only some small complaints about the actual film. This is why I didn't give it a 10 the annoying friend characters who pretend to like Muriel and Rhonda when it's convenient are used way too often. They should not have been brought back near the end. The third act is also kind of long. There are three separate conflicts that have to be solved, and it just takes a bit too long.  "},{"Title":"Deja Vu....","Date":"18 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Because my friend and I are so much like Muriel and Rhonda. I can sympathize with Toni Colette's character, because she's a lot like me. Don't know if that good or bad, but it's true. Anyway, this was a perfect movie. Absolutely superb! I could go on all day about its wonders.....   "},{"Title":"Suprisingly good movie","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie to be very good.  Unlike many other movies of this type, our heroine in this flick isn't all good and sweet and pretty.. in fact, she's not even really likable, and that's what made her interesting.  The funny thing about this movie is the way so much seems to go on in the background while the characters remain fake and cardboard.  Airheads, politicians, mistresses, white trash families, and mothers all seem flat and lifeless, the events carrying them rather than they the events.  In most movies that would turn me away, but in this one, the whole point seems to be in the flat interactions between these deflated characters who we aren't supposed to feel sympathy for, but instead feel alienated from and possibly laugh at.  I suspect women in general would like this movie more than boys. Gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"So funny, so sad, not to be missed.","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film and it is definitely in my top five. It is hilarious - always important and yet difficult to achieve, particularly with some serious subject matter. Beneath the laughter are darker, humanistic tones. What is beauty? Is size important? Is rationality important? What is friendship? What is love? What causes pain? What should you definitely not say to your kids? What would you really wish you could say to a bunch to a bunch of ignorant tw*ts to get your own back? - Go Rachel Griffiths as Rhonda Epinstalk! Plus the soundtrack is great as long as you like ABBA. I laughed 'til I cried, and I had tears of sadness too.You could watch this film on a superficial level, or not.Whichever, you will laugh. Great film. "},{"Title":"Merely a hedged bet.","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding is much a film that cannot decide what it is about. Different strands are developed and dropped just as easily. It doesn't settle into a truly explorative character study, but then the main character is somewhat limited. The makers are clearly going for the feelgood approach, slanted very slightly off-centre, in a bid to get a hit film. It is a shame there is not more depth here, perhaps, or better comedy. The lack of a more ironic narrative commentary too often leads to the audience being asked to take at face value fairly unremarkable events and behaviour. This is an embossed, shrewd soap opera of a film; one that avoids too many complexities. This is really crystallized by the ending; jarring with the sense I got of the ongoing drama, and merely providing a happy ending. While, yes, Rachel Griffiths instills her character with credibility and an easy to overlook charm,  the film really does not afford her that much time. We get the perfunctory, indifferent family drama aspect given undue emphasis; while Bill Hunter is good there is not much of real interest there. Yes, it provides a contrasting picture of what Muriel is rebelling against, but it is ponderously lingered over for far too long to little end.There are no embarrassing features really about the film; it is competent to the letter, but tellingly uninspired. Rachel Griffiths is really the main plus here, coming across as wonderfully natural on screen, and making her character that bit more wry and questioning than any other in the film. Toni Collette seems to be much-lauded for her turn her, but I do not think it is warranted. She does what the script and character demand, but no more really. At times, sympathetic indeed, but it's a shame the director/writer cops out of really criticising the character, particularly in the later parts of the film. This Muriel is something of a deluded, gauche girl; an outsider that when set alongside a considerable gallery of film outsiders and neurotics, comes across as too sketchy a character. The script limits her to virtually one main character aspect; an obsession with the trappings and trinketry of marriage as a substitute for self-contentment. This substitution however, is only ambiguously made out to be highly misguided. We do not learn enough really about the film's central character, and she gets a soap style easy ride.  Collette can be said to be convincingly cloying and if it is the authorial intention, a mite irritating. She does manage pathos, but it is only at fleeting moments, as the character is largely too self-absorbed in quite an uninteresting way. It is perhaps all too typical that this awkward misfit is overweight, and the fact dwelt upon; all perhaps negated by Collette actually looking quite alluring, in spite of the quirky mannerisms.Too much of a demographic-tilted effort in all; a superior screen soap, definitely, but little grounds for praise dramatically or comedically. It is offbeat and subversive only in quite a superficial and fleeting way. Rachel Griffiths was definitely a find, and is quite a joy here. But, it is a shame that the film is too often pitched at the level of the shallow trio of girls mocked in the actual film. There really is less here than meets the eye; resulting in a merely passable, convoluted picture.Rating- ***/***** "},{"Title":"Good film, terrible ending","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film was very good up until the end.  Toni Collette gives an excellent performance. She really makes you feel for her character. When she's sad, you're sad and when she's happy, you're happy. The ending was the only bad part about the film. I thought it ended too suddenly. Too many things were left unresolved. "}{"Title":"Stick Your Tongue Out In Glee","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Australians understand the role of actors unlike any people on Earth. My own theory is that a single early drama teacher at the Opera House workshop spawned a whole national identity so far as actors.Nichole, Kate and Toni are all of the same generation, all redheads, all have done what's called folded acting. Kate has been more consistent in this regard, but Toni in her Greenaway project and Nichole in her Luhrmann one have done deep folding as well.Folded acting is much simpler than making a folded film. And the simplest kind of folded acting is what we have here a strong woman playing a weak one. Clearly deliberate motions portraying tentative ones.Contrast Toni with the actress who plays her mother. This woman (Jeanie Drynan) plays her character straight, as if she really was empty and demented. Toni's character has someone else within, but the skill comes in that inner person not being Toni.(Notice that Muriel's retreat from her life is in a video store.)The story is irrelevant. It is only an excuse to describe a broken soul (two actually), and grow a few situations that are designed to be pathetic or comic, sometimes both.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"My Big Fat Australian Wedding","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A plain and unpopular young woman tries to better her life. It starts off as a rather clichéd comedy with cardboard characters, but gets better as it goes along. Murial's family members are so blandly drawn that they may as well be cartoon characters. Playing the father, Hunter's accent is so thick that it's hard for those with non-Australian ears to make out 90 percent of what he is saying. Fortunately, most of the focus is on Murial and she makes the film worth watching. In her first big role, Collette is wonderful as the social misfit who continues to maintain a zest for life despite facing rejection and tragedy. "},{"Title":"You're terrible Muriel","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is hilarious. It is pathetic and at the same time it is fabulous. Toni Collette is brilliant and so is Rachel Griffiths. The story is plain stupid and that is why I love it. All support cast are great and so is the music score. This movie manages to convey silly moments, funny moments and tender moments very cleverly to where I was crying with laughter and sadness at the same time. I am proud that this movie came from Australia. Before I end I would like to establish this is not just a chick-flick. I am a guy and I loved this movies and all my friends love the movie. It is for everybody. EVERYBODY! I recommend it for nine year olds up! "},{"Title":"Muriel's Wedding was a fine early showcase of Toni Collette and Rachel Griffiths","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Just saw this Australian dramady, about a heavyset woman dreaming of a wedding in order to improve her self-esteem, for the second time with my parents. My mom, a big ABBA fan, loved the music but wasn't too crazy about the movie which possibly had a little too much sex talk for her tastes. Dad was amused by many of those scenes and half-quoted some of those lines. Besides the wonderful songs from the international Swedish quartet, there's the very compelling performances of Toni Collette in the title role and Rachel Griffiths as her best friend Rhonda. Their seriously flawed characters (Muriel steals things and lies constantly, Rhonda frequently smokes even after being diagnosed with cancer) nevertheless compel empathy because of their mix of stubbornness, honesty-when chips are down, and loyalty to each other. Many of the supporting characters, mainly Muriel's siblings and other friends, seem one-sided but others, like Muriel's no longer happy parents and the South African athlete she marries for convenience, have some depth to them. P.J. Hogan, later to helm the Julia Roberts hit My Best Friends Wedding, wrote and directed a pretty humorous and unsentimental depiction of being single and trying to grow up despite your surroundings. So on that note, I highly recommend Muriel's Wedding. "},{"Title":"Tragi-comedy in three acts.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I had initially seen this movie 6 years ago and came away with a very so-so impression of it. At the suggestion of another IMDb list member, I saw it again today. I have gained a much better appreciation for it, a fine tragi-comedy.Toni Collette, a very chubby version of herself in her early 20s is the lead character Muriel Heslop, who for a time insists that she has become Mariel. She lives with a mostly dysfunctional family in little Porpous Spit, Austalia. No one likes her, not the guys, not the girls. Instead of getting a good job and working hard, she takes advantage of a blank check from her father and runs off, ending up in Sydney. That is act one.In act two, she tries to reinvent herself. She is sharing a place with a friend and happens upon an ad -- young foreigner needs Austraulian wife. He is a swimmer from S. Africa, and needs to swim for Australia in the Olympics to get his gold medal. She is giddy at the prospects of having a gorgeous young athlete for a husband, when she could never get anyone interested in her before. The wedding scene is masterfully done, and really funny. That is act two.In act three she realizes fully that she has been a fraud and her whole family too. She divorces her husband, just as she is becoming someone attractive to him, because for the first time she is becoming genuine, herself. After a death in her family, and explaining to her fraud of a father that he has to take care of his family, she heads off to Sydney with her now wheelchair-bound friend, destined for a better life. "},{"Title":"GREAT movie with numerous life lessons","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I HAVE to write about this movie. You do not know how amazing this movie is. Even if you're not a fan of ABBA, you should watch this movie. It teaches you about life. It teaches you the lesson of what you really want may not make you happy in the long run. It teaches you about friendships. And it teaches you about being yourself and not being ashamed. Let me talk about the last two for a little bit. I will not give away as much of the plot as I can.Near the beginning, Muriel's life sucks. I'm not going to lie. She was a loner who, when felt depressed, locked herself in her room listening to ABBA songs. And then she meets Rhonda, suddenly her world comes alive. One instance that I love is right after Rhonda has therapy for her leg tumor and doesn't feel the need to be alive. Muriel says this in response to it Rhonda's feeling useless (paraphrased) When I was back home in Porpoise Spit, I used to sit in my room and listen to ABBA records. Sometimes I would be in there all day, just to make my life seem any good. But since I have met you, I have not listened to one ABBA record. That's because now, my life is just as good as an ABBA song. My life is like Dancing Queen! This quote clearly shows how much her life had changed when she met a true friend.In one scene just after Muriel meets Rhonda, they enter a karaoke contest, singing Waterloo by ABBA. They have costumes, choreography, the works. When you watch Muriel perform, she is very small in her actions from being embarrassed. But in about half of the song, you see her to visibly relax and become more confident about being on stage. This clearly shows that she suddenly realized it was OK to be herself. Elisabeth Vincentelli, who wrote a book review of the classic album ABBA Gold, ties this scene with the success of the group itself at the end of the book It epitomizes a transition from desperately uncool to popular, but it also affirms loudly and clearly that it's okay to be a dork, a geek, a freak, a queer-you don't have to abide to commonly accepted definitions of hipness to be happy. There are worse ways to define a classic album. Very well put! This should be a movie to apply to one's life who feels the same way as Muriel once did.This may have made it sound like a sappy movie, which it is, but it also has lots of comedy. There are some great quotes, like Rhonda's response to her tumor So, how'd I get it? It's not from having too much sex, is it? Another reason to go rent or buy the movie! "},{"Title":"MM...ok","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is funny at times, but eventually at certain scenes I got bored of it. Toni Collette and Rachel Griffiths are perfect for their parts in a film that is probably overated in my opinion. But still, a good laugh!72%  "},{"Title":"Classic Australian Quirky Film","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's Wedding revolves around Muriel's (who has never even had a boyfriend)desire to get married and her obsession with ABBA. When she meets Rhonda and moves to Sydney her life becomes as good as an ABBA song. This is an easy to watch movie that can really make you feel good. If you're an ABBA fan you'll probably identify with Muriel really easily. "},{"Title":"F-abba-tastic","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this years ago, and thought it was brilliant. Then I watched it with my daughter and she thought it was brilliant too.I like the fact that it was a film about some one with low self-esteem that manages to make the audience feel better about themselves.It's a feel-good movie that's actually quite sad at the same time. That seems like more of a contradiction than it really is. But somehow MURIEL'S WEDDING manages to be quite uplifting while making you feel like crying ...And of course the music is fantastic.Weddings and Abba - what could possibly be wrong with that picture?(This review written by Matti-Man's wife!) "},{"Title":"I love this movie one of my all time favorites.","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the story of a 'Cinderella story but instead this Cinderella lies & steals and we still love her. Toni Collette first movie role and boy she is just great. (She Was later in The Sixth Sense). The story in this movie is that our heroin is an overweight nobody. The only real fun she has is going into her room and listens to Abba music. Now Now Muriel feels like nothing. She is that inner nerd in all of us. Muriel is a little immature.. She hangs out with a group of girls (the popular girls from her high school but now they are all in there 20's). One day they demand that Muriel stop hanging around them. Muriel is crushed. Muriel also knows that one member of the group has slept with the other girls husband on their wedding day. To make a long story short all the girls end up at a resort and then Muriel runs into Rhonda an old high school sort-of friend. To give away more would be a MAJOR crime! If you have to buy this to see it then do so. "}{"Title":"Muriel's Wedding","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to admit I saw this film twice and both times thought it was awful, I guess that's because I didn't understand what was going on, I didn't notice it was Australia, I didn't realise I knew the leading actress, and I didn't notice the director P.J. Hogan (My Best Friend's Wedding). Seeing it a third time, I can at last see why it is a good comedy film. Basically Muriel Heslop (Golden Globe nominated Toni Collette) is the mousy, not-too-attractive girl who is bored of life in Porpoise Spit, Australia, and spends most of her time listening to Abba and dreaming of her wedding day, but she has never had a date. So she steals some money to go on a tropical vacation in Sydney, and there she meets not only her ex-friends (thye dumped her because she didn't fit in), but her wacky friend Rhonda Epinstalk (Rachel Griffiths). Muriel also changes her name to Mariel, and tries everything she can to be noticed by a man or married. Eventually though she finds an advertisement for someone looking for a wife, it doesn't say anything about love, but she seems attracted to David Van Arckle (Daniel Lapaine). So the wedding day comes, and secretly, both Rhonda in a wheelchair (from cancer) and her mother Betty (Jeanie Drynan) show up. In the end though, Mariel, or rather Muriel (she changes back) realises her mistake of marrying someone she cant love and breaks up with him, she also loses her mother, and in the end, she and Rhonda go back to Sydney. Not exactly a happy ending, and no real love wedding for Muriel, but never mind. Also starring Bill Hunter as Bill Heslop, Gennie Nevinson as Deidre Chambers, Matt Day as Brice Nobes, Sophie Lee as Tania Degano, Belinda Jarrett as Janine and Rosalind 'Roz' Hammond as Cheryl. The Abba songs (including Dancing Queen, Waterloo and Mamma Mia) are fun to listen to, Collette (then chubby, now thinner and recognised in The Sixth Sense and In Her Shoes) gives a good performance, and there are some good gags, I'm glad I gave it another chance. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay. Very good! "},{"Title":"how about disturbing?","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had rented three oldies that I have not had a chance to view yet.  This one was taken out to offset the horrors of The Killing Fields but I decided that I wanted a good laugh first and left the more serious film on the table.This is one of the most disturbing films I have ever watched.  Here is an emotionally abused and emotionally disturbed young woman who lies, steals, and trips her way through life.  She grows up in a family where the father is loud, obnoxious, and selfishly arrogant.  His children cower in shame whenever he calls them layabouts.  No wonder Muriel embraces ABBA as her fantasy family.  Just when I think that this is it, the audience finds out that Muriel thinks that getting married will make her a somebody and free her from the prison of Porpoise Pit.  She creates an imaginary fiancee and then travels from bridal boutique to bridal boutique, getting herself photographed in big poufy wedding gowns.WARNING SPOILERS--she eventually marries a hunky South African swimmer who needs her to stay in the country.  Muriel gets so involved with the ceremony and the pageantry of her special day that she neglects the more important points of life--being an individual.  It's her awakening that is the most interesting point of the film.  She finally becomes empowered by this realization that the trappings of marriage won't save her--after all, her own parents have split up and that doesn't provide any more happiness than togetherness.There are a lot of mixed messages in this film.  I rented this one because it is a favourite of a close friend.  But after viewing this film, I really think that I need to be a better friend and get this girl some professional help. "},{"Title":"Great movie not so great ending","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a really good movie, you felt for the characters but the ending left a lot to be desired. what happens with Rhonda and Muriel.  You start out disliking David and then he does something so human and then that is it.  Too much unfinished business went on here. It just ended too soon.  "},{"Title":"MY FAVORITE MOVIE EVER!","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE this movie - I could watch it over, and over, and over....etc. (actually I have)Toni Collette is Outstanding and I love Rachel Griffiths in this movie!This movie made me laugh and made me cry, but in the end, it just gives me such a hopeful feeling!I have driven people crazy forcing them to watch it, but I know it's for their own good.Please go out and experience the joy and sadness of Porpoise Spit with the sounds of ABBA!Don't tell me if you watch it and hate it - I won't believe you.  "},{"Title":"Dark and depressing.  People LIKE this????","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Muriel (Toni Collette) is an overweight unattractive Australian girl who loves ABBA music. She hangs around with a bunch of attractive but vicious women who tell her off every chance they get. She then meets easy-going, friendly Rhonda (Rachel Griffiths) and her life begins to change.SPOILERS!!!!! Sounds like a feel-good movie--right? WRONG! This has Muriel and some likable characters go through some incredibly horrible things again and again. For instance Rhonda is very sexually active and (for no good reason) is crippled accidentally halfway through. Why? Because she happens to enjoy sex? Muriel's mother is treated by her husband like dirt...and she takes it. Muriel's friends have got to be the most vicious group of women I've EVER seen in any movie. Muriel meets a sweet guy who really likes her--but she dumps him to marry an attractive but empty-headed jock. That's only a few things. Again and again we're hit over the head with these depressing story turns. Seriously--what's the reason? The few good moments were blotted out by the negativity. After this was over I was utterly depressed and hated the movie. This only gets a two for the acting (Collette and Griffiths are great) and the ABBA music. But this is a seriously depressing, negative film. "},{"Title":"revenge...revenge","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some people just live their lives in agony, but few can compare to bored, abused Muriel Heslop (Toni Collette). Things just plain suck for her. But that's all about to change. You see, she's getting married...and then some.I saw Muriel's Wedding in an Australian Cinema class. It's the sort of movie that you just have to see wherever you can. I don't just mean that it's interesting to see Toni Collette before she became famous in the States through The Sixth Sense and Shaft; everything about this movie is great. Muriel is the type of woman who seems delicate, but she can get nasty if needs be. 10/10. "},{"Title":"An average rom-com but an excellent character drama","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tired of being made to feel worthless by her friends and her domineering father, Muriel takes some of her father's money and heads off on a holiday to reinvent herself. She meets an old friend from school, Rhonda and the two hit it off and Muriel starts to feel more like a proper person with real value. Lying about her engagement, her past and herself but underneath she is eaten away by insecurities, feelings of worthlessness and a longing to make it &#150; show other she is someone by getting married.Although this film jumped on the Aussie feel good bandwagon of colours and ABBA that had made Priscilla such a hit, it is really much more than the romantic comedy that it was sold on. The trailer pushed the laughs and the Dancing Queen scene but the film is really much better as a character drama. As a comedy I found it very broad and quite low in terms of actual belly laughs, so those coming to it for that will probably feel a bit let down. However it works far better as a drama that uses Muriel's character as the hook that keeps the audience engaged. She is a very well written character that has insecurities that are like the layers of an onion. The fact that she recognises her failings but only to a point is just one thing that makes her a real person. The supporting characters are well written as well and the film generally avoids stereotypes in their development.The actors really deliver the goods, in particular an amazingly deep performance from Collette that to describe as a comedy performance is sort of demeaning. She understands her character so well and is totally convincing, taking the writing and making it flesh. Support is good all around it. Griffiths is very good, Hunter makes an Aussie cliché into an unintentional monster while Drynan is a realistic empty housewife with a performance that looks easy but is finely balanced to show us where Muriel is heading without ramming it down our throats. The direction is colourful and it does help keep things from becoming too sombre or depressing when it easy could have been.Overall, as a romantic comedy it is pretty average and a bit unoriginal in its presentation but as a drama it is really worth a look. The characters are where it is at and Hogan deserves more credit for how well he has done them. Of course it helps that Collette turns in a perfect performance from start to finish and makes the film. It looks like a goofy rom-com but only because it has been mis-sold &#150; it is really much more than that. "},{"Title":"Still has some value to it as a chick-flick but other than that, it's not a great movie at all.","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all, this is obviously a chick-flick (I mean, it's a movie in which the main character is obsessed with getting married, so how could it not be one?) and if you purely take it as such, this movie still serves its purpose well and is also maintaining enough. However as a movie itself it is far too uneven and does just too much wrong to consider this a great movie in its sort.It's one of those movies that tries to combine humor with drama. And it's not very successful or effective at that, in my opinion. The movie never finds the right balance, since its comedy and characters themselves are being far too over-the-top, which never blends in very well with the movie its, supposedly, dramatic moments.But also a big problem of the movie lays with the movie its main character, played by Toni Collette. She lies to her best friends and own family, she steals and runs of with people's money and also doesn't always comes across as too bright. Somethings obviously wrong with her but in this movie you obviously are supposed to care for her and her naivety is supposed to be something sweet. Needless to say this did not always worked out that way for me at all.But it remains a movie with a sort of charm to it still. I mean, despite everything it remains a pleasant movie to watch, even while it still annoyed me at certain moments. But perhaps that is also because this is obviously supposed to be a chick-flick and I am clearly no chick last time I checked. So it's fair to say this movie is not really for me and women will be more capable of appreciating this movie for what it is.The story is also really lacking some focus at times. Sometimes certain plot lines are simply getting dropped and it often makes some sudden jumps with its story, that don't always connect too well. This also definitely goes at the expense of certain characters in this movie, which I was often more interested in.You can still see how this movie partly inspired 'Mamma Mia!' the musical and later also movie. The ABBA music often plays a central role in the movie and it often has the same sort of happy-go-lucky, colorful, type of atmosphere to it. Good and straightforward enough as a chick-flick but other than that, far too flawed to consider this a great movie.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A disappointing waste of money","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I distinctly remember hearing people coming out of a cinema in the year this film was released saying how funny this film was and its a must see. The noise was coming from a favourite commercial radio station I was listening too at the time. Foolishly I thought OK I will go and watch it and shortly afterwards that was the last time I listened to this particular radio station. In short Muriels Wedding was the biggest waste of time and money I have ever suffered, well as far as films go, I did rashly back my football team at the time to win a trophy one year and unsurprisingly lost the modest bet I had made. This film is not funny, in fact for me it doesn't work on any level. The whole experience of watching this film was just embarrassing. I am perfectly aware that the people who put the money into the pot to get this film made were well intentioned and I am also sure that the film itself was made with the enthusiastic assistance of all of its professionals but the result is a turkey. By all means rent this film if you must but prepare yourself for a potential early pressing of the eject button. I genuinely cannot think of anything positive to say about this film. "},{"Title":"take an anti-depressant before you watch","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For the life of me I can't understand why people love this movie. I thought it was just awful and so depressing. I can't believe anyone thought this would make a good story. It has not a single likable character except for Muriel's best friend, Rhonda. Depressing family life, hateful, shallow friends, pitiful mother, obnoxious father, it's just awful. I was expecting a light-hearted comedy and lots of laughs. It's mostly dark and depressing with only one or two scenes that really made me laugh. I can't remember the last time I've been this disappointed in a movie. I'll give it this The acting is good and the ABBA music is lots of fun. Just don't go into it expecting a comedy or you'll be sorely disappointed. "}{"Title":"Extremely overrated; not a comedy.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"   I understood the point of this film All the events and characters were completely believable, the problem is that it's neither romantic or a romantic comedy. It's a very dark character study with lots of heartbreak and tragedy...(and probably darker for the viewer, who has to endure ABBA's Dancing Queen only 15 million times.) There was actually an Australian film released a couple years before called Strictly Ballroom, also about an ugly duckling who comes to terms with her looks, only the plot had to do with dancing. Toni Collete (who gained weight for this role) is actually moderately attractive and was a very well known actress at the time. Proving my point that this film was marketed directly for the American public, only calling it a Drama would not make it as successful as an in-name-only Romantic comedy. In that case, the viewer will find value in the message that anyone who's fat or ugly has a chance at finding a mate, and the Romantic comedy lie is easily forgotten/forgiven.You essentially get the whole gist of this movie without seeing it, and you don't even need to see it or read my review to find that out.See Strictly Ballroom instead. "},{"Title":"A Pathetic Loser","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I finally rented this, expecting another Australian serious/comedy movie with a feel-good ending.  Instead I found a depressing story about a clueless teenager in an utterly dysfunctional family who is a pathological liar and unrepentant thief.  Bless those reviewers who tried to create some redeeming qualities about this, but, except for a couple of good acting performances, this movie--like Muriel--is a pathetic loser. "},{"Title":"Too flawed to be good","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Twenty minutes into this film, I was beginning to think that I was going to see one of the worst films of all-time.  Fortunately, things improved considerably, but not quite enough to erase the memory of the abysmal start. In general, this film was entertaining enough, with a few laughs and some decent dramatic moments, but I was still left disappointed.  Perhaps a few more fun ABBA songs would have helped to brighten the movie up, since it occasionally was uncomfortably dark, and these darker scenes seemed a little out of place.  I think that I really would have liked this film if it had been light-hearted throughout, but instead I was left with the memory of a brutal beginning and a film that fell short of what it could have been. "},{"Title":"A movie about nothing?","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story takes you nowhere, really. Is it a movie about love? Is it about revenge? Is it about disdain? Is it about helping a friend with cancer? Is it about sexual escapades? Is it about corruption? Is it about finding your true self? Is it about a lonely fat woman with no self-esteem who believes she will be a better person if she marries? I guess it has to do with the last statement; however, it goes out on a tangent way too many times. The moment the focus is on the story, it manages to sway away again. One thing is certain the acting was great. It's not a total waste of time, I sat through it till the end, but I would not see this one again or recommend it to my friends.  "},{"Title":"Not up to all the hype","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I read reviews for this film when it first came out, I was pretty interested in seeing it. Phrases like sleeper hit and funny and quirky seemed to do most reviews I read. But, when I finally saw the film, I was amazed at how unfunny the film was. Considering the plot, a lot more could have been done to make Muriel funnier as well as have the audience care more about this moronic and selfish lady.Muriel is an overweight loser who desperately wants to get married in a big and beautiful church wedding. The only problem is she hasn't had a date in years. So, given that she's pretty flaky and selfish, she pretends to have a fiancé and announces she's getting married. Most of the film consists of showing her and her best friend as they whoop it up in preparation for the big day.None of this really makes sense as the wedding cannot be. Plus, instead of having the story be about a nice girl who gets in over her head, I just found myself disliking Muriel and thinking she was an idiot. If the film garnered more empathy for her, it could have been a much better and interesting movie. "},{"Title":"Outback fatback","Date":"20 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For those who, like me, have a clinical aversion to ABBA and can't grasp the allure of the Wedding Fetish, there's too many alienating elements in Muriel's Wedding to allow an honest appraisal. I'm willing to partially accept the obsession with weddings (and it's always weddings but never marriage, isn't it?), but ABBA is where open-mindedness ends and sheer repulsion begins. It doesn't help that the main character is also repulsive, and I don't mean physically. Would have been nice if Mad Max showed up and killed off a couple of characters, including the protagonist.In summary Dancing Queen should never be played in movies, not even in nightmare scenes. "},{"Title":"The movie that could've been.","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Muriel's wedding starts out pretty good.  A supposed friend's wedding and the indiscretions of the groom with the jailing of Muriel for a stolen dress.  Then she gets thrown out of her group and is reunited with another girl from high school.   The confrontation between Muriel and her ex-best friends is wonderful.  The ABBA songs on stage and in the wedding are hilarious but the whole movie gets too serious in trying to tie in Muriel's mother and a jerk of a father.  The ending is wonderful.  But the suffering through the family problems makes this movie an absolute stinker.  The few great scenes did not make a complete movie.  All my friends loved this movie but I would only recommend the few funny scenes and skip the rest. "},{"Title":"Like watching a train wreck","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was like watching a train wreck, you couldn't tear your eyes away from because you were just hoping at some point it would get better or at least interesting. The only actor who was half way believable was the South African swimmer when he saw who he was going to marry because I would have been horrified at the prospects of marrying someone as socially unconscious as Muriel/Mariel. The acting was poor in my opinion - one step below porn and the best part of the movie was the final credits. "},{"Title":"This is supposed to be funny??","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the most disappointing film I have rented this year, and yes, I did see Sphere. Granted, scriptwriter P.J. Hogan does have a somewhat novel idea let's take the dumb, puerile behaviour that inhabits the typical high school and apply it across the board to suburban society - from corrupt local politician and suffering doormat wife to win-at-all-costs Olympic hopeful. The result is about what you would expect - a ragtag bunch of obnoxious losers go through the motions of an inane plot, with broad attempts at humour that usually just end up being squirmy. Think Jerry Springer with his daily quota of trashy dopes who don't care an iota about their self-humiliation, cause heh, I'm on TV, and you get the idea. As for the ABBA soundtrack, after the first couple of songs the joke has completely warn off, and it gets progressively more irritating as the movie meanders to a trite and predictable ending.   "},{"Title":"Excruciatingly painful and depressing-my wife hated it too!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Agree mostly with IMDB reviews by MovieAlien and 'wmuti'.  The Mrs. and I saw this as a preview before public release and both HATED it.  Basically some ditzy and vacuous fatty steals her parents life savings to go on a cruise and find a man.  Virtually no comedic elements and plenty of tragedy--totally depressing.  While the acting was OK and background ABBA tunes distracted one from the depressing script, I'm still puzzled why anyone should like this movie.  Maybe it's a 'chick-flick' showing how Muriel triumphs, but my wife--who generally likes 'chick-flicks' hated this too.  One of the very worst movies I have ever seen.  I'd rated this a 1 out of 10.  If you want to see an entertaining and FUNNY Australian movie, try Strictly Ballroom which I highly recommend.   "}{"Title":"Abba was the best thing in the movie.","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was among my least favorite movies, it really was. I was coaxed into watching it by a friend, the one positive I have for this movie is that Abba is a wonderful band.Other then that, sadly this isn't a movie that I really cared about. I did care about some of the characters , but have no interest in watching some people be tormented and some do nasty things to each other, which starts immediately into this movie, and at times, seems the major plot point of Murial's Wedding. The movie was very depressing and it also moves at a snail's pace. That really bothered me. Most of the people I watch movies with feel the same with this one and yet so many people seem to like it. It's hard to know why.Not only was the story completely depressing but the movie dragged as well-and not just in one area. The story movies remarkably slow and the whole movie seemed overlong and quite dull at times. I had a very difficult time with this movie although Abba sure helped. It's always nice to hear dancing queen. "},{"Title":"Boring Movie","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was incredibly boring, and if you hate ABBA music like I do, the music makes the movie even more unbearable to watch.  If you don't mind a boring movie, hey, watch this movie, you'll probably like it.  If you get stuck watching the movie, here's a spoiler... Halfway thru the movie, she changes her name to Mariel!  It was definitely the highlight of the movie for me. "},{"Title":"Where's Mystery Science Theatre 2000 when you need them???","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ugh!!I gave this film a rating of 1, but only because the scale doesn't go any lower.The only character who remotely approaches a 2nd dimension is the best friend.....the rest are a terrible waste of film. Vitriolic airhead marries philandering stud, ugly depressed white trash offspring obsesses on joining the In crowd, marriage is the only way out (for both her & the swimmer). Were there any cliches they left out?  And the plot - a generous use of the word - the plot was like something out of a 4th grader's  book of MadLibs.I stayed only because some part of me kept hoping something would appear that would make it worth my time.......but it wasn't to be.Only twice in my life have I asked for my money back after a film.......the other time was because the film broke during the opening credits.  "},{"Title":"bad, bad, bad","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was one of the most painful movies I have ever been forced to watch. My 14-year-old sister-in-law rented it and she has been forbidden from ever choosing a movie again. (Not just from me, but her two older sisters and my brother-in-law all are in agreement.) Poorly acted, horrible music &#151; really, it's Abba, is there a band that is more painful to listen to, outside of Air Supply that is &#151; and a story no one could care about make the Lonely Lady seem like Shakespeare. Steve Irwin looks like Olivier compared to the actors in this movie. The writing of Ed Wood seems inspired compared to the trite trash of this screenplay. I actually can't come up with enough bad things to say about it. I wanted to demand my money back from the video store on the grounds that they should be renting movies made by professionals, or at least movies that appear to be professionally made. Avoid this movie at all cost. It's not even bad enough to be funny. Unless you like pain, but taking knitting needles and jamming them into your temples wouldn't be as painful as watching Muriel's Wedding. If you want a wedding comedy, rent My Big Fat Greek Wedding. It's Citizen Kane compared to this. "},{"Title":"Why not Julia Roberts, Sandra Bullock or Meg Ryan ?","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Somebody here must be crazy.... ( or isn't it just this down under brain ? ;-) Was it the director ? No natural born fatsos in Australia ?!!! Give me a break..... One of the most beautiful actresses of the world, sure, the prettiest of Australia, has to start her career ( which never really took of, maybe, thanks to THIS CRAP ) in this pitiful flick, which has nothing to do with comedy ( as we know it ) Film doesn't deserve any comment. One would expect, that maybe, on the end, we will see thin and cute Toni ( filmed before UGLYIZYNG her ) with some strong and uplifting finale. Sadly, none of this happened. All we were given is a bunch of sickening people, sad events and no idea of why this film was even made. Kris "}]