[{"Title":"Metaphors","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Radford, an English director, ought to be given credit for bringing this beautiful story to the screen. It speaks volumes that Mr. Radford achieves a triumph with a film that for all practical purposes should have been directed by an Italian. This is a timeless story of friendship, poetry and love set in a desolated island that was to be Pablo Neruda's home in exile.The story is a simple one. Mario Ruoppolo, a poor man without a job, suddenly applies for a vacant position that will pay almost nothing, but by becoming a letter carrier he gets the chance of meeting a man that will make a deep impression on him and who will change his life completely.Mario, the postman, is almost illiterate. He can read and write, with only the basic knowledge he probably picked up in the island school. He is allergic to fishing, and can't make a living like his father, and probably most of his ancestors before him. It's the time after WWII in which a poor Italy is still recovering from the devastation and defeat.Pablo Neruda, the Chilean poet, finds a rustic home in the island. He is the most famous person ever to set foot in there. Mario is in charge for bringing Pablo his packages and mail. An easy friendship develops between them. Like everyone else in the island, Mario is impressed by the foreigner. In trying to imitate his poet friend, Mario awakens to all the beauty around him and discovers love with the gorgeous local girl, Beatrice Russo.The film's mood changes right after Pablo Neruda and his wife receive assurances they can go back to their native land. This leaves Mario in a sad state, but now that he is married, he has other responsibilities to live for. Neruda had awakened in Mario a desire to speak for himself and to seek justice.This is a film totally dominated by the late Italian actor Massimo Troisi, who as Mario, completely captures us by just being a simple soul with no malice. Mr. Troisi is splendid in his take of this poor man who discovers beauty and poetry late in his life. Philippe Noiret, is Pablo Neruda. Mr. Noiret makes a great contribution as the man who sees beauty everywhere and translates it into poetry. Maria Grazia Cucinotta is the beautiful Beatrice, the woman who loves Mario. Renato Scarpa and Linda Moretti, play minor roles with success.Il Postino is helped by the magnificent cinematography of Franco di Giacomo who captures the island in all its splendor. The music score is another asset. Luis Bacalov's tuneful background music adds another layer in this film rich texture. This film is an excellent way to be introduced to Pablo Neruda's poetry, even if it's only for the curiosity the film will give even a casual viewer. Thanks to Michael Radford for a poetic view of this lonely place where two people meet and are changed forever. "},{"Title":"Poetry in motion","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful movie that does an excellent job bringing to life Neruda's love poems and how they touch the life of a simpleton postman. It inspires in one, a spiritual and sensual love for poetry. The music is intricately woven into the fabric of the story, and is surely a high point in the movie. Great cinematography, matched frame by frame with the splendid acting, especially that of Massimo Troisi and Philippe Noiret. Watch this movie if you are disillusioned with the notion of romance, and need some succour.The movie once again reinforces my admiration for the Italian film-makers. What amazes me is their simplicity in relating a tale, and how subtly pathos is displayed in their movies. This is also evidenced in Life is Beautiful and The Bicycle Thief.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film which floats on the love of words, rhythm, and imagery...","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"29 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nominated for Best Actor (Massimo Troisi), Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Music, Best Director, and Best Picture, Il Postino is a tender tale of love and poetry on a small island in the Mediterranean Sea, inspired by an incident in the life of Pablo Neruda, the Chilean poet who was briefly exiled, in 1952, for his communist ideas which have often got him into trouble...'Il Postino' is a beautiful, heartbreaking movie, funny in its simplicity and honest dialog... Massimo Troisi leaves his final legacy in the role of a shy, hesitant and uncultured postman who possesses the heart of a poet with truly peculiar observations, such as 'the whole world is the metaphor for something else,' often without realizing how exciting his comments are...Director Michael Radford had the care to create a wonderful film which floats on the love of words, rhythm, and imagery... His movie is much heightened by a music score that includes quotes, paraphrases and Argentinean tangos...His film turns out to be a great little movie... It deals with a friendship between a lethargic villager, who takes the modest job of delivering letters to the celebrated poet living in a secluded area... Poetry becomes their connection...Mario Ruoppolo is a simple man with a complicated set of values who rides his bicycle climbing the hard road to Neruda's cozy home and with his timid manners delivers the armful of correspondence to the single customer of the island... A polite Neruda shows little interest in his personal postman, but he favors him, one day, with his autograph, signing one of his books with the words 'Regards, Pablo Neruda.' Nevertheless as time passes the 'poet of love' becomes a bit more friendly, intrigued by Mario's enthusiasm regarding his poetry and poetic manner of speaking... Mario, impressed that almost every letter delivered to Neruda is from a female, couldn't understand how his new resident, despite his advancing age, has such magical power over women... So he tries, with his simple way of thinking, to understand all the secrets of the exalted poet, sharing his thoughts with him... He becomes increasingly curious, asking a lot of questions about the mystical creation of poetry, forcing the fascinating celebrity to reveal some of the unexposed materials of his artistic vision... Neruda introduces Mario to the verbal rupture of metaphors, attempting to teach them to his anxious pupil... The two men discover an unexpected friendship based on their mutual view that life should be a framework for seduction and romance...As the film goes on, Mario, crafted with a tender spirit, attempts, through Pablo, a gentle intervention and poetry to win over the woman he has fallen for, Beatrice Russo - played by Sicilian fashion model Maria Grazia Cucinotta... Becoming in a slow way his 'Latin Cyrano de Bergerac,' Neruda guides his postman into romance, but refuses to write a poem that could charm his young passionate Beatrice...To attract the prettiest girl in town, Mario becomes a bit of a poet himself... But when he finds his own words insufficient to his romantic mission, he appropriates one of his tutor's sensuous poems, and protests, when discovered, that Poetry doesn't belong to those who write it, but to those who need it.Unbelievably his 'lyrical words' fascinate the sensual bombshell who was playing a mean game of table soccer in a low cut dress, but disturb greatly her disapproving aunt Donna Rosa, who sees that Mario is contaminating her niece with his nice words... Nevertheless the postman wins the beautiful Beatrice and convinces her to marry him... Heartbreak comes when Neruda receives a telegram that he can return to the country he loves so much... From here on, an extended epilogue with smiles, tears and regret, takes the story on... And the film almost breathes lyrical tenderness in its depiction of an honest man who longs so much for love...Mario, who has not received any word or greeting from the poet and had remarked that it's quite normal for the poet not to remember him, returns to the poet's villa to revisit the place that had once been alive with the sounds and sights of emotional discovery... In the silence that now surrounds it, he realizes that the poet has taken all the beautiful things away with him... He gets the idea to create a 'live' poem for his dearest friend Don Pablo... An outdoors tape to let him listen to the wonderful sounds of the island, from the small and big waves at the Cala di Sotto, to the wind on the cliffs, to the wind through the bushes, to the sad nets belonging to his father, to the church bell of Our Lady of Sorrow, to the starry sky over the island, to Pablito's heartbeat... Philippe Noiret (best remembered for 'Cinema Paradiso') charms us once again as the affectionate mentor to Mario... He convinces the postman that poets are quite human but warns Mario about the old Dictaphone saying, 'Even the most sublime ideas sound ridiculous if heard too often.'The sets and the cinematography, accompanied by an Oscar Winning Score, create a wonderful atmosphere of the remote poor island with no running water, of the modest houses with pealing plaster, of the Rocky cliffs overlooking the blue Mediterranean, of the post-war fishing village under the shades of rose and salmon...Like love itself, some great movies seem surprisingly human... Delbert Mann's 'Marty' was one, Cameron Crowe's 'Say Anything...' was another, and now Michael Radford's Il Postino is exceptional... His film stands tall in its own right as a 'must see' movie... It's tough to imagine anyone not liking it... It simply revives our memories, and breaks our heart... "},{"Title":"Better than most all American romances.","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Il Postino is a movie that received oodles of critical acclaim upon its release in 1994. While I don't think it was as good as advertised, I understand why it received such praise. In a movie world that is filled with dry and unamusing romance stories, Il Postino is a relatively lush and beautiful tale. The plot is fairly simple but loaded with subtleties that allow, even encourage, multiple viewings. Mario (Massimo Troisi) longs for something more than his simple fisherman life on an Italian island, so he takes a small job as a postman, delivering mail to famed romantic poet Pablo Neruda (Phillipe Noiret), who is living in exile on the same island. Over time, they develop a relationship that is based on Neruda aiding Mario in wooing his beloved Beatrice (Maria Grazia Cucinotta). The final act is where the film makes the leap from well-made standard fare to something greater. With a couple plausible plot developments, characters and relationships are deepened beyond a basic love story, to a place that accents everything that happens leading up to that point. I can't say much else without giving things away, but stick with the movie to the end, even if you're dragging midway through. As you might expect from an Italian film, Il Postino has a very European feel. The passion of Italy is present throughout, explained through lifestyles, literal and metaphorical imagery, and the emotions of the characters. The setting is far from the bustling dollar-driven society in which Americans dwell, and a movie like this wouldn't get made in America, because the cultures are drastically different. The film's star, Massimo Troisi, is excellent. He embodies everyman qualities exceptionally, similar to Tom Hanks, yet with more...something. Soul perhaps? He, like the entire film, is just more European, and I hope you understand what I mean by that. Noiret portrays Neruda perfectly, expressing his romantic ways through both words and actions. Everyone else is very good, although no one stands out; the overall anonymity of the cast aids the viewer in establishing culture as well. The cinematography and the scenery it presents is often breathtaking, although not in the sweeping manner of something like The Lord of the Rings. Rather, cinematographer Franco Di Giacomo wisely chose to let the pictures speak for themselves. The elegant cliffs, white-capped waves, and rolling topography of the island gently yet firmly frame and support the story. A straight-forward tale should have suitable pictures, and Il Postino meets that requirement. The film is touted as a romantic comedy, and it is, although not in the traditional sense. The comedy isn't slapstick and won't elicit bushels of laughter. But there is an underlying sense of humor laced through the whole movie, often in simple movements, tasks, or occurrences.All of this combines to present something like a fairy tale replete with Italian heart and soul. Il Postino won't blow you away, but its tender lessons about life, love, and friendship will stick with you for some time, urging another viewing. Bottom Line A very European romance that is better than most anything Hollywood can conjure up.  8/10.  (If you like the film, get the Collector's Edition DVD; it's quite good.) "},{"Title":"A Love Story Between Men","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Il Postino' is a love story between men. There's something poetic about that, in this movie about love & poetry. Neither of them is gay, mind you. In fact, a ravishing beauty (Maria Grazia Cucinotta) is the object of the title character's affection. Still, this movie belongs to Philippe Noiret and the Oscar-nominated Massimo Troisi. Noiret is a Chilean poet, exiled in Italy for his communist leanings. Troisi is the postman, a man going nowhere who comes to idolize this intelligent poet. They become friends and Noiret essentially Cyranos Troisi into Cucinotta's ample heart.I didn't find the entire film to be heart-rending, but the final scenes add deep resonance to the material. My eyebrows were raised when the movie ended and there was a For Massimo credit. Troisi died less than a day after they finished shooting. It seems fitting that the end of the film is bittersweet because the cast & crew had been working with a dying man who wanted nothing more than to finish this final project. 'Il Postino' ended up grossing a boatload of money, so his subtle performance clearly struck a chord with audiences.Troisi got all the press for his fine work, but Noiret is certainly his equal. Director Michael Radford does well to stay out of their way. I like how he didn't sentimentalize the Troisi/Cucinotta relationship. He's infatuated with her, but that diminishes a bit once he gets her. They're a fair representation of a real couple who were brought together for what might have been the wrong reasons. In fact, the film is filled with surprises. It's a quiet character study, but all the players in 'Il Postino' go through earth-shaking changes of personal proportions. And the Noiret/Troisi friendship is right at the heart of the matter.  "},{"Title":"I highly recommend this movie.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Set in a beautiful Italian sea coast village, Il Postino is a gem of a movie. There is an undescribable beauty to it. I appreciate 1) the beauty of the ocean,  2) the lovely music, 3) the Italian language, 4) the poetry of Pablo Neruda, 5) the time that the Nobel Peace Prize poet spends with a poor mail deliverer who comes up hills on his  bicycle, explaining to him what is a metaphor, 6) the beautiful and sincere friendship between the two men, 7) the love that Neruda has for his woman, and 8) how Mario wants to impress the woman of his dreams with nothing else, but the poetry written by Neruda. After his time in asylum Neruda goes back to Chile and his friend Mario misses him.  Later in the movie Neruda returns to the island and realizes how much he misses that honest and simple man who was so eager to learn when they met at the beach town. I love this movie! If I watch it some more my Italian will improve tremendously, I can understand enough to watch the movie and not read the subtitles. I guess that makes the movie more meaningful to me, as I understand it in the language that it was made in. Mario really wanted Neruda to mention him in interviews because he sensed that they both had influenced each others' lives.  Unfortunately when Neruda meets Pablito,  Mario is no longer around. I highly recommend this movie. My favorite scene Is Neruda explaining to Mario what a metaphor is. That scene also provided me with my favorite quote Neruda Metaphors. Mario What are those? Neruda How can I explain, when you talk of something comparing with the other? Mario Something you use in poetry? Neruda Yes! For example when you say the sky weeps, what do you mean? Mario It is raining. Neruda Very good! That is a metaphor.  MarioIt's easy then. Why has it got such a complicated name? Neruda Man has no business with the simplicity of complexity of things. I have the tape and have enjoyed this movie every time I watched it. This movie deserves every award it has received. It is a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Lyrical","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Lyrical, moving and beautifully photographed gentle comedy in which an exiled Chilean poet inspires his Italian postman to woo and marry a local girl. Massimo Troisi gives a wonderfully contained performance as the postman who learns to see the beauty in poetry and his home on an Italian island. Philippe Noiret plays the poet Pablo Neruda with the usual assuredness. It is difficult not to be moved by the simple beauty of the film.    "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing film about friendship, poetry, and love.","Date":"19 October 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Set in the early 1950s on a small Italian island, there are three central characters in this movie, one real and the other two fictional. The real one is Chilean poet Pablo Neruda (played by French actor Noiret who resembles Neruda quite nicely). Neruda died in 1973, but really did spend several years in exile in Italy, and really is a world-famous poet.In this fictional story, simple and honest, but somewhat dim, 40-something Mario Ruoppolo (Massimo Troisi, who died of heart failure right before the movie was released) is the son of a small time fisherman. Mario really doesn't like the fishing, but has no job. At dad's encouragement, he finds a temporary job as a postman, il postino. The famous poet is moving into the small village and a man with a bicycle is needed to deliver his mail daily. It pays very little in this poor village, but it is a job. And the friendship that eventually develops between Neruda and Mario changes their lives.The third central character is pretty and sexy 20-something Beatrice (Maria Grazia Cucinotta) who works in her fiercely protective aunt's bar and restaurant. Mario admires her from afar, but Neruda's poetry gives Mario an entry. He tells Neruda later, Poetry doesn't belong to those who write it, it is for those who need to use it.A very charming and meaningful movie on DVD for those who don't mind reading English subtitles. Or, listen to it in Italian or French. Some of my favorite scenes were the conversations between Mario and the poet when the mail was delivered.SPOILERS FOLLOW. Mario manages to win the affections of Beatrice through his poetry and they marry. The political climate changes in Chile allowing Neruda to return there. Mario is sad that Neruda does not seem to remember them. But he turns up perhaps 6 or 8 years later, meets Mario's young son and Beatrice, but finds that Mario had died in a rumble during a Communist rally in the square. The movie ends with Neruda on the beach where he and Mario had had so many wonderful conversations, reflecting on the beauty of the island and how it influenced his poetry. And the friendship with Mario. "},{"Title":"Ah, Love!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" With the possible exception of Shakespeare, perhaps, who can explain matters of the heart? For love can be that most elusive of butterflies, as a smitten young man discovers in 'Il Postino,' directed by Michael Radford. There's a bit of 'Cyrano' in this tale of Mario Ruoppolo (Massimo Troisi), a somewhat unprepossessing part time mailman (he has but one customer) who falls for a local beauty, Beatrice (Maria Grazia Cucinotta), but has no idea how to pursue the longings of his heart. But as luck would have it, Mario's customer just happens to be Pablo Neruda (Philippe Noiret), a South American expatriate who is also a world renown poet recently exiled to this small island off the coast of Italy. Not wanting to make a pest of himself, Mario only very gradually strikes up an acquaintance with Neruda, while his love for Beatrice goes unrequited. Once Neruda is apprised of Mario's situation however, he begins to instruct him in the art of regarding the world around him in terms of metaphor, as well as how to thus express himself. Soon Mario is composing poetry of his own, with hopes of not only attracting Beatrice's attention, but of winning her heart.It's a warm and touching story that plays to the heart, rather than the intellect, and will capture you with it's humanity. There is nothing singular about Mario; he is nondescript, just an average guy, and it illustrates that common bond among us all, that of having wants and needs to be expressed and fulfilled-- especially with regards to matters of the heart-- for as Mario discovers, love knows no boundaries.Troisi gives a strong performance as Mario, but is almost too retiring to be effective, though his character contrasts well with that of Noiret's Neruda, whose zest for life is more readily apparent. Still, it's that underplayed sense of the 'Everyman' that Troisi conveys so well that allows the audience to relate to him. Anyone who has ever yearned for the affections of that special someone will be able to identify with Mario. Ironically, it's his benign manner that makes him-- as contradictory as it may seem-- so memorable and forgettable at the same time, perhaps depending upon the emotional investment the individual viewer is disposed to make. As the poet Neruda, Noiret gives a notable performance, lending the character the sense of one who has known celebrity, yet is nonetheless still somewhat accessible. And in him you can readily perceive a true poetic nature-- though somewhat self-centered-- which gives the character credibility and makes him real.The supporting cast includes Linda Moretti (Donna Rosa), Renato Scarpa (Telegrapher), Mariano Rigillo (Di Cosimo) and Anna Bonaiuto (Matilde). A romantic film in every sense of the word, 'Il Postino' nevertheless transcends the romantic and takes a somewhat anticlimactic turn that encompasses loyalty and passion to a cause, as well as love. In the end, it's a lyrical, pacific film that seeks to discern the beauty in all things, and certainly makes a statement about the nature of life and love. I rate this one 7/10. "},{"Title":"Art and Love","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having just visited the opera version of this film IL POSTINO by Daniel Catan courtesy of PBS Great Performances it is rewarding to return to the original source to honor the nidus for the inspiration for the opera. Directed by Michael Radford the film relates the heartwarming story of Mario (Massimo Troisi), a gentle and simple postman who falls for the beautiful café waitress Beatrice (Maria Grazia Cucinotta) from his village, but is too shy to speak to her. He meets the famous Chilean poet Pablo Neruda (Phillipe Noiret), and, as their friendship develops, the postman's own inner poet awakens. Soon he is able to win the love of Beatrice and even stand up for and express his own beliefs.This is a simple story graced by sensitive performances of not the actor Massimo Trosi died from heart failure on the last day of production of the film. It is possibly this knowledge of the loss of one of Italy's best comedic actors along with the clarity and transparency of the film's gentle message about love and art that has made it a cult film. At any rate this is a film that belongs in every movie lover's library. Grady Harp "}{"Title":"Il Postino is a powerful Drama.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Directed by Michael Radford, this is a documentary worth the time.  It is dubbed from the Italian in a flowing manner.  One is nearly unaware of reading the dialogue after a short while.  It was written by Radford along with Anna Panignano in a very dramatic way.  The postman is assigned his menial job.  He delivers mail to a very prominent poet.  The poet imparts life and beauty to this simple but self educated delivery man.  The scenes of coastal Italy are spectacular.  The love story is compelling.  One can only empathize with the postal delivery man who yearns to understand the poetry of this world prominent figure.  There is excellent dialogue.  There are great pieces of stage business.  On DVD it still imparts a sense of compassion for the ideology of the author.  The political ties to South America are powerful.  It remains a worthwhile cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Lovely Little Film About the Power of Words","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A sweet, gentle film about a quiet postman who discovers the power of poetry in winning the heart of his true love.Massimo Troisi gives a warm, wonderful performance as said postman, while Phillipe Noiret plays the poet Pablo Neruda. The setting, a sleepy Italian village, gives the film a cozy atmosphere, and it's got a lovely score to match.One of the rare foreign-language films to be nominated for a Best Picture Academy Award, it lost to the thunderingly stupid Braveheart. Mel Gibson could use a little poetry himself.Grade A "},{"Title":"Massimo Troisi","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" the first name to associate with the film. and, at first sight, the actor who gives charm and force and light to the film. a film about an exile. and a beautiful friendship. a film about miracles and about innocence, about an unknown Neruda and about the passion to live as part of the other. Massimo Troisi has a great merit in this story of a poor man's happiness. but not the only. the music, the landscapes, the small events, the political frame, Philippe Noiret as a kind of Ovidius, far by the ordinary battle, discovering simple life are pieces who transforms Il Postino in memorable experience. a film about human links. poetic, touching, beautiful. maybe, useful. "},{"Title":"A Bromance","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Simple Italian postman learns to love poetry while delivering mail to a famous poet; he uses this to woo local beauty Beatrice.Some have called this film a romance between two men, albeit two men who love the ladies. Perhaps it might be better to call it a bromance in today's parlance. But even that is not strictly accurate. In many ways this parallels Cyrano de Bergerac or Roxanne.It was interesting to see Pablo Neruda brought to the big screen. I admit I am not all that familiar with his work, and those who have little interest in poetry probably no him even less. But he is a historical figure that could be interesting in a historical context... thank you to the Italians for bringing this to the world. "},{"Title":"grows on me","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mario Ruoppolo is uneducated and tired of being a fisherman. He picks up a job as the extra postman to deliver mail to famous Chilean poet Pablo Neruda. He has just been exiled to the island with his wife. He is interested in the amount of mail from women and hounds Pablo to teach him to write poetry. He falls for the sexy Beatrice Russo and enlists Neruda's help.Am I the only one who found Mario creepy? He's suppose to be the lovable loser but I found him stalkery. I wish Massimo Troisi had more childlike innocence quality about him. I'm sorry to see he died soon after but he looked gaunt. He does grow on me a little and after awhile, I realize he wasn't going to turn into a serial killer. The second half has some interesting poignant moments. It has a quiet charm and a powerful turn at the end. "},{"Title":"United in Friendship","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although Il Postino simply means The Postman, and although the film was at one time screened as The Postman in Britain, it is now generally known in English by its Italian title to avoid confusion with Kevin Costner's post-apocalyptic epic from three years later. It is loosely based upon the novel Ardiente paciencia by the Chilean writer Antonio Skármeta, although it transfers the action from Chile to Italy. It takes as its starting-point the fact that in the early 1950s the famous Chilean poet Pablo Neruda, in exile from his homeland for political reasons, spent some time on the island of Capri. The film, however, is not set on Capri but on an unnamed Italian island. A young fisherman named Mario Ruoppolo applies for a job as the island's postman. As he owns a bicycle and is one of the very few islanders who can read and write he is accepted and is told that he will only have one customer, Neruda himself, as because of the low levels of literacy on the island nobody else ever receives any mail. (Were standards of education really so low in fifties Italy?)Although Mario has never previously heard of Neruda, and certainly has never read any of his poems, a friendship gradually grows up between the two men. Although Mario has had little formal education he is clearly an intelligent and sensitive man, and Neruda reads him some of his poetry (in Italian translation), teaching him about literary concepts such as metaphors. With Neruda's help Mario woos the beautiful Beatrice, a village girl with whom he has fallen in love, stealing some of the older man's love poems and passing them off as his own in order to win her affections. My one criticism of the film would be that it is too sentimental about Communism, but that is perhaps only to be expected of a film from Italy, a country which at one time had the largest Communist Party in Western Europe. (In the seventies they used to win around a third of the popular vote, at a time when the British Communist Party generally consisted of three old men and a dog). Pablo Neruda is here portrayed as a kindly, idealistic gentleman, but in reality, during the forties and early fifties, he was a Communist hardliner who enthusiastically defended Stalin's dictatorship in the Soviet Union. After Khrushchev's 1956 secret speech he was to criticise the Stalinist cult of personality but this was due less to a change of heart than to a desire to align himself with the new official Soviet party line. He was also, at the time of his Italian exile, around twenty years younger than the character portrayed here by Philippe Noiret. Its politics aside, however, Il Postino is in many ways an excellent film. There is some attractive photography of the Italian coastal scenery and a great musical score by Luis Enríquez Bacalov. What really makes the film stand out, however, are the two great performances from Noiret and from Massimo Troisi, who tragically died of a heart attack soon afterwards, as Mario. There is also a good performance from the lovely Maria Grazia Cucinotta as Beatrice. Troisi received a posthumous Oscar nomination for Best Actor, but lost out to Nicholas Cage in Leaving Las Vegas; as I have never seen that film I am unable to comment on the justice of that decision. I felt, however, that it was unfortunate that there was no nomination for Noiret either as Best Actor or Best Supporting Actor. Indeed, this is one of those films which make me feel that it should be possible to nominate two actors for a joint award, as Noiret and Troisi combine together so well that their joint contribution seems greater than the sum of its two parts. This is the story of a touching relationship between two men of different generations, of different nationalities, of different levels of education and of different outlooks on life who are nevertheless united in friendship. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The deliverance of one man of letters by another is a cinematic love letter to poetry","Date":"29 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Chilean poet and communist agitator Pablo Neruda may never have set foot on the island of Salina in 1950, but writer-actor Mariamo Troisi's exploration of the idea is probably more interesting than any account of his actual exiles abroad. The eponymous postman of the film, Mario, has never taken to the patrilineal profession of fishing in his family. His widower father understands he never will and releases his seemingly simple son from his duties, to choose an occupation more suited to his abilities. In town, the communist postmaster needs a hand with the flurry of fan mail in the wake of Neruda and his wife's arrival. He greatly admires the Bolivarian bard and has his new postman run reconnaissance and procure signatures from him. Though their early exchanges may be of little significance, the two very different men of letters soon form a bond through a series of exchanges on poetry, love and politics. When Mario first meets barmaid Beatrice Russo over a game of table football, he instantly falls in love. He is inspired by his mentor to write her love poems, many of which he plagiarizes, and soon wins her heart. Michael Radford's surname may seem a little consonant-heavy for a production of this origin but the writer-director's English eye can only be clearly detected in the humour of the pacey, racy table football scene; which a native or continental director may have shot a little more seductively. It is really Troisi who leaves his indelible print on the film, which would be his last (dying tragically the day after production wrapped). The actor's physical frailty comes across as his character's mumbling humility. When beautiful Maria Grazia Cucinotta falls for his charms (or lack thereof), no one would seem more deserving a husband than he, and it is immensely gratifying to see his son Pablito stumble onto screen at the end. Phillipe Noiret also evokes much feeling in the last scene, imagining his friend's great yet fatal agitation for change, while walking their familiar beach. We get the feeling they may have liberated one another.'Il Postino' is very much a film that flows like poetry. There is no solid structure as prescribed by the script doctors of the time. No stakes and little drama. When our lovable protagonist dies at the end, it is not played for tears of devastation. I felt quiet elation he had finally found his voice and could speak up for his people at the rally. He asks Neruda earlier in the film a question regarding the writer's revolutionary ideals, So what if we break off our chains? What do we do then? He obviously has an answer to that question by the end, which is satisfaction enough. In another exchange, when Mario's plagiarism is discovered by Pablo, he counters Poetry doesn't belong to those who write it; it belongs to those who need it. This strikes one as quite humorous in the context of the scene but when recalled or read alone it signifies the point at which Mario has cast the chains off his mind. Sadly the distributors do not live by this dictum, and intellectual copyright law prevails online and elsewhere.While it may be a fictional account, the film is very much a celebration of the actual effect Neruda's poetry had on many of the working people of the world. Not so much a tribute to him, but to the millions of postini worldwide who have been delivered and a rallying call for all those who have yet to be. "},{"Title":"Massimo  Troisi","Date":"22 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" his performance is essence of this adorable film. his character is so careful created that its fragility, humor, innocence, light of details are magnificent. he don't play a role but he is il postino . and this fact transforms entire scene. the story of Neruda exile is only arena for emotions of a small man on an Italian isle. the beautiful Beatrice is brick for his delicate happiness. Neruda himself is not exactly a mentor but a gardener. and the music, the extraordinary music, it is the soul of entire poetry. because a poetry is this movie who has as roots poems. very delicate, nice, nostalgic, melancholic, subtle, intelligent, precise, it is wonderful homage to a way to discover life as fundamental miracle. to feel the nuances of love, friendship, to be humble, modest and daring in same time, to feel gratitude as form of respiration. beautiful and impressive. touching. and unique. story of a postman. legacy of Massimo Troisi. "},{"Title":"Who Really Wrote the Score?","Date":"16 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Il Postino is one of my favorite movies.The acting is superb. Massimo Troisi gives a uniquely unforgettable performance, despite his suffering from a fatal illness during filming. Phillipe Noiret, as Pablo Neruda, the Chilean poet-in-exile who befriends Mario (Troisi), gives one of his most memorable performances.The location is enchanting. I love all things Italian. Even a bad movie set in Italy is better for it having been shot there. Some of my favorites are Enchanted April, Summertime, and Roman Holiday. And I love the score, which, until tonight, I assumed was written by Luis Bacalov, who is credited in the movie. But I just watched a movie from 1940 called Dispatch from Reuters, a bio-pic starring Edward G. Robinson, and darned if the main theme from Il Postino isn't straight out of Dispatch from Reuters. By the way, the music for Reuters was composed by the great Max Steiner, who, to my knowledge, received no screen credit in Il Postino. How is this possible? Has the copyright expired rendering the music part of the public domain? "},{"Title":"Engrossing character study about two men and their connections to two separate women, as well as the poetry that forms the core of their own friendship.","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Radford's tender and rather sweet film, The Postman, is a really quite blinding tale of a man, without either much of a life or very many happenings in and around his existence, going out of his way so as to spawn some. The film is a ground zero character study working its way up, centring on one man and coming to gloriously flesh out his relationships with two people in the form of a mentor and a love interest using the item of poetry, and poets in particular, as a focal point or anchor around which to revolve the ever shifting lives of these half a dozen-or so people. The central character is a certain young man named Mario Ruoppolo, played by Italian actor Massimo Troisi whom died shortly after the film was completed and is one of only seven people to have won a Posthumous Academy Award for acting, which he won for his portrayal of a character named Mario. His life in the early part of the 20th Century on an island off the coast of Italy lies seemingly dormant; a living with his father, whom spends his days at sea fishing for a living, whilst inhabiting a scruffy and run down house on the cliff-side which cannot even produce water from a tap when desired, the situation; with a postcard from some brothers whom have arrived in America offering a brief insight into a supposedly better life.Determined to get on track, the softly spoken; delicate and slow moving Mario shifts off to a local post office so as to apply for the advertised job of delivering letters and mail, locally. On another tangent, that later will become intrinsically linked to that of Mario, a controversial poet from South American nation Chile of true to life existence named Pablo Neruda (Noiret) arrives in Italy having been exiled. His demeanour arrives by way of a newsreel sequence at a picture house, footage which the locals and us watch and listen to simultaneously establishing a set-persona of the man and his controversial, Communist infused existence of writing poetry crash-landing on this small Italian island, much to some of the locals' anger but to the glee of others. The early perceptions of the man are meant to be relatively concrete; he inhabits a beautifully placed but isolated red-washed villa on a separate cliff edge, before plodding Mario comes to form a bond with the poet upon delivering his many letters and from whence the film garners its catalyst so as to play out.The film comes to form a learning process for that of Mario, a deconstruction of an item or art-form that he'd almost certainly heard of in the past but very rarely thought about above a certain level. The same can be said for that of Chilian poet Neruda in regards to the fondness and acceptance the town come to have of him after he and his wife and their bond with a number of people come to forge, a relationship much richer than what he has experienced back home or, you feel, in most other places. Romance appears to want to bloom between Mario and local girl Beatrice (Cucinotta), the daughter of a traditional, hard-up Catholic woman whom owns a tavern within the vicinity; the spying of her playing a game of rather erotically charged flick-rod football in said tavern complete with thrusting of the mannequin players and hammering home of the goals more than enough to have Mario smitten from then on in.But the film is ultimately about the relationship or bond between two men going on around their separate relationships with Beatrice and Pablo's own female partner whom later becomes his wife. It would be untrue to say that the film at all feels less of an accomplishment when certain events transpire and the once central unification of Mario and Pablo is broken up; rather, the ties they have to one another during the film's early scenes are just more interesting, as is the chilling finale involving the two, than any sub-plot to do with either men and what happens between them and their women. Mario's attempts to court a young local girl and the noticeable placing of Pablo's own female partner predominantly off screen and away from the action for most of the time might render the relationship between Mario and Pablo one of a homo-erotic nature. Much later on, a Paris based interview with the poet some years later has Mario read on with keen interest as to whether he or anyone from the town are mentioned; the camera darting around from face to face of those reading with Mario in a kind of panic or nervous excitement or lusting requirement for purifying fulfilment in the form of notifying them, predominantly the notifying of Mario.The convenience in having come to have known a master of poetry of a romantic sort, somebody that feeds off of a belief that all women love romantic poetry and that it is the key to pertaining to a relationship, works very much in Mario's favour. His gradual learning of how to construct it, the encountering of terms and words such as what a metaphor is gradually come to form the nucleus of the first half of the film; a fitting sequence on a nearby beach sees Pablo gradually reveal himself as he readies to swim in a physical sense as Mario comes to reveal a spoken metaphor for the very first time as, on another occasion, he gradually forms an opinion of a short poem Pablo comes up with on the spot. The film's attention to finer things such as these, an including of sequences in which characters must first come to master the basics of an art or activity so as to garner entry onto another plateau so as to put what has been learnt into action, feels wonderfully prominent, resulting in Radford's film being thoroughly worthwhile. "}{"Title":"Troisi's premature swansong","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had never seen this film before but recently saw it as part of a library film series. Directed by Michael Radford it earned five Academy award nominations and won Best Original Dramic Score for Luis Enriquez Bacalov. This was a low budget film but went on to become the highest grossing non-English language film for a long time. shot on location on the Italian islands of Salina and Procida and wonderfully photographed by Franco Di Gialomo this is the story of an unemployed and unmarried man Mario Ruoppolo (Massimo Troisi) reaching middle age years and is offered a small job as a postman with only one customer, the exiled Chilean communist poet Pablo Neruda (Phillipe Noiret) who is staying on the island. Mario and Pablo develop a warm friendship which leads a new confident Mario into writing poetry himself to woo local beauty, the barmaid Beatrice Russo (Maria Grazia Cucinotta). Basically a two actor film with a great cast in Troisi, Noiret and Cucinotta with great support in small roles from Linda Moretti as Neruda's mistress Donna Rosa and Renato Scarpa as Mario's boss. Nice costume design by Gianna Giss and production design by Lorenzo Baraldi. A fictionalized account of a brief 1952 stay on the island of Capri by Neruda written by Radford, Troisi, Furio and Giacomo Scarpelli and Anna Pavigano from a story by Antonio Skármeta set in Argentina during Neruda's exile there. This is a touching story and very well rendered. It is visually artistic and dramatically poetic with touches of smart, light comedy. It is painful to watch knowing that it's star, Troisi, filmed this against doctor's orders and ultimately ended up dying of a heart attack immediately after the principal filming. You can see him sweating in almost every scene even when he is not riding his bicycle and none of the other actors are sweating. For his health the director should have shut down or slowed production or recast him. A lot of work went into this for a small film and it paid off on the screen and at the box office. I would recommend this and give it an 8.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Two Priceless Characters","Date":"10 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a gentle, unassuming movie. When Pablo Neruda arrives on the island, exiled from his native Chile due to his political beliefs, he is a mysterious figure. Women love his work and send him mail by the bushel basket. The principle character has the job of bringing the mail to the hinterland and eventually begins a relationship with the great poet. The postman is a very simple man who really should be ignored or tolerated by Neruda. Instead, the man who loves poetry instills that love in this man who mumbles and stumbles with his words. Eventually they find themselves discussing deeper issues and the Postman begins to realize an intellectual potential. There is a comment later in the movie about ignorant people. He would never have made such a comment early on because of his own self doubts. He at first sees poetry as a way to get girls but later comes to know that he is himself a poet. I loved the wonderful acting and the gentle yet powerful nature of this film. "},{"Title":"The Gift Of Metaphors","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Il Postino' is one of the most authentic love stories on screen. Set in a beautiful exotic Italian island, director Radford tells the story of a poet and a postman. Poetry brings them together and poetry is what creates a strong bond between them. I loved how the story is treated with such sincerity. Radford cleverly avoids clichés and keeps the movie pure. 'Il Postino' is an incredibly romantic film and yet it doesn't appear syrupy or corny, a risk most films of this genre run into. Radford avoids showing the romance between Beatrice and Mario under an overtly sentimental light. He captures the landscape marvelously through first-rate camera-work. The soundtrack too is one of the most romantic ones I have ever heard and it beautifully supports the movie like scent does to flowers. Philippe Noiret brings wisdom and compassion as poet Pablo Neruda. Maria Grazia Cucinotta sizzles on screen with a natural sex appeal. But, 'Il Postino' belongs to the late Massimo Troisi who delivers a memorable final performance. It is indeed very sad that he died just twelve hours after completing shooting but I admire his courage and passion to go on making this film. The end of the film also echoes the departures of this fine actor. Neruda's poetry is also wonderfully utilized within the story giving the film a poetic rhythm. This movie should be shown in poetry class. 'Il Postino' is one of the finest of its genre, a classic lyrical gem. "},{"Title":"Great Love Story","Date":"4 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" What can be said of Michael Radford's Il Postino? This is what all cinema should be a beautiful story with heartfelt performances by amazing actors. Drawing inspiration from Antonio Skármeta's novel, Radford crafts a love story about an average postman who admires Pablo Neruda's poetry and seeks his help to win the heart of the woman he loves. It's a fantastic premise and wonderfully accomplished by Massimo Troisi and Phillipe Noiret.Noiret gives an unforgettable performance as a Neruda, made more startling by their likeness, but the meek and mild-mannered Troisi is the real heart of the movie, playing a rather ignorant, insignificant man who worships Neruda and is inspired by him to become a poet too.Their relationship is realist, which also means cruel; for if Neruda means everything for the postman Mario, for Neruda Mario is just an entertainment, someone to talk to but someone he'll forget nonetheless once he ends his exile on the Island.The finale is one of the saddest and most emotional I've ever seen in a movie, not just for its crushing irony, but also for the melancholy music composed by Luis Bacalov.In the end, this is a very simple movie, but it does everything right. The same can't be said of many masterpieces. "},{"Title":"A poem.","Date":"25 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I love these kinds of stories. Poetic in nature and heartfelt. This is a very touching love story. THe soundtrack combined with the poetic way the film moves along and the narration all come together wonderfully. The director, Michael Radford did a superb job of mixing the guy girl relationship and the guy guy relationship evenly. And what beautiful cinematography. It's not often that I say this, but I wish that it went on just a little longer. Maybe because I loved the soundtrack so much! I only wish that more movies were able to be made like this in the U.S. I really do think that there is an audience out there for this. I love independent movies. I'm new to the IMDb and look forward to catching new projects all the time. "},{"Title":"wonderfully romantic!","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The postman is a terrific romantic film. The type of movie you want to watch in a Sunday afternoon. It has some god acting, a nice story, and it's good to look at, even if forgettable. The screenplay follows the book closely, so it has nice, uplifting subplots, engaging characters and a terrible ending. The narration was good, and it gave the movie a cute fairytale tone. The characters weren't very developed, sometimes they were clichéd, but all the actors are great, so it's easy to not notice that. The dialogs are OK, nothing brilliant but not bad, either. Michael Radford's directing is simple but effective; the Italian location is very well shot, and almost all the rest of the movie as a simple direction with no flashes of brilliance. "},{"Title":"This film is as sweet as they come.","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is adorable! Our main character is basically a nobody, with the potential to be a somebody living in some remote Sicilian fishing village. He is sick and not made to work with his father's sad fishing routine, even if that seems to be the only work the area offers. Luckily, and thanks to the fact that unlike most people in the area he can read, he finds himself a job as a postman. Since nobody around is literate, his main responsibility is to take the mail to the infamous Pablo Neruda who is residing there temporarily having been exiled from his homeland. He looks up to the man who he sees as a lady tamer through his words especially considering the fact that he would not dare to open up to the beautiful Beatrice he is in love with. So he pleads Neruda to open his eyes to the world of poetry. This film is going to go straight to the center of your heart guaranteed. "},{"Title":"What Beauty Not just a love story","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In fact, when you see a movie with many awards whose title or subject doesn't appeal to you, see it anyhow!!! I finally gave in and bought, wondering what in the world a love story could have that would win such awards. Boy, did I find out!!!!Gorgeous cinematography of the Italian coast which will make you want to run out and buy a plane ticket despite the hideous airport conditions. Breathtaking is correct, and you're even afraid they'll fall off the cliff to the sea, so close are they.fantastic script, showing the power of the pen. That Neruda, a poet was so feared that he was exiled, points up the point exquisitely. HOw horrible that the actor, playing the part so magnificently would die within months of the end of this production. What stress that must have been to get this film so exquisitely right. He truly gave his life for his art.The simple fisherman,,,,hmmmm who else was a simple fisherman?....who died at the hands of the authorities as he prepares to read his poem to a huge Italian crowd..... beautifully played with basset-hound eyes by this fellow who Ive never heard of. And his beautiful Sophia Loren-like object of affection. Is it some Italian characteristic that their women have tiny waists, tiny arms and HUGE breasts? When my breast got that large, my arms looked like Ahnold's and my thighs like piano legs? Is that a metaphor or an analogy? See the movie and find out.Someone should give that aunt an Oscar for supporting actress. Her role as the harping ever-critical but loving mother substitute was outstanding. Overall, well worth my $2.95 investment. I love these movie houses that sell out their stock....I'll just have to keep my VHR running. "},{"Title":"Great comedy & romantic film on beautiful scenery.","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Massimo Troisi IS this film. I went to watch it with the worse expectations 1) another manipulative commercial movie 2) in which beautiful scenery hides lack of ideas 3) yet another rehash of Don Quixote and antagonic duets that end up learning from each other. 4) Romantic readings of tangos, the music from my native Argentina, by Mr. Luis Bacalov, who turned out to be an Argie too. I expected a Piazzolla all over, glib enough to have won an Oscar. In sum Romance an poetry in Italy for real Dummies.I had to gulp my words. The director cares for the characters, and although it does manipulate, it does it so well one almost wants things to turn out like they should. Miss Cuccinota has the right kind of rough beauty and scant vocabulary for her role. The secondary characters are very well placed her fiery aunt Donna Rosa (Moretti), the square priest, his mute dad that nevertheless understands a lot, the glamorous sleazy politician.Sociologically it's a feast, but does not impose a heavy handed view on its topic. It's just there, like when Mario enumerates the beautiful things of his homeland, most are nature-related. And truly different, each from the other. Or the importance of the church, the universal referent (from Neruda to the commie chief postman, they all bow under it). Or the way he speaks to Don Pablo. And then, his very down to earth justification of His absences. And his reply to his telegrapher boss (Scarpa) if he's a communist, and they are supposed to work for the people, why doesn't he come here?. Neruda's description on why he wrote the Canto General is superb. If only it were true (that culture helps the forgiven) ).Maybe the best is also the cruelest Mario saying So what if we break our chains? What do we do then? His surname sounds like an anagram of Popolo, just a nod maybe?All in all, I have to accept I went out of the cinema a happier and wiser person. Knowing a bit more about deep Italy and values in a primitive society. And still with unanswered questions, like when Mario postulates that the world may be a metaphor for something else.Mr. Radford did some documentaries early on his career, and I think it shows in some shots, secondary to the plot, but vital for the settings. It's also an acid film, in which everybody is alone. Beatrice playing with the workers late in the film, the lack of communication between Mario and his dad, her aunt's ugly capitalism. The compassion-less priest. But I guess, again, you can enjoy the film without thinking, as poetry should be done as Pablo explains. Anway, quoting him again event the most sublime idea gets to be banal if repeated too many times. I guess that would mean that the essence of happiness is in changing, not obsessing with things and people? I leave this philosophical question for the reader to think about.Jotix100 from NY's review TITLE has great simplicity, as well as his review focusing on the literary aspect made me realize I'll never look at metaphors the same way  ). Thanks to Amazon reviewer Michael J. Mazza (Pittsburgh, PA) I remembered his catchy phrase about the property of work. Interestingly enough, it relates to thoughtful French deconstruction philosophy. It is, in essence, a Marxist argument. So, it's very wrong, but a nice touch in the context. Debbie Wesselman (*also from PA) reminded me about the often quoted but very powerful Neruda line of being tired of being human. Also about Noiret's essential performance. He's given very beautiful lines! She is right about (the courtship's steps having) all the humor and bittersweet missteps of the real thing and Mario being in love with language as well as with Beatrice.I remember when it was issued some complained about him not really speaking the lines. I think this is rubbish, he does impersonate the character well, and without demagogy.Summing up, agree with this one complex and poignant story about the pain of growing into one's destiny by-Tom Keogh (Amazon). "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, though slow at time","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw the film last night at an Italian cultural fest, and Maria Grazia Cucinotta answered questions after. I should note that the run time given on the main Postino page is 108 minutes. The film we saw was 155 minutes. Though the cinematography wasn't great, the setting (mostly Sicily) was wonderful to watch. Massimo was known as a great comedian, and there were many comictouches. But he particularly put his heart in demonstrating the bond that developed between his character and Neruda. Though he was not listed as director, he in fact directed the film , with the assistance of Michael Radford. I have read Neruda's poetry (and the poetry of his friend, Garcia Lorca), but the film has made me more interested in Neruda's life. It is true that Neruda was forcedunderground from 1947-1949, and escaped into exile in 1949. The govenment allowed him to return in 1952. He died shortly after Kissinger and the generals killed Allende. I thought that Massimo and Linda Moretti (Donna Rosa) gave particularly wonderful portrayals. "}{"Title":"A Ten not because it's glorious","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS*This film seems to have faults...the main character (Mario) seems unlikely to become the poet he eventually becomes. I may have just missed the point to certain stylistic choices, especially the ending Communist demonstration, in which we don't see what happened. Yes, our lovable poet died, but how? I mean, you can infer the police attacked and somewhere along the lines he was killed...but still...Also, I didn't like the sudden death and then flashback to explain his death. Since when was our focus on Pablo, not Mario? The scene in which we learn Mario is dead is when Pablo returns and Beatrice matter of factly shares that our protagonist is dead. The transition from lively and embolden man who finally was inspired and filled with direction to martyr who anti climatically died was sooooo unsatisfying quick! I mean, the scene before that (if memory serves) had no hint of Mario's upcoming death. So, our director --- er, group of writers--- made an uneven choice. Of course, when I eventually see the movie again I may find that the last ten minutes of the film really ties in well with the rest...but as it stands I was a little put off by that.Otherwise, this is a must see film. Gorgeous cinematography, great characters, very thought provoking ideas after all it's poetry they're talking about! For that alone this film is distinctive---they're aren't enough films about poets. That said, I wonder what other films there are about poetry/poets?All the best people! Look forward to my next rewarding film experience, and yours as well... "},{"Title":"Awesome island catches","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recommend this masterpiece to everyone who is interested in Mediterranean island life. Especially, the marvelous view of the sea from the hills and the poetic catches of the director worth for watching. All the fans of Pablo Neruda, you should experience hearing his poets in Italian that will make your heart beat faster. All the actors and actresses, but specially the deceased Massimo Troisi, are as if they are playing the roles of their life, which makes the audience feel themselves as they are in the story. The movie has an English version, too. But for sure original Italian version is better. Soundtrack of the movie also worths buying. Neruda's poets from celebrities in English are also included in the soundtrack "},{"Title":"The tenderest movie I've ever seen.","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Il postino is so stamped with humanity. It's the kind of movie which reminds me why and how much I love life. All the characters marvelously were real, funny, sweet and so beautiful. I spend the whole movie, whispering about the hero Il est trop beau. Massimo Troisi, the actor, did a fantastic work. Every of his moves, his whole articulation, his eyes as black as childish can't do anything but hit you right in the heart. I was as fascinated by seeing him giving life to the sweetest man on Earth, as I was by watching for the first time Glenn Gould playing piano.Moreover, this whirl of feelings was emphasized by every shot's picturesque. I got so many images in my mind. I'm full of rose, yellow, blue, green. I know some shots ever will stuck in my mind, printed in my retina, my brain, my breath. I also know that since now my heart will be tight when some sounds come to my ears...There only was one thing which makes me sad (kind of) about this movie. It was not the real and beautiful voice of Philippe Noiret. Which is normal as his character speaks fluent Italian and Spanish. Nevertheless, I've missed it.Anyhow, it's a fantastic movie and I recommend it to all of you.  "},{"Title":"A heart-warming friendship and the beauty of being simplistic","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When the beloved poet Pablo Neruda (Philippe Noiret) arrives on the small fishing island in Italy while being exiled from Chile for his political beliefs, all of a sudden there come massive quantities of post for him and an extra postman is needed. The unemployed son of a fisherman Mario Ruoppolo (Massimo Troisi) takes the job and delivers mail to the famous poet. Gradually, they befriend each other and as a lowly educated man, Mario nevertheless becomes fascinated by poetry and Pablo shows him the beauty and the power of words, then Mario wins the heart of the most beautiful woman in the village, Beatrice Russo (Maria Grazia Cucinotta) and marries her. On their wedding day, Pablo receives the notice that after all the while, he and his wife are finally allowed to return to their homeland, Chile. So they leave. But Pablo promises that he will come back one day...WARNING SPOILERS AHEADMario waits and waits, while others say Pablo definitely has forgotten the people he met in this small village, Mario still believes that, some day, Pablo will return. One day, he is overwhelmed by a letter from Chile, only to find out that it's written by Pablo's secretary, asking him to post back Pablo's belongings. Among them is a recording device, once Mario was encouraged by Pablo to say something- anything, to be recorded by the gear. Now, he starts recording the sounds of his beautiful island and gives each part a brief introduction, which is intended to be posted to Pablo. While everybody says Pablo has forgotten them, Mario humbly insists that 'who am I to be remembered?'Years later, Pablo and his wife finally return to the village to visit Mario, only to find out that Mario had died during a political demonstration, exactly when he was about to read a poem dedicated to his good friend, Pablo, on stage. Now what remains is Beatrice and their son, Pablito, named after Pablo, who was born days after his father's death.So now Pablo walks alone on the seaside, remembering all those moments...as his memories gently flow in his mind, the warm friendship they once shared...but now it's too late...'Il Postino' is a very touching tale about an everlasting friendship formed under unlikely circumstances. Look at Pablo's eyes at the end of the film, which are full of the warm feelings, regret and tears. Massimo Troisi delivered a very powerful performance as the simplistic and yet lovable postman. The score is, again, really moving. The film is, in every way, inspiring. This great piece of work, marvellously directed by Michael Radford, is, as a Taiwanese/Chinese  saying, 'a refreshing stream in this corrupted world'. Watch this movie and be enlightened.                 "},{"Title":"Head in the Sand","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The bored painfully shy fisherman, Mario, is uninspired in life and his days fade off. He lands a job as a postman and his sole customer is Neruda. In Italy he meets this poet,Neruda, well known from Chile. They soon become friends and Neruda teaches Mario how to compose poems with metaphors. With his new gift Mario goes off to entice Beatrice with his new talent.  "},{"Title":"It's about Friendship, not romantic love","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  **contains spoilers**It interests me that so many of the comments about this film (and the way it was marketed) focus on the romance between the postman and Beatrice Russo. To me, that is a minor part of the film.  Beatrice has only a handful of lines and very little screen time.  The film is more about the friendship between Mario Ruocculo and Pablo Neruda.Il Postino is heartbreaking in its final half hour or so, when you realise that Neruda really ISN'T going to get in touch with his friends in Italy. The famous poet had far more of an impact on their lives than they had on his.  It is sad that even when people don't love us as much as we love them, we still love them and yearn for them nonetheless.  Even when it is clear to Mario that Pablo isn't going to write to him or keep in touch, he makes the beautiful tape for his friend.When Pablo finally does return years later to find that Mario has died, and we see the scenes of him listening to the tape and walking along the beach, I felt nothing but loathing for him.  Yes, he returned, but would it have killed him to have made an effort to keep in touch with the postman during those ten years.  Neruda was just so, so selfish.  It was beautiful that Mario realised he didn't mean as much to Neruda as Neruda had to him, yet he chose to still love his friend anyway and not feel bitter.  In those final scenes, I was wishing pain and regret upon Neruda for his behaviour. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Gentle Story","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Il Postino is less about plot or destination than the trip itself.The kindness, simplicity and sincerity of the characters was, for me, very touching.  The music and scenic backdrop of the Italian coast are the finishing touchesThe story line is simple  exiled poet Pablo Neruda temporarily resides on a small island.  A new postman (Massimo) is hired to deliver mail to the poet. A mentor-student relationship soon evolves as Pablo helps Massimo acquire an appreciation of the written word while spurring Massimo to expand his level of self expression while he pursues the woman of his dreams.The story and characters are simple and the pacing slow by design. But none of the characters possess an ounce of guile or pretense which is a refreshing change from the sarcasm and bitterness, often typical of many contemporary love stories.Il Postino is a 10!  "},{"Title":"Italian Cinema at its best","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Il Postino is a simple but beautifully told tale of an illiterate postman - the excellent Massimo Troisi's - friendship with exiled Chilean poet Nablo Neruda. This is one of the finest examples of Italian and International cinema in the tradition of Amarcord and Cinema Paradiso.The simplicity and beauty of the story, the realistic acting, the lush settings of the village and island and the lovely score sum up to make a moving cinematic experience which one can revisit repeatedly and gain something new from.There is much humor in Troisi's wooing of village beauty Beatrice Russo and the pacing of the film, while leisurely,  is never stagnant. "},{"Title":"A story about a man who felt unloved.","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Cultures differ and Il Postino would not have been made in America.  Stories of insecurity and doubt center around high school or university freshmen in our country.  What are the wonders of my city.  I might find them now because of this film. "},{"Title":"Good but the director wanted it to boring","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As far as I can remember, I've watched this movie two years ago. That's why I will not write too much about it. No, I didn't forget it. The problem is that two years ago I was 13 years old and my cinematographic taste was very different. Titanic, that time, was for me, the best movie ever done. Of course, my opinion has changed a lot but I still can remember that Il Postino, even being good, was slow and boring sometimes. And I don't think that it'll change if I watch it again.Il Postino IS about the relationship of Mario, a postman, and the known poet Pablo Neruda. At first, it's a typical Italian movie the soundtrack and the photography are beautiful, there are some really remarkable scenes (if I'm right, there's a radio involved) and the acting is superb. But there are some flaws as slowness and the miss of a strong plot line that could make us really FELL something. There isn't anything very special about it.Maybe what made me fell so disappointed about this movie is its director. In fact, Michael Radford is Indian, and that's why Il Postino looks like a typical Italian movie only at first. If you think a little, it doesn't really is Italian. It's slow and boring in some scenes because it looks like an Indian movie. The Indian Shekhar Kapur made the same with Elizabeth, which could be very good but was completely slow, dark and confuse.Overall, a good movie but, definitely, far away from being good enough to be into the 5 nominated for the Best Movie Oscar. Graded B ps typical Italian movies are great and much better "}{"Title":"overrated above-average film","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is a disparity in how the film is portrayed in the ads (including the video box photo) and the story itself.  The story description in the back of the video box (US) is even wrong, if I remember.  But, for someone who sees mostly US movies, it's a good change of pace.  Includes lots of beautifully photographed scenes of the island it's set in, and an interesting side-story involving an election.  Lastly, the story spans many years and that adds a nice flavor to it.An average-to-good movie.  If you've heard more than five people praise it before you go and see it yourself, forget about what you think the movie is about.  Try to watch without any expectations. "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is beautiful and charming, and captures the full range of human experience and emotion in the person of Mario, superbly characterized by the late, great actor, Massimo Troisi. Mario blossoms from a simple man to a great poet, lover, and proud comrade as he is inspired by the poet, Pablo Neruda and the lovely local girl, Beatrice Russo. Troisi masterfully portrays the unassuming fisherman's son who aspires for--and achieves-- greatness. I laughed and cried, alternately through the movie.  "},{"Title":"Who is poetry for?","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Poetry isn't for those who write it.  It's for those who need it.   These words are spoken by the postman to Neruda on his doorstep after Neruda discovers he has been passing off his poems as his own in an attempt to romance the local tavernkeeper's daughter.  A very pragmatic position, one of expediency on the surface.  But that is the virtue of art.  It ceases to belong to the artist and takes on a life of its own.  This defines the vocation of poet; it is the essence of the vocation of poet.  What is given, is given irrevocably and totally.   A true artist gives unselfishly of his own soul and enriches our own. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Touching, beautiful and ultimately very moving.  Italian cinema has an emotional content more sincere and accurate than any other nation.  Watch in a double-bill with Cinema Paradiso, and you will discover Life is Beautiful (I do hope you spot the pun).    "},{"Title":"An inspiring movie!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The accidental postman, who for his own benefit/curiosity took the opportunity of delivering letters to that great master of poetry (none other than Pablo Neruda himself), expanded his horizons and learned how to attract the most beautiful woman he had ever seen.The backdrop of Neruda's exile in Italy from his homeland gives the story an interesting time-frame in the political history of the 20th Century.  It all comes together well.  If you like Italian films or poetry or political science or simply a beautiful love story, don't miss Il Postino.All in all, it is a memorable movie and an immortalizing last performance of Massimo Troisi. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but not quite what I expected","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I only heard of this movie on the TV game show 'Who Wants to be a Millionaire?'. The question was which one of 4 mentioned actors starred in the films 'Nuovo Cinema Paradiso' and 'Il Postino'. I hadn't heard of 'Il Postino' before, but I knew that Philippe Noiret stars in 'Nuovo Cinema Paradiso', so I already knew the answer. The presenter recommended the person who wrongly answered the question to watch these 2 movies because something changes inside us once we get to see these 2 films.Then I did research on this motion-picture. It sounded promising, even more so by being foreign. I also got to know the sad story of Massimo Troisi, who played the title's postman (Pablo Neruda's postman). The man suffered from heart disease since a long time ago. He knew about his fragile heart condition and knew he needed treatment, but despite this he wanted to do the movie anyway. He even postponed heart surgery so that he could complete the film. That was a brave move. And he did manage to finish the movie just in time. Only 12 hours after completing the film he died of heart attack. You can say that he gave his life to make this film.Massimo Troisi is great as Mario Ruoppolo, the postman. But it's also sad to see him in this film because we are looking at a man who was dying while making it and that he died almost immediately after completing it.Phillipe Noiret is great as the chilean poet Pablo Neruda. While Pablo Neruda existed for real, his friendship with the postman didn't. But I don't know if a postman named Mario Ruoppolo existed in real life or not and if he was Pablo Neruda's postman or not.The film's got beautiful cinematography and soundtrack, which gives it more emotion and beauty. The plot is, in concept, good. But the movie itself lacks something (perhaps more emotion is one of those things it lacks) and is even a little too-slow paced. It's not a bad movie. It's interesting, moving, pretty to view... a good attempt, just not quite top material. It just isn't as great as it reputation suggests (with, of course, all due respect in memory of our friend Massimo Troisi). "},{"Title":"International Masterpiece","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" For all intents and purposes, this is Massimo Troisi's film and it is tragic and yet, and yes, poetic, that he died a few hours after giving this memorable, multi-layered performance. The waves are welcomed on the shore of tranquil and beautiful Capri as the final scene unwinds. Then a poem simply written on the black screen closes the tale by summarizing and succinctly depicting the essence of the movie, before a dedication is made To our friend Massimo This is Troisi's film and he also participated in the fine writing with a simple but heartfelt story and exquisite dialogue. Although Troisi is also a director, this time, it is English director Michael Radford who will put all the pieces together of this timeless story and also contribute to the writing. In a way, this is the beginning of how this project becomes international and goes beyond Italy, both outside and inside the picture (althought all the action actually takes place in Capri, Italy). Argentinian Luis Enríquez Bacalov will win an Oscar for his peaceful, poignant score. I suppose that French Philippe Noiret, from Cinema Paradiso ) fame will need as little directing as Troisi in portraying real life Chilean poet and political activist Pablo Neruda. In the movie you will also hear Spanish and hear about Chile (and Sweeden, Russia, France) as if they are actual characters of the movie.The screenplay is based on, Chilean writer, Antonio Skármeta's El cartero novel about Nobel Prize winner Pablo Neruda and a bond he forms with a postman in Isla Negra in Chile. Skarmeta had already adapted his own work for the screen (and directed it); the Spanish-language Ardiente paciencia(1983), which I would love to see eventually. Il Postino transposes the story to Italy where Neruda was given a place to stay in a villa in Capri by Edwin Cerio during his real life exile in 1952.The tale is simple enough. A young man who does not want to become a fishermen like most men of his hometown decides to be the private postman (for pennies) of popular poet that lives in exile in a near-by villa. Intrigued by this famous figure, he starts to awkwardly ask questions about poetry and a genuine friendship develops between them.Mario, the postman, is lovestruck by Beautiful Beatrice (Scicilian Maria Grazia Cucinotta) and runs to the man who seemingly woes hundreds of women with words, but her ultra-catholic aunt may end up being a bigger obstacle than his lack of romantic banter. Beyond the typical love story that is more of a backdrop to the tale of friendship is the appreciation for poetry and in art to express the beauty of life. In fact, in a way it is also Pablo Neruda's film. The real life poet who's poetry is used in the movie and who's life inspired the character that is so central to the story, to the small town to Mario's growth as an individual. He who can barely read and write, and says that he wants to be a poet just like his friend and idol. Very inspirational. A true work of art in every aspect. I cannot sincerely think of a bad thing to say about this one. "},{"Title":"Burning Patience","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Right after I saw Il postino in 1995, I got really into Pablo Neruda, and I read the novel Burning Patience, on which the movie is based. While I will say that I liked the book better - they set the movie twenty years earlier than the original story happened, and they set it in Italy - I won't deny the movie's power. Not just in showing the friendship between humble postman Mario Ruoppolo (Massimo Troisi, who died the day after they finished filming) and Neruda (Philippe Noiret), but also how it looks at post-WWII Italy and how the people were trying to put their lives back together. In that sense, Mario's burgeoning love for Beatrice may be a sort of allusion to Italy's eventual resurrection from its destruction in WWII. I think that my favorite scene was Mario recording the various sounds; I would say that it displayed his full artistic potential that he had developed through his friendship with Neruda.But anyway, it's a really great movie, the sort of thing that gives you new faith in life and love. What happens at the end certainly mirrors what happened in Chile right before Neruda died. I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Soulful and crowd-pleasing period piece that is a treat for the eye and the ear.","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Chilean poet is exiled from his homeland and forms an unlikely friendship with his simple-minded island postman.There is no ready-reckoner in cinema Big subjects don't necessarily make big movies any more than small subjects result in small movies.This is a small film - but for all the right reasons It is about a time, a place and the people that mill about in that time and place. There is no do-or-die driving narrative, rather a simple tale of love and friendship.Perversely the death of the lead Troisi just hours after the filming ended gave the film a spotlight it really didn't want or need; indeed the tragic knowledge haunts you while watching the film proper.Credit British director Michael Radford whose C.V. now includes this, 1984 (another film that had big post-wrap problems - this time over the use of pop music!) and even an episode of Homicide Life on the Street.Maybe the script didn't allow anything other than straight story telling, but he hasn't tried to do anything other than stand back let the story tell itself. No jump cuts, fast pans or trick shots. Lots here is medium shot - mostly to get in the lovely Italian background- and despite its sentimental base doesn't linger too long on anything. It is almost a case of non-directing than directing.The story isn't really that promising (in the telling) and it speaks volumes for the talent of Philippe Noiret, Massimo Troisi and Maria Grazia Cucinotta that they keep this simple minded piece going forward.Indeed Troisi's postman is a bit simple and can't really be considered anything but a country bumpkin. It is hard to believe that the red-hot waitress played by Cucinotta would fall for him - not in the real world where others might notice her charms too! But, hey, this is a movie.Equally it is hard to really believe in the Chilean poet played by Noiret. He leaves his country for political reasons, but returns because someone has told him it is now safe. Who is telling him this and should he believe them? A famous Communist (or near Communist) would never be safe in Chile in the late 1950's surely? But again, I let this pass.As I said before, there isn't a lot to this movie in the telling but there is a lot to it in the watching. The acting and the background are a treat and while the story is slow, and without true dramatic thrust, I loved it. For most audiences this will be a change of location and a change of language, but we all need these things now and again.It doesn't challenge Nuovo Cinema Paradiso for being the high water mark of Italian cinema, but its not that far behind either. "},{"Title":"First Class Males","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What are the odds of a great French actor, kept fully employed in France, starring in two of the most successful and internationally popular Italian movies of all time.  What a parley for Phillipe Noiret, Cinema Paradiso and Il Postino.  Reading through just the first batch of comments one is almost hoping for a negative reaction to temper the praise - and of course it is there to be found, there is, after all, one in every platoon. It's also ironic that one finds oneself searching for superlatives to describe what is essentially bone simple; what, after all, is more basic than friendship, however unlikely and/or mismatched the participants are.  It's almost embarrassing to watch the amazing Massimo Troisi doing shy, doing humble, doing simple in the best sense of the word.  This is acting of the highest order and in some of their scenes together Philippe Noiret, no slouch by any means, does well to hold his own.  Cynics - and I like to think I have a healthy streak of cynicism in my own make up - may well question the odds against a simple, barely articulate fisherman's son living in a remote backwater metamorphosing into an erudite public speaker after a short exposure to a world-class poet but wiser heads are happy to put cynicism on hold and wallow in the elements - music, scenery, local color, the human condition and most of all great acting - that fuse together seamlessly and make this a must-see movie.  10/10  "}{"Title":"Words can be magic","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most beautiful movies ever made. The great Phillipe Noiret plays the poet Pablo Neruda who shows the postman Mario, played by the fantastic Massimo Troisi, how to use words. With his help he rules the heart of Beatrice, the girl of his dreams. Maria Grazia Cuccinotta who later became a Bond-Girl in The World is not enough plays Beatrice. Sometimes words can be magic. This movie is magic. Unfortunately Massimo Troisi died a few days later. This was the part of his life. "},{"Title":"Beautiful masterpiece","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Il Postino is a great Italian movie, that tells about a postman called Mario Ruoppolo, played by Massimo Troisi, who has only one person to deliver the mail to, and that person is a great poet called Pablo Neruda (Philippe Noiret). Mario and Pablo become friends, and Pablo teaches Mario something about poetry.Mario falls in love with a local girl called Beatrice Russo (Maria Grazia Cucinotta), and he wins her heart with poetry.Il Postino is a poetic and beautiful movie, and all the actors do a great job.Massimo Troisi died shortly after the movie was made, which is sad as the movie itself. When I watched the movie, it made me feel nice and warm inside. "},{"Title":"magnificent masterpiece of Michael with two marvelous metaphors --the poet(Pablo) and the postman(Mario)","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" what a magnificent movie, legendary work by Michael Redford , everything about this movie is beautiful ,,winning Oscar does not come in easy way ,,be it budget,,cinematography covering island's natural beauty ,,specially sea settings ,humourous dialogs with utmost simplicity and realistic performances by actors ,everything is admirable.sometimes you do not plan to make a great movie with highly perfection attitude but movie becomes and gets applauded ,,same happened with this movie,what i believe what is metaphor Mario asks Pablo says-like sky is weeping what does it mean Mario says means to say sky is raining Mario's response it's complicated and Pablo's response that complication does not have to do anything with person's emotionsvery meaningful and soulful dialogs ,that is the reason movie does not become boring end of the movie is very surprising ,it keeps you involve in the movie movie was shot on the island near by Meditteranean sea and every time tides go and again come to touch coastal areas that resembles one excellent scene goes with the hope to come with another lovely scene filled with emotional and heart touching dialogs to touch your heartmovie is pretty simple but can you predict what's gonna happen in next scene ,probably not ,it has certain surprising elementsthis movie is not a movie this is everlasting experience to live with and cherish it "},{"Title":"A Very Special Delivery.","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Emotional and somber film about the titled character (an Italian postman played by posthumous Oscar-nominee Massimo Troisi), a shy and reserved man who finds love in beautiful waitress Maria Grazia Cucinotta. He loves her from afar though as he just cannot get up the nerve to let her know how he really feels. He needs an outlet. Enter exiled Chilean poet Philippe Noiret (of Cinema Paradiso glory). Noiret has been kicked out of his native land because of his writings and his want to change the political practices of Chile. Troisi just happens to be the one who delivers Noiret's mail. Soon they create a friendship and Troisi discovers poetry for the first time. Now he has something to express himself that he never had before and he discovers that he can now let Cucinotta know how he feels via his writings. Noiret's appearance forever alters the lives of all those he ends up knowing in the small village. Il Postino was a big hit in 1994 in Italy and then became an international success in 1995 and even received some big Oscar nods in the latter year, one for Best Picture. Sadly the main reason for this was the untimely death of Troisi just as production ended (literally only several hours after the final day of shooting). Troisi, who had come to prominence with Roberto Benigni, was one of the country's biggest stars and his death (only in his 40s at the time) sent shock-waves through the cinematic world. In reality though Troisi was near death the whole time the movie was being made. He could hardly stand or sit up for long periods of time and director Michael Radford (who received an Oscar nomination) constantly wondered if Troisi would even be alive each day of shooting (there were actual accounts of Radford asking his assistants each morning if Troisi was still alive). Once again the beautiful way the Italian cinema embraces smart human stories makes Il Postino one of the finest films of the last decade. Great performances, solid direction, a smart screenplay, wonderful production values (Oscar-winning score in particular) and every other variable combine for an excellent movie experience. 5 stars out of 5.    "},{"Title":"If you have a chance, watch Ardiente Paciencia (1983)","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nice movie, but I don't know why they changed the setting from Chile to Italy. The novel by Skarmeta, on which the film is based, is set in Isla Negra, which is much more interesting because of the political circumstances. If you get a chance, watch the version directed by the writer himself, called Ardiente Paciencia (1983). "},{"Title":"Mundane","Date":"5 June 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this rather superficial and mundane. It's about the friendship between a worker &#x96; a postman - and a poet &#x96; Pablo Neruda. The poet awakens the young man's sensibilities and gives him the courage to pursue the village beauty. This is a tiny village - so why he had not realized her beauty before, and more so, why she was not being pursued by an entire flock of young men raised a question mark.The characters are all stereo-typed &#x96; the shy postman, the over-wordy poet and the village beauty with her raspy aunt. Everything was a caricature and the film suffered from a lack of passion, intensity&#x85;I couldn't buy into it. "},{"Title":"Great cinematography, good acting by Trosi, but Neruda comes out the loser here.","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is actually an Italian fairy tale, one where Neruda is little more than a simple enabler for two lovebirds. The story of a humble, uneducated, man who conquers the heart of a girl with words borrowed, or stolen, from the great poet. Nothing wrong with that, except that this Master of Words proves at the end to be very flawed, unworthy of the worshiping he's the object of-&#x97;but more of that later. Decent acting overall, breathtaking scenery&#x97;those postcard coastal natural settings are also common in Neruda's Chile&#x97;but the writing lets a lot to be desired, with too many schmaltzy scenes & dialogs and assorted cliché situations. Not surprise then that he plot loses its breath half way, when the lovebirds get married and Pablo returns to Chile. What is left then is the same thing we had at the beginning the daily routines of a small fishing town in southern Italy. Will that be enough to carry the rest of the movie? Don't think so. This isn't Amacord or IVitelloni, as the whole plot was resting on the relationship Neruda--Mario and so when that comes to an end the movie is left gasping for air, begging for some emotional filling as a replacement. With the poet gone and the romance morphed into routine, all what's left for Mario are unfulfilled family obligations and a constant moping for the absent Master.There is an obvious plot discontinuity when both men separate, perhaps because this script was made sewing up two original stories, set in different places at different times. Sure enough, Neruda was in exile in Italy after having fled Chile in 1949, when the Chilean government started jailing Communists, despite them being part of the governing coalition (!) after being pressured by the Yankees, who had started their own witch hunt. (it's hard to believe, but the reason why communists were hunted down was because Chile's president was afraid of it being considered unfriendly by the U.S and risk losing trade, diplomatic and political benefits). Neruda escaped to Argentina & then to Italy, where he was well received thanks to the work made on Italian public opinion by fellow communist Alberto Moravia. On the other hand, the story of him befriending a postman and writing him poems dedicated to his love interest comes from Antonio Skarmeta's Ardiente Paciencia, set in Chile in the 60s, in the coastal town of Isla Negra, where Neruda had a cottage (which is now a museum). So, this is really a Chilean story transposed to Italy, which may explain the awkward plot situation produced when Neruda leaves.Now, Noiret may be a great actor but he makes a disfavor to Neruda with his work here, at least in 2 instances. First, when he's back in Chile he forgets about Mario and doesn't even answer his mail. The real Neruda would have never done that, because for him friendship and loyalty were two things intrinsically tied to class struggle and political commitment. For him all communists--and all members of the working class-were his brothers whatever may have been their countries of origin or their educational level, and all right wingers and rich people in general his enemies, as for him there was no middle ground at that. In real life he would have never acted like he does with Mario, just because he's a less educated man. At least he would have sent him a postcard. The 2nd thing is you would have never caught him in church, let alone crossing himself, as he was an atheist who had no use for religions or for any organized church and the only people in that realm for whom he ever came to feel any respect at all were the Quakers, just because they helped pay for travel tickets to Chile for thousands of Spaniards fleeing their civil war. It's obvious that both misrepresentations have been committed to keep the plot going, which I can understand, but the record must be set straight anyway.Anyway, IP can be very touching the first time you see it, but it goes losing its emotional punch with time, as there's no much left to get hold of after the thrill of the love story and that of the beautiful words wears off. But worse is the portrayal of Neruda as a snob; an hypocrite who'll be nice to the locals as long as he needs them but who'll forget them as soon as he's gone. I'm all for artistic licenses, but not when they make appear an authentic individual under such an unfavorable and false light.In all, to see maybe a couple of times. Anyway, if you want to see something closer to the real man, watch Skarmeta's Ardiente Paciencia. "},{"Title":"Il Postino is a rip off of Ardiente Pacinca","Date":"25 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie because it was a direct copy of an earlier film by Antonio Skarmeta. The original film however outclasses the remake in heart and soul. I will admit that Il Postino looks great, but there is something so genuine about the original, like your first love. Most importantly, the film was produced while Skarmeta was in exile in Germany (the film's location was Portugal) after the overthrow of Salavador Allende's government in Chile. Skarmeta, like many of Chile's artistic and literary community, fled the country after Pinochet's rise to power. Thus the film's title, translating into Burning Patience, is a love story not only of a man for a woman, but the love for a country from which one is separated and the wait people have for justice. Ironically, Skarmeta is now the Chilean Ambassador to Germany. "},{"Title":"A lovers' film","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Mediterranean seen from a rugged track up which Mario traipses with the post for Neruda, a wonderfully subtle soundtrack, a hint of the tango and the dream that even for the simplest of us there is a dream of love. Don't miss the opportunity to watch this with someone you love. It was the ultimate film for Fiona and I and when we couldn't be together she used to watch the video to feel close. Fi died two years ago and the memories of this movie are really precious. It can seep into your soul if you let it. And read Neruda if you can. Massimo Troisi died soon after the film was completed and I feel that it stands as a powerful epitaph to his personal commitment to see the film come to fruition. This isn't a film to dissect, it is a film to absorb. "},{"Title":"More than a love story","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie Il Postino gets billing as a love story.  However, the plot mostly centers around the building of a relationship between Pablo (an exiled communist poet) and Mario (a previously unemployed temporary postman).  We see how the relationship between the two helps transform Mario.  His friendship with the well-known poet gains him respect from some and contempt from others.  The greatest example of Mario's transformation is his new-found ability to woo his love interest, Beatrice.  Even though Pablo helps bring the couple together, Mario's admiration for Pablo and the communist ideals he gains from him become a point of contention between Mario and Beatrice.In the end, one is left to reflect on how Pablo transformed Mario's life and wonder if the changes were for the better or for the worse. "}{"Title":"A very meaningful movie, that emphasized passion and romanticism at its fullest","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mossimo performed beautifully, and definitely made an impact for foreign films here in the states. His passion for acting and directing really shined through in Il Postino. Anyone who doesn't appreciate this movie for its acting and plot should reevaluate their position on foreign film. A movie about poetry in the most romantic language there is can only yield great admiration and applause. The movie seems simple yet explores hidden messages. Messages of love. Mossimo creates this ora of absolute bliss. I would recommend this movie to an audience of believers of true love. Plus, viewing the movie in Italian sets the mood for a terrific movie. Mossimo was the best Italian actor of his day, and will be greatly missed, yet always remembered. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of simplicity and beauty","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I watched this film I was stunned by simplicity and yet beauty of story and relationship which develops between postman and famous poet. They both share life on the small Italian island which has its simple yet subtle rules. Water is a problem for a poet just as it is for everybody else on the island. Mario's father, who does not have much to say, but acts so naturally it is almost unnatural, longing of a simple man and his struggle to reach the stars, learning how to express himself, ideas so simple and so beautiful like the one to send his friend sounds of his island (and part of his hart)... All of this and much more, makes this film worth watching and the one you will remember.10/10  "},{"Title":"Sentimental, intriguing, understated and charming","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Beautifully played by all actors.  Set in a backward Italian island of 50 years ago,the locals intrigued by the arrival of the exiled Chilean poet Pablo Neruda.  His shy and poorly educated - though literate - postman is greatly taken by Neruda's poetry and tries his own hand at it. With Neruda's help he woos and wins the local beauty, but his political activities bring about his downfall.  A very atmospheric film, good for reminding us that all is not wealth and possessions and that feeling and understanding can act on us powerfully - as they should. "},{"Title":"A beautiful gift from Massimo","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is very Italian, yes, but not in a common-place kind of way. It's as simple as reality can be, and goes straight to the soul.The loss of Massimo Troisi was a huge sorrow for Italy, and for the world of cinema. He was a fantastic actor and is deeply missed. Thankfully he left films like this one to be remembered and be grateful for.Do not miss it!  "},{"Title":"Refreshingly languid","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SpoilersThanks to Saskatchewan hospitality of old friends in Toronto, I had the good fortune to watch this Italian gem in a home DVD movie night.Sitting down to write something about Il Postino, I was struck at first by certain similarities between this film and Frida. Each similarity however underscores a difference of greater magnitude. Both feature an artist with Central/South American background a Mexican painter and a Chilean poet. However, while Frida's fame rose only after her death, Pablo Neruda was absolutely worshipped throughout his career. Both films talk about love but the difference could not have been greater. Frida (the film) burns with devouring passion on many fronts while Il Postino delights with a simple love story sparkling in adolescent sweetness. The biggest difference is of course the title roles. Frida the painter is everything the movie is about while in Il Postino, the heart of story is the Italian postman Mario and not the poet. Oh yes, politics feature in both films too, but only as a backdrop.Set in an idyllic Mediterranean island where the poet is exiled, the film traces languidly through the life of Mario, who evidently is very proud of being literate. Following his encounter with the poet, his obsession with the poet's ability to attract women with his poetry, the development of his own interest in poetry, their somewhat strange relationship (considering the difference in their background) and his courtship of the beautiful Beatrice, we can't help but love this divinely simple man.  It's a delightful and often humorous trip as the friendship with the poet develops and the courtship blossoms into marriage. Then the time comes for Neruda to return to Chile where the political environment has improved. At this parting, we experience the first moments of poignancy. But it isn't until we see that Neruda has apparently forgotten his humble friend that we finally appreciate the greatness of this wonderful man Mario. Our hearts start to bleed a little watching him defending Neruda against accusations of being heartless and making a very touching recording which he hopes that his friend may some day hear. I'll not go into the ending. This gentle, quiet, and often funny story ends in something deeper, resonating with sentiments for us to ponder for a long time afterwards.  "},{"Title":"Giving the absolute sacrifice for his art","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Massimo Troisi literally gave his life to make this movie.  He postponed heart surgery to complete the film.  He died the day after the film was completed.  How many of us have that kind of passion for what we do?8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe it wasn't the best movie I've ever seen, but it was definitely very touching, very lyrical, and a very beautiful movie about love and friendship. I think the acting was wonderful throughout, especially that of Troisi, given so soon before his death. And the music is positively haunting. Many kudos to the composer. It doesn't get much better. So what if it doesn't have a lot of action, it's all in the story, and this story is beautiful. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not much to say... This is an absolutely beautiful film. Massimo Troisi makes a wonderful portrait of the shy postman Mario. The magic landscapes, the music, the poetry and Troisi turn this calm movie to a masterpiece. Please, see this film! "},{"Title":"Warm, Tender Masterwork","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I did not fall in love with this film because* it's star, Massimo Troisi, died the day after filming,* the performances are so perfectfully natural,* the original musical score is positively enchanting,* the romantic tangos of Carlos Gardel transport us,* the direction, script and artistic direction are finely wrought,* it has a quiet charm,* it featured one of my favorite actors, Phillipe Noiret,* the scenery is positively breathtaking,* it features examples of Neruda's ravishing poetry,* it is easy to love a love story,* Italy, it's language and people hold an abiding fascination to me,* the depiction of the political situation in 1952 was accurate,* we need simple, tender film to remind us that life has it delights.I fell in love with this movie for all of those reasons and several others which my words will never be able to evoke.A score of 10 would do injustice to a masterwork such as this which has been left for our delight, for many ages to come.Long live the poets! "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sit back, watch Il Postino, and fall in love with life all over again. Let the waves of the island wash over you, soak up the brilliant sunshine, and feast on Neruda's heart breakingly beautiful poetry. This is not a love story in the common sense. Troisi and Cucinotta's superbly stuccato performances make their characters anything but classic hollywood lovers. There is always a strain between them, but this strain gives Il Postino a very human element. It is a film for everybody. Its effect is little short of magical. "}{"Title":"The most beautiful movie I have ever seen.","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Il Postino is the most beautiful movie I have ever seen. Cinematography is excellent with same feeling as the poetry in film. Postmans warmth, simplicity makes you a part of the movie. You feel the ups the downs, and as the inevitable end comes you feel more live than ever. But you have to see this in a movie theater. "},{"Title":"an accurate and precious portrayal of simple Italian life","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The best part of this film is its ability to capture the culture of a small Italian village.  The characters are genuine and not far fetched.  It says more about old Italian culture and values than it does about poetry and Pablo Neruda. "},{"Title":"Great foreign flick","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Easily within the top ten foreign movies I've seen.Among the ranks of Das Boot and Kurosawa's films.It was my fiance's turn to pick a movie and when she picked an Italian film I was ready to hate it. Five minutes into the movie I had forgotten to dislike it. "},{"Title":"RE Gentle","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a gentle romantic and sad story about a man who gets a job as a postman and has to deliver letters to his only client on an Italy island who happens to be a poet from Chile who is in exile. It takes awhile for them to start up friendship but when they do the poet helps to see poetry on the beautiful island and helps him to speak to the girl of his dreams.  "},{"Title":"A wonderfully provocative film","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not just an OK film.  It is beautifully simple, inspiring, moving, heart-rending, amusing and full of empathy.  Take time to watch it more than once and try not to enjoy it. Yes - it makes it even more sad when you think that the main star died the day after making the film, but I didn't know that until several weeks after watching it.  It's one of the best 'simple' films I've ever seen.  I've watched it 5 times now and it still breaks my heart. "},{"Title":"Friendship is true and lasts forever","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really, really enjoyed this story.  I loved the actors, especially the lead actor.  He had a lot of vulnerability under a subdued characterization. I only wish it had won the Oscar for that year.  Will always look out for it when it plays on TV. "},{"Title":"A real gem - with one of the screen's most delightful characters","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has one of the screen's most delightful characters in the simple postman and his adoration for both a famous poet exiled to his island, and the daughter of the local cafeteria's owner.A charming film with no villains, no violence, but nevertheless never a dull moment. A real gem, a sure bet if you want something different than a run-of-the-mill movie. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film.. both moving and funny","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Even though this is directed by Michael Radford, an Englishman, it is still a very Italian film. All those who loved Cinema Paradiso or La Vita Belle, should find this just as enchanting. I found it a near perfect movie - the story, the direction, the acting, the score - almost everything is done to perfection. And the character of Mario Ruopollo, the postman should linger in memory for quite some time. A must see. "},{"Title":"Southern Exposure","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The best thing after viewing this movie is the feeling of relieve and escape form the ordinary life.  I am a big fans of Northern Exposure TV series, and the style and the after taste of this movie makes me call it the Southern Exposure. "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Certainly one of the top 250 movies I've ever seen, simply beautiful, the dialogs are great but it loses it's geneality when translated to English I've seen some of the quotes in English and just doesn't seem the same movie. I've also seen the presentation for America and may I say what an horrible presentation, it has nothing to do with the spirt of the movie and any resemble is pure coincidence. Why the change of pace and music when the theme song is beautiful? Well I just loved it. "}{"Title":"hype schmype...this is a wonderful wonderful film","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In response to the comment on the screen when I logged on to voteThe cassette of this film was left in my apt by someone...I'd heard nothing about it...assumed Phillip Noiret was the name of the actor who played Mario is how clued in I was    But I was enchanted.  Yes, emotional...well, even sentimental...but so appealing. Both Noiret and Troisi were superb... Mario was an affecting blend of ungainly, unlettered, slow mentally, crooked tooth rube type... then you'd see his face in another angle or shot and he was beautiful, poignant, wise.   Lot of funny lines.    I thought the `second act', as it were...i.e the part following Neruda's departure and before his return - were was weak and off-putting...that this character Mario's charming naivete descends into infantile egoistic dependency = he mopes around missing Neruda and is not responsive to the wife he'd courted and won.  Most jarring was his apparent listlessness in response to her announcement that she's pregnant.      A visual treat, this film.   Humor, pace, outlook so Italian.   "},{"Title":"An ode to friendship, love and poetry","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The scene is Italy, circa 1953, a fisherman's village on a small island, Cala di Sotto, presumably in the south. Internationally acclaimed poet and communist Pablo Neruda and his wife come to the island in exile from Chile. He rents a house on a hill overlooking the sea. Mario Ruoppolo, son of a fisherman who ironically can't stomach being out on a boat, becomes Neruda's postman. The simple fisherman's son and the great poet strike up a friendship.The first thing I should say about this poignant and beautiful film is it starts very slowly and you will be tempted to give up on it. Don't! In the tradition of the theater in which the playwright will sometimes make the captive audience squirm a little in boredom (to better set them up for what's to come), Director Michael Radford--an Englishman, by the way--begins slow and then slows down a little. (A German proverb has it that hunger makes the best cook.) But about one quarter of the way home the story begins to build, and by the time it's over we are in tears.Massimo Troisi stars as the postman who wants to learn and use the power of poetry to woe the girl he loves. It is a sad irony that he died just as the picture was completed. Veteran French actor Philippe Noiret is suavely brilliant as Neruda, whose receipt of many letters from female fans intrigues Mario and motivates him to learn the master's secret. Maria Grazia Cucinotta, who plays Beatrice Russo, the café owner's daughter who waits tables, does not appear until the movie is almost half over, but she is more than worth the wait! She has eyes as dark as black night and a figure to rival that of Sophia Loren in her prime. It takes Mario ten seconds to fall in love with her. However, Beatrice's mother wants something more than a part time postman for her daughter, a man whose capital is the fungus between his toes. Thus we have part of our story. But the larger part of the story is the friendship between Neruda and Mario, and how they inspire and learn from one another.There are a number of brilliantly planned scenes that delight. I especially liked the scene in the church as the priest is saying he cannot accept Neruda as a best man since the man is a godless communist, when suddenly in the background we see Neruda in suit jacket and tie knelling at the altar as he crosses himself. Very affecting was the scene in which Beatrice sees Neruda upon his return to the island react to Mario's son and hearing his name pronounced, Pablito, indicating that the boy had been named after him.This is a film about beauty. I think when we realize the beauty, that's a very good sign. There is a little talk about how poetry works with some excellent examples woven into the script. Ironically, the rather crude mother of Beatrice has some of the best lines, i.e., One touch and he will have you lying on your back, she advises her daughter. When your mother tells you THAT, I think you can believe she knows what she is talking about!When Mario, who is a natural poet, but a primitive, is asked by Neruda for a way to describe the fisherman's nets, he replies, sad. When he is asked to record something about the beauty of his island he spontaneously says, Beatrice Russo. There is in the background the struggle between the Christian Democrats and the communists in which Mario and Neruda are participants, each in his own way. But this struggle is not emphasized and is in fact given its true devalued place in human affairs. In the words of Mario, who has more important things on his mind, So what if we beak our chains. What do we do then?(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"The best movie I have ever seen.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is the best film I have ever seen.I think it shows us there is no need to high technology,a lot of money and famous actors or actress to make a good movie.It is an excellent example of Europen Cinema.If you enjoy love stories and interested in politics you should watch Il Postino.  "},{"Title":"A simple great movie","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a simple movie but a great one. The postman character is so impressive. He's simple, honest and romantic who doesn't know anything about sins. His love to Beatrice is pure and delicate. The film represents a simple society without any sign of technology and the elements of modern eras and it's so beautiful. I felt very comfortable after watching it.   "},{"Title":"MAGIC","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie really touched me. The acting, the screenplay, the dialogue... It is a complete movie. I can't believe how good it is. The way director made me feel for the characters in this movie was amazing, I am so impressed, never will I forget this movie... "},{"Title":"A good film, but...","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unless you demand lots of action, this film has plenty going for it - excellent acting, a charming score and beautiful scenery. The story is pleasing too; though it's a bit on the thin side, the ending had me in pensive mood for the rest of that evening.  "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I felt that the film had its good points, but unfortunately its bad points are unforgivable. The love relationship between Mario and Pablo is realistic, developed, and believable, and somehow the relationship between Mario and Beatrice is neglected in the screenplay. The acting by Troisi is superb, and the scenery is definitely beautiful. I must also add that the lamb and martyr scene is disappointing, and those of you that have seen it, must know what I'm talking about. It unnecessarily defiles Marios character to develop a relationship to a political party on the basis of adoration for Pablo, and ruins the ending completely for me. "},{"Title":"Not for action fans.","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Beautifully acted, written, directed, scored.  It is, however, a subtle story, not an obvious gun toting film with a recycled theme in place of plot.  The postman, a commoner with no skills, social or otherwise, becomes a poet, a politico and a lover, while the rest of the town is content to worship one who is already famous. "},{"Title":"very sweet Italian movie, that is definitely worth seeing","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a great example that European movies do not have to be dull or tedious. The beauty from within, as well for the postman, as for the movie itself is it's common theme. I recommend everyone to go out and rent this one, albeit just to gaze at the beautiful Italian countryside...  "},{"Title":"Poetry in the putting","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When a poet writes, he/she puts into words, the emotions they feel flooding on. This movie, with it's beautiful oceanic beach scenes, and the simple stone village, was like a painting that had been painted by a poet. The simpleness of Massimo Troisi's character (Mario) in relationship with the portrayal of Pablo Neruda, was a kind and gentle learning experience, that brought both a smile and a genuine closeness to the screen. It was politically inspiring, to learn more about that era and part of the world. For me, it was an extraordinary film in which, the subtitles disappeared completely within the first five minutes of the movie. "}{"Title":"And it was at that age...","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie will slowly take you by the hand and introduce you to the life of Mario Ruoppolo.  You will have a guided tour of a beautiful world for the next two hours.  If you have never discovered Pablo Neruda, you will be introduced and his words will stay in your mind forever......And it was at that age...Poetry arrived in search of me. I don't know, I don't know where it came from, from winter or a river.  These words by Neruda give a description to his poetry world.  These words also, best describe this movie.  If this movie came in search of you or you are in search of it.  It comes in the happiness of summer and in the sadness of winter.  "},{"Title":"An absolutely perfect film","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you look through the hype, Il Postino is wonderfully touching and beautifully filmed and scripted. It might be a movie where  what's on screen is of the quiet sort, but I feel it deserves  all the good publicity it has received.  "},{"Title":"Is all the praise really fair ?","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is quite good indeed but surely not worthy of all the praise it received. I have seen better Italian movies. I was completely disappointed because I was expecting much more than what I saw. An overrated movie. "},{"Title":"Worth the praise","Date":"23 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A tiny, perfect movie worth the praise it received. If you love movies that pick you up and carry you off to foreign places for a mini-vacation, this is one. Certainly, in the real world, Mario was not beautiful enough for Beatrice, but they came together through the magic of Pablo Neruda's poetry. Gentlemen, take note Shakespeare was only one of the writers who knew how to say it well. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, touching","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quiet, yet entrancing. Surprisingly touching, and well photographed, Il Postino does a remarkable job of transporting you to the island off Italy where it takes place. The scenery, simplicity and beauty slowly envelops you. I had put off renting it (seemed a bit too foreign) but was very impressed. Recommended!   "},{"Title":"A very original Italian movie","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" It was very difficult to critic this film. The first time I saw it in the theater. The story is so romantic and typical that I recommended it also to my parents. Some days ago I ordered the DVD and I enjoyed it with my wife. I find it is still worth seeing but only if you like a very traditional Italian movie. Otherwise stay far away from this one.Massimo Troisi gave a strong performance and it is a pity that he died some years after this film. The music was very melancholic and well worth for the obtained Oscar. Anyway, this movie is too overrated. Not more than 6/10. "},{"Title":"A EUROPEAN film for those who appreciate the poetry of life.","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The reviews here are mixed, understandably.  Look folks, this is not the usual Hollywood flick!  It is EUROPEAN, with of course an ITALIAN flavour.  Beautifully poetic and real for those of us sensitive to this type of 'art festival' film, but boring or whatever to you Hollywood types.The last 5 or 10 minutes are a treat.  The poet Pablo Naruda is a real man, played by himself, and he listens to the words of the main character, the postman.  If you are not moved down in your soul and then feel like running with joy in the sun or even the rain, then you have not FELT the message in this film.The (piano) music captivates, entrances in a gentle way. May we see more films like this! "},{"Title":"Should have been called Pablo & Mario","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't know of all the hype behind this movie before seeing  it.  After seeing it, I found it to not be worth all the praise and awards.  The movie develops the relationship between Pablo Neruda and Mario better than it does with Mario's love, Beatrice Russo.  It has good cinematography, but the story is missing a lot of details about the relationships.  The only real relationship develops when Mario is taught some things about metaphors. Although, Mario tends to use similies.  And Beatrice, she is a beautiful. Not much else in the movie. "},{"Title":"The love story lacked any true feelings","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is quite good, but not as good as I would have thought having read reviews et cetera. It is quite boring, I certainly do not mind slow paced films but this one does not use the slow pace for anything. I just felt that they had nothing to tell. As for the love story; it lacked any true feelings. The beautiful woman that Mario falls in love with seems to be nothing but beautiful, that's the only thing she is. And the ending did not make me feel the way the makers of this movie obviously wanted me to feel, I was quite uninterested at that point.However, the movie is not all bad, and I do like the friendship between Pablo Neruda and Mario and the way it is depicted. And the acting is brilliant, especially Massimo Troisi. "},{"Title":"I can't believe the negative comments...","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  -Sorry for spelling mistakesWell, those who didn't like IL POSTINO didn't like THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT, so these people obviously can't sense the feelings of the characters.YES, in the end you did feel something. YES, the love story was realistic, NO, It never ever bores (how could anybody claim this?), It doesn't feel Italian? It feels like an Indian-movie? Who cares? I didn't see it because I wanted to see an Italian movie. I saw it becaused it seemed good. And I was right.And stop blaming the hype for everything! Nobody is stupid enough to like something because they are supposed to. People have free emotions, and just because you didn't like it, it doesn't mean everybody else suffers from any hype-illness. Some people liked it, live with it! I have three theories on why people didn't like it. Because the critics loved it, people are often highly jelaus of these persons, since all they do is get paied for showing their opinion. But I think that the critics often knows how good it is, since they've got so much to compair with (then it's much up to their own personal taste, too). They are strict Hype-Haters. This movie has got a HYPE! I'm not going to be stupid enough to fall in to it! Have to hate this movie! Bad story, eeehh, the romance sucks!!!. Or they are just not capable of seeing the feelings showed. For example, THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT. The scary things aren't the witch or the sticks & stones, it was the reaction. The REALISTIC reaction. Not the FILM reaction. If you don't see feelings all you do when you go in to a movie theatre is to just watch the movie.   It was a great movie. I thought it was a very Italian movie. It's touching, charming and hits a lot of emotional subjects. The acting was absolutely amazing, the plot was not weak. It was just very easy, man loves woman, man friend with idol. And the script wasn't weak or easy. Everything got binded up just as it should in a great movie. I didn't notice the music that much, but it was good and not too over-dramatic. Couldn't take my eyes off it.   8.5/10 "}{"Title":"The insulting comments towards the viewers who enjoyed this movie are not appropriate","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To those of you convinced that this movie is all hype and claim  it has no real substance, I say to you that your generalization is not just. This movie may be quiet, and  certainly it lacks car chases, etc., but I know several people  who saw Il Postino before the hype came about and absolutely  adored the film (I being one). You who have criticized people  for liking this movie have made Il Postino quite difficult to  enjoy either we are ridiculed for liking it (by you) or  ridiculed for disliking it (by the public). "},{"Title":"Life is Poetry, Poetry is Life","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful film! If you want to know what Poetry and Real Love are, go and see it soon! Above all the others films about love...much much much better than the expensive Titanic. We do not need to spend a lot of money to make a great film, we do not need special effects or crazy computer-based techniques to have great scenes......we just use our marvellous country, its wonders, our beautiful language and pure Romanticism! That's it!In my opinion the message of The Postman is that Life is Poetry and Poetry is Life! A masterpiece!10 'cum laude'!!! "},{"Title":"An agreeable movie, but certainly not that great","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Anyone who goes into a froth praising this movie is certainly victim of the emperor's new clothes syndrome--they're simply lauding it because of the hype; they think they must rave about it to show their intelligence.The acting is great, but the story is terribly weak.  The film is hampered by an excessive amount of telling exposition, where showing would have been so much better.  And, it has utterly no sense of cloture.Miramax ridiculously overhyped this movie because they had so much money to spend, having paid virtually nothing for the rights.  They clearly know how to sell a film, but this is a case of suffering fools gladly, because the public was duped into thinking this was something fabulous.  Most people, I suspect, were rather bored with this film, but didn't want to pan it out of fear of not seeming smart.  When someone raves about this film, you'll find they really have very little to say, other than some breathy adjectives.  That's because the movie, in the end, has no real substance.  "},{"Title":"Nice Story That Looks Good, Too, But There Is A Reason For The Over-Hype","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Reading some of these IMDb user-comment reviews (and reviews at other sites), it seems a lot of people watched this film and wondered, How in the world did this movie ever get nominated by the Academy Of Motion Pictures for 'Best Picture?' Well, the answer is simple it has pro-Communist themes in the film. That will automatically earn high praise from critics, especially since the so-called McCarthy Era, something the Left still can't get over. The film business has always been heavily tilted to the secular way of looking at things, so Communism has always gotten high grades among the similar-thinking film critics. Look it up. Had this story had a couple of likable guys, as seen here in this movie, preaching against Communism, it never would have received the plaudits it did. That's a fact.Here, we have a Chilean poet, Pablo Neruda (Phillipe Noiret) who is the sympathetic lead character, a Communist in exile, now living in Italy. The local postman concurs with his political views, making them all sound wonderful. Meanwhile, the agenda is glossed over with a nice romance story and very pretty cinematography. Make no mistake it's not a bad film, and it is gorgeous and genuinely sweet-natured in spots, a nice romance story.....but it's not Best Picture material. Thanks to all the critics who over-hyped this movie, many people expected too much and wound up disappointed. If you aren't the least bit politically inclined, you should enjoy this movie. It's a nice story. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie wasn't as good as all the reviews I had read.  In fact, it was pretty boring.  The story is underdeveloped and not very believable.  The scenery is absolutely breathtaking however, as is Maria Grazia Cucinotta.In the midst of a pre-WW2 economic depression, Mario Ruoppolo (Massimo Troisi) takes on a part-time job delivering mail to the remote cliff-side home of the famous poet Pablo Neruda (Philippe Noiret).  Poor and lonely, Mario becomes infatuated with the wealth, fame, and sex-appeal of Pablo.  Trying to imitate him, he tries his own hand at poetry while courting the beautiful Beatrice (Cucinotta).The movie becomes very annoying with its pro-communism sub-theme, and the DVD desperately needs English dubbing.  Sub-titles get old fast.  "},{"Title":"I'd like to reply to uffe-5-2's comments...","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  To me this movie wasn't anything special. After I had seen it I just said to myself Nah, that wasn't anything special. Another 2 hours wasted like I have done with so many other films. I just saw in the newspaper that it got shown on the tele, so I checked it here at Imdb and saw that I had an average of 7.5. I had never heard of the film before and it wasn't until afterwards that I found out that it had won Oscars and so on. It's not like I'm a hype-hater or something like that. This movie just didn't appeal to me! As simple as that! Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't! This movie worked for Uffe-5-2, but it didn't work for me. This doesn't mean that there's something wrong with me 'cause I didn't particularly like or that there's something wrong with you 'cause you thought it was great! Everybody's got different taste! You listed some options why people might not like this movie, but it never occured to you that maybe it just didn't do anything for the person?! As I just said, everybody's got different taste and you can't just say If you don't like this film you're don't have a clue to what films are about!!! That is grossly derogatory! And saying that the critics are right about this movie is just as untrue! If a critic liked this film, great, but that doesn't make me like it! Do you want me to say that it's good, because critics & you think so? That would be doing as you say, liking something because you have to. Everybody got a mind of their own! I think this movie had the potential to be great, but it failed for me. (Small spoilers ahead) When Don Pablo leaves and kind of forgets the people he had lived with it could have built up until a big climax, but I think it just went downhill instead. Didn't have any really climax, at least not anything that appealed to me and just became a little boring and indifferent. I had hoped it to be sad and emotional, but I just think it was flat. This is just my opinion and if you disagree that's fine, but I still don't think it was anything special. Nothing special for me is slightly below 5 (4.5-4.9 or something), but I've started to be a little hard with these movies and give them a straight 4. "}]