[{"Title":"Generation  X Heist Movie","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"54 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing Zoe played in Seattle theaters for exactly one week in August of 1994 and I managed to see it twice.Everything about this movie worked for me the writing, the cinematography,the acting, the editing and the music. From the first images rushing through the streets of Paris until the blood-soaked climax, I was mesmerized. I consider myself lucky to have seen it in theaters with a good sound system becauseI have queried friends who have seen it on video and they had a completely different opinion of the film because they had missed key lines of dialog that really go a long way towards investing Killing Zoe with a certain quintessentially 90s vibe of doomed heroin-soaked romanticism, giving it deeper levels than most people are willing to admit. "},{"Title":"Underrated caper flick. Not a great movie, sure, but still a very good one.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"46 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'Killing Zoe' is a movie that has grown on me over the years. When I first watched it I didn't think all that much of it, but each time I've seen it since I've liked it a little more, and I'm at the point now where I like it a lot. I don't think it's a GREAT movie, but it's a very good one, and extremely underrated. Roger Avary's connection with Quentin Tarantino has turned out to be more of a hindrance than a help to him. 'Killing Zoe' was frequently dismissed as just another Tarantino clone, which to me is unfair, because a) Avery actually wrote some of 'Reservoir Dogs', 'Pulp Fiction' and 'True Romance' (usually uncredited), and b) though the subject matter of 'Killing Zoe' is similar to say 'Reservoir Dogs', the approach is very different. And let's face it the heist-gone-wrong flick has a long history (the influence of 1950s crime classics 'Rififi', 'Bob Le Flambeur' and/or 'The Killing' on all subsequent variations of it cannot be underestimated), and Tarantino was building on an already established tradition. As well as that the hostage aspect of 'Killing Zoe' brings to mind 'Dog Day Afternoon' more than anything by QT. Anyway, I think this is an interesting movie. The violence is pretty blatant, but apart from that it is a subtle, character driven movie. Eric Stoltz ('Pulp Fiction') and Julie Delpy ('Before Sunrise') are both very good, especially in their first scene together, but the real stand out performance is by Jean-Hughes Anglade ('Betty Blue') who is outstanding. Anglade really makes the movie for me. 'Killing Zoe's reputation seems to be growing as the years go by, and now that the mid-90s Tarantino hype has died down it's about time it was judged on its own merits. "},{"Title":"An overlooked bloody gem.","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"38 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie.  I just rented it again,  and was not disappointed. Sure,  it's bloody  (Tarantino produced it)  and nihilistic and all that, but it's also got a wonderful sense of anarchy that most films are afraid to commit too.  As Emanuel Levy says in his book about independent cinema (Cinema of Outsiders),  it promises to take off in unexpected directions but it's major distinction is it's gift for hysteria and pompous existentialism.  It's all flash and blood and Julie Delphys breasts and guns and just a helluva lot of fun.  Great out there performance by Jean-Hugues Anglade as the insane French bank robber and Eric Stoltz as the moral center (!?) of the madness.  This film is even more fun when you've had a pint or two beforehand. "},{"Title":"KILLING ZOE not your usual trendy pap","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"34 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Much hated by Tarantino-lovin' geeks who often haven't even bothered to see it, KILLING ZOE is a nasty and hilarious gem, lacking much of Quentin's trademark video clerk snottines n' know-it-all nerdy attitude. Combining elements of old French noir flicks with a true nihilistic slant, Avary's flick is a true avant-pop classic.    "},{"Title":"Attention-Grabbing French Crime Film","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"24 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A rough and sometimes sordid movie is a short way to summarize this film. It's about a no-nonsense gang of drugged-out French thieves whose bank robbery attempt backfires into a bloody mess.For those who object, be warned there are a fair amount of subtitles in here and a lot of f-words. This was a tough gang, and the lead characters are pretty grubby, they aren't really very likable people.I like Jean-Hughes Anglade's accent and I always like ogling Julie Delpy, although I've seen her look better. The city of Paris looked good with some nice shots in the beginning and at the end of the movie.Anglade, as the leader of the gang, was brutal but fascinating. My only complaint was the film was too sordid in spots (drugs, language and attitude). but overall, an entertaining crime film. It gets your attention and keeps it. "},{"Title":"brilliant acting","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" i thought this film was absolutely brilliant, and only for one reason only, because of jean Hugues anglade. he is easily the best actor in the world and i would rank him in the same category as Robert De niro and Al pacino, in fact i think hes better!!! killing Zoe was a rather empty film i thought at times the relationship between Zoe and zed was weird, how could they really be in love when they hardly knew each other and he didn't even intervene when Eric threw her out of his apartment!!! thought that was strange, they should really have called Zoe by a different name as when you buy the movie you think that Julie delpy's character ''Zoe'' has a lot to do with the film but in fact she hardly features, because ''Zoe'' means ''life'' in Greek, so the title of the film just means ''killing life''! other than that i enjoyed killing Zoe souly because of anglade he truly steals the show, and is one of the most profound actors I've ever came across, the film should be seen to see him!!!! fabulous actor. "},{"Title":"A GREAT Movie!","Date":"8 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Compared to the endless tiresome shoot-em-ups like the Schwarzeneggar--Stallone--Seagal type flicks, this movie shows style, class, and sensuality. A tense, edge-of-your-seat movie where for a change you DON'T know how it's going to end. The only flaw in the film is that it has a very low-budget quality with no real scenes outside in France, except at the very beginning at the airport. Everything else looks done in some studio with a few scenic shots tossed in, like a tv show that can't really go abroad and look authentic. But this movie is well worth renting--and beats 90% of the manufactured, formula plastic films next to it on the video shelf. An 8.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Infernal movie experience","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is pretty much a masterpiece and not just another crime thriller made after Tarantino's success. Killing Zoe is Roger a friend of Quentin Avary's directing debut and it deals with a bank robbery which goes straight to hell after night of heavy drug and alcohol use. Two old friends (Eric Stoltz and Jean-Hugues Anglade) are the main characters of the film and their friendship seems to suffer pretty much during the robbery day..I first saw this film about a year ago and then I thought that it was just an OK action pick with violence and great dialogue. I didn't see inside the film back then and now I'm very happy to have viewed it again. The main themes in Killing Zoe are friendship and things which can destroy it. There is also strong scene(s) concerning drug and alcohol addiction.*Some kind of spoilers coming*Zed thinks that his old friend Eric is his real friend and they are important to each other and can trust each other. Zed soon learns the horrific truth behind Eric and that he is real monster who perhaps has AIDS and is seriously hooked on heroin and other drugs. The end scene where Eric tells Zed that their friendship means nothing to him, is extremely shocking and surprising because throughout the film Zed seems to be important to Eric. In the end of Ringo Lam's magnificent City on Fire (Hong Kong) the main characters have developed a real friendship even though they are on the other side of the law, and the bad guy, Danny Lee, is really worried about his wounded partner, Chow Yun Fat. But in Killing Zoe, the friendship between the two lead men collapses and dies for ever. The director wants to make people to think about the importance of real friends and love between human beings.The drug taking sequence at night before the robbery is very intense and realistic with all the hallucinations and nausea. The dangers of drugs and other addictive substances come very clear during the infernal film. Even the right minded main character (Stoltz) is about to collapse to the dark side and the hallucinations are pretty disturbing and harrowing and won't leave you after the film has ended.*spoilers end*So, after second viewing, I found this film a very great and unforgettable experience which is definitely not just another art house violence flick. In fact, I prefer this as much as Reservoir Dogs, which has same kind of themes as Killing Zoe, but omits the drug content.But it is pretty sad to see that the final R-rated version doesn't look as Roger Avary wanted it to look. There are numerous scenes in which it is easy to see that those scenes were intended to be longer or more effective. I'm not talking only about violent scenes but also those hallucinations may have been stronger without the R restrictions. So I am waiting for the unrated DVD release to come from some label sometimes in distant future..Highly recommended for fans of Quentin Tarantino, Peter Medak (Species 2 excluded!) and other interesting filmmakers of the 90's in this genre.9/10 "},{"Title":"doubled my heartbeat","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Saw this movie twice. First time was a about ten years ago, when I was still a teenager. Almost forgot about it, but when i saw it again I realized this movie really shocked me at that time, and I even must admit that it still does. It starts off kind of slow, but that's just a tease for what's about to come. Don't watch this if you're weak at heart, not that it is that explicit, but the violence is kind of brutal, no sentimental bullshit, no mercy. If somebody ever asks me to rob a bank, I definitely say no. I almost wanted to give this a 9/10, but mmm, the first part should have been just a little more intriguing. Once they're in the bank, oh man! "},{"Title":"A MUCH OVERLOOKED POINT ON THE TITLE!","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a dark and profound meditation on the violent life and seemingly subsequent redemption of it's main character,E Stoltz, it is however often asked why the film titled 'Killing Zoe', J Delhi's role.Pay close attention to the fact that her character, in the films bloody climax, has her hand slashed by a crazed French bank robber. He is then smoked by at least a dozen tactical response police officers.At the end of the film Julie Delphi is in a car with stoltz, who mistakenly thinks Delphi has been hit or injured, she replies that the blood is not hers, and ofers to show 'Z' the sights of Paris.Earlier in the film the leader of the French gang relates to Z the fact that he has contracted HIV (or in his words Aids) therefore there is a better than average chance that Delphi contracted the virus from him during the aforementioned bloody climax.... Hence the title Killing Zoe! "}{"Title":"Underrated, but by no means missing out...","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing Zoe is definitely an underrated film, which has never received recognition it deserves. Tarantino executive produced the film, but seeing as he has worked closely with writer/director Roger Avary before, most notably Pulp Fiction, we could assume he had a little more in put. Not wanting to take anything away from Avary of course, he is a fully accomplished film maker and this shows throughout Killing Zoe. The script is well crafted, the acting convincing and the framing all very amicable. However, whilst there is nothing bad to say about it, there is nothing to rave about either. The film ticks along nicely, and before you know it you're at the end. The dialogue doesn't snap quite as you would like it too and all the characters seem to be lacking any real urgency that you might expect considering a bank robbery being planned.All the same, this is a good crime thriller, and very much a part of the early nineties violence invasion. Worth checking out if you're a Tarantino fanatic, or if you really have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Killiing Zoe","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing Zoe, is about an American safe cracker named Zed, who travels to Paris, to meet up with a childhood friend of his. His first night in Paris, he hires a prostitute named Zoe, to stay with him. Zed, and Zoe connect with each other and become friends before they are rudely interrupted by Zed's childhood friend Eric. Eric, takes Zed out for a night on the town where they go to bars and do numerous different drugs. Eric, and his friends plan to rob the bank the next day and Zed, will be the safe cracker. While at the bank everything seems to go OK with the robbery until people start dying and Eric, starts to show his wild side. Also, Zed soon finds out about this and also finds out that one of the hostages is Zoe, who happens to work at the bank. This complicates matters. Winner of The Best Film and Critics Award for the film's writer/director Roger Avary at The Mystfest. Killing Zoe, has good direction, a good script, good performances by everyone involved, good original music, good cinematography and good production design. Killing Zoe, has stylish direction and some really good dialogue and is also interesting and intriguing and it becomes more and more compelling and fascinating as the robbery goes on and the film has a lot of action and becomes very entertaining. Director and writer Roger Avary, wrote and directed this film before he won the Oscar for co-writing Pulp Fiction, and he does show great potential as a great writer and director. He also demonstrated this in 2002 with the very underrated Rules Of Attraction. While he has not gotten the same type of credit as Pulp Fiction's co-writer and director Quentin Tarantino, Roger Avary has talent all his own and will make it big in the movie business in years to come and I look forward to further projects he comes out with. "},{"Title":"It shows Avary has a pair","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this film alot. I didn't really see the big deal with the violence. It wasnt that bad. I just dont understand people i guess. The film is tight and goes through the drug infective mind of Eric very well I think. The love between Zed and Zoe is kind've funny because it seems kind of outlandish. After they make woopy Zoe confesses to him that she climaxed properly. Zed acts like he doesnt care most of the time. He's the kind of guy in denile. I thought it was funny how she got so attached to him so damn fast. All he wanted was her Pu$$Y. Avary is a good man that obviously has a pair. I like people like that. They make the best filmakers. Thats what i think. Though this movie isn't aww inspiring its still pure with ambition to impress which it did with me. "},{"Title":"The heist of a life-time.  The only thing that went wrong was that everyone is out for themselves and a bank full of hostages is caught in the crossfire.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Killing Zoe, I would say, is a classic.  I saw it in the English version and usually I really don't like subtitles.  This movie made me reconsider this.  From Prostitution, to drugs, to money, to betrayal, this movie has it all. With all of the Pulp Fictions and Jackie Browns out there, it is good to see a change of pace.  Roger Avery has definitely stepped out of Tarantino's shadow and stepped up to the plate as a writer and Director.  A lot of movies like this would have one or two big names, but this movie took on new-comers Eric Stoltz, Julie Delpy, and Jean-Hughes Anglade.  By far, a movie that will be remembered.  The only negative about this movie is that it didn't hit theaters in the US. "},{"Title":"Killing Zed","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Avary´s Killing Zoe tells the conventional story of a failed bank robbery with the following taking of hostages, but not the plot itself is the most important thing, it is more interesting how the director executed the whole affair the gangsters are a riffraff of junkies and pot smokers, the dialogues feature once more a bundled load dirty language, what´s no wonder when you know that Quentin Tarantino was the executive producer of this film. Eric Stoltz, an actor where I can always find something bad, is hilarious in repeating his Pulp Fiction-part, however, Julie Delpy´s talent is pretty wasted, and only the show of ass and tits makes no character-role! The greatest appearance has Jean-Hugues Anglade as permanently doped gang lead Eric in an almost unbelievable cool performance! I also liked the unusual camera angles and the slow motion showdown! Maybe not as great as the original Tarantino movies, but still a funny flick! 8 out of 10!!!!! "},{"Title":"Killing Zoe... More like Boring Zoe","Date":"17 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" And by that I don't mean that Zoe the character is boring cause she's the only redeeming factor about this movie.Played by Julie Delpy but she only has about 21 minutes of screen-time and she's not super-essential to the plot, at least not to the point that it should be named after her character.Anyways the leads are played by Eric Stoltz who's okay I guess but his character seem to be in his own little world at times a bit distant and emotionless, but to think of it that's a little bit of a trademark for a Eric Stoltz character.The other lead is some guy called Jean-Hugues Anglade who's character simple and plain is an obnoxious male chauvinistic douchebag, and so are the rest of the characters in the movie, which gets tiring really fast and the only thing they seem to do all day is use as many drugs as possible, all at once if possible which leads to many boring scenes of drug taking and talking about women's genitals and such.And halfway through the movie when some action finally kicks off it just feels like a little too late and yeah it's just a very unimpressive movie over all. "},{"Title":"A solid exploitation art-house thriller, though not without flaws","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Eric Stoltz plays a man named Zed who travels to Paris in order to catch up with a childhood friend named Eric (Jean-Hugues Anglade) and help him rob a Federal Reserve bank. Upon his arrival, he sleeps with a call girl named Zoe (Julie Delpy) who he ends up falling in love with. When Zed goes to meet Eric, he ends up spending the night with him and all of his junkie friends who hide out in a run down apartment building with a dead feline near the entrance to their room. They plan to rob the bank the next morning, and Zed is going to be the safe cracker. After much passing out, puking, hallucinating, and a male rape, Zed and the rest of the gang awaken in a drunken daze, already late for their robbery, and then they foolishly attempt to rob the bank while still moderately trashed, hungover, and restless. Naturally things go very wrong very fast, and it becomes no longer about getting the money, but more about trying to survive.If Roger Avary's intention was to make a truly memorable art house exploitation film, he succeeded with flying colors. I'm pretty sure that this was intention and there's no denying that this is a good film. I have some serious problems with Killing Zoe, however, and those problems have much to do with the first two thirds of the picture. Avary spends a very large portion of the film in this junkie world with these truly atrocious and ugly characters doing ugly things. I felt that too much time was spent in this world. The only likable character is Julie Delpy's character, and she doesn't get nearly enough screen time as she should. As for Eric Stoltz, he pretty much plays the same character as he played in Pulp Fiction, though not anywhere near as much as a prick. His character, Zed, for the most part is a fairly goofy, eccentric, and slight perverted guy. I liked how he wasn't an entirely sympathetic protagonist. His character, for the most part, works. Likewise for his friend Eric, who is a completely horrific villain. He's disgusting, sleazy, skeletal-looking, and a sweaty mess of a man who has little conscience and no morals, and I applaud Jean-Hugues Anglade for playing a role that few actors would have the balls to play. This brings me to my biggest gripe with the film, however. These are the three main characters, but they are also the three most interesting characters as well. Every other character is completely disposable they take up far too much screen time that should have been devoted to the three main characters. To make matters worse, in the third act of the film when the characters actually try to rob the bank, a good portion of all of these characters are killed off almost immediately. While I applaud Roger Avary for crafting such a strong vision of graphic carnage in the third act, I felt that he was betraying the trash quality that took place in the first two acts with these junkie characters getting slaughtered so damn quickly. As the last act of the film stands, most of the characters end up getting killed off almost constantly and with little to no emotion. When it is not a member of the gang getting killed it is either a security guard or an innocent civilian. Somebody is almost always getting killed, often in over-the-top fashion.What I did love about Killing Zoe was the look of the film. The bank that the film takes place in during the final act is just gorgeous in how claustrophobic it is. The walls of the bank are red, and it only adds to the psychotic nature of the Eric character. The character really is quite terrifying, and the bank that Avary shot in has a perfect interior for these sort of characters. The middle section mostly takes place in real grimy, dirty, dark areas that look completely hellish. Somehow the bank looks like a scarier location than the junkie hideouts, and I liked that. The opening and closing scenes show some beautiful shots of Paris as well, which definitely helped elevate the film even more. I also felt that the final act of the film, despite the gratuitous bloodshed and carnage, really was quite suspenseful and intense. The film is so furious in it's tone and the final act really pulls it all together. At times it is difficult to watch because the audience knows right away that the situation is going to go wrong and the characters are doomed. When the bank robbery actually starts, it is so disorganized and so uncoordinated that a feeling of unhinged maniacal danger sets in immediately. It makes the film a little bit different from other heist films. The characters are all young, hapless, and careless people who have abandoned reality.Killing Zoe lacks a sense of control, which both helps and hurts the film. On one hand, it certainly helps make the final act of the film that much more shocking and realistic. On the other hand, it is difficult to look part the first two thirds of the film. I do think that this film has an audience, but I also think that it's difficult to call it a good film. It works in a lot of ways. Visually, it's better than it needs to be. The performances are all very strong, not to mention ballsy, and the vision of hell this film paints is pretty tough to shake. It's a rough film, but it manages to have a lot of energy. It is a very flawed film. However, if you're a fan of trash cinema and exploitation, you may want to give this a try. It's a messy film, but it's effective and definitely memorable. "},{"Title":"From badly executed drama to funny gangster comedy","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" You can completely skip the boring and utterly annoying first hour to go to the second half. The drama in it is really lame. They try to spice it up with controversial topics ( AIDS, hookers ) but in the end that is just to cover up the lack of good ideas to make an innovative action movie. From a bad executed drama it suddenly turns into a nice gangster comedy like Reservoir Dogs. Everything just leads up to the robbing of the bank and the dark humor that goes along with it. Okay, so it's all a bit clichéd, but who cares...? This is not world class cinema, but it is good enough for a boring Saturday eve. Just don't watch it with too many expectations. And don't think that something produced by Tarantino makes it into a new Pulp Fiction, it just doesn't. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"26 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why this movie passed me by for so long, but last night I finally watched it and what can I say, it was brilliant. The acting is amazing, the story is gripping and the cinematography is poignant and dark.A lot films have stereotypical good characters for the audience to feel an affinity with; but make no mistake, there are no heroes in this film. One can't help but notice that the main character, although smooth and sexy, is involving him self with something ridiculously stupid. Zed also seems to have trouble standing up for him self, especially against his friend the ringleader, Eric. Even in the first 10 mins of the film he's hard to like for these reasons. He is however, the only character in the film you can feel any kind of empathy for. This is mainly because he is the main character and it's almost as if we are made to. I'm sure one could empathize with Zoë if she wasn't featured and characterized so little throughout the film. Her role is a very important one however, and I think we spend such little time with her in order to realize that Zed is just starting to live his life (Zoë means life in Greek), when he meets feels an affinity with Zoë. The audience is suppose to see what Zed sees and feel what Zed feels. He doesn't get to know Zoë well during the course of the film therefore neither do we. Another way this is achieved is through the cinematography. If you remember during the sex scene switching between the black and white horror film that was on the television and a naked Zoë from the perspective of Zed, who was lying below her. We see what he sees. Most of the shots in the first half of the film are fairly close up as well if you remember, this gives us a sense of closeness to Zed, and also of nervous tension, which is the emotion he must be feeling coming to a new city for such a reason as armed robbery.One of the things to remember when watching this film is that in order to to enjoy and appreciate a film, you don't nessecerly have to like the characters or what they do. On quite a few occasions during this film I found my self flinching, especially at the treatment and portrayal women and of course the homicidal actions of some of the main characters. However, this film is an enthralling roller coaster ride of violence, drugs and depravity and despite everything cringe worthy, it is very enjoyable. The acting is very natural, so much so that one wonders if some of it was ad-lib. Eric Stoltz is wonderful as always and Jean-Hugues Anglade is the best I've ever seen him. He plays a really good maniac!Roger Avary really should stick to what he's good at and make more films like this one. "},{"Title":"A great film that should have eclipsed Pulp Fiction","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Though Pulp Fiction (which Avary co-wrote) has been viewed as the prime example of its genre, Killing Zoe actually does it better.  There are numerous reasons for my opinion, the most significant being the much more interesting casting (which created incredible character nuance) and the setting of the film (a mysterious and unseen version of Paris which has much more fascinating urban facets than the LA of Pulp Fiction).  If you haven't seen it yet... check it out.  If you've seen it and dismissed it, check it out again.  Either way -- it's a great ride. "}{"Title":"no matter what it will keep you seated","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I think that this would have to be the most well directed and well casted movie ive ever seen if it was rereleased into theaters and it got enough publicity it would be a hit movi and would probally gross millions its just not to many people have heard of this movie within this movie you sense fear, anger, passion, it gives you a outlook on life that nothing else could project it will touch you in the deepest placest itll bring out lost friendship lost love and a french tongue so if you want to see the greatest movi ever rent it or but it its worth the money trust me---------lots of luck for the actors in this movie at whatever it is that your doing-later-  "},{"Title":"We must be in and out, or they'll be suspicioooon.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent.  No movie can top this for kids our age in this genre.  Avary's story and direction?  Perfect, simply perfect.  I found the only main detractor was Stolz.  He was adequate, but the movie aguably would have been a smash with someone else.I'll let others describe this movie, but if you're a Tarantino fan you'll betray him for Avary.  All Tarantino did was Resevoir Dogs, all the rest was Quentin's annoying/unrealistic conversations to feed his bloated ego and his receding hairline.  Anglade's portrayal of Eric makes me want to see anything he is in.  He will inspire you to learn French or at the very least speak English in a French accent like his (much to your girlfriend's dismay).Oliver was also another highpoint.  You'll know him from The Krays!  Delpy is gorgeous.  If there is a higher life form than Jean H. Anglad then by God science has yet to identify it. "},{"Title":"Bank robbery goes wrong. Movie goes right.","Date":"12 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the many bad reviews, this movie is better than almost any crime thriller with a high body count I've seen. Unlike most of them, this involves really inept crooks, except for the hero, Eric Stoltz. First the gang leader is a violent psychotic. The rest turn out to be drug addicts with machine guns. Only Zoe, a call girl and not one of the gang, exceeds expectations at her job. Little touches like a dead cat on the ground floor of the gang's hideout, create a building unease. Anglade is superb. Easily in the top three films I've seen this year. "},{"Title":"A Good, Honest Job","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Cute, original, and funny, but lacking in a coherent structure. Avary's film has a lot of spontaneity, character, and wit--traits that made Tarantino such a big success--but he lacks Tarantino's most off-putting characteristic Avary doesn't seem to want to be better than he is, nor hipper than he is. The flaw of his style is that Killing Zoe lacks enough serious development. After getting into the bank, the movie flattens out. It's still a romp, but I wouldn't say it's a fully-realized picture.  "},{"Title":"Killing Zoe is the ultimate voyage through the outer limits of the human psyche!","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  KILLING ZOE Roger Avery has a few things to prove with this film and, thankfully, he proves them all!Firstly, he proves that he may hold the lion's share of the talent in his writing partnership with pal Quentin Tarantino.He also proves that originality is not dead!He also manages to thrill, excite, and amaze all without big budget effects or Hollywood smoke and mirrors.This film stands on the firm foundation of a superb screenplay, fine acting, realistic dialogue, and a thrilling climax and an absolutely bulletproof performance by Jean-Hugues Anglade, as Eric.     "},{"Title":"Surprisingly decent, actually","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing Zoe is the feature film debut from Quentin Tarantino's ex-friend and collaborator on Pulp Fiction, Roger Avery. Avery is less talented than his ex-friend, that's beyond question and it shows in this movie; which despite not being bad at all, isn't brilliant either. The first thing you'll notice about it is it's European styling, which emancipates from the fact that it's set in Paris and it's cast of actors, who hail from across Europe (and the world). We've got French, British, Japanese and most probably more. The plot is Reservoir Dogs-ish, with a bunch of men planning a bank heist. We follow Zed (Erik Stoltz), an American that has just arrived in Paris and hooked himself with a hooker. He's in on the robbery of course, but before he gets there he's taken on a night out around Paris, for drugs, drinking and god only knows what else. Naturally, the film is cool as anything; and this appears to be the entire point of the movie as the plot lacks bite, charm or anything resembling a point.Killing Zoe gains credibility for being very entertaining, and you'll wonder where the time has gone while watching this movie, which is never a bad thing. Of course, it is, in effect, a waste of time; but if you enjoy watching it, it hardly matters. The film is continually unpleasant, with violence, gore, swearing, nudity and the rest of the gang featuring heavily, which will no doubt offend some - but certainly not me. Eric Stoltz takes the lead role, and does well with it; even if he does never really impress, and at times even looks uncomfortable. Julie Delpy is the title character and she doesn't impress either; she'd prove her worth a year later in Before Sunrise, of course, but here she doesn't really impress. Jean-Hugues Anglade, who does impress as the lead villain, steals the show. He's loud, brash and over the top; making every scene he's in a delight. Avery's direction is solid for most of the movie, but he appears to get a little big headed towards the end when he throws in lots of little tricks that aren't all that good. However, this is certainly a decent movie and fans of Tarantino will probably think it's awesome! "},{"Title":"one of the best action films i have ever seen","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Everythink is just perfect in this one.  the direction, is fast and certainly has opinion and style. hilarious humour & cool cynicism. fair acting and AWESOME pace!!! this is INTENSE. Recommended for all fans of action filmsP.S. About the Tarantino lovin' geeks thing I like Tarantino acting, but when it comes to directin Avary or Rodriguese are surely the winners, and make true art "},{"Title":"another great feat of Quentin Tarantino","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  To begin with, I am a huge fan of Quentin Tarantino, so it's hard for me to say anything negative about any film that he's associated with, especially this one.  Killing Zoe is basically another example of QT's brilliance in the art of production. After seeing most of Tarantino's films (the only one's I haven't seen are My Best Friend's Birthday and Past Midnight), it has become easy to  spot the little golden pieces of QT that make his films his own.  In Killing Zoe, it's the moment after finishing the movie when you've pressed the stop button and stare at the blank screen, and you're finally able to exhale because when you're watching KZ, you forget that it's just a movie.  KZ can be an overwhelming peice of work;  it's fast paced, brutal, and it gives a frightening look into the mind of a sociopathic smack addicted criminal with a see what happens as we go along attitude. Another aspect of this film that gives it away as a Tarantino production is the slightly twisted and quickly developed romance that sparks between the main character (Zed) and a call girl (Zoe).  As unlikely as the relationship may seem, there is also something very real about the whole love situation that makes it believable and leaves no room for sappy details. All in all I enjoyed this movie very much and if you haven't already, Go See It! "},{"Title":"The sweetest love story ever told.","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  When you first see this movie you are like what happened. But then you understand love beats all. Forget a Love Story. This is the Love Story of the new ages. Don't watch it as bad but as good. Can you feel the love in the room! *****!!! "},{"Title":"A cool bank robbery movie","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is another good french movie,I must say that I am surprised that France make so many good movies.This movie has a simple plot about gang who is planning on robbing France national bank.You can say that the movie is devided into two parts, the first is the preparations and the wild night before the bank job.And the the second half of the movie is of the actual robbery.This movie has some scenes that you usually dont see in most movies,I am talking about brutal killing and a cool little sex scene.One reason why this movie turned out the way it did, must have been that they got Quentin Tarantino as their executive producer.And we all know the amount of violence that are in his movies. This is an entertaining movie to watch,but maybe a little brutal for some people.And look out for Jean-Hugues Anglade,he has a powerful way of acting that gets you focused,really cool actor. An other thing about this movie,is that it is not very known,so if you see it, I advice you to buy or rent it because it is quit rare. "}{"Title":"It seems people are repulsed right away.","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Which I have to think is the movie's intention, so that the themes presented here are really covered up by the desensitization that the movie embellishes in, you have little things in this movie that points to themes of extremist humanity. I haven't seen this movie in a LONG time, but I can remember it revolving around Eric Stoltz's Zed is a person balanced between purity and desolation, whereas Julie Delphy as Zoe represents his purer side and Jean-Hugues Anglade as Eric represents desolation. And you can see that in the hostages vs. the druggie robbers. All the hostages getting killed as well as Eric doing what a screwed up person would do to get rid of Zoe would explain the title, if anybody really didn't get it. I gave it a 8 however, there is little substance, although it's obviously there, but it's still entertaining in it's own right! "},{"Title":"Interesting, kept me entertained.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie because I am a big Tarantino fan, and I wanted to see this movie that he produced, and that the co-writer of Pulp Fiction directed. I really liked this movie alot, because of the interesting use of colors (white in the beginning, blue, then in the bank alot of red), and the drug scenes, I also loved the Nosferatu showing on the tv in Zed's motel room. All different and interesting. I recommend this movie to people who aren't bothered by violence and drug use, who don't mind subtitles, and who can enjoy a good heist film. "},{"Title":"Exciting...","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Roger Avery does a good job with the low-budget he had to make this film (at least I think it had a low budget). Anyways the character interaction of Eric and Zed was great. It was good as a thriller. I think Julie Delpy had too  small a role though. The last final massacre of the hostages and the robbers was filmed well and at a very quick pace. It was not a very long movie but in had its good parts. I'll give it a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Ouch!  It's amateur night.","Date":"20 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What an atrocity. I am not one to demand total verisimilitude from a movie, but the plot and screenplay of Killing Zoe are so artless that I found myself wincing through the entire (mercifully short) ninety minutes of the film.Readers of these reviews will by now have figured out the plot Zoe, a call girl who falls in love with American safecracker Zed, is also an employee at the bank that Zed will help rob in a high-stakes Bastille Day heist.The film strains one's credibility from the get-go. Zed and Zoe's night of magic is highly prosaic, and Zoe's claims to have experienced the orgasm of a lifetime would seem to reflect the screenwriter's lingering teenage fantasies more than any actual on-screen chemistry. Zed's complete indifference when his friend Eric throws Zoe out of the hotel room hardly sets the stage for their later strong attachment.In act two, Eric's band of bohemians--drug-addled losers leading a marginal life of petty crime--prepare for their big heist with a night on the town. Here Roger Avary's main goal seems to be to prove that he knows something about drugs. A secondary thread involves convincing us (by endless repetition) that Eric is really, REALLY glad to see his old friend Zed again. Really glad. Eric's devil-may-care, over-the-top flamboyance and affection for Zed isn't even remotely believable--check out, for example, his phony bemusement at discovering a dead cat in his apartment building. Development of the characters who will accompany us through the rest of the film is an afterthought.The heist is a disaster--understandable, since the plan is laughable and the criminals are complete amateurs. This is where Avary continues to pay tribute to his idol Quentin Tarantino by showing that he can be more violent than violent. In reality, though, he's just more boring than boring. To build up the excitement, there is an extra security guard hidden inside the main safe. This was boring in video games, and it's boring now.Zoe is taken hostage during the heist but despite our expectation that she'll play a pivotal role, she just sits pretty. Or more precisely, Avary fails to do anything with her. In literally the last five minutes she springs to life, breaks the hostage situation and saves the grateful, but still dazed Zed from suffering any consequences of his crime. Why she doesn't mind his involvement in the crime--or why she gives a damn about him at all--is impossible to tell. After all, she's had no chance to see that he's any more decent than the rest of the gang.Throughout, the dialogue is stilted and phony. Much of it is in French. As a native speaker, I can certify that it doesn't ring even remotely true. Eric's sugary-sweet discourse, rapidly alternating with tough-guy boasting, is meant to be at turns charming and scary, but is instead just grating. Meanwhile his scaredy-cat accomplices are more Scooby-Doo than Thomas Crown. When Eric is gunned down in a ludicrous example of excessive force, we can all breathe a sigh of relief like the bank hostages, we will soon be freed from this miserable ordeal. "},{"Title":" Viva La Difference. Meet The Real Reservoir Dogs !!!","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a movie that you just happen upon one day without knowing what it is about but figure the name allows at least 10 minutes just for curiosity. Than it hooks you! Imagine Eric Stolz an American in Paris so to speak A reunion is to take place  with his old friend. Sounds sweet? Well their friendship is anything but normal as the two lead men are.They embark on a nonstop wild trip to pull off a heist and lets say that this is one very bad acid trip of a gig. Stolz is initiated to who his crew will be and if he survives the night before the job, the rest lets say is a piece of quiche. This gritty almost can smell the stench in the air French great independent film is very much worth watching for there is never a moment of calm. Does Zoe get killed ? Who is Zoe? I thought Jean-Hugues Anglade was absolutely captivating as the totally violent drug crazed Eric. This is an actor that just really should get more work. He monopolizes every scene. I thought it was one of the coolest films and I just fell upon it. I have watched it several times since. It's definitively one to look into. It holds up against alot big budget action films with a dirty thrilling heart pounding rhythm mixed with excellent writing and cast.  "},{"Title":"bank robbery genre","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Zed (Eric Stoltz) arrives in Paris, goes to a hotel room and has sex with call-girl Zoe (Julie Delpy). His lowlife friend Eric (Jean-Hugues Anglade) pulls Zoe out of the shower and throws her out of the room naked. Eric is the leader and Zed is the safecracker. Their group goes to rob a bank where Zoe happens to be a worker. Zed is shocked that people are getting killed right from the start and the job goes wrong.Coming out at around the same time, this was overshadowed by Pulp Fiction. It certainly isn't as well-written or well-constructed. Zed is a slacker-type and isn't a compelling lead character. His druggie self is low-energy and isn't that interesting. The first act with Julie Delpy is memorable but the middle is completely forgettable. The bank robbery regains some interest. "},{"Title":"Pulp Fiction in France","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Zed (Eric Stoltz) has only just arrived in the beautiful Paris and already he is up to no good. Having just slept with a call girl (Julie Delpy), he spends a night on the town with his dangerous friends. They all decide to rob a bank the following day. There is only one problem Zed's call-girl, Zoe, just happens to work at the bank which is to be robbed! I believe this film comes from the same guy who wrote Pulp Fiction, and the similarities are evident. Although the first half is a strange romance-turned-heist, the film gets increasingly violent as it carries on. This is very much the same style as Pulp Fiction. (Both also feature Eric Stoltz.) Julie Delpy is interesting here. Although she is more or less reduced to a secondary character, it is interesting how she was something of the it girl as far as French women in American movies were concerned. She was not the first or the last, but it seems that at any given time there is always one French actress who is the standard for appearing in American films. "},{"Title":"Roughed Up in Paris","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sporting beautiful hair and a bad wrist-watch, handsome safe-cracker Eric Stoltz (as Zed) arrives in Paris. He's there to help childhood friend Jean-Hugues Anglade (as Eric) rob a bank on Bastille Day. A helpful cab-driver provides Mr. Stoltz with a prostitute for his first night in the City of Lights. Prepare to have your breath taken away when arousing Julie Delpy (as Zoe) removes her shirt. Cheers to Stoltz and director Roger Avary for telling Ms. Delpy to slow down while removing her clothing. We could have stood more of Delpy, however, instead of the symbolic Nosferatu (1922) inter-cutting. Delpy claims she's really a poor student. She also looks like she could have modeled for Blind Faith album covers. Coincidently, Delpy works at the bank Stoltz is scheduled to rob...Unfortunately, the bank robbery does not go smoothly...It turns out Mr. Anglade is leading a hedonistic lifestyle. He consumes a variety drugs, in huge amounts. Stoltz can only pretend to smoke Camel cigarettes (and director Avary adds no smoke effects), but Anglade inhales his butts deeply. The Parisian party animal is also secretly in love with Stoltz. He can't keep his hands off the attractive Viking man. Anglade throws sexy Delpy out of Stoltz' apartment and begins his seduction. However, for unexplained reasons, Anglade initially climaxes with one of his regular buddies. You'll have to watch and see if he's able to penetrate Stoltz. Be aware, should you dare; it does get messy. Killing Zoe may be Avary's story of unrequited love; it's not a clearly told tale. However, Avery and Anglade are undeniably worth watching.****** Killing Zoe (10/16/93) Roger Avary ~ Eric Stoltz, Jean-Hugues Anglade, Julie Delpy, Gary Kemp "},{"Title":"Complete Masterpiece","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Many people mistaken this film for one other vapid trashy early nineties film, but Killing Zoe is actually way more clever than Natural Born Killer and True Romance for example, way deeper because it has several layer of understanding. It's a film about a bank robbery, right, with a classic film noir tangent  a girl and a gun, a saint that is also a whore, a bad guy and an honest gangster ( like a real professional), it's also a film about Aids and the aids epidemic (metaphoric film about how aids kills your body, the bank being a human body, the safe being the heart, Anglade being the virus ( he rapes, shares drugs), his men being other diseases, complication of aids, and the hostages and clients are living cells and the cops anti bodies ), Nosferatu being the ultimate reference of the film, raising from his coffin (like Stoltz Anglade and Delpy throughout the film, but in reverse, they actually fall like Nosferatu raises) is a vampire who suck blood. the walls of the bank are crimson red like blood. It's also a film about evil and destruction, a profoundly nihilistic film with references and constant imitations of Nosferatu throughout the film, here again . A very complex film , the kind who's the story does not really matter  the film itself is an experience, it makes you feel something, it's visceral , you either love it or hate it, or both but it can't leave you indifferent "},{"Title":"Not a bad kill from Quentin's mate","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" On my view, I do admit I was a bit disappointed. Give it a few views, I was entertained intensely. First we have Paris, one of the most beautiful cities of the world, though we don't get to see much of it in this. Granted, this is no Pulp Fiction, some of it's dialogue with it's intellectual humor, leads us to question Quentin might of got his pen a little wet here. Like Reservoir Dogs, we have a heist gone wrong, amidst a little frank and shocking violence. (Eric) Jean Hughes Anglande has invited a childhood friend over, safe cracker Zed (Stoltz) he hasn't seen in some time. They're to do over a big bank on Bastille day, where the night before they get on the p**s and H, so obviously we're in the hand of some real experts. This too becomes a shock to Zed, who's only given a day's notice, not even having time to checked the bank out. In part, as seen to the amateur display of activities by our thieves, in these ugly masks, you could silently label this as an anti drug movie. Now here's the fun angle to the title. On the day of Zed's arrival, he's sent an escort, Zoe, (Julie Delpy) who just happens to work at the same bank, they do over, where Zed caught at a pivotal moment, towards it's end, is forced to make a choice, and I did too like the way it ended. Too, Eric's drunken admittance of aids, to Zed, made sense in the way he literally shoved Zoe out of his room, after the two's little interlude. Loved the cool opening plus it's title song, where were shown numerous streets of Paris, as if from a driver's POV. I loved the end song too, with Delpy saying Let me show you the real Paris. Also Stoltz's whacked out POV, of visible music tunes, drifting out of friend, Anglande's trumpet. Not for all Tarantino fans. "}{"Title":"A film of 2 haves.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" KILLING ZOEI liked it... but it was a film of 2 halves.The first half of the movie was just average at best. A group of people that get together to arrange a bank robbery, but most of the first 45 minutes was just them getting wasted on drugs and messing about around Paris. This part of the movie dragged on a bit. It was OK, but more could have happened. But the second half was awesome. The bank robbery.When the entered the bank, the movie really picked up the pace.Zoe is the receptionist in the bank that the group hold up...the problem is, Zoe is also a hooker that one of the robbers has fallen in love with. He didn't know she worked there.The cast was good though. Eric Stoltz, Jean-Hughes Anglade & Julie Delpy really do well. I connected with the characters these guys played. There were even some good supporting roles too. Especially Gary Kemp. Who would have known that the guy from Spandau Ballet could be a good actor. He was really good in the Krays too.There was one scene in the movie though that made me laugh. Someone gets shot and has about 200 bullets shot at him from a few guns all at the same time... yet he did not go down! He still stood there for about 30 seconds after. I am pretty sure he would have gone down a long time after that. Also, there is a brilliant comical scene with a cat. )There was a really good raw feel to this movie that I loved... Tarantino usually has that feel with his films. I suppose this has it because he was Executive Producer.All in all this film was good. I will give it 7 out of 10.A slow first half, but a great second half and ending.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"17 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing ZoeSince banks aren't open past 5 p.m., if you're a moonlighting bank robber, you're going to have to take time off work.Fortunately, the bandits in this bank heist were born into a life of crime.In Paris to assist his old friend Eric (Jean-Hugues Anglade) with a job, American safecracker Zed (Eric Stoltz) kills time with a prostitute, Zoe (Julie Delpy), whom he shares an instant rapport with.The two lovers are later reunited when a masked Zed holds up the bank where Zoe works. Compelled to protect her from the erratic Eric, who has instigated a gunfight with Paris' finest, Zed puts his lifelong friendship with Eric as well as his own life on the line.Truly a hidden heist gem, Killing Zoe is an innovative and intriguing investment that gains greater interest with each viewing. However, robbing banks is now futile since no one has any money. (Green Light) "},{"Title":"Bloody and entertaining, sometimes both but never uninteresting or un-engaging.","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is an energy behind Killing Zoe, there is a passion and a commitment from its director behind Killing Zoe and that is to make a fast, furious and bloody film that entertains as well as shocks in equal measure. Given the situation regarding this film's production, the film comes across upon reading the pre-production stage as a bit of an accident. Whilst scouting for locations for Reservoir Dogs, director Roger Avary would discover a place where a 'perfect' heist film could take place. Since the whole gimmick (in the nicest possible way) for Reservoir Dogs is that it's a heist film without the heist, the bank couldn't really be used but it suited Avary's other script he had going and that was Killing Zoe.An interesting back-story to a film that is never anything but interesting, apart from perhaps being entertaining at certain points. For Reservoir Dogs to take a mere two years before it itself would become a victim of a pastiche is testament to Reservoir Dog's influential power as well as Avary's own passion and drive behind this production. Notice how the script supposedly took a week to write, also.The film revolves predominantly around a heist going on in a French bank in which master safecracker Zed (Stoltz) is working with an old French buddy who also just happens to be a heroin addict and a psychopathic criminal, amongst other things. He is Eric (Anglade) and is played with ruthless efficiency by the respective French actor. But Killing Zoe is not another routine heist film. Killing Zoe spells out all the tiny, painstaking details that go with robbing a bank and it utilises the conventional 'race against time' drive. Amongst other things, the guys will have to go through each hostage one by one in order to get codes, they will have to pass the time in the main office while other robbers work downstairs on the vault and they will have to deal with any security guards they might miss once entering new bank owned territory.But that's the joy of Killing Zoe. Once it all gets up and running, there is no going back. It is a roller-coaster of violence, disturbance and dark, dark humour that isn't over until it's over. The film is all about stealing and mugging. Zed is the perfect 'fish out of water' an American in Paris; an American in France; an American in Europe. One of the first scenes of the film has a porter stand there and accept a tip that is probably too much; Zed is being 'robbed'. Then there is Zoe (Delpy) herself who charges a thousand Francs for sex but maintains she is no prostitute. In that case, can I have my money back? wise-cracks Zed but if you go by her convincing analysis of what she is, she is right and thus has got herself some money not through stealing but in a slimy working way. Similar to the porter who gets extra cash bringing up bags and Zoe acting as a prostitute for money, Zed and his group of cronies are breaking into banks; breaking into vaults and trying to steal the cash that they probably all think they earn by doing this. With this reading, the film is about greed.Then there are the influences of other work made by Tarantino and Avary round about the time. The sex scene between Zed and Zoe is inter-cut with images from the Nosferatu film echoing the technique used in Natural Born Killers; a film Tarantino wrote but disowned. There is also the establishment of a genuine love affair between a male lead and a prostitute echoing True Romance of the previous year, another Tarantino penned film. So if Zed is established as this lost soul as an American in France, it is because he is mugged out of a thousand Francs from a girl who isn't selling herself; he is never given the time in plain English and is informed by Eric about how wrong foreign people are when it comes to French iconography and tourism. But when push comes to shove and he is placed in his 'zone', Zed performs. This is first followed through when he looks at a map of the bank and comes up with an alternate plan that will save them time as well as possible trouble &#150; he has solved the robbers a problem.Killing Zoe is a film that although is American, does not conform to European stereotypes just archetypes the genre demands. The French are not buffoons, the Englishman played by Gary Kemp is not a total idiot and if anything they are all a match for one another with the Zed, the American, himself sticking out for ridicule thanks to the evidence mentioned in the previous paragraph. Eric is a psychotic criminal into hard drugs and homicide, he would also rather blow someone up than shoot them in the vault. The film is one that does not start off with typical French iconography of whatever you like but stays a ground level, literally. The fast moving cars and sense of travelling kicks the film off perfectly and with a good guy to root for, a love story cleverly thrown in and an awesome bad guy, it is no surprise the film maintains that air of near perfection throughout. "},{"Title":"I love this Flick","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" No one would ever say that I don't like those dark and gritty movies with the comic violence and the witty sexy appeal. And this movie truly has it. I love Eric Stolz. He's hot. And Julia Delpy is smoking hot. I especially love the setting in France and the character Eric and his madness. The movie has a great feeling to it. It's maddening at times as the horrific events quickly begin to swirl out of control. This is one of my favorite films. I can watch it over and over again!!! If you haven't seen it then you need to right away! What are you waiting for? Personally I really love the music as well. It really compliments the film. And the shear brutality of the film is so wonderful. Seriously! If you have never watched this film and love these kinds of dark movies, you'll love Killing Zoe! "},{"Title":"a debut of promise, occasionally heavy-handed, but visceral with some staying power","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Roger Avary, unfortunately, hasn't had the same kind of incredible, almost unfathomable success that his once co-worker and friend Quentin Tarantino had (apparently their falling out, over the appropriate crediting for Pulp Fiction, happened whilst finishing this film), and a lot of his career has been spent doing script doctor work, doing the here and there film (one being the cult film The Rules of Attraction, the upcoming Beowulf), and being even more low-key than his not-too-prolific ex-friend. But it goes without saying that his first film, the gritty, nihilistic and often crazy film Killing Zoe, wont be remembered by at least a few film fans out there. In fact, much like in the vein of Tarantino, this film is made, if for no one else, hardcore action/heist film fans, those looking for a spin so different on the noir/crime genre that they can feel the blood and cursing almost spill out onto their faces (not that it's the most ever in this film but there's a good deal of violence, sometimes to the point of over-the-top). But what helps make Killing Zoe watchable is that there is substance to the film, there's some good acting in leads by usually character actors, and by being uncompromising in the way it just is (and one can see Avary's personality &/or sensibility in almost every scene) it does create a kind of critical split in the audience like some French-new wave filmmaker.Perhaps that's part of the significance of filming it all in Paris. Like a Melville film, we're given a story of criminal friends with their own kind of loyalty. But then there's a massive injection (no pun intended with the plot detail of heroin in the film) of Generationm X-er pathos, of the pulsating harsh electronic soundtrack, the experimental hand-held camera-work, and enough truth in the basic nature of the characters. Zed (Eric Stoltz) is the American in Paris, obviously the best of the bad guys; Zoe (Julie Delpy) is a student just trying to make her way by taking in the occasional man-in-bed; and Eric (Jean Hugues-Anglade) who rounds out the main cast as the 'friend' of Zed's with a caper- and of course drugs- on his mind. The first half of the film, the set-up one could say, is where the audience will get split right away; the Nosferatu comparisons during the sex scene and the blurry-eyed subjective camera-work during the partying scenes in the car and cavern-club. Could Avery be going a little obvious in these scenes, perhaps, but its still well shot in its own right, and laced with some subtle moments (I love the little joke where the two friends pass by a cat, not sure if its dead or not).Then comes the chunk of the film involving the heist. This is where some of the nihilism of the film, at least for me, really kicked in full gear, or at least a kind of fatalistic kind of storytelling. One knows how this is going to turn out from the get go, so Avary is really presenting the viewer with the details of a robbery going horribly wrong, led by a truly twisted antagonist in the form of Eric, who embodies nihilism by having nothing to live for through his AIDS, and in just being a take-no-prisoners criminal at large. Hugues-Anglade provides the right, even startling, amount of the psychotic-criminal kind of character with all the raging violence and none of the professionalism of Stoltz's character. But there can be only so much analyzing of what certain images mean or what Avary is trying to do with the philosophies of the characters, etc. At the core its just a solid crime film, flawed in a couple of spots, and missing key footage in the American version, but displaying a young filmmaker with a lot of energy and means to tell a story without going all shoddily operatic about it. Sometimes its sheer will to be as strange as it is at times amid its genre conventions (like the joke-telling scene in the bank) makes it worthwhile...not for everyone though. "},{"Title":"another fine film from Roger Avary not Terantino!","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  this was a great movie and i would like to take this opportunity to say that this is another fine piece of work from Roger Avary not Quentin Terantino!!! don't get me wrong I'm an NYU film student studying Screenwriting, Quentin Terantino and Charlie Kaufman are like gods to me, but Roger Avary has spent his whole professional life living in the shadow of his Movie Store buddies shadow. Avary and Terantino met at a local movie store they both worked at, Terantino and Avary then went on to write movies together which is great. the problem is that Terantino gives no credit to Avary where credit is due. Killing Zoe and The Rules of Attraction are two of the finest films i have ever seen. so in closing Roger Avary kicks ass and should get the credit he deserves, because he definitely deserves it!!! "},{"Title":"disagreeing with the previous comments...","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the previous comment about this film, I disagree with just about all of it.  'Zoe' is a fun little flick, nothing earth-shattering, but a nice little toe-tapper, easy to dance to--I give it a 79.  Eric Stoltz is his usual dependable self, the French gang is a hoot, and the only one I don't like is Julie Delpy, but then I never liked her.  As far as the other comments, well, 1) hard to call this a post-Quentin movie, since this came out before everything but 'ResDogs', and all the good scenes from Quentin's movies were written by Roger anyway, 2) see above--now that they've fallen out, it will be interesting seeing Quentin make a movie by himself, since he hasn't made one in about, oh, five years, and his last one, 'Jackie Brown' just didn't do it for me (even with the hot-hot-hot Pam Grier).  Anyway, great little gangster flick, certainly on the level of 'ResDogs', and just a step below 'Pulp Fiction' and the great Cagney and Robinson films (which are better than these new films, anyway). "},{"Title":"2 movies in one -","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie can be basically divided into two parts, the opening part where Zed runs around Paris with drug crazed maniacs and the KILLER bank heist at the end.  The first half drones on and on with these characters who are all losers and no one cares about them.  These peoples personalities could have been summed up in 15 minutes, not the 40 or more spent on it.  By contrast, the second half is great.  Very Typical of the writer/director's work with Quentin Tarantino in the past.  Clever ending "},{"Title":"My second thought, very different","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Killing Zoe can be compared to Reservoir Dogs or Pulp Fiction...but, after a second view of the film, I realized that I had been wrong.  It is different from Pulp Fiction in the way that it keeps itself serious, and after all, that's a very good thing, because it doesn't have all the pretention to put crude vulgarity and violence with such a commercial touch of humor.  Pulp Fiction makes violence look cool, with all the seventies' look and stupid jokes.  But Killing Zoe is realistic...spoilers warning There is that strong and intense scene of drug abuse, which shows the exact pictures of a bad trip.  The violence is more intense, and more horrible, which gives a sense to the film where a Tarantino film could never go.  I admit that Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs had more development of various characters, but Killing Zoe is focussing on one particular guy, and that guy is more interesting than any character in a Tarantino movie.  In my first view of the film, I thought it was absolutely stupid that Zoe was not so important in the story, because the title says Killing Zoe...that's not an appropriate title, but if you read this before watching the film, don't follow Zoe's character, follow Eric's.  The acting is awesome, especially from Jean-Hugues Anglade, who plays the maniac junkie who doesn't care about anything, and who's ready to die anytime.  I would even say he's a touching character.  And the scene where he dies is just perfect, and beautiful, it's a magical piece of acting from Mr.Anglade.  Every scene of the film is intense, and was made with care and originality.  The tragedy and the insanity is really there, and you can feel it very well.  The directing is great, and the mood is awesome!  If you liked this and you are from Quebec, see Quiconque Meurt, Meurt À Douleur...Killing Zoe is very good. I give it 8/10, but that should be a 8.5, seriously, if not a 9. "},{"Title":"SPOILERS galore (as if any are needed)","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Why do I keep watching action films with the expectation that there will be a feasible flow of events.  First we have Zoe, declaring the importance that she 'feels safe' with Zed.  Then, immediately, Zed stands quietly by while poor Zoe is flicked into the streets naked by Zed's buddy.  Never mind, Zoe returns, undaunted, still confident in Zed's protective nature.  Even setting aside that Zoe returns in the most highly improbably coincidence.  Now, try to think of a film in which the bad guy just kills the good guy when he has the chance.  But no, Eric (so unscrupulous about blowing away on a whim any bystander) talks, grimaces, gesticulates, pontificates, providing every opportunity for somebody (like an unarmed girl) to foil his plan to kill Zed.  And foil and foil.  With her bare hands.  Finally, seemingly after hours, the Swat Team comes in, and patiently waits for Eric to take careful aim and dramatically pull the trigger (gun finally empty, of course), before taking maybe 700 rounds from the Swat  team, which do not even knock him backwards toward the wall, not to mention turning him to the hamburger such a volley would normally inflict.  And then, the only surviving witnesses to the events in the bank are allowed to just drive away undeterred in her car, magically eluding the army of police surrounding the bank.  Come on! "}{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie definitely isn't for everyone. It isn't your run of the mill shoot'em up movie. That is what I love about it. It is like a great foreign film without subtitles! If you like your movies a little on the obscure and abstract side. You've got to check this one out! "},{"Title":"Ultra-violent and depraved... a must see.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the real Paris...  Killing Zoe is a Tarantino-esque joy ride through the under belly of Paris.  A sexy, gratifyingly violent study of drug induced madness and moral corruption.  The story involves a bank heist that can't go wrong and the film maintains an unrelenting intensity from start to finish.  Eric Stoltz is flawless, as usual.  If you like Reservoir Dogs - absolutely see this one.  One warning there is some French spoken with accompanying subtitles. "},{"Title":"a movie with multiple paths...","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  a brief look at this film and one might be inclined to dismiss it as some foreign film,  but at a closer look one will start piecing in stories and connections that only bring smiles to my face every time.  the deeper levels of this movie and the hidden references are mind tickling.  this is a brilliant film and should be hailed for the masterpiece it is.  "},{"Title":"Geek watches Melville movies; produces spontaneous abortion","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Nihilistic French criminals who don't care about ze human life because zey are infected wiz ze Ash-Ah-Vee! Eric Stoltz as a wannabe-badass American in Paris who left his shampoo bottle in Kansas! Old bank-teller ladies getting shot in the face with a snicker! Roger Avary's French-fried festival of blood squibs makes you realize two hard facts. 1.) Early-nineties post-Quentin ripoffs of Woo and Melville now look about as dated as checkerboard shoes and leg warmers. 2.) It's now clear that in the Video Archives family, Quentin not only wears the pants, but the mantle of talent as well. After re-seeing ZOE on late-night cable, a third fact is clear to me as well If Jack Valenti decided to execute Roger Avary by the death of a thousand cuts for his crimes against the minds of America's impressionable post-Columbine youths, it would count as much less than a slap on the wrist. "},{"Title":"Very good but not perfect","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  One of the better movies i've seen in recent weeks.  acting was good, the music did well to add to the feeling of the scenes, camera effects were good.  but there were a few small things that bothered me that probably no one else would have noticed otherwise.  for one, at times the sound effects were cheap.  i recall in at least one fighting scene, the punching sounds made me think i was watching a looney tunes cartoon.  i also thought the fade-to-black routine was a bit overused.  there are other ways to change points-of-view or make breaks in thought.  and what's up with the police not caring about the hostages' well-being??  was this paris or pluto?  kinda strange to give the cops that mentality, and yet, when they encounter the villain, they hesitate to shoot him.  there are a few other minor things that made me wonder, but overall i enjoyed this movie.  i gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"Gratuitous violence and nothing else.","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film seems original in terms of visual style due mainly to this being Avary's debut.  Apart from the interesting sex scene and a couple of other stylistic choices, like when Eric first shoots up, I found this to be painful to watch.  The film revels in its own violence and bloodlust.  The violence serves no point in the narrative other than saying these men are monsters.  We already know that after they kill the first person.This is no Tarantino film.  His violence is suspenseful, exciting and crucial his films' themes.  I'm sure he regrets putting money into this exercise.  Killing Zoe has no main themes either.  Zed is foreign to the country and to the group but that is the only reason I can think of as to why this was made in Paris.  It's not that I want a moral to the story but some themes that drive the characters and the story would be nice.Rent it for curiosity value only.   "},{"Title":"Very good but treated unfairly .","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing Zoe is truly a really good film from a time from when I was   just a little kid but what I can say about the film is one thing for   sure as a lot of people are saying on the IMDb is that this film is   treated quite unfairly due to the fact that it has that Tarintino name   on the DVD box . And with that said people already have expectations   and hopes for the film and then are probably let down because it does   not live up to the hype . Let me just say that this movie indeed has   some Tarintino elements but it IS BY NO MEANS A QT FLICK !!! On the   whole it one of those leave your brain at the door movies that provides   to be good fast paced entertainment which has 2 other major film   elements and they are Resivour Dogs and Dog Day Afternoon but in its   own way is a wacky piece of work with a lot of hardcore drug taking ,   joking about and a bank heist in which everything could go wrong, did   go wrong ! There is not much Chracther development in here so don't   expect much and the movie starts of really quickly and ends really   abruptly as well . I want to give this movie a 7 but unfortunately it   did not really go the whole distance so instead it gets a 6.5 from me .   On the whole worth a check out , you might like it , you might not , on   the whole I enjoyed it .    P.S. - For all the Julie Delpy fans , you get to see her tits ! "},{"Title":"Highly violent entertainment","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" It's easy to discuss 'Killing Zoe's problems; they are, after all, plentiful and in clear view. It's hard to deny, though, that it's an incredibly entertaining movie. It's important not to be misled by the treacherous phrase 'from the creators of Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction'; Killing Zoe was directed by Roger Avary, who may has a co-writer's credit on Pulp Fiction but his part in it was quite small; in Reservoir Dogs all his actually did was write the radio dialog that runs in the background. Quentin Tarantino was executive producer, but clearly had no influence on the creative side of the movie. The presence of Tarantino's name on the Killing Zoe DVD is a double-ended sword; on the one hand, it's what made me notice it and pick it up in the first place, and I'm sure it helped a lot in the film's sales when it was first released. On the other, it inevitably creates some high expectations, and these can hinder your enjoyment from the movie, as they did mine. Because while Killing Zoe shares with Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction some themes of crime, drugs, sex and honor among thieves, it shares none of Tarantino's witty, sarcastic edge and cultural awareness.If, however, you remember to steer clear of these expectations &#150; and if you like this kind of movie, of course &#150; then you're bound to enjoy Killing Zoe. It's a fast-paced, entertaining crime story with lots of violence, some sense of humor, some sex and a lot of atmosphere. Very good performances are also given by the beautiful Julie Delpy (the prostitute with a heart of gold) and Jean-Hugues Anglade (the psychopathic sadist), who plays one of the coolest villains of the 90's (who's more than a bit similar to Gary Oldman's fantastic Agent Stansfield from 'Leon'), and these two almost make up for the unimpressive leading man we have in Eric Stoltz &#150; who, though he made a fine career for himself playing small character roles in fantastic films from Pulp Fiction to Singles, had not proved himself as a capable lead since his breakthrough performance as a disfigured boy in Mask &#150; who plays a rather unlikable and uninteresting hero.Killing Zoe is a featherweight film with absolutely no depth to the story or characters, that generally likes waving around the sex and violence for the sake of sex and violence, which are sometimes unnecessarily excessive (like the far too long sex scene at the beginning, or the gory image of the dying man near the end); it's not a very intelligent crime movie, and it won't stick with you, but it's great entertainment, with fantastic atmosphere, and for any fan of the genre &#150; one who is not easily offended (and you'll be amazed at how dirty a dirty joke sounds in French even if you don't understand one word) - it's well worth seeing. Keep your expectations low, and you'll have lots of fun. "},{"Title":"see the movie just for Julie Delpy, if nothing else","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first 15 minutes of the movie are alone worth the rental of the movie IMHO. When Zed (Eric Stolz) meets Zoe (Julie Delpy) the escort the following sex scene is very passionate. The movie shows how a chance meeting can have unintentional consquences in a great action movie. Julie Delpy also appeared as the  innocent Queen of France in Disney's 1990's version The Three Musketeers.  To see Julie Delpy portraying a French escort is quite a contrast to her later Disney role. "},{"Title":"Excellent film with lots of subtext if you look.","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film that doesn't necessarily set any new trends, or expose new facets of humanity - rather it simply is a character study at various levels.There are several themes that are explored quite well in this film and those are what make the story intriguing - not the ultra-violence or the seamy underground culture.  (SPOILERS)1) The relationship between Eric (French) and Zed (American).  This is an exploration between European and American cultures.  Americans are presented as stiff, boring and pompous (especially the scene with the American tourist in the bank) while the French are portrayed as being C'est la vie and Carpe Diem at its ultra-worst.  The friendship comes to a point where these differences are not resolved and result in a betrayal at its most bitter.  The drugs, the impromptu sex and so on, and Zed's passive involvement in these things is all part of a subtle message about cultural differences.2) The depth of love and how actions speak louder than words.  Eric started out professing a great deal of love for Zed.  Yet betrayal resulted as greed and drug-induced delusions came to a head.  Zoe professed a similar love for Zed - and she proves it - by saving Zed (despite his passivity when Eric throws her out).  Love was a major theme in the film.3) AIDS - it was mentioned that Eric had AIDS and this might have been the root of his fatalistic attitudes.  I find it interesting that the sex scene was interspersed with clips from Nosferatu.  The theme of vampirism being sexual is not new - however, it makes you wonder if Zoe might not also have AIDS herself - she was a prostitute.  This might be the explanatin for the seeming misnomer of the title.(SPOILERS DONE)All in all - the movie had a class uncommon to these types of heist-gone-wrong films.  I took the heist to be a plot mechanism rather than the actual point of the story.  But hey - that's just me. I liked the film for its layered themes, and its camera work and great score.  The characters were great, the writing was solid and the ending was good.  I gave it a 9/10 - but I recognize that most people didn't get the same thing from the film that I do. "}{"Title":"another fine film from Quentin Tarantino","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Killing Zoe is an offbeat heist movie that strays a little bit from the normal rob a bank formula. Jean-Hugues Anglade does a terrific job as the mastermind Eric, while Eric Stolz turns in a fine performance as his old friend Zed. The first part of the movie is quite slow but it picks up in the second half. Watching this movie with it's french subtitles doesn't spoil it a bit and this movie is perfect for anyone who likes heist movies. Look out for the cameo by Ron Jeremy. "},{"Title":"Fans of Pulp Fiction beware","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Another film to punish us for the crime of enjoying Pulp Fiction.If you like watching people get killed by machine gun fire for an hour and a half, this'll probably fit the bill.  Fans of the debut episode of Aeon Flux, wherein the title character slays literally thousands of seemingly faceless soldiers single-handedly, will really go for it.Otherwise, it's not exactly a clever movie.  In fact, all it is is an excuse for a bunch of young people to act rude and shoot people.  Sometimes an entire scene goes by, and the only thing that happens is, you guessed it! someone gets shot.  Or, to spice things up, twenty people get shot.  First, they're just sitting there, the next minute, they're sitting there dead.  Yahoo!Rough plot  A young American goes to Paris (An American in Paris, get it?), hires a prostitute (the ethereal Julie Delpy), gets in touch with some old French buddies, one of which has AIDS, they plan and attempt a bank heist.  Of course, movie convention states that no bank robberies on film go off w/o a hitch, and this hitch takes up about three-quarters of the running time (it's like Dog Day Afternoon without the Sidney Lumet's wit, patience, or humanity).  While at the bank, things go wrong (surprise!), and the Parisian with AIDS, goes wacko with his Uzi several HUNDRED times.  No spoilers here, but suffice to say that you're at such an emotional distance from these characters that it's not likely you'll care who lives and who dies by the end of the film.Some have called it stylish.  Perhaps it is, but it's someone else's style, it's a movie that's already been done, and Killing Zoe is trapped by convention.  Nowhere in the course of the movie does the director (Roger Avary, co-winner of the Pulp Fiction screenplay Oscar) do anything really original, stylish, funky, or outrageous.  Unless you consider the fact that no movie that has taken place inside a bank has had such a high body count, there isn't anything else to set this one apart from the multitude. "},{"Title":"How to make a Parisian Film in Los Angeles","Date":"31 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film has a lot of Tarintino influence in it, especially as he helped director Roger Avary make it. Like From Dusk Til Dawn, Killing Zoe spends the first half of the movie setting the scene and the rest of the movie with the action. Killing Zoe is a low budget film made in Los Angeles with a few Parisian shots. This is also Avary's first movie and I think he has some talent.Zed (Eric Stolz) has been invited to Paris by an old friend, Eric (Jean-Hughes Anglade) to crack a safe in a bank. Zed is a professional, and we see this as he sets to work opening a safe, yet he is a quiet humble man who prefers to make love than to kill. He is also a man who is easily manipulated and Eric does this quite regularly in the movie. We see Zed being forced into taking drugs and having women dragged away from him because Eric doesn't particularly like them. He is also taken of a tour through a very dark side of Paris where we see drugs, sleazy women, and men screwing like animal (I use such terminology because it is only for the selfish desire of pleasure). The next day, Bastille Day, he then must participate in a daring bank robbery. Daring because everybody is hung over, or still on drugs; it is a high security bank; and it seems very little planning has gone into it.Eric is not the typical Hollywood robber. He kills at a whim and has no preferences to who he will kill. He murders a woman and a man and lets another man go free. In fact Eric seems to have a thing against women as he brutally throws Zoe (Julie Delpy) out of the room when he first meets Zed and throws another whore across the room when she tries to seduce Zed (even though he cannot understand her). He kills people on a whim and represents the worst that humanity can offer.Zoe is another character who begins as a prostitute yet does not want to think of herself as one. She needs to money to get through school and just considers the job as a little thing on the side. Yet she knows what she is, and even though she considers herself beautiful and refined, everybody else treats her as a whore. The reality of what she does hits home when she listens to three men tell a joke about a whore.Killing Zoe is a reasonable movie and good for a low budget production. Much of the movie was spoken in French which is supposed to reflect the fact that it was in France, but this didn't irritate me as it did in Stargate when everybody spoke ancient Egyptian. Still it is a good movie and worth a watch if you can handle drugs and brutal violence. "},{"Title":"Darkish, gritty, bloody escapist flick","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Killing Zoe, a misnomer, is all about a bank robbery in Paris. A gritty action/drama directed/written by Reservoir Dogs and True Romance writer Avary, the film begins as hyper-realism as it pulls its components together and wanders into a mostly sensationalistic blood bath which borders on overkill. Protagonists Delphy and Stoltz play people of questionable character but manage to give the film a taste of honey. Okay escapist entertainment with little plot and purpose for action junkies. "},{"Title":"gratuit violence","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is very much violence in this movie. I am not at all a moralist, but when violence is presented without any justification, without any emotional or artistic truth, it becomes just repulsive. Some good acting, some good camera work make me guess that there is much more potential in the people that did this film. However, in the absence of a good story line the film remains just what we used to call a B-movie, and a very violent one. "},{"Title":"European Cinema Dilute to Taste","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Killing Zoe is an example of a film's promotion achieving, for me at least, a negative effect. Seeing a movie hyped on a tenuous Tarantino link (He's executive producer) actually stopped me watching this film until seven years after it's initial release.Not that I'm anti-Quentin - far from it - but I just thought that any film which uses his name alone (often larger in print than that of the writer/director or stars) has got to be lacking worth. As it turns out, Killing Zoe doesn't need what seems like a desperate advertising ploy as it can more than stand on it's own merits.Avary, of course, devised one of the three Pulp Fiction vignettes, and anyone who wonders whether his talent for cinema would match or eclipse Quentin's will find their answer here. For my vote, he doesn't. Zoe is a good film, well-shot but ultimately lacking in substance. Arguably the biggest mistake is for the Hollywood values of the movie to tackle French cinema at it's own game. Where Quentin politely borrowed one or two directorial licks from the continent, Avary attempts to carve his own `foreign' movie with long shots, overhead zooms and sustained dialogue. Most notably, there is a fifteen-minute sequence during the bank raid where the dialogue is almost wholly in French with subtitles. However, where the wonderful French film industry could draft a picture around two people having a cup of tea (and the outstanding Trois Couleurs Rouge was about to resustain it's industry just a year later), the old American style of cinema crashes through the attempted mystique by having bodies writhing in slow motion to the sound of bullets. A man being machine-gunned to death is still a man being machine-gunned to death whether or not he's using subtitles to choke out his final death rattle. Also on the theme of ill-judged art is the sex scene that is acted out to images of Nosferatu and the swirling screens of drug use. Drug use is another negative point about this movie it's application is almost wholly without comment or implication. These junkies don't die as a result of it, they don't suffer mental traumas because of it, they just DO it. The leader, the most promiscuous heroin user, is identified as HIV, but this seems more of a lazy justification of what seems to be cool behaviour in a heist movie. Quentin's work is shot through with moral and religious ambiguities, there is none of that here.The three main characters all have their merits &#150; Julie Delpy and Jean-Hughes Anglade do extremely well in their parts, particularly Anglade's increasingly psychotic Eric. Stoltz is the misfit in all this, the token American used to anchor a very continental film back to it's US base. The rest of the characters, meanwhile, are largely faceless and we learn little of them. I loved Gary Kemp's Oliver, who bores the others with his anecdotes during the preparation for the bank robbery. But for the rest, one owns a monkey, one is the coward, one is bald and the other is a token Asian, that's about it. In reviewing this film I appear to have highlighted negative aspects. Far from it, it is a decent, well-made, competently acted and written film. But it's place in film history will never allow it to achieve it's full potential. Shot in the style of East Europe, it carries the style but lacks the full content, meaning that it will never satisfy the audiences of the movies it semi-successfully tries to ape. Conversely, its ponderous, distractedly-framed scenes meant it never made a wide impact in English-speaking countries. Finally, the Quentin connection. As the packaging of this film goes to prove, it is coasted largely on the back of Tarantino's name. While Killing Zoe is a fine film in it's own right, it lacks the cleverly mundane dialogue, intertextuality or moral subtexts of it's most famous peer. The film works solely on a surface level, and concludes with all strings neatly tied up at the end. This straightforward practise ultimately means that while entertaining, Killing Zoe leaves nothing behind.  "},{"Title":"Good acting but no thrills","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the acting in this movie was very good, but it had a very predictable ending, and was far from a thriller. It did however, produce a very good portrayal of some great debauchery in Paris; these drug-induced scenes were well directed and the use of subtitles in a mostly English speaking movie was different in a good way. I'd say to watch this movie for the acting and nothing more. A bit overdone on the violent end also, so stray from this if you have a sickness for guns in movies. I rated it a 4.  "},{"Title":"THE FRENCH PULL A HEIST","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  WITHIN THE SENSELESS, MANIC BLOODLETTING IN THIS FILM I ALSO DETECT A PLAY ON FRENCH STEREOTYPES; NAMELY, THEY ARE NOT TOO SMART, ARROGANT, AND ABOVE ALL, INCOMPETENT.  ARE WE TO BELIEVE THAT THE BANK MANAGER, WHO DOESN'T SEEM TOO BRIGHT, WOULD  ALLOW AN INNOCENT EMPLOYEE TO BE MURDERED BECAUSE HE JUST CAN'T GET HIMSELF TO LET THE DRUG-SOAKED KILLERS INTO THE BANK VAULT? SURELY A DUMB KIND OF LOYALTY, OR PERHAPS HE WAS JUST AFRAID OF THE REPURCUSSIONS THAT MIGHT FOLLOW FROM HIS APPARENTLY CRUEL SUPERIORS SHOULD HE PERFORM AN ELEMENTARY ACT OF KINDNESS.  IN A SENSE, HE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL THAT FOLLOWS, ALTHOUGH WITHOUT HIS STUPIDITY WE WOULDN'T HAVE A MOVIE; ARE ERIC AND HIS GANG OF DIMWITS SO ARROGANT THAT THEY WOULD  BOAST OF THEIR LACK OF PLANNING? IN FACT, ZED, THE AMERICAN IN PARIS, SEEMS AMAZED BY THE BLOODY AND INCOMPETENT BLUNDERING OF HIS COMPANIONS. I WAS RELIEVED TO SEE HIM FINALLY GET AWAY FROM THE BUNCH, THANKS TO THE HEART OF GOLD PROSTITUTE (ALTHOUGH WE ARE TOLD THAT SHE'S NOT REALLY ONE), AND HOPEFULLY EVENTUALLY BACK TO THE STATES AND SENSIBILITY. "},{"Title":"One of best ways to kill 90 minutes of your life","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is exceptional. In same way Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction are. Story is well thought out, down to the point, not all characters are fleshed out (Reservoir Dogs does fleshing out much better), but they are not meant to be for reasons that become obvious once you watch the movie.Acting is superb. Casting is great. Story is believable. Ending is perhaps predictable (or I saw too many movies, perhaps both), but it is fitting. There should be lot more movies like this one. A rare gem!This movie had rating of 6.4, I gave it a 10. I don't really understand why would anybody give it less than 8. If you are not into genre, don't watch the movie, or at least don't rate it down for all the wrong reasons. I rate movies either 1 or 10 for very simple reason. All the other numbers are meaningless. I either recommend you see a movie, or advise you to stay away as when compared to other movies of its type falls too short to bother with. I neither rate, not review average movies. "},{"Title":"Over-boiled French Thriller","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Quentin Tarantino's partner in crime Roger Avary (co-writer on Pulp Fiction) ventures out on his own (Q.T. goes exec. prod. this time) for this over-boiled French thriller.Eric Stoltz is Zed, safe cracker extraordinaire who has drifted over to France from the U.S. at the request of an old friend. There he teams up with a motley crew of drugged out hippies who, with little or no planning, think they can knock off a bank vault full of gold bullion on a French national holiday.Avary has reworked the robbery gone wrong theme that Tarantino developed so well in Reservoir Dogs, only Killing Zoe is not good enough to survive on the strength of this alone, so Avary has thrown in a rather beautiful distraction. Julie Delpy is Zoe, a student come call girl who entertains Zed on his arrival in Paris. A stunning distraction she certainly is, but nothing more.I guess our director wanted to add a different angle to this basic theme, but sadly the move did not help to add the depth his shallow plot so desperately needed. There was never a story in this idea, which was nothing more than that, an idea. Even the surreal journey into the seedy dives of Paris is uninspiring. I figure one would have to concede that there was never much of a movie in the story of a bunch of gangsters shooting each other up over a botched jewellery heist either, that is until you add intricate characters and snappy dialogue. Reservoir Dogs had it, Killing Zoe did not.Stoltz's strong interpretation of the doubtful Zed and Jean Hughes-Anglade's mad portrayal of the obsessive ring leader do nothing to lift proceedings. In short, Avary has unsuccessfully attempted to conjure entertainment out of nothing.Friday, September 15, 1995 - Astor Theatre "}{"Title":"ghost of Tarantino","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing Zoe a movie about a bank hold up gone wrong, not the first not the last, but this one is important as it was made Roger Avary, the other half of Tarrantino's early work. For anyone here just to see another early Tarantino movie, this isn't it. This is a Roger Avary picture, now while these two are very similar (that happens after years of working together at a video store) they are not similar directors. There writing styles are very close as the co wrote several scripts, and in Killing Zoe that is obvious to see.There is a Zed in this film, and there is a Zed in Pulp Fiction. This is a hot French chick in this film (Zoe) there is a hot French chick in Pulp Fiction. Lead falls in love with a hooker, as he does in True Romance. Eric Stoltz and drugs, Pulp Fiction has Eric Stoltz and drugs. Mentioning oral sex on women, as in virtually all Tarantino movies. Crime and big guns. And of course violence and swearing.So yeah it has the basis of a Tarantino film, but so do Guy Ritchie films. The main differences between Avary and Tarantino are in the directing Avary uses music for mood, Tarantino uses it for sub text and narrative. Avary dialogue isn't poetic, it's basic and more realistic. Avary loves French films and they influence his movies much more than Tarantino who is more Scorsese, Kubrick and woo inspired (although Godard is an influence of Tarantino he is more of a god to Avary).This movie doesn't have the polished look of a Tarrantino movie. Overall Avary movies always let me down, the start of this movie is slow disjointed and although the ending is quite good, it never makes up for the start. Avary's other movie the rules of attraction starts brilliantly and ends poorly. Simply put as a moviemaker he may never reach the heights of his good mate. For fans of the crime genre and modern violent film noir this movie is passable its just not Reservoir dogs or Pulp fiction. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"9 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" ...but Avary really needs to let go of the hooker with a heart of goldtheme (see True Romance) already.  Are there any prostitutes in Hollywood movies who *don't* fall in love with their clients? That said, Jean-Hugues Anglade could trim his toenails onscreen for 90 minutes and it'd still be riveting cinema, so this movie scores simply on that basis.  Otherwise, it's a fun B-movie for those who like their cinema on the seamy side.  To harp on its violence and nihilism is to give the film more credit than it deserves, frankly.  It's an exploitation flick with artistic pretentions and a classier pedigree than its direct-to-video brethren, but for all that it's a diverting hour and a half.  It's trash, but it's well-made trash. "},{"Title":"Anti-film film","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine the gunshop owners from Pulp Fiction who take Willis and Rhames hostage.  Now imagine that they are cosmopolitan Parisians. Imagine that these guys hook up with an indifferent American for a bank heist.  The first half is about what sick, perverted, twisted guys with no souls they are. The second half is their pathetic attempt at a big heist which ends up in massive carnage. You get Mr. Indifferent American's point of view. (Drugs? Sure. Abuse someone? Whatever you want. Put you out of your misery? Sure. Screw up my heist? Well, screw you.) That's your movie.It's as if Avary is saying, so you like graphic violence in a noirish story do you? Well then, here's what the sort of people who could commit such violence would be like;  You the audience just want the sex and the riches and the thrills, but in actuality this scene is degrading, repulsive, and unpleasant.This is a film, then, about the sickness of the viewer.  The silent film Nosferatu is on the TV during one scene, emblematic of the true horror origins of the sexy Hollywood vampire movie, just as this movie shows the true ugliness behind the Tarantino genre. It shoves in your face how repellent and repulsive your interest in this sort of thing really is.There are some Hollywood Christian values to avoid a downer ending. Be nice to others and they'll be nice to you. Boys who play nice get ahead. Nonetheless, if you just want to know something about Roger Avary, I would recommend checking out his commentary on the Criterion Hard-Boiled DVD, because that movie has movie violence that aims to entertain for those who like that genre.  However, if you identify with cruelty and harshness (i.e. real violence), then Killing Zoe is for you.  Others beware. "},{"Title":"drugs & bullets....that's all","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Killing Zoe revolves around Zed who was invited to Paris to contribute in a bank robbery.Unfortunately that's all the story plot contains. Rest is all about unnecessary violence which really don't make any sense.There's been also some scenes of drugs depiction and consumption.Also there is no twist in storyline,weak plot and very predictable.The only strong link of the movie is the presence of Julie Delphy who looked extremely charming.Its obvious to expect more from this movie but it do not stands anywhere around its expectations. "},{"Title":"This Film Becomes a WAR","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film opens up with Eric Stoltz(Zed),Hello,'05 flying to Paris, France and gets into a cab and the cab driver starts up a conversation and starts speaking in French to Zed, who soon finds out he is American and does not speak French. To make a long story short, the cab driver arranges for Zed to have a girl service him for the evening. Julie Delpy,(Zoe),Before Sunset,'04, is the young gal who visits Zed and the two of them get into things and have great discussions, namely, they both have a Z in their last names and a lot more. Zed meets up with a friend he has not seen in eleven (11) years and they all decide to shoot up dope and booze and a nice Cafe with fantastic Jazz. You will be quite surprise what happens as the film progresses. Enjoy "},{"Title":"Dumb and pointless","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERSWith the release of Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill films came a horde of previously unknown films jumping on the bandwagon. Suddenly in shops alongside the latest film would be classic films which had some weak link to Tarantino. One of these films was Killing Zoe. Written by Roger Avary, Tarantino's co-writer for Pulp Fiction (1994), the story was meant to be a sophisticated, France based, robbery story with class. Sadly however, Killing Zoe is a pointless, irrelevant movie with a 'straight to television' feel.Eric Stoltz plays Zed. Recently arrived in Paris, Zed sleeps with prostitute Zoe (the great Julie Delpy) before going on a drugs induced bender and then a bank raid. Unfortunately though, encountering Zoe again, her arrival has an impact on Zed.Written and directed by a co-writer of Pulp Fiction, this film should be good. This writer has gone hideously downhill over the years though. Writing and directing 2002's Rules Of Attraction was his more recent mistake (the film is an abomination of cinema), but this piece from eight years earlier is equally as huge a screw-up.It feels almost like a film story in itself how two friends can write a legendary film and whilst one can grow in strength, the other collapses. With films like this, the example has been proved though.As Zed, Eric Stoltz is tolerable, but nothing decent (the guy is a mediocre actor) whilst Julie Delpy (arguably, along with Juliette Binoche, one of France's finest two actresses of last ten years) is wasted in her role as the love interest / prostitute.All in all, the film just feels like it tries too hard. In comparison with Quentin's films which come with scary ease (that opening scene in Reservoir Dogs is perhaps one of the finest moments in cinema history), Avery seems to be trying far too hard with this film. Intentionally trying to intimidate us with a gun in an innocent woman's mouth, the fear is removed by the feeling of falseness. We never associate with ANY of the characters and we suffer as a result.Whilst a nice idea, the film also suffers from it's French connection. Attempting to combine the styles of recent American films with a European twist is a superb concept which does deserve further research. In 1994 however, whether a bit too early or not, the idea is just too excessive. Certain lines, whilst maybe superb, are destroyed by having them spoken in French. In effect, it would be like watching any early Tarantino film in a foreign language. We would get the words in subtitle, but we would miss the expression.All in all, Killing Zoe is a HUGE disappointment. Advertised ten years after release for being linked to Tarantino, the film lacks any of the skill which the director might be proud. Set in a foreign country with a cast we don't connect with, the story is cold and miserable. We see Stoltz and Delpy and all their co-stars and we don't connect to them at all. In the end of the day, your probably better off watching anything by Quentin, ignoring his friend Roger Avary's work, and just passing over Killing Zoe as a hopeless mistake. "},{"Title":"This Is Entertainment?","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I love long, deliberate movies with stories about screwed-up characters and plans and schemes gone horribly wrong, but this movie winds up delivering in only the most cynical, creepy way.  A little bit of executive producer Quentin Tarantino's levity and humor would have helped this movie out, and though the drug scenes were creative and clever and actually felt like those involved may have been there once themselves, the violence at the end spoils whatever ride this film may have been delivering.  Shooting unarmed, helpless people in cold blood in fits of drug-induced rage is neither entertaining, nor hip, nor good storytelling. It's just depressing, and is the final straw in this loud, abrasive movie disguised as hipster thrills.Don't get me wrong, I have no problem with violence in films (if violence belongs anywhere, it belongs in film and fiction alone), even if it is excessive, but when you're dealing with such callous murder, you might as well be watching a snuff movie if that's what gets your rocks off.  I'm a big Sam Peckinpah fan, but anyone who knows his movies knows there's a lot more going on in them than tap-dancing editing and the whole end of the old west feel, and any modern-day war film in the wake of Saving Private Ryan has a built-in need to show the horrors of war as best they can and in their most shocking light.Look, violence can certainly be as much a function of a story as love or envy, and I'll grant you it is in Killing Zoe, but how many tied-up tellers do you have to bury before you've made the story's point?  Maybe this film isn't for me, like I said I've got no problem with nail-bitingly violent films (like Tarantino's tremendous Reservoir Dogs), but in this case it was excessive and ultimately handled poorly.  This isn't some post-September 11th killing helpless people is mean reaction either, my overseas (from the U.S.) friends, it's just that Killing Zoe just isn't what I'd call entertaining or good storytelling, despite the previously-mentioned friendship themes.Look, if you're someone who gets off on violent films, check out a Romero zombie movie or something.  At least they don't take themselves so seriously, plus they throw in some clever satire to boot, and how can you beat Tom Savini? "},{"Title":"The bank heist was about the only good part","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This was alright, not what I was expecting but alright.  Before the robbery the story had a bunch of almost pointless drug use and a quick scheme of how the hit was going to go down.  Nothing to exciting, then it gets better.  The hit was done fairly well keeping tension on the viewer making them wondering which hostage is going to get killed or be spared when the thieves what to know something, or keep them under control.  But before then the story was mainly pointless and just seemed to be put in to increase the length of the film.  But overall I did like the bank robbery and the fact that most of the thieves seemed to not give a damn about the lives of the people trapped inside. "},{"Title":"Slow","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie plays very slow and can become boring and about nothing in places. Roger Avary is very talented, but this film goes nowhere. The violent climax seems unnecessary and like Avary put it in there because he had no confidence in his picture. Roger Avary may have helped Tarantino with Pulp Fiction, But he doesn't have Tarantino's control behind the camera. "},{"Title":"A Movie That Goes Horribly Wrong","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Yet another entry in the seemingly endless series of films about a crime that goes horribly wrong. (The original such film from the 1950's, The Killing by Stanley Kubrick about a botched racetrack heist told from multiple viewpoints was clearly a big influence on Quentin Tarantino and his former friend Mr. Avary).When I rented this movie a few years ago, I absolutely hated it. It has no redeeming value; I don't even recall any clever dialogue. It was a dud at the box office and for good reason. I am puzzled by some of the positive user comments and wonder if those users have ever seen a movie that they didn't like.Rightly or wrongly, the French come off very badly in this film. The bank robbery itself is very violent. If only there were some good dialogue, the violence would not be so offputting.Killing Zoe is a bad way of killing time.  "}{"Title":"Killing Zzzzzzzzzzzz ... Boring!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Who wrote this flick? An uninspired 15 year-old?Could have been written by one of the kids who did the Columbine shooting.Totally nonsensical, not funny all, boooooooriiing...Plus this the French do not put their flag everywhere. You do not walk into a French bank and see the tricolore flag displayed like that. Even on Bastille day.I have nothing against the blood bath thing. It's just that none of this is either credible or funny. Or parodic, or anything like that.Ok, those who liked this flick will tell you I must be some type of fascist, so forget about my comment.  "},{"Title":"i was expecting so much more","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" with this film being directed by Roger Avery and Quentin Tarantino doing the screenplay i was sure this was going to be a gem. i was wrong. i don't hate this film but in no ways do i like it.i love Roger Avery because of his amazing direction in rules of attraction and his screenplays to pulp fiction and silent hill but he made a mistake making this. do i really need to comment on Tarantino, we all know hes a genius.this movie is just set around a gang robbing a bank but fails due to silly people participating in the robberyi'm disappointed in Tarantino and Avery for doing this film but doesn't change my mind on how amazing they both are. everyone makes mistakes......... 3/10...........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"Not original","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not exactly mindblowing, and not exactly totally boring. Killing Zoe is kind of a very traditional heist movie, with nothing utterly exciting about it. It could clearly use some more development here end there, and it lacks the element of surprise. I could also need some deeper story, and some more twists and bends. The characters are plain boring to say the least. It´s really nothing much more than any other action/heist movie. If Tarantino hadn´t had a finger or three involved in this movie, it would most likely have bombed completely. But still it has its few elements which makes it just barely worthwhile 3/6 "},{"Title":"Not much in here","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The theme of this film is really old and has been used time and again. A gang of people decide to rob a bank... In his effort to make it something... different and special, the director and script writer inserts some ... peculiar scenes of Paris underground night-life before the robbery. The only real effect is to make the thing look less credible than other similar films in its class. I guess those 35 hours/ week were not sufficient to really work on the script as much as it needed to) Well, the end result is artistically semi-interesting and overall boring (but not more so than other similar films, to be fair). Some of the actors are nice, I guess. "},{"Title":"Soulless garbage","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I echo Matthew Wilder's feelings that Roger Avery's nihlist-chic exercize already looks as dated and dangerous as a John Hughes movie (and not a first tier Hughes movie, either. More like She's Having A Baby or Curly Sue.) The violence is gratuitous and repellent, the stabs at Mellville-like cool are laughable (Stoltz and Anglade together wouldn't make a pimple on Alain Delon's ass), the mandatory '90's heroin wallow is boring and offensive, and the treatment of the great Julie Delpy as the titular prostitute (natch) is shameful (is Linklater and Kiesowski the only directors aware of what a gem Delpy is?) To waste any more thought to this ossified turd of a movie is to give far more of my life to it than it deserves. "},{"Title":"Do not watch","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" guys...just saw this movie....its a useless movie without any meaning at all.....First of all i do not get the point of naming the movie Killing Zoe  Next I doubt whether any police would operate in the same careless way as shown in the movie... just leaving the bad guys kill the hostages.....tats bad... My suggestion BETTER NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!!! I am not able to understand why this movie was made....was this movie screened at all ..... After watching the movie I think I have wasted 2 hours of my precious time........................................ ........................................ ................................... ......................................... .................................. "},{"Title":"If you like throwing away your time and money....","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film was on TV and having thoroughly loved Julie Delpy in Before Sunrise I was curious what she had done the previous year in THIS movie. Well, most of the time I had to shut off the sound and watching the subtitles made me sick already. It starts interesting, American arrives at the airport and the taxidriver puts him into contact with a student who needs to earn something extra, but doesn't think she's a prostitute because she chooses who to sleep with. Then that French lunatic throws her out naked and from then on this film becomes totally unbearable,with the most  stupid, senseless, violent scenes ever filmed and this being a European film makes it all worse because European films seem more realistic then American movies in which you can ALWAYS see that it's being acted. This is to warn you to go rent or see Julie Delpy in films like Before Sunrise or Warszawa or Kieslowski's Golden Bear (Berlin)-winning Trzy kolory-biale, but to forget about this one unless you're a lunatic too. "},{"Title":"Damn, I just wasted my money......","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" If you watch the documentary extra, you'll note that the director is totally inexperienced and was actually a co-worker bud of Quentin Tarantinos in a video store. Put two and two together and you realise Quentin is doing a favour for his old bud, despite the bud being rather talentless. Was that harsh? Well see this film and you'll realise it isn't. Too slow in the beginning, too nonsensical in the middle, and too slow to end. That about sums it up. Eric Stolz & Delpy were the only two showing some charisma. And Kemp actually put in an OK performance. But the rest was real bad. One instance of plot stupidity was when lead robber accidentally leaves his mask off during the raid. So what happens? Well the other robbers decide they may as well remove theirs too! What great thinking. The violence was relentless and insane. But not in a cool way. Rather in a farcical way. I wondered if this was meant to be a comedy. More fool Tarantino for having his good name connected to this garbage. More fool me for watching it. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just a flat out bad movie.  The plot is that a bunch of youngish, disturbed and retarded Frenchmen, an Englishman and an American (Eric Stoltz) try to rob a bank and it gets messed up.  Truely, the plot is just an empty void.  There is no purpose, fun, hope, joy, human drama, intensity or anything else to this movie so it's just graphically violent and serially vulgar to compensate.  When in doubt, swear a lot, do a lot of drugs and shoot everybody is the movie's motto.  Stoltz and Julie Delpy meow to each earlier in the movie in bed and it's an interesting sequence.  The personality of the unfocused and clogged up gang leader is also intriguing in spots.  Nothing else is here but drugs, lunacy and rusty knife perversion.  Another in the long series of Eric Stoltz black hole movies.  Quentin Tarantino is associated with this movie and it seems all Tarantino ever wanted to do was rob banks and be a hitman of some kind as that is the subject of virtually ever movie he has ever done.   "},{"Title":"Killing people, killing Zoe, killing yourself","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Killing Zoe is about a bunch of criminals from several countries who rob a bank in Paris.  But what does the name Zoe has to do here?  Well, the character played by Eric Stolz meets a prostitute at the beginning of the story, and it happens that this girl, named Zoe, played by Julie Delpy, also works in the bank.  The whole robbery turns to a carnage when the police tries to stop the criminals.  Doesn't that sound familiar?  Maybe.  It's pretty much like Reservoir Dogs, isn't it?  Well, Roger Avary, who directed this film, also contributed for the writing of the scenarios of Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction.  Unfortunately, the Tarantino touch isn't there, so humor is absent in this film, and the characters are not fully developped.  Still, it's a good movie, for the settings, the robbery atmosphere...even though I've seen films that shown it better.  The acting is very good, though.  The message is good spoilers warning especially when the bad guy dies, and the look on his face shows that he was already dead, from the beginning of the robbery till its end.  The drug abuse scene is good also...with dark and grizzly images, it reminded me Quiconque Meurt, Meurt à Douleur, which is a film about junkies who took police hostages.  This is a good film, but nothing really amazing or special... 6/10 "}{"Title":"First Half Of This Movie Unnecessary","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent movie, although the first half is totally unnecessary. This movie is basically a bank robbery movie.  In the end, the main character has to decide between his friend or the girl. Definitely the best bank robbery movie I have seen, but thewhole night on the town with the gang part (which is basically the first half of the movie) doesn't add to the story at all.  "},{"Title":"Spoiler! Don't read this before watching the movie.","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A movie as full of mistakes as a movie can be, but not a mistake in itself. It explores possibilities, that eventually turn out to be mere possibilities and not effective ways of storytelling. The catastrophe-robbery might be regarded also as a compelling metaphor for film-making without a screenplay. The fact is that after ages of boredom we enter the Bank - at last! - knowing almost nothing about the characters' motives and personality. We can hardly distinguish the hero from the villain. It is only when we realize that Zoe is among the bank employees that the movie comes to life. Now we have something a bunch of violent idiots that want to snatch a mountain of gold and get away with it by simply believing in their boss + a hero without personality +  a heroine full of initiative. Things get worse and worse - which is good - until we think that the hero's only way out from this nightmare is a miracle. And after extensive but detailed bloodshed  a miracle actually takes place.A few questions Does Zed stand for zombie? I had this impression for the first hour.Why France (with all the linguistic paradoxes descending from this choice)? Clever prostitutes available only over there? Why do French bank employees display Vietcong ethics and heroism? Is it a quotation from some Vietnam War film?  "},{"Title":"Violence for the sake of violence","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie doesn't have enough character development to be called anything more than a  video game strung out for an hour and a half. Even someone from Israel thought it was gratuitously violent and that's saying something. I have seen other Avary films and am now convinced that he is an uninspired writer and creator. He merely rehashes what he's already seen, cranking up the violence, drugs, sex to a level that would send Metallica fans screaming for a quiet English garden. The man has nothing to say, apparently, so I suggest that he find another means to carry out his adolescent fantasies as he enters his forties.  "},{"Title":"Soulless","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.For a film to matter to me, it has to exist. It has to have been born and to the extent and in  the way that you believe things have purpose and effect, it has to have that.I don't care if the beingness is accidental or borrowed or poorly copied. It can be an  antibeing. It can be almost any creature in the pantheon that can elbow the world.As my regular readers know, I see a lot of movies that people consider bad and don't like.  But I can still admire some clever or interesting notion in their being.This one seems to have been stumbled upon in a wander through `True Romance' (or better,  `Miami Blues'), `Two Zeds and a Nought,' and `Dog Day.' Its only reason to exist is to  support a post-ending possibility of HIV, together with the ambiguity of whether Zed or Zoe  were infecting the other (as foreshadowed by clumsy use of `Nosferatu.')The only mildly interesting elements are the inclusion of Delpy and her use of the `White'  `might have been, might be' tone from that being to this. And the big raspberry to the  French.Ted's evaluation 1 of 3 -- you can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}]