[{"Title":"It just leaves me warm and shiny.","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"24 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Renaissance Man is directed by Penny Marshall and stars Danny DeVito, Gregory Hines, James Remar, Mark Wahlberg, Stacey Dash and Kadeem Hardison. Hans Zimmer scores the film and it's written by Jim Burnstein. The story sees DeVito as Bill Rago, a divorced advertising executive who loses his job and finds himself unemployed. Not only that, but the relationship with his daughter has started to feel the financial strain. However, the unemployment agency find him a short time position at U.S. Army training base, Fort McClane. The position entails him to teach basic comprehension to a class of academic under achievers. Initially he's not enthused by the job, nor are the class particularly responsive to his civilian status. But just maybe this odd coupling may turn out to be good for both parties? That is if Drill Sergeant Cass (Hines) lets them that is?A box office flop that was first marketed as a comedy, then as a drama it's very much both, Renaissance Man holds no surprises what so ever. The formula remains the same as every other piece featuring a teacher and an unruly/troubled/under educated class. So with that in mind, and considering the film has largely been kicked by the professional critics, I'm not here to sell this movie to anyone, because sometimes you have to acknowledge that a film can hit a spot of your own personal psyche, yet at the same time be a million miles away from someone else's.The choices we make dictate the life we leadFor me personally, Renaissance Man is one such film. It was one dark rainy night back in the mid 90s and I had the blues, I popped over to the video store to see what was available, I couldn't find anything that remotely sounded like something to lift me out of the stupor I was in. I then spied a copy of Renaissance Man, a film I hadn't heard anything about, and although I took that as a bad sign, Danny DeVito's beaming smile on the cover of the box lured me in. I was thinking how much I had enjoyed him in Twins at the back end of 1988, so to me it didn't seem such a bad gamble to take. I was expecting a comedy and I got one, but the bonus was that what I also got was a very uplifting dramatic tale about the human condition, people learning from each other, a tale that shows the power of artistry and how it can unite and lift people. A tale that shows that maybe some folk aren't as clever as others, but if they can grasp a straw and be all that they can be, then their heads will be well and truly held up high.Renaissance Man, I believe, is a sadly undervalued film on this, or any other film related site. But that's just me, because hey! We all got different psyche's right. Right? 8/10 "},{"Title":"See it for the Shakespeare, enjoy it for it's redemption plot and strong performances.","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a feel good movie, not very deep BUT well conceived, written and acted. DeVito is excellent as a failing marketing man being transformed into a thoughtful, caring army educator. As important is the film's excellent presentation and discussion of the works of Shakespeare.No surprise, DeVito's self centered abrasiveness meets with antipathy. Army officers don't care. Convinced of their own worthlessness, DeVito's students are disinterested, at best. During the semester, DeVito, mellows, students learn enough to advance,and Army brass begins to appreciates the new teacher.The best part of this film is not DeVito's or the student's redemption but the film's beguiling Shakespeare presentation. DeVito teaches the Bard with passion. The writers deliver illuminating, focused student dialog. As one who didn't get Shakespeare until seeing MacBeth a year after graduation. This movie was a better class than anything I took in high school or college.Enjoy the film and the class. "},{"Title":"I recommend it to all","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a polarity of opinions on this one! It's either love it or hate it time. Put me definitely in the camp of this movie's admirers and supporters. I noticed that many of this film's fans were from all over Texas, Canada, Scotland, Brooklyn, Australia, and Paris! Many noticed the similarity to Dead Poets Society as did I. Other movies it could be compared to are Mr. Holland's Opus and Konrack, and the more recent French film, The Chorus, movies in which other teachers too are celebrated for enriching the lives and spirits of their students. I think your Parisian correspondent sums it up the best to see fine art working its way into the psyches of those previously unaware of it and to see people growing in spirit as a result of their exposure to and interactivity with it that's what makes this story such a treat and an inspiration. It's what makes being a teacher worthwhile and justified. It moved and touched me. I had a personal connection to this movie's plot line as well I knew a teacher who used to go into inner city schools and also taught the kids Shakespeare, especially the old-fashioned swear words the author used in the plays! Quite successfully too. Also, I grew up in Detroit so I appreciated the opening of the film set on familiar streets of the Motor City. A beautiful and touching film. None of the film's critics or supporters commented on the plot line in which the teacher recovered the true history of his recruit's father's unrecognized heroism. That was beautiful too. Go see this film and be inspired. "},{"Title":"Truly nice, for the heartwarmer crowd","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Army recruits categorized as, shall we say, neither the best nor brightest, but they somehow get turned on when reluctant teacher DeVito reads Shakespeare's Hamlet to them and it hits a chord. The high point of the film is reached when one of those recites on command his irrelevant Shakespeare on a rainy night's drill to Sergeant Gregory Hines and finds in his memory from Henry V (with lead-in not at hand) We few, we happy few, we band of brothers. For he today that sheds his blood with me, Shall be my brother. This is a truly nice movie, about heroes but not about touting war. At a later point, my usually stoic wife shed some tears. Danny De Vito is surprising to me. He generally leaps over my expectations, no matter how far I raise them up. "},{"Title":"Great works of art transcend cultural barriers.","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is about educating the most unlikely people so that they will be able to appreciate beauty of the classical works. For me, it's very moving because enjoying good works of art are fully part of enjoying life. Besides, the film is well done and funny. And last but not least, education is properly shown as a two-way process the teacher will learn a lot from his students during the very time he teaches them. In summary, I loved the story and sent everyone I met to see it. And most of them were happy too. "},{"Title":"A little cheesy, but i will never get tired of it.","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The older I get the more I realize how this movie is a little cheesy, But if you really like a feel good movie you can't go wrong with this one. Danny Devito did a wonderful job playing a teacher in the army.(a job he didn't ask for and is not looking forward to)He is brought in to teach these kids that everyone thinks are stupid. Every one of the characters left an impression in my mind. They all did a wonderful job at playing their roles.Each one of the student's are different and everyone knows someone in real life like each one of them. It is a little like dead poet's society but with more comedy and a more happy good feeling I am always in a GREAT mood at the end of this movie! "},{"Title":"Hamlet As A Teaching Tool","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" One of the most moving experiences in cinema I had during the Nineties was watching Renaissance Man. It's more than a comedy about underachievers realizing their potential. It's about the man who makes them realize their worth as human beings getting quite an education about life himself.Danny DeVito is that man in a role about as far removed as you can get from Louis DePalma in Taxi and Lawrence Garfield in Other People's Money. He's an advertising man who loses a couple of big clients while getting stuck in traffic and gets bounced from his job.Needing an income while looking for a job, the Michigan Unemployment Department gives him an interesting job, a civilian remedial education teacher for the United States Army. He's assigned to a class of eight trainees who might wash out if they don't shape up. It's their mental attitudes that need adjusting.A little trial and error and DeVito hits upon the idea to use Shakespeare, specifically Hamlet as a teaching tool. Interpreting and learning life's lesson from one of the greatest works of literature in the English language apparently works and in ways far beyond making these trainees get through basic training.This is my favorite film with Danny DeVito and he's not an easy fit into army life. Cliff Robertson, James Remar, and Gregory Hines are some of the army people he deals with.But the eight trainees are the heart of the film. Mark Wahlberg, Lillo Brancato, Kadeem Hardison, Richard Jones, Khalil Kain, Gregory Sporleto, Stacey Dash are seven of them. One of them doesn't make it through and ironically because of an act of kindness. But my favorite in the film is Peter Simmons who plays Private Brian Davis from Grand Forks, North Dakota. It's young men like him and his father before him in Vietnam who was killed in action who keep this country safe and secure. He gets the best recognition possible at the end of the film and you are guaranteed not to have a dry eye when you see it.Renaissance Man is a beautifully crafted film from Penny Marshall and should not be missed when broadcast. "},{"Title":"Miss-marketed","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let me start off by saying that this movie is miss-marketed as a comedy. As a comedy, this movie is, at best, mediocre. Sure, there are some funny moments, but it isn't nearly as hilarious as it claims to be. However, what this movie lacks in comedy, it makes up for with it's other qualities. This is a warm, fuzzy, feel-good movie with a lot of wisdom in it. The character development is excellent and we really get to like the characters. The bond between DeVito and his students is strong. This movie is very touching, with a few funny moments in-between. Sure, there are some corny scenes (the rap scene) but hey, every teacher has their own way of making their students understand their material, right? I would recommend this movie, although not as a comedy. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie. I first saw it when I was about eight, and it inspired me to read Shakespeare. Of course, because of my age, I was unable to understand HAMLET, but I thought I would just mention it. This movie is a great portrayl of how a formerly selfish man changed himself and his students through Shakespeare. This movie is deep, but it's also very funny and entertaining. There are some great, brilliant moments in here, especially when DeVito says, All I know is, the choices you make dictate the life you lead. To thine own self be true.  There is also an excellent scene where one of the students recites Shakespeare for Hines, the drill sergeant. This is a fantastic movie that I absolutely loved, as did my English teacher. I highly recommend it. Of course, if you only find Bruce Willis movies entertaining, this movie is not for you.  "},{"Title":"Danny de Vito is great!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is a very nice one. There are a few reasons for that. Danny de Vito (playing Bill Rago) is great and plays his role very enthusiast. De Vito's best scene is the one where he is in the office where he's going for a job. He totally does NOT want to be there because he's ashamed of being there. When he gets a teaching job offered, the look on his face,when he finds out he is supposed to teach soldiers in the army, is marvelous. All the other actors are playing (very) good, especially Gregory Hines as drill-instructor who wants Bill Rago gone. The few scenes Hines and De Vito share together are no less than hilarious, that's for sure.The story is not as strong as the (sometimes) brilliant acting from the whole cast. To be honest, the story of Jim Burnstein is predictable and boring. Not only is the ending something you know 30 minutes before it's there, also the most important lines of the story are predictable and because of that boring. I can't spoil the movie, but let me tell you For this film, Jim Burnstein wanted all happy things and endings, even when it's not appropriate.If you have read Willliam Shakespeare's 'Hamlet' (a brilliant book, if I may say so) you'll enjoy this film a lot more.If you like this motion picture you should also see 'Dead Poets Society' with Robin Williams. "}{"Title":"Fascinating and down-to-earth","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    Renaissance Man is the type of movie that I believe any movie buff should see. It's one of those movies (in my opinion), in which you learn something unknowingly. You might not realize it unless you either start thinking about the movie more after watching it, or simply watching it again. One of the big things I realized after watching this movie, is that smart, poetic and strong willed when you reach or look deep into them.   CAST As far as the movie is more concerned, There seems to be a great amount of attention related to cast with this movie. All the students were brilliant in performance, as well as the main military officials and Mr. Devito himself. SCRIPT The script did more than it had to. Powerful would be a spot on match. Different positions, opinions, responses and reactions were key in this movie, with making it good.       I could go on about saying how good this movie is (and believe me I could); but my time here falls short. Hope you enjoyed this comment.  "},{"Title":"Grows on you","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that, while not a blockbuster, is well-written and executed adequately. The story is a fine example of instilling a sense of self-confidence in a group of people that have grown up thinking they were deficient in some way, only to discover that they have the same abilities as everyone else. It's not the sort of movie I'd go see in a theater, but is one that I like to watch from time to time. The 8 ranking is exclusively for the concept, and surely not for the acting. Danny DeVito is clearly the best portrayed character in that regard, however. Gregory Hines gives his character an extreme over-the-top feel that is more accurately associated with Marine Corps Drill Instructors than Army Drill Sergeants. It doesn't work very well with the more laid-back atmosphere of Army training. "},{"Title":"Those who can, do . . . . . and those who cant', teach.","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Penny Marshall supplies yet another average movie in a filmography strewn with them (Big being the exception) but it's certainly far from the worst thing you could watch, even if it is a little overlong.Danny DeVito plays the failed ad exec (and failed husband, failing father . . . . general failure) who is eventually given a new job after some time claiming unemployment benefits. The snag is that his new job is on a military base, educating young soldiers who are lacking in some areas of basic comprehension (who call themselves the double Ds meaning dumb as dogs*-**). As he struggles to find a way to connect with them and actually teach them he also tries to sort his own life out, which includes lining up a new job. Of course, we all know that what he really needs to do is concentrate on his job in hand and also learn from the kids as much as they learn from him. Oh yes.So far so Dead Poet's Society/Dangerous Minds and the film never strays too far from that template. It's all about learning from each other, appreciating the differences as much as the similarities and . . . Hamlet. DeVito is good in the lead role, providing his usual mix of seriousness and smart-ass sass. The kids are all okay too (to pick a few examples, Lillo Brancato is as great as ever, Wahlberg does fine and the lovely Stacey Dash is lovely once again) but their characters are all typical archetypes such as the trailer-trash boy, the girl escaping her troubled youth, the smartmouth, the . . . . narcoleptic, etc. Thankfully, things are picked up by the adult characters on screen. The ever-watchable James Remar is eminently watchable once again and just superb while Gregory Hines plays a decent hardass who really has the best interests of his kids at heart.There ARE a few decent twists in here that you might not expect but, overall, it's business as usual for this type of movie and you're not going to see anything you haven't seen before. Comfort food for the masses, which can be quite bland at times if you're trying to please everyone.See this if you like Dead Poet's Society, Dangerous Minds, Danny DeVito. "},{"Title":"We few, we band of brothers","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While trite in some ways, this is still a very enjoyable movie. The relationship between the teacher and the drill sergeant is wonderful, and Danny DeVito is great. While the ending is predictable, the misfits DeVito is tasked with teaching are a terrific mix of characters. I can watch this movie over and over for one scene, the speech by the kind of nerdy soldier who gives the sergeant the We few, we band of brothers speech. His movement during the speech as he switches from a soldier in the rain to an actor reciting Shakespeare is hilarious. And Danny Devito climbing the tower is priceless. Watch the movie. "},{"Title":"Not great cinema, but hey...it doesn't have to be","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a push button movie with a cookie cutter plot. There is only one thing in this movie that stands out and that is the actors I had grown used to seeing Danny Devito as a comedian in silly movies and I kinda put him in the category of actor who has one character he plays well and nothing else. I was so wrong. Devito proves he can act, giving life to what could have been a very lack luster role.All the supporting actors that made up the DDs gave a dignity to their characters, giving each one their own talents and weaknesses.This is the kind of feel good movie that you want to see when you've had a bad day and just want to feel better about the world. "},{"Title":"If you're old enough, this movie is brilliant","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unless life has kicked you in the nuts as an adult a few times, then you may not appreciate the thought and point that has gone into this little masterpiece.This movie is about how a self serving man (typical adman in NYC) working in a self serving profession (advertising), learns to be unselfish by serving others. He does this first because he has to (get a job because the Government is stopping your welfare), but after a bit of experience, he does it because he wants to.Yep, it's that simple, but makes some very true and adult points. Devito's character isn't seen to have kids, isn't seen to have a wife, or anything happy in his life at all except an expensive apartment, but the expensive apartment doesn't apparently give him any contentment either.I for one would be interested in seeing a sequel because i would like to see if the main character reverted to type if he got a job in advertising in say, Nunchuck South Dakota, or did he end up as teacher in a prestigious East Coast finishing school. Yay, let's all throw our hats in the air! "},{"Title":"a feel-good film","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Renaissance Man' is a film about a teacher who is hired to teach literature to a group of rebellious army recruits. It is a film about the relationship that this teacher has with the students and the changes that all of them make. The teacher learns how to appreciate the army recruits and gets a sense of understanding from them; at the same time, they learn how to buckle down and actually enjoy reading and learning about Shakespeare's 'Hamlet'. This is one of those feel-good films. I got really sick of watching this film as it was always on television and one of those films that my family tended to watch and rewatch at least a dozen times. This film has its share of laughter and succeeds in providing a feel-good story and a happy ending. "},{"Title":"Pleasant surprise","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie came on last night and I found myself watching the whole thing despite having something else to do. I'll admit the main reason I was interested was that I'm in advertising, as is Devito's character, and live in fear of being laid off like he was. Regardless, it was entertaining. There were definitely weak spots in the story, predictable endings and such, but it was enjoyable, especially for Devito's acting. There was some strong acting by the rest of the cast, and some definite weak performances, the worst being Gregory Hines who just didn't fit the part. For me all weaknesses were made up for in how Devito's character handled his new role as a teacher. He plays an old, bitter ad guy perfectly, and made me see several of my colleagues in a new light. "},{"Title":"Just Plain Stupid","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't despise this movie, but I certainly didn't like it.  All I can say is, how many times do we have to endure watching people achieve education by osmosis and enthusiasm, including the inevitable scene where they do a rap rendition of what they've learned?  How about showing what it's really like, students poring over texts and books, memorizing and testing?  But then I guess that would be pretty boring.  This movie was a missed step by Penny Marshall, although Gregory Hines surprisingly made a believable drill sergeant. "},{"Title":"English teacher's delight","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of my favorites, mainly because it accurately illustrates how I often feel as an English teacher trying to bring Shakespeare to high school students, and the things we learn on the way. When the cast does the Hamlet rap, I am entranced. When Benitez recites the St. Crispin's Day speech from Henry V, while standing in the driving rain, I weep. When the camera pans across the faces of the young men as they watch a live performance of Shakespeare, I am moved by their innocence and their amazement.Renaissance Man is, in my humble opinion, Danny DeVito's finest hour. It also features wonderfully sensitive performances from the late Gregory Hines as the drill sergeant, and Mark Wahlberg as the yokel Haywood. My personal favorite character is Benitez, from Noo Yahk Noo Yahk, played by Lillo Brancato.Many people think that because this film did not do well in its theatrical release that it wasn't a good film. This is simply not true. It is a marvelous ensemble cast drama, with enough funny moments to sustain even the shortest attention span.If you have never seen this film, it is well worth renting, or catching on cable, as I am right as we speak. "}{"Title":"** from *****","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An uneasy, but very likeable mix of DEAD POETS SOCIETY (1989) and AN OFFICER AND GENTLEMAN (1982) from usually assured director Penny Marshall has fine-as-usual Danny De Vito playing a business man who gets fired and has to work on a U.S. military camp teaching some not-so-bright cadets about, well, Shakespeare. Aside from being the most respectful, positive, naive portrayal of the U.S. Army in decades, this predictable, formulaic comedy mixes drama and humor unwisely, despite some appealing performances by the young actors, especially from Lillo Brancato, Jr., who played Robert De Niro's son in A BRONX TALE (1993) and spoofs him here, much-talking Kadeem Hardison and Richard T. Jones as the strongest. Also with sexy Stacey Dash, stupid bloke Mark Wahlberg, James Remar as captain and Gregory Hines as a light variation of Louis Gossett, Jr., from AN OFFICER... In the end, neither boring, nor successful movie with a healthy enthusiasm for Shakespeare's works. "},{"Title":"DeVito's Best","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Danny DeVito has given us many fine films but I believe this is his very best. Danny steps out of his usual character, to give a poignant portrayal in this feel good film.  The young cast offers fine support.  This is a MUST SEE for everyone that enjoys outstanding performances.  Not your usual DeVito fare. I rated this a 9.   "},{"Title":"This is a nice movie","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  that deserves to be recognize a little bit better. Danny DeVito plays an unemployed advertiser in which the only place he can work is teaching shakespeare in the army. This film features in all star cast from Mark Whalberg, Stacey Dash, Kadeem Harrison and Cliff Robertson. Don't miss this heartwarming film about making decisions. "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable, Feel-Good Comedy","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw Renaissance Man a couple of days ago for the first time in years...I enjoyed it the first time I saw it back in '94, I enjoyed it the last time I watched it, and I enjoyed it again now. For me, this is a timeless comedy and no doubt I will still enjoy it 10 years from now.I usually find myself rolling my eyes when I read some reviews saying that this film isn't realistic or that the classes the Double D's attend wouldn't exist because there would be no spare time due to all their training. I guess these people missed the explanation on how the classes came to be not long into the film. I think people really need to get a grip. This isn't a Documentary...this is a fictional comedy (and an enjoyable one at that) and it should be enjoyed as that.Regardless of what certain people think of it, the story is actually quite a credible one...it's pretty well written, excellently acted out, and is definitely a feel-good story too. Is it a wee bit predictable? Yes, but then again who cares? A comedy doesn't have to have toilet humour, drunken idiots, or be full of 20-somethings playing annoying teenies to be enjoyable, and thankfully Renaissance Man doesn't have any of those.All of the cast do a great job, especially Danny DeVito as Bill Rago. Everything was done with convincing conviction, and he made Shakespeare interesting. Honestly, if I had an English teacher like Rago when I was at school, then I might have enjoyed Shakespeare a lot more than what I did. Gregory Sporleder was enjoyable as Pvt. Melvyn, Lillo Brancato done a decent job as Pvt. Benitez (especially with all of his Jake La Motta impressions), and I actually think this is one of the few films where Mark Wahlberg didn't come across as being as wooden as Pinocchio either. Round all of this off with some great songs for the soundtrack (especially the Double D rap and end credit tune) and you have yourself a very enjoyable film to watch.It's just a pity all comedies aren't as enjoyable as this. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I recently saw Renaissance Man for the first time and loved it! I am a big fan of Penny Marshall's films and wish she would direct more often. She has a wonderful vision that can only come from a woman, yet the films are not specifically feminist. She just seems to direct from her heart and let the chips fall where they may. Her movies make me laugh, cry and cheer like a modern day Frank Capra, with a more realistic eye. Renaissance Man casts Danny DeVito as a curmudgeonly Mary Poppins who shows up at a military base, and changes lives with a Spoonful of Shakespeare. Danny DeVito gives a wonderful performance as an unemployed advertising executive who winds up teaching army recruits English. He soon discovers they can relate to Shakespeare through Hamlet, and eventually takes them to see a performance of Henry V. A very moving moment takes place when a recruit recites the Band of Brothers/Saint Crispin's Day speech to his Sargent. I recommend this film to both men and women, even if they usually don't care for military films. "},{"Title":"Better than you might think","Date":"28 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A movie that's better than you might think from some descriptions. There are a lot of good people in this film, Penny Marshall directed, and it deserves a second look. In addition to the funny stuff, there is a strong theme of socio-economic class, opportunity, and the value of communication skills. Refreshingly for a comedy, the army is not treated like idiots and automatons, though the Hines part is more stereotyped than it needed to be. Still, there are lots of good things and seeing the educator (DeVito) learn a few things is engaging and more. A perfect movie for a day when you're home sick and want to watch something you've seen before. "},{"Title":"Simple? Yes / Sweet? OH Yes / Weak? At Parts !","Date":"5 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Movies with story about one teacher/one messenger are so many. I think it got no certain time to flourish or to be a common fashion. As the cinematic and the TV movies have to deal with the matter of one-loyal-messenger-whom-sent-to-rectify- young-underachievers quite yearly, maybe because it's a forever catchy touching subject, maybe because education still an exploding case in the USA, or maybe for both reasons.In a school, a playground, or in the army, the story is all one. And the great thing about it is not that it works every time but that it has a messenger who's teaching and studying at the same time, to change and be changed also.Here..(DeVito) at his best, it's a nice polished atmosphere, tranquil rhythm, smooth photography, and great soundtrack that summarized the personality of the movie as a very simple sweet one. However it doesn't utilize a lot of what it brings up, or characters it presents.The drama wasn't hot whereas the alterations have been perfected so easily, for instance  (Gregory Sporleder) as Pvt. Melvin, a unique invalid character that beats his family problems and frustrations by sleeping, became suddenly one smart student at the end who understands Shakespeare brilliantly ! You'd find a misused character, and I mean for sure (Gregory Hines)'s. I didn't just grasp what was the need of his character Sergeant Cass ?!, simply he could be a part of the conflict as the one who, one way or another, hampers the mission of the hero, or maybe the one who represents the violent side of the military whom excessively may be unable to see the meaning of this mission in the first place. Actually the final result was that yet in so idiot way ! (Hines) was totally wasted in scenes where he looked so kind and supporting at the physical drills ! So when (Hines) listens to the Shakespearean monologue to turn into more soft person, more estimator for (DeVito)'s efforts you have to ask yourself what he was turning from basically ! And to tell you the truth according to all what we saw till this moment, (DeVito) was the one who needs to show more respect to (Hines), he was the wrong one with him not the other way around. Making that Sergeant that mild from the very start weakened it, along with the conflict, and made his alteration, if there is any, kind of naive.As for the dialogue I felt bad while the scene of the students read why I joined the army whereas they were all poets, and so eloquent. Or correctly speaking in the same eloquent poetic way ! I didn't like the whole scene of (DeVito)'s descending the wall. It wasn't to demonstrate how further that teacher may go to apologize to his students, but to have a scene which (Danny DeVito) the short fat guy hanging over a long sharp vertical board. It was absurd and fabricated...Speaking of which, how all the military forgot about honoring a formal hero of it (the father of the neat private) ?, to have that sentimental scene at the end with the fatherly teary eyes (Cliff Robertson) decorates the young man. In fact this is a rare time not to condemn the System in a one teacher/one messenger's movie ! I think that writer (Jim Burnstein) with director (Penny Marshall) wanted nothing but a fine dream out of so dark subject, to show it in plainly lovely way (more than discuss it openly and deeply) through that small world which's close to bonbon where Shakespeare solves everything !Despite all of that, it is optimistic movie that makes you love to watch it, to give you hope that Renaissance is not an impossible thing to achieve, and Hamlet can be a wonderful rap song after all. So it is simple and sweet before being weak at parts. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare in the army","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Halt thyself, thou knave. I shall tell thee of a film in which a great thespian of our time plays a man who teacheth a group of milit'ry people about one of the greatest playwrights of all time. Never have these men and wenches known such masterful work, but eager they are to learn.OK, I'll cut the Shakespearean talk. But the point is that Renaissance Man is a really cool movie, with Danny DeVito as a literature teacher who joins the army and teaches some of the recruits about Shakespeare. This was certainly one of the under-appreciated comedies of the 1990s (specifically, one showing that you don't need scatological humor to make a good comedy). At the very least, it should be interesting to see Mark Wahlberg in his film debut. But even beyond that, I would say that there's lots to admire here. I definitely recommend it.Also starring Kadeem Hardison and Cliff Robertson. "},{"Title":"A Classic","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Renaissance Man stands out in my memory as one of those very few movies that lingers throughout the years, inspirational as well as entertaining. I cannot understand why it wasn't a box office hit worldwide! Its message transcends cultures and times (although not entirely transcends literature, thanks to the Shakespeare link). Even there the message is strong - losers can win if they're given encouragement and a challenge. It's a timeless message, and it's true. Add to that Mr. de Vito's hidden talent as a reluctant yet innovative teacher who makes the grade differently, and you have - together with the classic theme of everyone being an individual,yet with an identical need for appreciation - a winning plot. But there's more. It's(looking back now) a star studded cast also! Mark Wahlberg made his debut in this movie, and if you look, today you'll see other notables as well, younger.This is a movie in which the author, director, casting director, cameraman, actors - oh heck, the entire crew - excel as a team. The whole is superbly a multiplication of its parts. It deserves to be watched every year or so, if only to be reminded of the empathetic message. I marvel at how the author came up with this story, which keeps showing more insight as it meanders through the experiment of a failed advertising man having to teach in the US Army just to keep alive. It's fun, encouraging and clever.The plot and its subplots are captivating, the actors convincing, and right at the end kindness and heroism win out - convincingly. I often recall an unforgettable line delivered by de Vito, and the context in which he says it The choices you make dictate the life you will lead. Upbeat, funny, touching and inspirational. Could Shakespeare have done better? I doubt it. Definitely a classic. "},{"Title":"Going renaissance, in the army.","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bill Rago (Danny DeVito) works for an advertising firm. But when one day he had been fired from his job, his new job is somehow very unlikely from his past nature of work. Teaching army recruits.Soon he was being 'thrown' into a life so different from what he had known. Initially Bill had no idea how his class should ran, till one day his students was asking what he was reading.Thus it became the time where Bill was teaching 'Hamlet' to his students. They began to slowly warm up to the idea of learning one of Shakespeare's works and that even Bill drove all of them to go watch the play.All along the way, Bill did had some run-ins with his students' commander on the way how they should handle their (same) students. But in the end, one had to win his way out. And it's not what one may kind of expect whom to be.The moment Bill was teaching 'Hamlet' to his students, I sort of realised how the movie title came about. Imparting teaching methods which may deemed so different is not what everyone can accept, but to a bunch of unlikely people, it can be quite a challenge altogether.This is just one of those movies where one can enjoy in a no-frills manner. "}{"Title":"Excellent comedy that will make you laugh hard, smile, and feel good","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" RENAISSANCE MAN, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy that will make you laugh hard, smile, and feel good. If you ask me, Montgomery (Kadeem Hardison) was the funniest recruit of everyone in the gang. Despite the fact that he was a tough guy, I also thought that Cass (Gregory Hines) was funny, too. To me, Bill (Danny DeVito) was a very good teacher who knew how to make things fun. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent comedy that will make you laugh and feel good to any Danny DeVito fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for lots of laughter and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Good comedy/drama movie and one of Danny Devitos best movies","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was good the movies about a man and he gets fired from his advertising job and then he sings up for the unemployment and he gets a job at a Army training base teaching some recruits.In this movie there are actors and actress like Danny Devito,Gregory Hines,Ed Begley Jr.,Stacey Dash,James Remar,Kadeem Hardison and Mark Wahlberg.This movie is one of the best movies i have seen Danny Devito in and he has been in other good movies like Twins,Big Fish,Be Cool and Mars Attacks.There are some good scenes in this movie like when Danny Devito is trying to talk to some of the soldiers and he follows them up a huge training tower and then he has to climb down a rope to get to the ground.Over all this movie was good and it keep me entertained from start to finish and my rating is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful story.  DiVito at his best.","Date":"28 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At the demise of his advertising career, Bill Rago sinks to the ranks of the unemployed. His case worker finds him a job teaching a group of Army misfits who can't seem to comprehend even the most basic concepts.During the course of trying to determine a curriculum, Rago happens upon the group's interest in Hamlet, and just goes with it.He changes their lives as he reshapes their minds, giving them the confidence to go into life, and ultimately face death in the service of America.Inspiring, touching, and compelling tale. Great story, with good solid performances, well developed characters, and a realistic presentation of military life.It rates an 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Fun Movie!","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you've never been in the Army, don't care much for Shakespeare, and aren't interested in teaching, you might not like this movie.  But I've been in the Army, like Shakespeare okay, and have an interest in teaching, so I thought this movie was great.  It was rather slow at times, but overall a funny and touching movie. "},{"Title":"Big Hearted Winning Comedy!","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Renaissance Man is a must see for any person who has any emotions at all. DeVito hands in one of his most believable and moving performances as an actor. The cast around him just dazzles and the chemistry between the characters makes this one of the best films ever! "},{"Title":"Nice as a comedy but also good as a drama","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Good movie, DeVito is playing nice as a good guy but can also make funny mean jokes. The whole idea of giving them Hamlet is entertaiming. The students have all diferent story's and have their fights are often very funny. Also the scene on the Victory Tower is really nice. One negative thing The end is a litlle bit sticky. All that honor talk is a little bit boring, but in the end it's okay what it all makes it a nice entertaiming movie.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie, great views of Ft. Jackson","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although some of the story line is not plausible in such as Danny Devito schooling Soldiers in Training and a few other scenes such as them all traveling to Canada to see a play. Otherwise it is a funny movie, with some touching parts but also gives a great view of Ft. Jackson the Army's largest Basic Combat Training site. Watch for the scene towards the beginning of the movie with Danny Devito traveling in a jeep whereupon he looks up to read Victory Starts Here you will see a water tower in the background with the name Ft. Jackson on it, although only parts of Ft. Jackson can be read. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Feel-good comedy too low-key","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To its credit, Renaissance Man has something to say about life, and it puts that first priority in the film, making it more of a drama than a comedy. Unfortunately, to me -- an action film guy who likes it when stuff blows up -- I can't deal with the slow plotting of most dramas. (Although classics like The Dead Poets' Society are an exception.)There are a few random plot turns that don't make any sense, and in general the cast is too broad for me to care deeply about each character.Who should see this film-- Sentimental comedy fans who have nothing better to doon a rainy day. But try L.A. Story instead. Zany comedyor put-down comedy types, stay away.Nice try, but I'm going to steel myself to giving Renaissance Man a disappointing 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What a movie!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think Renaissance Man is a great movie.With Mark Wahlberg in it the movie is even more fun(He is so hot)!! The music is an automatic A+ and if I were to rate this movie from a scale of 1 to 10 I would give it an absolute 10!I would recommend this movie to anyone that likes to laugh and that loves Mark with all their heart (Like me). "},{"Title":"Go Penny Marshall...excellent movie!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have a lot of respect for Penny Marshall as a director. I would like to see more movies like this. Danny D.and Gregory H. are a good team. Good casting, I liked the entire cast. That is a hard thing to accomplish.  "}{"Title":"Overcoming....","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Until I saw this film Danny Devito and Penny Marshall were to me fluff actors.Penny and Danny take the character Bill, an out of work, divorced, baggage ridden man and a group of military misfits and threw them together.They make each other belly up to their responsibilities and they both grow. "},{"Title":"a heartfelt, feeling good movie.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I was Channel surfing the TV this afternoon and found this movie on, I didn't expect much from it (a lot of times, movies available in a Sunday afternoon are real stinker). But this movie turned out to be a delightful surprise. The movie has a very touching, heartfelt, warm fuzzy quality to it, especially on the teacher-soldier/student relationship. In fact that's the only aspect of the movie that I like. Personally I found the rap songs are quite stupid and the plot was pretty much what you would expect from a 80's comedy (even though Renaissance Man was made in the 90's). Nonetheless, the relationship between Danny DeVito and his fellow students was so touching that it outweighed the negative aspects of this movie, in my opinions. If you want to rent a feel good movie, this is the one, but if you're expecting to laugh your head off or if you only watch movies that follows logical sense, then I can say that you can forget about this movie. One note, I can't believe that Mark Whalberg was in this movie! I couldn't tell that it was him in the movie. "},{"Title":"Love this movie","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know how Penny Marshall did it, but this older-than-the-hills story works beautifully, so much so that I watch this movie more often than I want to admit.  The spirited cast helps a lot, with Brancato standing out.  And I cry every time I watch it, too.  "},{"Title":"A genuine feel good movie","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Army Intelligence, as it is known in Australia, is probably one of my favourite movies. Although the plot of the whole 'teacher bonds with the students' thing has been done many times before, this movie actually does it well. The characters are all lovable and well portrayed. There is both humour and drama in this movie and they are well blended to make this movie an extremely enjoyable one that I can watch over and over again without getting bored! "},{"Title":"Been there, done that!","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I did basic training at Fort Jackson, and it was pretty interesting to see it portrayed -- albeit fictionally -- in such a great movie!  I even caught some of my old Drill Sergeants in unintentional cameos.  The scenes during PT and Victory Tower brought back some memories, as did the language used by Gregory Hines' character.  A terrific movie! "},{"Title":"DeVito entertains, as always","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film offered little that was original, and too much that happened was just too pat for belief.  But Danny DeVito knows how to make such roles work, and the result is undemanding entertainment. "},{"Title":"Really Good","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that movie was great, I liked how the guys learned in the Army. I also thought there was a really cool song, Life In The Streets. It was cool how they filmed the movie at an actual Army base.  "},{"Title":"The Brains behind the guns.","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie gives us a glimpse of Shakespeare and a glimpse of life in the army. Some people say that only brainless thugs join the army, but thats not true and this movie proves it. Anyways in this movie Danny Devito(aka Bill Rago) loses his job of advertising and he is assigned to teach a group of soldiers in the army training camp. Although it seems impossible to shove education into their brains, at the end of the movie the soldiers realize that they earned the most precious treasure of all, EDUCATION. I've seen this movie for over twenty times and believe me i have never been bored of it. This movie has a mixture of happiness, comedy and a bit of sadness. For those people who haven't seen this movie yet, go to your local DVD store and buy the DVD. "},{"Title":"Teaching the Unteachable and Watching the Unwatchable.","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An unemployed advertising executive (Danny DeVito) in Detroit gets a job as a teacher to eight Army recruits (led by Mark Wahlberg, Stacey Dash and Kadeem Hardison) who have been branded as dumb and uneducated. Slowly, but surely DeVito starts to get through to his class and learns that most anyone can be taught. Average little comedy that has enough drama to make it feel a little more realistic than it really is. Gregory Hines shines as the group's drill sergeant and Cliff Robertson has a short cameo. Penny Marshall's direction is adequate but far from impressive. Runs too long and has too many side-stories to keep the audience's complete attention. Overall some good points, but not near enough to stand out among a countless number of similar productions. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Very natural and personal easy going humorous drama","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I said it all in my summery. This is not the usual kind of DeVito movie where he is brimming over with sarcasm. This is more than that! A really genuine personal experience with seemingly real people.This movie depicts life more realisticly than many many other movies out there. This movie gives you a little bit to think about and you definatly feel something good comming from it. It is in a way philosophical and as a byproduct you get to know a little Shakespeare, which doesn't hurt really!   Very good movie! "}{"Title":"Could have been worse, but not much worse","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didnt expect much from this film, and I didnt get much.  This is a movie that tries to force emotions on you, and it doesnt work.  It has a nice cast, but in this case it has no redeeming value.  It's a silly story, with bad acting, and humor. Not recommended.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Hollywood License","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What I don't like...Hollywood took such literary license with this movie, I had to comment. If this squad is double-d, I think that casting services need to be fired... Hobbs is obviously no dummy, Melvin has a sleep disorder, Leroy was a jock but he's no dummy....Why are the dd's allowed to go off-base during their basic training. When they go off the base, they're in their OD (olive drabs) uniforms which the military frowns on, but then they also went to Stratford Ontario from Michigan (International Border) into Canada (the Bluewater Bridge joining Port Huron and Sarnia). Devito is a little too unmilitary and generally a jerk, but gets the girl in the end. When did they have the time to put the rap ditty together.What I did like... It's not totally mindless entertainment, and there's some funny scenes or one-liners so it's not a total wash. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When I first rented this movie I thought it was going to be pretty corny. But after about 5 minutes I already liked it, and by the end I had added to my list of favorite movies. It had me laughing and happy the whole time.It also has an excellent cast; very talented, and quite a few good songs, especially Life in the Streets and the one performed by the cast.I gave this movie a ten and would suggest for anyone. ) "},{"Title":"Disappointment","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Renaissance Man begins with one of the most implausible concepts of any recent comedy An unemployed advertising man is forced to take work teaching English to the dregs of Army cadets. If you haven't wet your pants laughing yet, you probably won't like this movie.Danny DeVito, who can usually make ANYTHING funny, is out of place here as an oddly fuzzy, warm-hearted man. Like ANY Hollywood film about teaching, he not only educates his dim pupils, he changes their lives as well.The movie is syrupy and pours on the sentiment with a bucket... every Army cadet is more than ready to develop as a person by reading (and rapping) Shakespeare. I would have thought that DeVito would play a variation of his usual scuzzy, sarcastic persona, but here's he so nice as to be invisible. He is surrounded by a cardboard supporting cast, led by acting legends Mark Wahlberg and Stacey Dash. I kept looking for someplace to laugh, but there is little humor and no real comedic sequences.I'm guessing somewhere along the line the filmmakers realized that there weren't any real laughs in the premise, so they chose to turn the film into an uplifting human drama. The fact of the matter is this is toothless, an empty experience, and a waste of time that will have you wanting your two hours back. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film about how Danny DeVito, an out of work ad man, finds himself and introduces Shakesphere to a group of misfit soldiers.  Some racist reviewers of this film tired to put it down, but it's great.  Many people in Advertising have English degrees and would know literature like DeVito's character does. This is a great movie and shouldn't be put down. "},{"Title":"Poorly written disappointment of teacher vs.student & civilian vs. military angst.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Prior to this, I was unaware that two heavy hitters like Danny DeVito and Penny Marshall were capable of work of such a mediocre calibre. I am embarrassed for the both of them, and cannot help but wonder what went wrong here.This movie tries to take the viewer in eight different directions, all at the same time, and ends up going absolutely nowhere. The only redeeming tidbit is the portrayal of the underused Gregory Hines as the Drill Sgt. whose only purpose is that of the screaming voice of discouragement, although Hines admirably rises beyond the poor writing and comes across as easier to like than the supposed hero (DeVito's Bill Rago).I found it impossible to root for DeVito's character, even though he has my sympathies at the start as an unemployed but persistent former advertising executive who gets a temp job working as a teacher  of a surly group of underachievers in the U.S. Army. But DeVito's portrayallost my sympathy when he arrogantly undermines the authority of Hines' Drill Sgt. by casually strolling along the parade deck in the middle of a reprimand on tardiness, and shouts out that Hines should go easy on 'em and lighten up. Even someone with the IQ of an old Army boot and zero military background knows better than to mouth off while the Drill Sgt. is Drilling!Among many, the biggest mystery about this film is why the (softer, gentler) U.S. Army suddenly decides to give a crap about 7 or 8 trainees who aren't achieving in their physical fitness/training efforts. But beyond this, what made them think that academic enlightenment from the unlikely source of DeVito's Look-none-of-us-wants-to-be-here-so-let's-just-make-the-best-of-it-teacher will cause the trainees to successfully negotiate the obstacle course!They never explain why, in God's name, the Army figures that a civilian unemployment candidate whose only teaching credential is the fact that he has a Masters Degree from Princeton, is capable of educating these trainees, yet the Commanding Officer, in a scene where DeVito is sent to the military equivalent of the Principal's Office, insists that he will let nothing get in the way of this program -- but he doesn't say what the program is!Since there is no curriculum, DeVito, who just happens to be reading Hamlet at the time, decides Why not that? For some weird reason, this former ad exec happens to be more insightful about Shakespeare than most English Literature scholars and in the ultimate pearls before swine effort, attempts to force-feed  Hamlet to these supposedly hip, mostly minority, urban attitude, problem recruits.We are then subjected to the standard fare of a recycled and somewhat modernized version of Hamlet which could be renamed, Hamlet -- the Rap Musical smacking of a poorly executed Gilligan's Island-esque variation except that when Gilligan's Island did it, it was mildly amusing and cleverly done (as part of a talent show, the castaways took Hamlet and musically adapted it to the music from the opera Carmen). For some weird reason, this former ad exec happens to be more insightful about Shakespearethan most English Literature scholars and in the ultimate pearls before swine effort, attempts to force feed it Hamlet to these supposedly hip, mostly minority, urban attitude, problem recruits.They allow only 1000 words here, or else I could cite a dozen such examples of bad writing, and enough plot holes that this movie makes swiss cheese seem water tight by comparison.  "},{"Title":"Worst film ever","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is simply the worst film I have ever seen. I it so predictable that it insults my intelligence. Why is it that Hollywood continues making these underdog teacher reveals truth of life for bad students. Just name one that worked - Dangerous minds didn't eiter! "},{"Title":"My Pick For Turkey of the Decade!!!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I realize that there have been a lot of bad movies, but this movie gets my nod for the worst movie ever simply because it never gets quite bad enough to enjoy, but never good enough to be less than painful.  Hearing Marky Mark rap out the story of Hamlet had me wishing someone would kill me before the scene was over.  (Who could know that Mark Walburg would actually become a respected actor!!)  Oh dear God, do NOT see this movie; its not even good for a laugh.  This movie pays homage to the idea that a group of total idiots, when motivated, can be something other than motivated idiots.  Go see To Sir, With Love if you want a movie about underachievers.  This movie is an insult to all that is holy. "},{"Title":"Horribly acted, and lacks any sort of laughs. Potential wasted miserably. *1/2 (out of four)","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  RENAISSANCE MAN / (1994) *1/2 (out of four)By Blake French 	The more serious a subject is, the easier and more fun it is to spoof. The comedy from Penny Marshal, Renaissance Man, has a great target the army. But it fails to create funny material within its concepts. The film seems to have uncertainties within its structure; the scenes simply do not blend well together. It is possible to incorporate comedy with sentimental emotions, but this movie does not know how to do it. It goes from straight humor to straight solemnity, leaving out subtle changes in its pace, attitude, or character's actions. When a movie can include a scene that has Danny Devito climbing a victory tower at a military training facility, and another where Army students rap to a theme of Shakespeare's Hamlet, without being funny in the least, you know there has been some major miscalculations.	Devito is the right actor for a divorced, bankrupt Detroit advertiser who applies for unemployment and gets a job as a civilian instructor for an Army training facility. He must counsel a class of eight difficult students. Of course, DeVito's character has no idea of how the Army works, and proves himself to be a misfit in the base. After some effort, he eventually finds the students express interest in Shakespeare. He wrote plays. Plays...? he explains. You know, like TV without the box. The class becomes a course on the understanding of the complex tragedy of Hamlet.	We keep waiting for the movie to take off and to be about something, but it never does. It simply juggles around various ideas that go absolutely nowhere. The movie feels obligatory as it follows the predictable, contrived path in which the students reject their authorities, then the students respect their authorities, then the authorities reject, then except. Except and reject what, you ask? It doesn't really matter since the entire plot is an exercise in recycling story nuggets of movies like Dead Poets Society and Private Benjamin. 	To make things even worse for this excuse for a comedy many of the performances are horrible. Danny Devito is fine, as is the rest of the more experienced cast. But the Army student cast has scenes that are down right laughable. Mark Wahlberg sits in his desk and makes childish faces to his fellow classmates, reciting his dialogue as if rehearsing a part in a high school play for the first time. During one scene, as the students explain the reasons of why they joined the Army, one breaks down in tears because of a sad emotional past. This could have been powerful if actual actors had taken the parts. But instead, we try to respect the art of filmmaking by holding a straight face while his expression of sorrow becomes so poorly portrayed we don't know whether to wince or chuckle. 	Renaissance Man is a contrived, labored, unconvincing attempt at a comedy spoof. Without a doubt, if handled the right way, it could have had funny results. But Penny Marshal, who also directed movies like The Preacher's Wife, and Big, constructs scenes so awfully familiar and labored, no possible talent can save them. Even the closing sequence, the traditional false suspense moments when students show their loyalties and manhood, feels out of place. Everything feels out of place here. I feel sorry for Danny Devito, who brings a life to his character on his own. But he is stuck in a movie so mislead, even he looks like he should be contributing his talents to another production.   "}]