[{"Title":"Mildly entertaining - An improvement over II","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"24 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Just to be up-front about this - I enjoy these films. The original - Highlander - was the only one in the series which really stands the test of time (Endgame has now joined it in this), and stands head and shoulders above the others for artistic merit and originality, but still, I liked the others well enough. I also like the much maligned Christopher Lambert. He's an odd actor to be sure - far from the Hollywood norm in appearance, style and accent, but he's nothing if not original and once you understand his understated style, you might just see that the guy has some serious talent. Read on if these statements resonate with you. Otherwise, feel free to move on without reading or rating this review.Lambert is good, Unger is good, Van Peebles is campy as hell, alternating between absurdist humor and menacing poseur-ship.The script is OK, certainly less grandiose and more mindless than II (and closer to the original in feeling, pace and plot), but not particularly original.The production values are a slight step up from II, about as good as Endgame, and almost up to the original's standards.Conor McLeod has reclaimed something of his humanity - imagining himself to be the last immortal on earth, but of course, he is wrong. Sorcerer Kane, who has stolen the magic of one of McLeod's former teachers, is hunting his head. McLeod has adopted a child and is about to fall in love again, the last thing he needs is an attack by an enemy who has no corporeal body.The film is entirely predictable, and is nothing more than a fan film. So what? It's harmless entertainment with some very pretty scenes from Scotland and some other gorgeous landscapes, and, if you don't expect much, you might just have a good time with it. "},{"Title":"The best sequel yet, but it still can't hold a candle to the original","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In 1995, with the enormous international success of the Highlander TV series, producers Bill Panzer and Pete Davis once again teamed up to unleash another Highlander sequel upon us. This time, it's Highlander III The Sorcerer or, as it was known in the U.S., Highlander The Final Dimension. (Don't ask me where the hell that came from) The film finds Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) enjoying a peaceful life with his adopted son, deceived that he has won the Prize. However, the evil sorcerer Kane (Mario Van Peebles) has broken free from the Japanese mountain he was entombed in, and now he wants the Highlander's head.One of the parts of the film I enjoyed the most was Christopher Lambert's portrayal of Connor. For once the character isn't a severely depressed maniac, and in fact, he's better in this film than any other. Mario Van Peebles makes a good, if not unbelievable villain, with Deborah Unger as the sexy Highlander girl.Andy Morahan's direction is good. The script is good and very entertaining, but the film's problem is this although it has all the right materials to make a good film, they are either wasted, put in the wrong place or dropped quickly. It makes you wonder if the franchise is cursed.The film's score, by J. Peter Robinson, was very nice as well. Loreena McKennit's Bonny Portmore, featured twice in the film, is a beautiful and outstanding song that has now become the theme for the series.All in all, while Highlander III (Sorcerer/Final Dimension) is an entertaining film, it can't come anywhere near comparing to the original film, although it is a major improvement over Highlander II. "},{"Title":"There can be only ONE (not two or three...)","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say, Highlander was the kind of movie that simply does not allow for a sequel.Highlander III may be enjoyable, but certainly doesn't come anywhere near the original one, which is a Classic. There are so many things that impressed me in Highlander; sadly, I can't say much about Sorcerer.Watch it, but don't expect too much.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie, not as good as the original, but still pretty good.","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely more of a sequel than Highlander 2 The Quickening was.  With respect to the first Highlander this film actually follows it pretty well.  It's funny though because it totally disregards the existence of Highlander 2.  In Highlander 2 they show Brenda Wyatt (the main girl in the first Highlander film) dying from the effects of a depleted ozone layer, but in this film they mention that she was killed in a car accident.  Anyhow, if you pretend that Highlander 2 doesn't exist, this actually makes a good deal of sense with regard to the original Highlander.  The only qualm I have with the film is how could Connor MacLeod think he has the prize when there are still 3 more immortals out there?  That doesn't really seem to make sense, but maybe some die-hard Highlander fan can explain it to me.Anyhow, all in all, I thought this was a really good film.  I loved all the actors, Christopher Lambert does a great job as Connor MacLeod as always and I was really impressed with Mario Van Peebles, he did a fantastic job, and looked really menacing throughout the film.  Deborah Unger was a nice addition, she's definitely a looker, and not a bad actor either.The story was pretty good, but it's nothing terribly complicated.  The special effects are very nicely done.I'm not a die-hard Highlander fan, but I do like the films, and I thought this film was great.  I hope you enjoy the film as well.  Thanks for reading, and be sure to read my other Highlander reviews.-Chris "},{"Title":"Great music","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The other reviews say it all  you will have a good time watching this film if you don't expect something too smart or original but just wish to be entertained with some action and fantastic images.But I wish to add that paying attention to the music is also worth the shot. From the eerie chants in the most unsettling moments to the timeless Celtic songs accompanying the grandiose shots and peaceful passages, the music is a faithful and enhancing companion to the plot.  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Sequal to the original Highlander","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  First of all Highlander III The sorcerer is the french title used for this film, I just thought I'd clear that up real quick.Those of us that live in America know Highlander III as Highlander The Final Dimension. Highlander is heavly criticized due to the fact that Highlander II The Quickening came before it. I look at it this way, Highlander II is like Halloween III it has nothing to do with the rest of the series the only exception is that it does involve Conner Macleod, unlike Halloween III which doesn't involve Michael Myers at all. I did not see the theatrical version of Highlander The Final Dimension, I just recently came across a copy of the R rated Directors Cut of this film. This cut of this film is excellent and it is a nice sequal to the original Highlander if you forget about Highlander II.I think I can understand why this film was criticized, the theatrical version was probably released half assed with the scenes all cut up. The Directors Cut is pure and complete.I'd like to comment on the love scene in this film between Conner and the female lead, it is almost on a pornographic level and it is no wonder that they wouldn't allow that to get into theatre's. It is greatly welcomed in this release though.Mako does an excellent Job as Macleod's new trainer at the beginning of the film, he knows he is going to die and on at least three occasions gives Conner the opportunity to take his head, he idiotically refuses and his trainers powers fall into the hands of evil an evil that would hunt MaCloud many centuries later. Those that say that this is a remake of the original are greatly mistaken and should rent the directors cut of this film and watch this one again.MaCloud did win the prize in the original film, it just so happens that when the sorcerer is resurrected the game begins again,Macloud is actually defending the prize he already won, he gets an even greater prize when he kills the Sorcerer, he recieves the powers and knowledge of his trainer and his power of illusion, besides the overall prize.Many have asked about Highlander Endgame, this film only works if you think of it as many years later, this film also is based on the television series too, we have both Conner and Duncan in this one. IF you see the pilot of that show Conner is there, we learned that he trained Duncan after finding him almost dead after a battle. This film pretty much wraps up that series and it tries to finish off the film series as well, it is confusing but you can make sense out of it if you try. The Villian in that film tops them all as he doesn't care about the rules, in fact he breaks every one including the Holy Ground rule.If anyone else can figure out the link between Highlander I, III, the series and Endgame, feel free to write another commentary with updated information and your own thoughts of what if.Highlander The Final Dimension is under-rated and the Directors Cut of this film should be viewed for best performance.There can be only one, yes in the end there can be only one, we do not know when the end will be, it could be the end of time for all we know, immortals are always being born throughout the centuries and years, we don't know who they are or where they are, at the time end of time one man shall stand alone, at that point there can be only one, but it will be almost an eternity before every immortal is killed in fact the game has the potential to last an eternity.Those were just some words to think about next time you watch any of the Highlander films(except II) and when you watch the show.   "},{"Title":"Several good elements come together here!","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  A good revenge plot drives this third Highlander installment. An old enemy similar to the Kurgan of the first film, escapes an entombment after 400 years and begins a quest for the head of McLeod. Kane- the Sorceror -makes a great villain and blends into modern America easily with his tattoos and piercings. The film also boasts some Conan elements with Mako again playing a wizard named Nagano and there also some f/x similar to T-2 as the sorceror's power is made apparent. Debra Unger is also a plus as a smokin' leading lady who provides the best and sweatiest sex scene of the Highlander cycle. There are also some great locales used in the film. From snowy Japan to African deserts to the Scottish Highlands, the film features all three beautifully. McLeod also has an adopted son and is hounded by a new NYC detective who is wise to his immortal habits. But through it all, he keeps his cool demeanor. However, the soundtrack leaves much to be desired. 7/10. Check out the DVD!  "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Sequal to the original Highlander","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  (A word of warning there may be a few spoilers within so if you haven't seen this or any of the other films or the series I recommend you not read this yet)First of all Highlander III The sorcerer is the french title used for this film, I just thought I'd clear that up real quick.Those of us that live in America know Highlander III as Highlander The Final Dimension. Highlander is extremely criticized due to the fact that Highlander II The Quickening came before it. I look at it this way, Highlander II is like Halloween III it has nothing to do with the rest of the series the only exception is that it does involve Conner Macleod, unlike Halloween III which doesn't involve Michael Myers at all. I did not see the theatrical version of Highlander The Final Dimension, I just recently came across a copy of the R rated Directors Cut of this film. This cut of this film is excellent and it is a nice sequal to the original Highlander if you forget about Highlander II.I think I can understand why this film was criticized, the theatrical version was probably released half assed with the scenes all cut up. The Directors Cut is pure and complete.I'd like to comment on the love scene in this film between Conner and the female lead, it is almost on a pornographic level and it is no wonder that they wouldn't allow that to get into theatre's. It is greatly welcomed in this release though.Mako does an excellent Job as Macleod's new trainer at the beginning of the film, he knows he is going to die and on at least three occasions gives Conner the opportunity to take his head, he idiotically refuses and his trainers powers fall into the hands of evil an evil that would hunt MaCloud many centuries later. Those that say that this is a remake of the original are greatly mistaken and should rent the directors cut of this film and watch this one again.MaCloud did win the prize in the original film, it just so happens that when the sorcerer is resurrected the game begins again,Macloud is actually defending the prize he already won, he gets an even greater prize when he kills the Sorcerer, he recieves the powers and knowledge of his trainer and his power of illusion, besides the overall prize.Many have asked about Highlander Endgame, this film only works if you think of it as many years later, this film also is based on the television series too, we have both Conner and Duncan in this one. IF you see the pilot of that show Conner is there, we learned that he trained Duncan after finding him almost dead after a battle. This film pretty much wraps up that series and it tries to finish off the film series as well, it is confusing but you can make sense out of it if you try. The Villian in that film tops them all as he doesn't care about the rules, in fact he breaks every one including the Holy Ground rule.If anyone else can figure out the link between Highlander I, III, the series and Endgame, feel free to write another commentary with updated information and your own thoughts of what if.Highlander The Final Dimension is under-rated and the Directors Cut of this film should be viewed for best performance.There can be only one, yes in the end there can be only one, we do not know when the end will be, it could be the end of time for all we know, immortals are always being born throughout the centuries and years, we don't know who they are or where they are, at the time end of time one man shall stand alone, at that point there can be only one, but it will be almost an eternity before every immortal is killed in fact the game has the potential to last an eternity.Those were just some words to think about next time you watch any of the Highlander films(except II) and when you watch the show.   "},{"Title":"It's a kind of magic(less)  sequel...","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Christopher Lambert reprises his role as Connor McCleod who this time goes up against an evil immortal Kane(Van Peebles in a terrible performance) who is thawed out of suspended animation, of course once he defrosts, it's up to McCleod to put him (back) on ice. I admit that this is probably my favorite sequel, only because the beginning reminds me of kung fu sequel, with Mako teaching Lambert swordsmanship and kung fu, however that aside the movie is fairly uninspired but not too dull and really it makes logical sense, even in comparison with the original (The only sequel to do so.) The suspended animation thing is a lame way to bring up a new enemy but at least it doesn't explain that they are from a different planet, or completely contradict the original like the fourth. The fight sequences are decent and the production values while somewhat cheap play passably on screen, so overall it's a mediocre sequel. Nothing special but at least semi-watchable.* * out of 4-(Fair) "},{"Title":"Highlander III The Sorcerer","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After fans was disappointed with Highlander II The Quickening William Panzer and Peter S. Davis decided to try again and make the true sequel to Highlander meaning Highlander III The Sorcerer would have to disregard Highlander II The Quickening, a movie which could be considered a stand alone film since it's plot completely changes the Highlander mythology.Highlander III The Sorcerer does have some flaws, the main flaw is that this movie tries to hard to mimic the style of the original but lacks the punch that made the first film such a cult classic. A prime example is the main villain Kain, he seems like a rehashed version of the Kurgen. Mario Van Peebles is a great actor and does a good attempt at copying the Kurgan but sadly he can't match Clancy Brown's performance.Another example is the car scene where Kane tries to scare the kid by playing chicken with planes. It's just a copy of the scene in the original Highlander except changed slightly.The chemistry between Connor and Ramirez was one of the things that made Highlander so memorable. It was like a father and son relationship, sadly the chemistry between Connor and Nakano isn't the same. Mako does a great performance but sadly the film doesn't give him enough screen time, if the film delved deeper with the mentor training Connor it might of had the same power the original had.The flashback scenes are pulled off well giving the movie more depth.The training scene in Scottland is beautifully shot and the song Bonny Portmore definitely makes it more powerful. The sword fights are choreographed well and move at a good pace.The special effects are okay.The plot of Highlander III sees Connor MacLeod living with his adopted son John in Marakesh until an evil Immortal named Kane is released. Centuries ago Connor was training with a sorcerer named Nakano, Kain and his two henchmen stormed his hideout searching for Macleod. Nakano fought back but was killed by Kane, while absorbing the Quickening the cave collapsed. When Kane beheads one of his henchmen Connor senses it, so he decides to leave Marakesh and return to New York. The game is back on and the prize is at stake once againHighlander III The Sorcerer lacks the charm of the original but despite it's flaws Highlander III is a watchable sequel. "}{"Title":"A solid entry into the saga","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In my own words, I can say that this was a big improvement over Highlander 2. Its not as good as the first but a good solid entry into the Highlander saga. The story was OK, the cast was good, the special effects were still amazing and pretty much every way better than the previous crap movie. Christopher Lambert is back and he still has that glow for this character of Duncan Macleod. Now for the villain, Kane (not to be confused with the WWE superstar) he was a good villain but not as bad ass as Kurgan. Mario Van Peebles did a good job playing this relentless, cold-blooded, masochistic villain. Now for the female role, whoa! Deborah Unger! What can I say about her? Bold, Blonde, Beautiful and Banging! Now that's a major improvement over the other 2 female leads. (Not that it matters) Anyway, I do praise this movie for being a big improvement over the second film but its not as good as the original and others may not agree with me on this, but it is worth the time watching. This one was for the real highlander fans. Overall, 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A great sequel","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" First of all, let's forget Highlander II The Quickening ever existed. This is a great and logical sequel to the first Highlander movie. Highlander II was a complete disaster and all copies of that movie should be burned. This is a vital thing to keep in mind if you want to enjoy any Highlander movie. Of course I did not expect much of this movie since it has a 3.9/10 rating. I suppose most of you did not watch the entire movie or simply fast forwarded it because of the disaster that is The Quickening. Highlander III is a decent sequel and unfortunately does not get the credit it deserves. If you enjoyed Highlander, I'm sure you will enjoy Highlander III. "},{"Title":"A second sequel that's an inferior remake of the original","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" You know a film franchise is running out of ideas when the producers decide to churn out a new film that essentially retells the story of the old one, but badly. I recently rewatched the first Highlander, and saw the two sequels for the first time and came to the conclusion that yes, there should really only have been one.The core concept behind Highlander is a good one immortal warriors fighting over centuries until only one is left, who will win the Prize, the nature of which varies over the various entries of the franchise, but is usually described as the power of all immortals who ever lived. The only way an Immortal can be killed is by removal of the head, usually via sword.This made for a good film an epic story spanning hundreds of years, cool swordfights and a good performance from Christopher Lambert made the original Highlander one of the better 1980s films out there. At the end of the film, he had supposedly won the Prize, and that was that.However, because it was so successful, it spawned sequels the hilariously bad Highlander II, and the one being reviewed, Highlander III The Sorcerer.The film starts with Connor MacLoed (Christopher Lambert) going to Japan a couple of hundred years ago to learn from the sorcerer Nakano who has the handy ability to make illusions appear from thin air. Nakano is also being hunted by Kane(Mario van Peebles), a villain who is virtually a carbon copy of the Kurgan (is a barbarian, likes to kill women and children, etc) who wants the power of illusion to do bad things. Kane catches up with Nakano, Connor escapes and Kane is buried in Nakano's cave.Skip forward a few hundred years Connor is living with his adopted son in some Middle Eastern country, until Kane is released from a cave by an archaeologist obsessed with ancient Japan (a variant on the love interest from the first film). Connor becomes aware that Kane is back, and then goes back to New York to kill Kane. Apparently he didn't win the Prize after all, and is in actual fact an Immortal who thinks he is mortal (which he was meant to become at the end of the first film). What follows is pretty much a retelling of the first film. There are two scenes that are really blatant copies of ones from the first film Kane taunts Connor on holy ground where Immortals cannot fight. The first time he does this they fight and they actually explain what happens when you do fight on holy ground, and the second time is virtually the same as the scene with the Kurgan in the church in the first film.The second time you get a sense of deja vu is when Kane kidnaps Connor's son, and then proceeds to drive around terrifying him by playing chicken with various vehicles. The exact same scene was in the first film, when the Kurgan kidnaps Connor's love interest and speeds through New York. However, any sense of danger in the scene in the third film is removed by the fact that all of the things Kane pretends to collide with are illusions, which cannot actually harm the occupants of the car.Connor and Kane fight, Connor kills Kane, and then wins the Prize again, at least until the next sequel Highlander Endgame, which at least was trying to do something new. And even the effects of Connor's quickening (the process by which Immortals take the power of those they have killed) were just lifted from the first film and cleaned up a bit. It's just plain lazy film-making.Mario van Peebles makes for a rather camp and unthreatening villain as Kane, who you never believe Connor will have any difficulty in defeating. He does try in some places make his performance different from that of the Kurgan, but the script demands he attempts to mimic the first film's villain.Christopher Lambert just seems rather bored throughout the film, which isn't surprising as he contemplated walking off of Highlander II (which he made through gritted teeth). He probably only agreed to appear in this due to getting a rise and the prospect of some easy money. The other actors are rather forgettable.I sometimes persevere with a bad film if it makes me laugh. Highlander III did manage this, but only in a few bits. Most of the time it just bored me, and the only reason I didn't put it off was so I wouldn't ever want to waste more time watching it at a later date. It isn't really worth bothering with as such - the first film or Highlander Endgame are better choices. Of course, if you have the boxset, then you already have it, so I'd advise you watch one of the other three films. They are all better than this tired cash-in. "},{"Title":"There can be only one sex scene.","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Most of you I'm sure are familiar with the Highlander TV series staring Adrian Paul. Well the movies in my opinion were never as good a the TV show, with the fist movie being the only redeeming one of the bunch. Part 3 is a pretty bad movie and my opinion has not changed since I first saw it ten years ago. Some on this board say its a remake of the first others say it continues from the first. Either way the movie is awful. The movie starts out way back when Connor Macleod (Lambert) leaves Scotland and sets out for his quest, I suppose. Eventually makes his way to Japan, where of course he comes across the master sorcerer Nakano (Mako). There he learns the way of the sword and how to fight. Ever seen Conan? Well so did the people who wrote this. While he becomes a better swordsman, evil is approaching. Kane (Mario Van Peebles), what an original name for evil, and along the way he shows how evil he is by burning down a small village in the dead of winter. Did I mention the movie Conan? Kane makes his way to Nakano's cave and beheads him taking his magic for himself, but becomes trapped in the cave until the movie is made. While Macleod has been trying to forget his past, a female archaeologist Alex Johnson (Unger) has managed to uncover the cave of the Wizard Nakano. As you guessed Kane is released and promptly beheads one of his thugs and sends the other after Macleod. Macleod senses something is up, returns to New York where we have a badly acted cop attempting to get him for previous murders. He mostly fails and Alex tracks him down using a piece of tartan found in the cave that revels who he is. Kane also finds him and of course they duel. Macleod loses and runs back to Scotland for no real reason. There he finds time to make a new sword and have sex with Alex, the hot female lead. You have just witnessed the best part of the movie so don't worry about the end, but I'll tell you anyway. Macleod once again confronts him and defeats him in a very anti climatic ending. There can be only one.Defiantly not the worst movie I have ever seen, but this is certainly worthy of mention. As stated in my title, the only real reason to watch this movie is for the very well done directors cut sex scene. Deborah Unger is no joke! She is not only hot but certainly knows how to handle Lambert. I guess I'm not surprised that it had to be in the directors cut with what they show. By far the only entertaining part of this film. From the fight scenes to the special effects there just isn't much great about this movie. The acting is terrible. I'm not sure who is worse Lambert who can't act at all or Van Peebles who looks like a total moron in the film and acts like a idiot. Is there any point to Kane driving like a maniac with Macleod's kid in the car? What a waste of time and film. Unger at least is hot and who cares if she acts bad. The special effects were OK. For the time I would say they were maybe average. The story was also poor. Mako is wasted as the oriental master and could have been much better. Scene after scene was just boring and a waste. As mentioned the car scene, also many flashbacks, some were OK. Kane going to a hooker and putting a condom in his mouth, pretty stupid. How about Lambert getting shot and jacked in the streets then taken to hospital and thrown in the mental ward. Stupid. Keep an eye out for Kane's sword Dark Magic witch is a finely crafted sword. The on locations of Scotland and other places are good, but I didn't come for geography I want a good movie. Overall a very poor movie that actually spawned more sequels. If you want the best sex scene in a non porn film, this is it, if not watch the superior TV series with Adrian Paul. 3 out of 10...There can be only one! "},{"Title":"  *Contains Spoilers*","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What I liked best about this movie was that it (unlike part 2) refers to the first Highlander.I really enjoyed the addition of the sorcerer in this movie also, it added more challenge for Connor, but unfortunately, not enough challenge. Apparently Connor didn't really recieve the prize in the first movie and forgot about Kane, an immortal trapped in a mountain for 400 years, whom he now must face to discover who will be the one. I really liked this movie, Christopher Lambert is great. "},{"Title":"somewhat of a repeat of the original","Date":"3 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After his wife Heather's death, Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) travels to Japan to train under sorcerer Nakano (Mako). Kane (Mario Van Peebles) and his henchmen arrives to defeat Nakano. Connor escapes when the Quickening collapses the cave trapping Kane. In the present day, archaeologists led by Dr. Alexandra Johnson (Deborah Kara Unger) excavates the cave. Kane and his men finally dig themselves out. Meanwhile, Connor is living with his adopted son. Brenda Wyatt is dead. Connor has to defeat Kane and his henchmen. Dr. Johnson finds a piece of MacLeod tartan in the cave which leads her to Connor. She looks like his lover Sarah Barrington who he knew in 18th century France.It's a big improvement over the second movie. However, it leaves one feeling deja vu. The main story elements are essentially a repeat of the original. The new bad guy does have morphing capabilities but everything else feels inferior. It's bad enough that they recycled the old script. The execution is sadly inferior. "},{"Title":"A bland and badly-written film, with good ideas and a likable cast.","Date":"29 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" A bland and badly-written film, with good ideas and a likable cast.The script is clunky. It feels like a movie made by people who have seen other stories and can copy elements of stories, but don't have a clue how to TELL a story themselves. On three separate occasions random phone calls are used to propel the story forward. Characters suddenly inexplicable phone the character on-screen and rapidly provide them with just the right information to propel the story forward. This sort of thing is hilariously bad. But also frustrating because the viewer can plainly see other (subtle) ways the story could/should have been driven in that particular direction. Phone calls aside, the film is full of clunky moments like that. Something randomly happens because, basically, the script needs to get a character from A to B. Some of these instances (like when Connor is declared a lunatic&#x85; a lunatic&#x85; a lunatic) are so abrupt and so badly done they are laugh-out-loud funny.On the topic of things that are badly done in this film a lot of the dialogue is dubbed. And the dubbing is obvious and badly. The scenes with the New York Cop character could actually be scenes from a full-on foreign language film.The film opens with classic examples of tell-don't-show storytelling. We can forgive the lead character's opening narration to camera as he is basically recapping the events of the first film, but the Nakano character opens the movie by warning MacLeod that someone evil is coming to kill them. And that's it. He tells the hero/us that Kane is evil and then Kane appears. And, thanks to a wildly OTT performance from Mario Van Peebles, Kane spends the entire movie as a one-note villain. Relentlessly evil. And certainly no fun to watch.The pace is good, however. Something is always happening, and the locations/flashbacks keep things fresh for the entire running time. It all feels like a missed opportunity. The same cast and story with a good script would have made for a decent entry in the series. After all, the excellent TV series proved that it is more than possible to tell good/great stories using this formula.4/10 "},{"Title":"I Kinda like it","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What can you say about the highlander sequels. Highlander II and Highlander the source are prime examples of complete cinematic failure and Highlander Endgame is just below average.I have heard a a lot of people say that this film is just terrible and barley any better than Highlander 2. This is a point I disagree with. While this movie has quiet a few problems, the biggest of which the story being almost completely duplicating the first. there are definitely are a few things that are good.What is good. In my humble opinion I think that that the performances are not half bad, both Christopher Lambert and Mario Van Peebles are good in their roles. The Special effects, While not great, are well used and fluid. And lastly the Action sequences a reasonably well done, while far from being the best ever put to screen they are o.k.As I said there are problems. The big one being, as I mentioned a bit further up, is the story. it is almost a complete copy of the first. Even a lot of the same things are done. such as the scene with Kane going in out of traffic with one of Conner's loved ones in the passenger seat.All in all this is not that bad a film but some people may have trouble sitting through it. "},{"Title":"At least it's better than the predecessor","Date":"17 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Highlander 1 is a movie that should never have been considered for a sequel but unfortunately, executives wanted money so they pumped out as many sequels as they could, hoping the fans would like them. They didn't.Highlander 2 had WAY too many weaknesses. Setting Highlander in the future is really stupid and that movie said that they were from another planet. The director of THAT film saw the mess and tried to make a directors cut saying that Connor and Ramirez were exiles from the past which made me cringe even more.Then we have this. I will start with the compliments. The music is rather well scored and the fight sequences are - as usual - worth a watch and Christopher Lambert does the role of Connor justice as he does in the other 2 (he just needed a better script for the second one).Now the complaints. They introduce Sorcery in this film which destroys the first one because the premise of that universe is Everything's normal except we have these immortals running around trying to cut off their head. They introduce a villain who has a deep voice and is like The Kurgan in the fact that he wants the prize that MacLeod apparently didn't get at the end of the first (???).The love interest happens to look like a girl that Connor bedded in the 1800's which destroys the character, Heather was his only love and when she died we are supposed to believe that Connor shut himself out from anyone else until Brenda Wyatt in 1986 New York. On that note where the hell was she in this? No information as to where she went, no John, Take care of your mother.Overall this is a better sequel than The Quickening but its still crap. "},{"Title":"There can be only one and that is the original Highlander","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is probably the second best of the movies, but it is a long way down from the original. All Highlander stories are best when they interweave stories from the past and the current day. This movie does not do this well. Also, spoiler alert!!! Do not read further if you do not want to read the spoilers.The plot lines set in the present day in this movie are almost the same as the present day section of the first movie. In both movies, The evil immortal hires a prostitute, terrifies somebody by driving wildly, Connor falls in love, Connor warns the woman to stay away, etc Also this movie lacks enough action scenes. Mario Van Peebles does a nice job of the playing the bad guy, but he is not nearly as scary as the Kurgan. Christopher Lambert seems to be doing this for paycheck and looks like he is just going through the motions. The script has many holes in it and does not seem to make much sense even in the Highlander world much less the real world. "}{"Title":"I've seen this movie before...","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Except, it was called Highlander and it was made in 1986. Evil immortal kills good immortal's teacher in the past, hunts him in the future for the prize, and the good immortal is in love. This is basically a copy of the original, and if you have the original, you don't need a copy. If, however, you just can't help yourself, this is superior to the first sequel in every imaginable way. The best addition is the smokey voiced Deborah Unger, who shows off her very shapely body in a sex scene. Mario Van Peeples is no Clancy Brown, but he gets his share of fun. His best scene is where he has a prostitute and she tells him, No glove, no love. He unwraps the condom, tries to eat it, and then spits it out before ravaging her. "},{"Title":"Watchable sequel, far more serviceable than most sequels in the series.","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" In 16th century Japan, psychopathic swordsmen KANE (MARIO VAN PEEBLES) beheads master illusionist NAKANO, thus inheriting his powers of illusions. CONNOR MACLEOD (The returning CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT) is there when Kane kills Nakano & manages to escape with his head still attached, by trapping Kane & his henchmen alive behind a wall of debris. 400 years later, Kane & his two cohorts are released after archaeologist ALEX JOHNSON & her colleagues do some digging in the area. CONNOR has been living in peace in Makesh, with his adopted son when he is called back to New York to engage in a feud with his old enemy & fight for the prize yet again.The best thing that can be said about HIGHLANDER III is that, it's not HIGHLANDER 2, at least this film plays coherently. Even CHRISTOPHER LAMBERT has stated in interviews that this is the true & real sequel to the first film. It's the only film in the series who's story makes for a serviceable sequel to the first, without contradicting the original's plot. It far surpasses HIGHLANDER 2 THE QUICKENING (RENEGADE VERSION) in that it makes more sense than that one did. Speaking of HIGHLANDER 2, HIGHLANDER III ignores it out right completely, this is confirmed when Connor's wife Brenda (the heroine in the original) is said to have been killed instantly in Scotland, when in the second she had died of Melanoma. Director ANDY MORHAN (another music video director) manages to deliver a very slick & polished look to the film, dazzling the viewer with several cool shots, much like HIGHLANDER 1 & 2 helmer Russell Mulcahy did with the first & fell flat on in the second. The acting is relatively good as well & the SONG OF THE POOKA is such a beautiful piece of music & really fits the film well. On the downside though, I do admit to having a few problems with this one. I think one of my main beefs with the film, is how Kane is to reminiscent of Kurgan seen in the original, even down to his dry scratchy voice, in fact he comes off almost as a complete carbon copy of the character, only he's not as fun & Van Peebles plays the role far to over the top & the film still doesn't answer questions fans of the series might have like, How did the prize & the quickening come to be? Why are some people born immortal? Why is the Church considered holy ground to them? How come they can only be killed by decapitation? another problem I had was the fact that Connor thought the prize was won at the end of the first film & yet he never once questions why he cannot influence the minds of world leaders for good? surely he would know something was wrong here? There's also one silly scene where Connor arrives in New York & is instantly gunned down by gang members, he is found & taken to the local hospital, where he is then committed to a psychiatric wing of the hospital, because he was covered in his own blood & and said he was shot & yet no wounds are found & I wish DEBORAH KARA UNGER had more to do here & that the film-makers would have integrated her character better than what they did. I just wasn't feeling the love story developing between her & Connor, especially since they don't really meet until the fifty minute mark. Perhaps HIGHLANDER III's only other falling, apart from the Kurgan like villain is how the films plot comes off as a cheaper version of the first films, Deborah Unger's character following Connor Macleod around & watches as he & another immortal fight one another, her discovery of who he is & his powers & develops a relationship with him, a cop trailing Connor believing he is committing a string of heinous murders, Kane playing chicken in a moving car with a terrified victim, using illusions to terrify him even further, various lines of dialogue is repeated from the first, Connor impaled with a sword & falling to the ground (in a redo of the 16th century flashback battle scene from the original) Heather's final request to Connor to light a candle & visit her on her birthday can be heard as Connor visits her grave & it's never answered as to why Kane would wait 400 years until he was free in order to kill both his cohorts, why keep them alive all this time? All in all while it does rely on the original films plot maybe a little to much, HIGHLANDER III THE SORCERER (The title I saw it under) is a relatively entertaining film, it's nowhere near as good as the first, but it definitely makes up for the incoherent mess HIGHLANDER 2 was, at least this film stuck to the original mythos, instead of making the immortals aliens from a far off planet. Fans of the first will find much to love here, but if you never cared for the first two, than don't bother with this one. a.k.a. HIGHLANDER III THE FINAL DIMENSION & HIGHLANDER III THE MAGICIAN. Despite being followed by a sequel, it completely ignores this film (& the second) altogether & is a direct sequel to the TV series & first film only HIGHLANDERENDGAME *** stars "},{"Title":"This should have been Highlander 2","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I didn't hate the quickening that much. It had potential, it wold have worked if it weren't the sequel to such a cool movie. Highlander III actually continues the story of Connor Macleod, instead of skippin years into the future. We see where he is now, in the Scottish highlands. There are actually elements from The Quickening (The 2 henchmen, Macleod made immortal again in the same way) present throughout, it seems like this is what Quickening would have been if it hadn't been rushed (albeit a much cooler version of this). It actually continues the story, but Macleod no longer has the prize for some reason, which really annoyed me. If you just skip highlander 2 and 4, the entire series makes perfect sense (tv show before 1, one before three). After all that, you're left with what's basically an average movie with a lot of wasted potential. I recommend it only if you're a big fan of the first movie. Best of the HL sequels, but still not that good. "},{"Title":"This should have been Highlander 2","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I didn't hate the quickening that much. It had potential, it wold have worked if it weren't the sequel to such a cool movie. Highlander III actually continues the story of Connor Macleod, instead of skippin years into the future. We see where he is now, in the Scottish highlands. There are actually elements from The Quickening (The 2 henchmen, Macleod made immortal again in the same way) present throughout, it seems like this is what Quickening would have been if it hadn't been rushed (albeit a much cooler version of this). It actually continues the story, but Macleod no longer has the prize for some reason, which really annoyed me. If you just skip highlander 2 and 4, the entire series makes perfect sense (tv show before 1, one before three). After all that, you're left with what's basically an average movie with a lot of wasted potential. I recommend it only if you're a big fan of the first movie. Best of the HL sequels, but still not that good. "},{"Title":"not perfect","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I admit, this movie isn't perfect.The story is a bit corny, the acting isn't that brilliant etc. However... I can't say that this movie is the worst I've ever seen. Although some might say that the flashbacks are random, I liked the flashbacks the most. This movie is meant to close a trilogy.( eventhough part four was made later on, but nevermind that) It does this very well. It looks back to the first movie. the movie which all started it. They tried to let the viewer in on the struggle Conner is facing once more, having to face the one other immortal that's left on this planet.My rate 6, average, not brilliant.  "},{"Title":"If you love Highlander - You'll love this one too!","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Ok so this is very similar to Highlander (1986), but the producers gave the fans something different with Highlander II and they called it awful; so they gave them a formula piece with this one, and the fans still called it awful.  I think that it's great.  The fight sequences are brilliantly staged and the acting is superb.  It's not the best sequel of the trilogy (has Highlander II was more original) but this is one that it on par with the first Highlander.  You should lap this one up. Gregory Widen would be proud. "},{"Title":"Continuity...","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I've just recently decided that I LOVE Highlander! Everything Highlander! I watch the show every night, and will stay up till 4am to watch it even if I have to get up early. I've seen all the movies, re-watched some of them, and will re-watch all of them many many times in the future. I'd say the thing I love most about highlander (both TV show and movies) is it's all supposed to tie together... but doesn't! When you put the movies (and especially when you and the series) together it makes absolutely NO sense!!! They refer to previous movies and characters, but totally change the story. Oh man, I love Highlander! "},{"Title":"Not bad if you haven't seen the original","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This wouldn't have been a bad movie if one, I hadn't seen the original, and two, if it made any sense as a sequel.  There were quite a few times I sat there and wondered if this wasn't an attempt to remake the first movie since a lot of the scenes were exactly the same as the first movie and the plot didn't coincide with events from the first movie. "},{"Title":"better than its predecessor","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I tried to sit down and watch this movie, giving it a fair chance... but I just couldn't get over the fact that so many people get decapitated, but not a single drop of blod is ever visible - not even on the blade that just seperated a head from a body... I know I'm being petty, but it just ruined the movie.  This third installment in the Highlander series is better than its predecessor, yet miles away from the original. "},{"Title":"At least it's not as bad as the second one.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Part 2 was just horrible.  At least the storyline here is feasible.  The evil immortal this time is almost a rehash of the Kurrgan, but at least he has some depth.  Overall, it's not THAT bad......for casual Highlander fans, I say go ahead, but for serious fans....you will either like it for being Highlander, or hate it for being Highlander Heresy. "}{"Title":"Least of the 'Highlander' movies, though watchable (may contain spoilers)","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" What made me laugh is the fact that the DVD version (the best version available) has a recommended section. Since it doesn't really do anything except show a couple of pictures of movies you might like If you enjoyed this movie, I was surprised that it didn't list any of the other Highlander films! This is interesting, because as I see it, this film is more of a tribute/remake of the first 'Highlander' (regarded as the best of the series by most fans of the genre).While some have commented that this was better than Highlander 2, I whole-heartedly disagree. At least HL 2 was somewhat original...The first strike against HL3 (aka The Final Dimension) is that Sean Connery ('Juan Ramirez' in the first two installments) sat out this time. The second is that 'Queen' didn't do any of the music in it (though Loreena McKennit's stirring Bonny Portmore appears, which was to become a staple of the series. Incidentally, another version by Laura Creamer appears later in 'Endgame').Now the comparisons, since it basically creates for itself an inevitable comparison to the first film, while it does make a weak attempt to paint itself as a sequel (claiming that some Immortals survived the first Gathering mysteriously and appear in 1994 to start it all anew).IMHO, Mario Van Peebles is not as good a villain as Clancy Brown. His Kane character is crazy and evil, but he seems more like a guy who dressed up in leather doing an impression of the Kurgan than a unique bad guy who really needs to be feared. While the idea of having Kane control the power of illusion is novel for the series, the special effects don't add much to his character. Perhaps this is fitting, since Kane doesn't earn his powers, but steals them from another Immortal.Macleod looks older and tireder in this version, but he still manages to pull off his character well, despite the rehashed nature of this film.In all, this movie has some nice special effects, and the sword battles are spectacular, some of the best yet seen in a 'Highlander' flick, especially the final battle. The final quickening, though very cool is nothing compared to the one in the first film. The movie is also a bit shorter, with a running time of 99 minutes it was the shortest yet (Endgame is actually the shortest, at 86+ minutes, but that director's cut purports to be 101 minutes long).Also, continuity-wise, much of the prior story is brushed aside (much like Alien3) only worse, as it contradicts Highlander 2 which was made before (and not to mention Endgame which came later).I would rank the films in order of most entertaining and best overall as follows (each would be the director's cut of course, as the producers/directors of the HL franchise seem to have a habit of shafting their fans at the theatre then winning them back on video)Highlander (best) Highlander II Renegade Highlander Endgame Highlander III (least)And you can arguably fit the series in there just below the first film or the second. In short, if you've never seen a HL flick before, skip this one and go for the original. If you are looking to complete your collection, go with the DVD release (unlike the VHS version, it's in widescreen and includes a trailer that has a line of dialogue not in the final cut of the movie).As a mindless action flick, this one is watchable.A note, the Director's Cut is the only version I've seen. From what I've read it basically adds a few more sex scenes and a bit more gore, that's about it. If HL 1 was a 10, and 2 an 8, this would be a 6. "},{"Title":"Not the best sequel to the Highlander, but still watchable.","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The following review, is by a friend of my, Peter Benigni, which I first asked him if I could use his review, and he said yes. Highlander, released in 1985, has spawned both two popular syndicated television series and an stupid animated series, so it's surprising that the franchise's own worst enemy is the pair of film sequel it has been produced 5 years later Highlander II The Quickening, made in 1990, one of the worst movies ever made. After the great failure of this film, the Davis/Panzer teaming decide to make up with making this film. So, we have Highlander The Final Dimension, made in 1994, starring the original Highlander, Christopher Lambert. It's a great pleasure on the big screen, having Christopher Lambert as Connor MacLeod, the role that he created and later inspired the HighlanderThe Series producers in 1992, though he seemed elevated to competence in the first film through proximity to fellow Immortal Sean Connery (alas, Juan Sunchez Villa-Lobos Ramirez's character remains dead and Connery remains smart enough to avoid non-Bond sequels). Even excusing the implausible French-Scots accent, Lambert's performance as Connor MacLeod (in HL1 and HL3 and the HLTS 1st episode) was always one of the greatest and hightest points of the Immortal Universe, making him probably THE coolest Immortal in the Highlander Film-Series. And, to be truthfull and onnest, if Connor MacLeod didn't exist, then Duncan and the characters of the televison series would have not been existed. The nastiest of these in this installment is Kane (Mario Van Peebles), a 751 years old Immortal, who was trupped in a cave at Japan for 400 years, while he gained the power of the Sorcerer Nakano, Connor's second teacher. The Final Dimension is all over the map and timeline It starts in late 16th-century Japan and includes scenes from revolutionary France, 18th-century Scotland and 20th-century Morocco and New York City. This is movement, but it's hardly action. For that, one turns to the four sword fights that shape the film (immortals shun modern weaponry), with most interests the one in the Budish shrine (a little bit ridiculous, since the Budish Shrine was a Holly Ground, but, as it seems, Kane was VERY bad and unreligious) and the Final Battle in the end (certainly better than the Final Battle in the first one). There are also scenes of sword forgings and sword training (in Japan with the ubiquitous and truly Immortal Japanese actor Mako -one of the classiest and greatest Japanese actors). There's even a set piece with Lambert running through the Scottish Highlands, slashing the air as Loreena McKennitt sings a beautifull ballad that aims to follow in the chart steps of the original's Who Wants to Live Forever?, and comes very close.MacLeod's love interest this time around is archaeologist Alex Johnson (Deborah Unger, also playing his 18th-century paramour, Sarah Berrington), but other than her showing up for unusual scene segues, nothing much happens. As for Van Peebles, he's a big improvement to General Katana's character at HL2, but unfortunately, he's reapiting much of Clancy Brown's the Kurgan character (and lines), making his character a litle boring, but still, he's a good villain.The Final Dimension marks the feature debut of video veteran Andy Morahan, here following in the footsteps of video director Russell Mulcahy (who did the first and second films). Many people said that he should have stayed in the Music video productions, but I believe he made a good film, with style and inspiration.Given that each movie has had its good and bad points, I'm not sure whether this is worthy of praise or not. I think Highlander The Final Dimension is one of the better sequels in the Highlander series, although many people thought that it had been failed as a true Highlander sequel. I don't think so...TRIVIA Wait until Highlander Endgame comes out at late Semptember 2000 "},{"Title":"When will they learn?  (minor spoiler)","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Highlander 3 has one fine quality. It pretends that the horrible Highlander 2 never happened. Other than that I can say nothing good about it. First of all, if Connor won the prize at the end of the first movie then there is absolutely no way that there could have been even one immortal left on Earth, much less three of them. Secondly, the concept of originality seems to have been tossed out the window. The movie is nothing more than a remake of Highlander 1. So my advice is to just watch the first movie and forget that sequels even exist.  "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as HL2","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  You know, A lot of Highlander fans despise this movie as much as they do the ridiculous HL2. I, for one, do not. While the story leaves really no opening for a TV series, has more plot holes then swiss cheese, and is a blantant, and I do mean blantant rip-off from the first movie, it's not horrible.There are questions that need to be answered. BEWARE SPOILERS=======> =Like why does Kane kill his henchman after being sealed in Nagano's cave for 400 years? THEY WERE SEALED TOGETHER! He could've done it whenever he wanted!=Why was Kane an exact copy of the Kurgan, right down to the flicking of the tounge and a raspy voice - were they related?=It was never truly explained how exactly Connor MacLeod won the prize in the first movie if three immortals still were alive.=Did we truly need an exact copy of the Kurgan's Driving insanely scene? I mean, I understand plot fillers but that was a little ridiculous.=======END SpoilersThere were others, but let's face it. This movie was a little ridiculous in how it completely ripped off the first movie and showed no originality whatsoever.It is truly amazing that the same people that brought us the original movie and HighlanderThe Series produced the turkey Highlander 2 and then this rip-off.Thankfully, HighlanderEndgame will be based on thes series characters and not another ridiculous ripoff of the original...at least that's what they're telling us. "},{"Title":"Better than Highlander 2","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This sequel has one thing going for it  It is a sequel to the original Highlander that doesn't expect the viewer to forget the significance of the original story.  The original script was by Brad Mirman, and it was ten times better.  He still received credit for the story, but it was severely butchered.  The final sword fight is great, and it's good to see Connor in action.  The only thing is that a lot of it is revamped versions of scenes from the original, and the soundtrack is severely lacking. "},{"Title":"HIGHLANDER HIGHLANDER HIGHLANDER","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well it was a fair remake of the original movie, and sadly that's all it was!  Scenes in the original Highlander movie matched scenes in this extraneous sequel.  Take for instance the exciting car chase scene with the exception that Connor's adoptive son is the hostage instead of his girlfriend (Roxanne Hart).  Mario Van Peebles might as well be called Kurgen because his entire act was exactly following Clancy Brown's (Kurgen from the original).If you saw the first one, and have a curious need to see it all over again, then by all means go ahead and see it (but just rent it).  However if you really liked the first one and you would like to keep the memory of it in your mind pleasant (assumming you missed the second one too), then avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"I have but one thing","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  At least this one didn't try to bring Ramirez back to life. Nor were there any aliens trying to kill Connor. Better than the second, but still horrible. If the 2nd and 3rd weren't sequels to the original, then maybe they could be watchable. As it is, just see the original. "},{"Title":"Nothing special, but it has some good moments...","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" From my point of view, this was an attempt to put back puzzle in normal after the terrible Highlander 2 - The Quickening sequel. Well, they did it, but still, the film is nothing special. What I like about is film... it has a very different way of telling story, different tempo of the proceeding through the film. In a way, it's a kind of lemonade film... a quite relaxing. Everything is relaxing and nothing special, just like some kind of TV film from Hallmark, you know, when come back home, after the work, you eat something, than you sit back, or lie down on your favorite couch and you stumble upon this film, and then you just relax.Simply nothing is touching you so deep about this film, everything is hollow. Everything is like oh, OK, oh, they have a sword fight, right, allrighty, nothing here... that's good... in kinda boring way.Actors Christopher Lambert - wooden, doing nothing but talks like a bored Frenchman. Deborah Kara Unger - about her later. Just keep reading. Mario Van Peebles - his performance was funny, He keep it creepy and ugly, the way his character is supposed to be, well that's his way to perform it, his way to see this character, but it was weird that he keeps remind us on Kurgan, and that pig growls... damn... spit out those slimes from your throat... Jesus! Mako - His guest role was fine and relaxing as a great Japanese immortal sword master. And to mention Raoul Trujillo (warrior 2) from Apocalypto and True Blood season one (the Longshadow vampire dude), it was interesting to see him from his younger days.OK - now for the highlight of review... Probably the best thing in whole film, was no more or no less - the SEX scene! The sex scene between Christopher Lambert and Deborah Kara Unger was more than impressive! Wow, they did it without a double. That was a real talent between the two of them. Good movements and good coreography during the sexual work, combined with a f..kable music during the scene. The sex scene music was more than exciting, it's like... the band members were there, watching the horny couple and they composed the music on the spot and say, allright, let's perform it! Damn... that was good. Too bad I can't find a soundtrack. For me, this sex scene is 'number uno' in the motion picture history. The Best. About Deborah Kara Unger... her performance in film was so not interesting, that everybody expect thesame Go on, Connor! F..k her!!! YEeeeeeeeahhh!!!! They did it!! To mention about music, it was also a fine thing, it was good and relaxing. Highlander - The Sorcerer film is nothing more than, relax... take it easy... but you'll get horny during the sex scene he he. "},{"Title":"Watch them out of sequence......","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  My husband and I have discovered that the only way to watch the three movies that will make sense is to watch them out of sequence.  Highlander, Highlander III and THEN Highlander II.  If you watch them any other way then they do not make sense whatsoever..., and as other people have said Highlander III pretends that Highlander II never happened.  However if you watch them in the sequence suggested above it all makes sense!  I have no clue (other than money) why anyone would put such a disjointed sequel (II) into the mix but they did, but by messing with their minds and following the above sequence it actually makes a nice trilogy.  (We shall forget the IIII because that was just a way to make money out of the TV show)...... "},{"Title":"Barely surpasses Highlander II","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  At the end of Highlander, Conor MacLeod is rewarded with the Quickening for slaying all the other immortals. At the beginning of Highlander III, it's revealed that -- oops -- HE MISSED ONE! Even more absurd than this major plot discrepancy is the casting of Mario Van Peebles as the Mongol immortal, Kane. In the original Highlander, having the Kurgan take on a punk style made sense, because punk was in full swing. In contrast, Van Peebles' Kane is duded up in some kind of Afro-cyber-thrash fashion, which doesn't exist and probably never will and so is just plain stupid. He goes on to replicate all of Kane's stunts from Highlander, practically scene for scene -- kidnapping the girl, driving against traffic on the expressway, doing the Michael Jordan thing with his tongue, etc.  The only thing that makes this movie not a total waste of time is an unintentionally funny swordfight in which the combatants are swinging from trapezes in a Japanese cultural center. (If you have to ask . . . ) "}{"Title":"Please forget #2 every happened","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This movie almost makes up for Highlander 2.  I think what the writers and directors were trying to do is pretend that the second one never happened. That is why this one is a prequel to the second one.  This is the movie that should have been made.This movie fits well with the story in the first Highlander.  I was very pleased that I watched it and I almost forgot about the second one.  Worth seeing this one if you enjoyed the first Highlander "},{"Title":"not too shabby","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  the third movie of the highlander campaign is pretty good. the story is interesting, the action is intense, there are funny parts, and the acting isn't all too bad. i must admit, though, this was better than the second one, which totally sucked. one thing i didn't like about this movie was the villain imitating the dark barbarian guy from the first one. overall, highlander 3 is one to see for highlander fans. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie!!!","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I tried to watch this movie three times, but its impossible to get through the first fifteen minutes. There's no story and absolutely no acting. Highlander was good, Highlander 2 was weak, and the third one was mean (I'm talking about the first fifteen minutes that I suffered). So how will the fourth one be?-I don't even wanna know!Lambert had a couple of good films in his career like Greystoke and Highlander (part one!), but I don't think he will accomplish a third one. And that's a pity because I enjoined Greystoke, the best film about the legend of Tarzan.  "},{"Title":"I voted 2 only because Highlander II was worse","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Stunningly bad film, adding little to the mythos created by the original and with Christophe Lambert clearly focusing on the end of movie cheque rather than the script (not that it needed much concentration).  Allows us to see a little more than swordplay to give these Princes of the Universe some more power, which is all that saved the movie from a 1 rating, but really should have been canned. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the others , but pretty interesting ...","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Why every one hates this movie , is not so bad , is not the best sequel, but he have some interesting ideas, cool actors, good director, smart story, and ofcourse an EVIL character, any fan of Highlander must see this movie  HIGHLANDER III . "},{"Title":"Better than the second Highlander","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The best thing this film could do was to ignore the previous film! This was therefore the real follow up to the original. Still nowhere near as good however. If you want to see a highlander film watch the first one.  A lot of the first seemed to be copied even to the mad car driving by the villain.  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal and underdeveloped sequel","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Ignoring the events of Highlander 2, this film picks up 9 yrs after the first. We find MacLeod living with his adoptive son in Morocco and satisfied that he is the last immortal and has the coveted Prize. Soon he receives a cognition that more immortals are alive (revived from death by an archaeological dig) and packs for NYC for a duel with the evil sorcerer immortal Kane.Made while the TV show was at its peak, this film benefits from the influence of its narrative and production style that had been refined over the years. Most of the characters and their relationships (especially the love interests) are thin and underdeveloped. The movie relies heavily on nostalgia for the 1st film for the impact of its emotional scenes. It also mirrors it's story to the point of being a near remake. The police hunt subplot simply drops out of the picture near the end and the villains are too silly to be threatening. The special f/x are enjoyable but underused (Kane barely uses his illusions during fights.) Still, the deja vu, and pretension and trickery themes are well handled (though not explored as much as they could have been). Lambert is as appropriately melancholy and good humored as in previous entries but seems uninspired and even tired of the role, van Peeples is clearly having fun with his deliciously devilish over the top performance exploiting every villainous clich in the book, Unger is quite attractive (even more so in the obligatory sex scene, of course), and Mako's dignified presence is, of course, a welcome addition to the Highlander saga. The special f/x were good for its time and are still fairly impressive today.Overall, a competent production and a mildly entertaining, if rehashed, film with some interesting ideas that were not fully realized. "},{"Title":"This Movie Should Never Have Been Made","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" ...but it is so bad, it is fun to watch in a way. It is so terrible that I have a hard time mentioning it. Perhaps it was the grainy film that made the 1985 original with Clancy Brown (The Kergan) so much better. Some movies require a sequel, or maybe two, while others like Highlander require--and demand--none at all. Highlander III however is not nearly as bad as Highlander II-The Quickening, which I feel like a goofball for having watched in the theater on its opening Friday night, in which We're gonna be okay uttered by MacCleod garnered instant and thunderous Boos from the college crowd. By the time we had managed to get to the end of this mishmashed misdirected glob of a movie, totally a discredit to the original Highlander the screen was totally bombarded by soda cups, popcorn and half-eaten candy bars.Actually, Highlander III like the second sequel serves as excellent training for film students on the why's and how's a sequel should not be made. Shortly after MacCleod's 'reawakening' and within moments after arriving in New York, he is greeted by a carful of thugs which conveniently show up and shoot him--a wonderful advertisement for why we should not want to visit New York--if all tourists and guests to this fine city would be greeted in the same horrific manner.Directors and producers let sleeping dogs lay. Don't awaken a sleeping giant that is much more of a Godzilla than a Lord of the Rings. Stop trying so hard to get the Oscar, and just stick to the basics of good film making. Highlander III illustrates once again why some movies should never have existed. What a waste of money and talent! "},{"Title":"Highlander III The Sorcerer","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I tuhth this movie is good. Christoper Lambert is one of my favorit acters!!! This movie, is not my favorit out of the 4 movies, i liked the first and the 4th. But, don't forget, this is one of 4, and i like to see them one after the other. If you like a sword fighting seance, this is a movie for you!!! Mario Van Peebles played in one of my fevorit tv series - Rude Awakening. And i hope you like more then me this movie  "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  What were they thinking? Andrew Morahan directing? Ok, so he's directed some videos...woo-hoo...This has to be one of the worst movies I've seen, which is sad because I was looking forward to it. The original was amazing, the second was a big let down (who really wanted to know they were aliens? keep the mystery/fantasy of it), well the third is a downright insult. How many ripoffs from the original did you count? The acting was atrocious. I mean, come on, Peebles was better in New Jack City - and that's not saying much. I was hard pressed to listen to his raspy voice through the whole movie (can you say the 'Kurgan') just waiting for it to get better. When he kidnapped the kid and was driving around all crazy...hmmm...another 1st movie flashback...The effects were pathetic...1000 monkeys, 1000 pc's, 1000 copies 3D StudioMax...you get the idea.At least Endgame is mildly redeeming (though not by much). "}{"Title":"Connor Macleod Rocks!","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Highlander 3 is a very cool flick.  A chance to see the legendary Connor Macleod once again do battle against more evil Immortals.  People who hate this flick are probably the same losers that enjoy horrible Tom Hanks or Ben Affleck movies.  Those movies are so bad that I'd rather watch the worst episodes of Forever Knight than watch that overhyped Hollywood crap. Nobody does it better than the great Christopher Lambert- his unique delivery, the past and modern settings, and the ultra cool beheadings, and his unique delivery.  There Can Be Only One.   "},{"Title":"Unnecessary third instalment in series that only needed one","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Shortly after the death of his teacher Ramirez, Connor Macleod  travels to Japan to learn more from his new master.  When immortal Kane arrives looking for Macleod he battles his master to the death.  Macleod escapes and leaves the warriors buried in the collapsed cave.  Centuries later Macleod has won the prize but the contest is restarted when Alex Johnson's archaeological dig in Japan releases Kane to battle again.There can be only one, and after this film I was kinda thinking that there should have been only one.  This film sees the series stretched out to nobodies benefit.  The film tries to simply do what the first one did.  So we have the big evil baddie, the death of a master, the flashbacks to other times, the confusion of NYC cops etc.  The flashbacks are pointless and just incredibly random &#150; they aren't even given the slight attention that the original did.  The whole story in fact, just seems to flow along without much effort.  Threads are simply dropped on the cutting room floor to keep the running time down and none of the characters are really ever developed at all.Lambert is even less charismatic than he usually is and is pretty dull, rarely showing any emotional involvement in this film at all.  Van Peebles is as poor as I'm used to seeing him be.  He plays his character with all the real menace and character of a poor WWF wrestler.  He is simply repeating the character than Clancy Jones played some time ago.  Unger is dropped in as the star-crossed love interest and is only worth a glance during the obligatory (for the DTV market anyway) love scene.The sword fights are OK but my total lack of interest in the plot or characters made them pretty much exercises in futility for the most part.  I don't understand why they bothered to make a third part when it was so very evident all the way that nobody really had the heart for it.  It all smacks of laziness and I wondered why I was putting in the effort to watch it when so little effort or care had been put into making it. "},{"Title":"Awful, perhaps the worst movie ever made","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Not another excruciating Highlander sequel. Cardboard acting, incomprehensible plot...need I say more. Christopher Lambert is as wooden as ever, Mario van Peebles is laughably miscast as a supposedly Japanese (?!?) villain. The TV series of Highlander is far superior to the films. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Christopher Lambert returns again as Connor McCleod the immortal who won the prize, however a nemesis who is thawed out of suspended animation returns to reclaim the prize in this cheap sequel which is more of a knock off of the original rather then a sequel. Mind numbingly low rent and poor actionscenes make this a movie with no redeeming value. "},{"Title":"This is Mario Van Peebles?","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  This is Mario Van Peebles?  Incredible!  I saw him in Killers In the House and he didn't look violent.  Now I watch this and like, wow, he's changed. He did a good job of playing Kane.  He wasn't as good as Kurgan in the original, but he sure beat Katana in the second one.  Christopher Lambert returns as Conner McCleod trying to fight off Kane.  It was not as good as the original movie, but it was better than the second one.  For those of you who like the Highlander, this is a good movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Worst of the bunch","Date":"1 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The first Highlander was a masterpiece, probably the smartest sci-fi film since Star Wars.Then came Highlander II The Quickening, which is regarded as the Plan 9 of the 90's, though taken not too seriously, it was pretty good.Highlander The Gathering came next, a film made from splicing two episodes of the tv show together and releasing them as a full motion picture. It was a good effort, emphasizing on some new characters.Now we have Highlander The Final Dimension, the latest installment in the Highlander film saga. It is truly a disappointment. I was really looking forward to this, since it was supposed to be a direct sequel to the first film. But  instead, it's just plain disappointing. It doesn't even try to explain the movies' connection to the tv show, and it's basically a remake of the first film. Even the villain is a carbon-copy.Christopher Lambert tries hard, but the plot is just too flimsy for anyone to take this seriously. The mentor characters are also dissapointing. Highlander 1 and 2 had Sean Connery teaching Lambert, and his character was great. The Gathering had Lambert himself teaching a new guy, Adrian Paul. But the mentor in Final Dimension is played by Mako. He's a decent actor, but the character doesn't hold a candle to Connery or Lambert, and in a film about mentors and their students, he should have.Beautiful Scottish footage (in the film's best scenes) and well-choreographed sword-fights can't save this from being disappointing. ** out of *****. "},{"Title":"Highlander 3 - The Namening","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" If you are sitting down to watch Highlander 3, I will assume you have already watched at least one of the previous films and know what to expect.If for some reason this is your first Highlander film then. Welcome, pull up a chair, grab some popcorn, a tasty beverage and prepare yourself for a poor film, poorly written, poorly acted and full of effects that are far from special.The best part of the film is the guy who has been trapped in a cave for 400 years but has no problem living in the world of 1994. Make a list of the things he does in 90's New York with no problem despite being from 16th century Japan.This film might have been good if it was trimmed down and turned into an episode of the Highlander TV show but then again, maybe not.Featured on Episode 58 of The Emerald Reprobates Podcast "},{"Title":"What's, uh, what's going on here, Highlander 3? Like what are are you trying to say?","Date":"2 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I will try to relate to you what I can remember Mario Van Peebles is angry at the world and he takes his anger out on the world by acting, specifically by acting in a Highlander movie. What did the world DO to you, Mario? I'm glad that Evil can be defeated by swordplay, it's very reassuring. Hopefully all of the world's problems can be solved by dudes fighting each other with swords, also featuring songs by Queen and Rush. I think this movie has a sex scene, it's in quotations because I remember it being a weird scene, like far far less sexy than intended. This movie is from 1994, our year of years!!! Pavement, Dinosaur Jr., Pixies, Sonic Youth, Smashing Pumpkins... "},{"Title":"There can be only three.....","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Connor McLeod, the immortal highlander, seeks out an immortal master of illusion in order to learn the magician's art. He is unknowingly followed by an evil immortal, Kane, who want Connor's head. They fight and Connor gets away while Kane is trapped in a cave. Now in the present Connor's peace is destroyed once again as the evil Kane is released from his imprisonment and the struggle of the Gathering begins again. Using Connor's loved ones and his acquired powers of illusion, Kane lures Connor in for a fight where there can be only one winner.....So according to this movie, the second one didn't exist, and Connor is back on his own, and for some reason he has a son.I can't see why they ignored the second one, at least that has a talking point, and gets people irked for on reason or the other. This on the other hand is boring, and Peebles is so camp and over the top, he ruins the whole film.Lambert looks bored and misses Connery, and Unger, just does a diluted version of Madsen in part 2.I remember the poster for this in the UK 'Dazzling Special Effects' say Empire. I respect that magazine a lot, but whoa, we're they wrong with this. Even for 1994, they are the pits, Super Nintendo looked better than this.With this and the second one (which is gold compared to this)' this has to be one of the worst franchises ever made.It's ripe for a remake, and I hate remakes. "},{"Title":"There should have only been one &#x96; not three!","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" As an uncorrectable Highlander-fan, I eyed the copy of Highlander 3 The Sorcerer with suspicion when it turned up in my video store. For one, the awfulness that was Highlander 2 The Quickening was still too fresh in one's mind. Secondly, there was no trace of Sean Connery (not that his presence saved The Quickening, it merely alleviated). And thirdly, despite studying the cinema magazines (this was a time before IMDb, mind you) and being relatively up-to-date, I had not even heard about a third part being in production.The first reaction as the movie began at least the tedious science-fiction storyline of Quickening was ignored, making this a prequel but despite ignoring Quickening, Quickening had one advantage to Sorcerer it was real cinema while The Sorcerer reeks of television production, being shot on TV-sets that look like they were leftovers from a McQuade-episode.An action-franchise, be it Highlander or James Bond lives and dies through the villain and hence Mario Van Peebles, as villainous immortal Kane, is one of the film's biggest letdowns Van Peebles mimics the original villain Kurgan one-to-one but where Clancy Brown came across as threatening and psychotic, Van Peebles grimacing and growling reminds us more of a Halloween-bogeyman, dressed up like Genghis Khan. Granted, all major villains of the Highlander-sequels have essentially been carbon-copies of The Kurgan but Van Peebles hams it up so badly, it's almost embarrassing. Even for Highlander-fans.It's a kind of magic, was not only one of the catchphrases of the original, it was part of the concept and partial reason to it's success what made those warriors immortal, why they had to fight and what the fabled prize would be, was pretty much left out or only hinted at in the original film. What killed the magic in Highlander 2 was the attempt to explain the background and reasons &#x96; something the fan didn't actually want to have explained; what's killing the magic in Highlander 3 is the actual depiction and use of magic. Perhaps the producers didn't realize it but the Highlander-fans didn't want magical gimmicks or sorcerers &#x96; they wanted immortal warriors who fought each other for reasons not known or understood.One was glad when *spoiler ahead* the evil Kane was finally beheaded &#x96; not so much because Connor McLeod prevailed (again) *spoiler end* but because the movie was finally over and that there would be no more sequels, like Highlander The Series, Highlander Endgame or Highlander 5 The Source, which one would inadvertently have to watch. Don't ask why &#x96; it seems to be a kind of magic. "}{"Title":"Highlander on auto pilot","Date":"15 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" After all the hate for the second one, I suppose they just didn't want to take risks anymore. This sequel just screams mediocre. There's some cool stuff happening here and there, but all of it has been done already in the original. They even duplicated whole scenes just to be on the safe side. I really do wonder why Highlander ever bothered to have sequels in the first place, I know producers enjoy money but this story has been over for some time. So Highlander is at it again, fighting evil and killing immortals by cutting of their heads. If you can kill them, why the hell do they call them immortals? Either way, the action is quite nicely done, the fights have a nice choreography to them, the acting is just the right kind of bad. It stops there, because these good points don't really make for an entertaining movie. You'd think so but no. It's actually quite boring because this story is uninteresting as hell. So predictable, it's insane. Only real good part is the introduction, it pretty much sinks like a brick from there. "},{"Title":"Just Stop Right Now Enough is Enough!!!!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" OK where do we start with this one? Conner Mcleod is back and completely ignores any reference to the prior sequel (probably a good thing!) and no Sean Connery this time. Instead it's Mako who plays the mentor role in the misty flashbacks that have become a trademark of the series. Where the original highlander was blast of action adventure this is an unwieldy lump of narrative that tries to fit in with the chronology of the series but never achieves it. Mario van Peebles is pretty laughable as the bad guy and no where near to matching the originals Kergan as a nemesis. There's some tacked on nonsense about illusion but basically its a re-hash (again) of the original.Christopher Lambert sleepwalks through his part and Deborah Unger looks nice but exists purely for a token sex scene and to get kidnapped and generally threatened.Don't waste your time on this, Highlander begins and ends with the original.4/10 - 'There can be only one' if only that were true! "},{"Title":"There Can Be Only One Script...Filmed Many Times","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This is not a terrible movie, but it will be painfully familiar to those who have seen the original film. In their attempt to keep closer to the the first picture than Highlander II had, the filmmakers more or less remade the movie. This epidemic was previously seen in Highlander The Series, but not to this degree. Actual lines of dialog and specific scenes are remade, as well. Expect a ripoff of Clancy Brown's performance from Peebles. It may work better for fans of the TV series who are unfamiliar with the original.The stylistic direction is competent, but the work done by Russell Mulcahy in the first two movies is far superior. In fact, that is what really hurts the film it has all been done better. The music is second-rate compared to Queen's score for the first movie, featuring forgettable rock songs. The one highlight of the score is Bonny Portmore, which gives the Scotland scenes an almost tragic feel. It would work well as an addition to the Queen songs, but it cannot carry the film itself. Also, there is a hilariously bad rendition of Motley Crue's Dr. Feelgood in the film. To be honest, it is actually a rip-off instrumental version with a few notes changed for the sake of not having to buy the rights.The upside of the movie is Lambert, who actually seems better at playing Connor MacLeod than he was in the first film. Deborah Unger does a competent job with her role, but is really just there as a replacement for Roxanne Hart.Been there, done that, you say? Then do not bother. Otherwise, this cannot hurt for rental or TV airings. "},{"Title":"There Can Be Only One&#133; er-Three&#133;uh- Seven? Twenty?.. I dunno, does 43 sound about right?....","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" This movie should heed its own slogan There can be only one. There SHOULD have been only one &#150; one *Highlander* film, that is. Each sequel drives another vapid nail into the bottomless coffin that has become the *Highlander* franchise. *Highlander* was a magnificent film and, quite obviously upon viewing, a completed story; there was never any question of a sequel - until the advent of Mongoloid Marketeers, All Budget, No Brains.And a shameful pity that in favoring the original *Highlander* movie, one must add qualification these days - There was nothing like *Highlander* when it first appeared; directed by an Australian former music-video director (Russell Mulcahy), featuring a kinetic soundtrack driven by Queen, a story involving Immortals all hiding in plain view amongst earth's populace, congregating for The Gathering, to battle for The Prize &#150; the gift of foresight and mortality &#150; and to be THE ONE; featuring newcomer Christopher Lambert, suitably ingenuous as the Scottish Highlander Connor MacLeod, and Sean Connery aggressively fey as his swashbuckling tutor, Ramirez.*Highlander* was engaging, humorous, poignant, original, well-written and well-filmed. Each successive sequel has been exactly the opposite.Regarding *The Sorcerer* (aka *The Final Dimension*), it is quite pointless reviewing or in any way even describing the plots of movies which do not adhere to their own internal logic. In this case (barring the first exceptional installment), this whole series has been battling against itself, in reneging on its own oft-repeated slogan There can be only one. Well, obviously NOT...The disjointed characters move through *The Sorcerer*'s listless plot with no regard to continuity or semblance of purpose &#150; they just end up where they need to be for a scene to play itself out &#150; all those scenes which were obviously pitching points for the producers to lay on the money-men. Now, how to join those scenes? It mattered not, as long as the money was green and the picture was greenlighted.Also directed by a former music-video director, Andy Morahan, *The Sorcerer* displays none of the art and eye that Mulcahy brought to *Highlander*, though Morahan has no qualms in plagiarizing Mulcahy's film at every turn, inserting flashback scenes to gird the storyline and attempt poignancy, copying scenes (such as the villain Kane's pale impression of The Kurgan, when he mocks MacLeod's son in the car) and just blatantly *repeating* scenes from *Highlander*.The movie's early sequences display more than enough chinks in its feeble armor, where we catch up with MacLeod sometime after *Highlander*, but before *Highlander II The Quickening*, which, according to this film, apparently never happened. Then the illusion of plot collapses completely when MacLeod gets shot in a New York alley and in the next scene is being frantically dollied to an Emergency Room. Now who in New York would look twice at a shot guy in a deserted alley, let alone ring it in? Then it gets even more idiotic. Fast.Upon awakening on the hospital dolly, his wounds healed, MacLeod becomes violent and the obviously unfit-to-practice doctor diagnoses him as insane in three seconds of fighting interns, drugs him and sends him to the lunatic ward. The only apparent reason for this seems to be to execute one of those screenwriter pitch scenes Kane's medieval henchman stalking MacLeod through modern hospital corridors (how he located him in this facility - with no time for even an *efficient* hospital's paperwork to be processed - is beyond comprehension) and, though MacLeod is randomly trying to find an exit and the henchman is stalking purposefully, somehow both end up in the same basement laundry room. After all that setup - the shooting, the dollying, the lunatic ward, the stalking &#150; MacLeod kills the henchman quickly with no fanfare and the movie moves on, into further contrived plot less-ness.The swordplay was choreographed by Young Billy from the sixth grade. A suitable nomenclature would be air-guitar sword-fighting, i.e. rather than actually trying to slice and dice each other's bodies, the opponents slash at the AIR above each other's heads and parry these strokes as if they were vital. In one sequence, Kane (played by Mario Van Peebles, a talented actor/director, heinously miscast here) slashes at MacLeod, who parries Kane's stroke, only to have his sword shatter under Kane's blow. Kane's follow-through, which should have then neatly severed MacLeod's head, doesn't go anywhere near it &#150; what then, was Kane slashing at? Sultry Debra Unger plays The Chick and - like Roxanne Hart from *Highlander* &#150; is aroused uncontrollably by the concept of Immortality, her foreplay also being the sight of MacLeod getting stabbed. Guess immortality is a magnet for sexual loonies&#133;.Stereotypical moron cops, whose gratuitous swearing seemed unfamiliar to their untrained-actor mouths, hound MacLeod, whilst Kane kidnaps MacLeod's child, setting up the conundrum where The Hero can't kill The Villain because he alone knows where The Hero's child is.But MacLeod kills Kane anyway. So much for strategic conundrums.After the explosive climax &#150; not describing the level of excitement, but rather, that there were many gratuitous explosions set off - when MacLeod is once again levitated with the electric ecstasy of being The Last Immortal Ever &#150; ahem, again &#150; his son walks nonchalantly down some stairs and reunites with him as if he's just walked in from the kitchen.To put the weak capper on an altogether limp movie, an impotent rock song sings us out over the end credits.Where's Sean Connery when he's least needed? (Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Highlander III The Sorcerer has been accused of being a remake of the original Highlander.  However I feel that it's similar but not the same. The Van Peebles character is similiar to the Kurgan, however he has the power of illusion; and the car chase at the end when Kane kidnaps Connors' son is similar to the chase at the end of the first but again illusion is used.  I feel the reason that they did this was as a homage to the first film, however this time they made the villian even more dangerous i.e. he's a sorcerer.  The film does give us some more insight into the past of Connor MacLeod, a great training montage, and it is better than Highlander II The Quickening (though not the director's cut) and Highlander Endgame.  I suppose that if you look at the bare bones of it every highlander film is similar. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  i read all the comment's about this movie and they say the samething for highlander 2 and 3.  in highlander 2 conner says his wife or g/f died a ozone layer stuffs ( some fancy big names i can't pronounce it ) and in highlander 3 conner says his wife died in a ar crash. this what i say   the writer's or producer forgot what really happen in highlander 2 and changed a little bit to make it good movie for us fans too watch.now on for highlander fans   hope we can write too the furture producer's or director's ( IF ) they make another movie or tv series of the highlander, we could tell them what our thoughts and opioin for it. hope they will understand it someday.  but i still love the movie and the series and i always will be.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie....","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Before I start, If anyone knows the real name of this movie (is it The Final Dimension or The Sorcerer). All Versions are the same but still.I heard alot of bad stuff written for this movie so I decided to rent it on DVD. To tell you the truth, I was actually surprised that not only was it not that bad....it was very enjoyable.Now, i know that if you read half the reviews before mine, you know the plot and that it is almost just like Part 1....well it aint true that EVERY third movie of a series has to be a HUGE story. I liked this because it was realistic in that sense.Good fighting scenes...almost as good as the first one. The girl in this movie is beyond hot...but not the best (Endgame has the title there). Kane was a good villain (although alot like Kurrigan) but still interesting and pretty funny at times. The movie does have its moments (the airport scene was good too)I ending where Connor is at his original sword is well done and the song that followed it was very touching as Connor says Its finally over...pretty sad.Ive never seen Highlander- Renegade (which is now the real version of Part 2) but here is what i think of the rest.Highlander- Awesome movie. Great Story, emotion, action....everything you want in a movie like this.Highlander 2 Didnt see it.Highlander 3 The Sorcerer- Good movie and sequel (even though it is alot like the first, its still enjoyable)Highlander- Endgame- Its OK but 3 was better. It has its moments though (like the Connor/Duncan fight scene was filled with emotion). The Villain is amazing too. Jacob Kell was the greatest villain of them all in my opinion.Highlander 3 wasnt great but its atleast good.  "},{"Title":"*** out of 5","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  OK so in the first Highlander there could be only one and in the end there was, but now we are on to the third installment and there still isn't only one like we ere lead to believe in the first, second and even this the third, I sure hope that the bad guy in Endgame will be the last as this series goes nowhere fast. This is the third and probably most watchable entry into the series. Where the first Highlander couldn;t decided whether it wanted to be a beautifully filmed sword and scorcery movie or a trashy action movie and the second was more of a sci-fi movie this one gives us an even mix of unexplained flashbacks and modern time fight scenes. Christepher Lambert returns as the scottish clansman who is still speaking in a french accent and wearing his scottish clansman attire of blue jeans and white sneakers. This time he is up against Kane, a scorcer who provides us with the best Highlander villian yet. The absence of Sean Connery as Rameriaz hurts this movie quite a bit but for fans of the series of someone looking for some corney fantasy movie that doesn't involve the use of many braincells will find this enjoyable mostly due to the great special effects.  "},{"Title":"There can be only - Three?  sequels, that is?","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Marginally better than The Quickening the production team obviously went back to the drawing board and decided to basically re-make the original film!  This left a problem though, as Mcleod was supposed to have become The last surviving immortal  at the conclusion of the previous film. Easy peasy - lets just unearth another one that has been entombed for centuries in an impenetrable underground cavern.Van Peebles scowls well and revisits most of the antics Kane thought up in the original. He ends up much the same way too unfortunately for him! A bit of the old Kung Fu  grasshopper philosophy tossed in and to keep up audience interest some illusionary effects here, but come Oscar Night there was NEVER going to be an envelope on the table containing a card bearing the words And the Best Film award goes to  HIGHLANDER 3 THE RIP OFF, I mean ladies and gentleman....THE SORCERER!  "},{"Title":"remake","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  The story is same as the story of part 1 and it has nothing to do with highlander 2. Although the fans did not like this part, it made me love highlander. The soundtrack is very nice, there was one song i really liked in the movie, i think it was BONNY PORTMORE. I am not sure but i think that was it. The story of Macleod is pretty sad. I think noone should live forever. I really liked Lambert. I would marry him if i were a woman =) Nice movie. Nice scenes. The villain (mario van peebles) is pretty evil and too FUNNY. I liked the scene where he is in the car with macleods son. It shows that you can do lots of funny things if you have supernatural powers. By the way can you tell me why heros should have sex at least for one time in these kind of movies??? I cant understand this. Why is having sex so important? i think people should grow up and dont give a damn to these kind of useless things. A man is still a man even if he does not sex. This just makes me sick. I think platonic love is more important than everything. Think about it. "}{"Title":"Out of four movies, probably the worst.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  But then again, I like the Highlander storyline so none of them are likely to get trashed by me.  I love em all.  This one attempts to ignore number 2.  I liked The quickening though.  I've always viewed the Highlander movies series as stand alone movies.  If I wanted to watch these movies based on continuity alone I'd be sent to a mental institution.So far these is how I place the movies.  1 being the best 1. Highlander 2. Highlander Endgame 3. Highlander The quickening 4. Highlander Final Demension.As for the TV series.  It never really interested me.  It usually ended up trashing the film series and I happened to really like the best couple.  Heather and Connor. ) "},{"Title":" COOL","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Highlander III  The Sorcerer is a cool, nice action movie. Of course is lower than Highlander II but is much better than Highlander I. This movie has a lot of action and suspense, specialy the last scene. It doesn't have such a good script but let's just say that it's nice, of course it does not compare with the stupidest movie Highlander ! "},{"Title":"Another kind of magic","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  Well, all I can really say about Highlander 3 is that it's better than Highlander 2. For me Highlander 2 and 3 are insults to the first movie, 2 and 3 should of never have been made.Since i'm a massive fan of the first Highlander movie, I was really disappointed in Highlander 2 and 3.Once again Connor Macloed (Christopher Lambert) has to battle against another evil immortal to win The Prize. This time Connor is up against Kane the sorcerer played by Mario Van Peebles and as you have probably guessed by now Connor defeats Kane and win The Prize for the 3rd time!Highlander 3 is a pretty boring film, but better than Highlander 2.THERE CAN BE ONLY ONE HIGHLANDER MOVIE AND THATS THE FIRST ONE!If you have any questions or comments about the Highlander movies please e-mail at destroy_souls@yahoo.com.  "},{"Title":"There can be only one....well except for the people under the ice","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  OK Don't even try and match this up with either of the first 2 its a lost cause they are each their own movie.  this tries to go back to the nostalgia (hope i spelled that right with going back to the mountains and such.  The problem is that it just was somewhat weak scripted and didn't have the budget to do much of anything exciting.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":"  I am still shocked from last nights nightmare. Do you even call it a film? I had no idea what I was watching. Me and my friend stayed up until very late in the night and early morning watching this film. We couldn't stop laughing. The movie was ridiculous! Remember the chinese man that got his head chopped off...and was still doing a maniac laugh? What was that?! And how the movie is set one minute in ancient Tibet, then in modern Japan, then in Scotland, then in 18th century France and finally in the USA? Okay, so the scenery shots of Scotlands mountains were nice and it really did set the scene. But there were alot of props in the movie that didn't fit in. For example, where on EARTH did the trampoline come from for one of the actors to jump on it and fly to the ceiling or something, where did the fire come from when the man and woman are kissing in the mountians in the middle of nowhere and there were a load of others that I won't mention. It was one of the craziest movie I've ever seen. It was a complete criminal waste of movie money. I've never seen the first 2 Highlanders, and I don't think I want to.  "},{"Title":"An Absolute Zero","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Don't bother with this one. I loved the first Highlander. This is just a pathetic rehash of the first movie. Boy meets girl, girl finds out he's immortal, bad guy takes the hero's loved one, goes on scary car ride, except for this time it's with the hero's son, etc. The first movie was a masterpiece of sci-fi. One of my all time favorite films. Full of characters you cared about, even the ones that you loved to hate, i.e. Clancy Brown as the Kurgan. I am completely at a loss as to why they have to try and follow a great movie like that with trash like this. I must say I have never been a fan of sequels, but this one is the worst one I have ever seen. A complete and utter travesty. "},{"Title":"lame (spoilers)","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Holy heck, this movie is lame. Wow, really lame. Every scene is more lame than the preceding scene. It's a true monument to lameness. I'm watching it right now. I hope that something non-lame happens eventually, but I doubt it.Where did this little kid come from? I have no idea, and I couldn't care less. Why does Highlander keep getting arrested and hassled by the man? That's not what Highlander is supposed to be about... it's about sword fighting action and Sean Connery's hilarious accent. I like the way that the villain in this one has a similar smoker's voice to Chris Lambert. I guess that the villain is okay, not scary but vaguely hilarious. Man, the sex scene... boy was that bad. The female lead in this is pretty foxy, but all the scenes between them are utterly ponderous and slow. I think that I saw this movie years and years ago but then I forgot about it. That's how lame it is. Man, I hope that this kid buys it. Er, so this guy was trapped in some sort of tomb? I guess that's it. Man, I'm so disappointed; I thought that there was some time travel involved in this film. I love films with time travel. This one doesn't have any time travel. Just a lot of flashbacks. Don't watch it. It's bad. "},{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" Picking up where Highlander 1 left off and ignoring Highlander 2, Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) is living a life of relative peace in the desert with his adopted son John, convinced that his victory against the Kurgan in 1985 gave him the Prize with which he can help humanity. Then his peaceful existence is shattered when another old enemy from the past, Kane (Mario Van Peebles), who killed another mentor/friend of Connor's (Mako), reappears and starts raising hell. While trying to thwart him, Connor meets a sexy blonde named Alex Johnson (the very sexy Debra Unger), who essentially looks like a blonde version of a red head he had in France during the revolution. Yet another poorly made sequel to the imperfect but enjoyably nutty 1985 sword & sorcery romp, this one ties with Highlander 2 for worst sequel in the series (Highlander 4, which features Duncan MacLeod, is slightly better if you're a fan of the show). Lambert goes through the motions while Van Peebles goes all out over the top in yet another clone of the Kurgan (even recreating the Kurgan's wild car ride from the first movie) who wouldn't last five minutes in the ring with him. The film's only real highlight is the very powerful sex scene between glum Lambert and prototypical sexy blonde ice queen Debra Unger, who probably ranks as being the best of the Highlander babes. A decent actress just to be fair, Debra is also an impossibly well built woman who looks great with or without her clothes on. The only thing that makes me recommend this for rental is the aforementioned very powerful sex scene that strips Debra of her clothes so that we can marvel at her athletic yet slender 5'7 body. "},{"Title":"Best of the three sequels","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie on UPN late one Saturday night and despite the fact it was edited for content and time, I still thought it was reasonably enjoyable. I have since seen the unedited version and found it to be much better. Despite being hated by Highlander fans and downright loathed by non-Highlander fans, I found the flick to be pretty good for a sequel. The first one, depending on your opinion, is an extremely powerful movie. It changed my views on the way action movies should be. Highlander sets the standard. Highlander III, on the other hand, sets the bar pretty low. It doesn't set out to be as deep or character-driven as the first one. It is for all intents and purposes, about making a buck off a classic. Normally I would condemn it for solely that reason, but I actually liked it enough to consider it a guilty pleasure. Would I openly admit to my friends that I like it? No. I would, however, recommend it for Highlander fans not expecting too much. It's definitely a guy flick, being all about action sequences, T&A, and style over substance. It also offers a gorgeous female lead and fine music. Not a great flick, by any means, though better than the other sequels so that's saying something. 7/10 "}]