[{"Title":"Enjoyable though predictable bickering romantic thriller","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Combine THE THIN MAN with IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT and THE FRONT PAGE and what do you get?   This is an enjoyable thriller - rival newspaper reporters (Nolte playing Jack Nicholson and Roberts playing herself) try to outscoop each other, get drawn into a suspicious cover-up and wind up joining forces (and falling in love) as they single-handedly solve the mystery.   Terrible title but some beautiful cinematography and a plot that moves along entertainingly.  It's all predictable, but the fun lies in the constant attempts of the two protagonists to outsmart, outscoop and blatantly lie to each other to get the upper hand.  Marsha Mason has two scenes playing a Senator (one without dialogue) in a performance that lasts less than a minute, which would tend to indicate her subplot was cut in the editing room.   It's long enough at 123 minutes.  If you like the stars and want to see a well-done romantic cops and robbers flick, this is a go. "},{"Title":"The attempt is there...but the results aren't even mixed","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Handsomely-produced 1940s throwback has two modern-day reporters for rival Chicago newspapers both covering a train-wreck, eventually teaming up to get all the shady details. Casting Julia Roberts and Nick Nolte in the leads might've been a gamble that paid off, but the ruff-n-bitchy chemistry they try to create doesn't click, mainly because the lines in the script are so stale. The picture looks expensive, and the plot isn't a con (I suppose it is fully thought out), but who even wants to see Julia Roberts in a Tracy-Hepburn knock-off like this? And who wants to see her kissing Nick Nolte? The whole concept is, well, Troubled. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Formulaic, but fun","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  That this film fails on so many levels and still remains watchable, if not actually enjoyable, must be a credit to someone involved in the production; it's just not immediately clear who.There are three main problems with the movie.  One, the attempt to graft the noirish elements onto a hi-tech industrial-intrigue plot, which results in an uncomfortable mix of pulp culture from two generations the hardboiled detectives of the '40s thrust into the realm of today's potboiler mystery bestsellers.  Whereas the earlier style was streamlined, and relatively simple and focused, today's genre authors seemingly compete for who can make the most convoluted plot with sidetracks, red herrings and subplots galore.  This contrast leaves the film trying to go in two directions at once.Two, the relationship between the leads is never quite satisfactory.  Roberts and Nolte are just not cut out for their cut-out roles, and while they try gamely,  it's tough to buy them as reporters who bicker, and almost impossible to imagine them falling in love, even though its obvious from the first reel that this is where the story will take them.  Three, the film is far too long, and it becomes a chore to maintain attention and interest in what happens.On the plus side, there are some redeeming features.  The plot plays its cards close enough to its chest that some elements of the ending come as an untelegraphed surprise.  The comic touches are successful enough, especially in the bickering between the two as they try to out-do each other in getting the scoop for their respective newspaper.  The camera work and editing employ some tricks to freshen up some scenes and the cuts between them.  The only problem here is that once the same trick is employed more than once or twice it becomes a little tiresome.We're left with a very standard piece of work, but one that works just hard enough to keep it relatively entertaining but not quite memorable, even for Nolte and Roberts fans. "},{"Title":"Mindless fun, a romance of bickering journalists","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, I wouldn't exactly describe this as a timeless classic, a thought provoking movie, or one of the legendary love stories of the silver screen. Still, it's a fun romance and an entertaining way to spend a couple of hours.The tale revolves around two rival Chicago reporters, one relatively novice, Sabrina Peterson, the other the more seasoned, well known Peter Brackett, who are both hot on the trail of a train derailment story. Of course competition between them is intense (and so at times is the chemistry) as the two exchange false leads, fibs, barbs, and witty repartee. Lots of predictable action, chases, and mystery as to the identity of the bad guys.The lovely, always endearing Julia Roberts plays the journalistic sharp cookie, Sabrina, with Nick Nolte convincing in the role of her rival, Brackett. At least the pair are not hopping into bed within the first half hour (in refreshing contrast to most modern films), leaving a little time for storytelling and character development.This is definitely describable as a flick (for guys or chicks); its spirit is in keeping with its title. Personally, I'm a great Julia Roberts fan. This isn't her best picture but, nevertheless, it's quite watchable. "},{"Title":"average formula' movie, not really bad or unwatchable just unremarkable.","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love trouble isn't awful or outstanding, it's simply a by the numbers, at times pleasant movie that is extremely predictable but isn't a bad choice, particularly if your a Roberts or Nolte fan.I love trouble doesn't stick out in my mind at all as either great or awful and I suppose I enjoyed it, moderately. It's not a must see but is worth seeing on a rainy day as there is absolutely nothing about it that's dreadful.This part mystery part romance relies on Nolte and Roberts to carry it and if they had been exceptional together the by the numbers and predictable factor may not have mattered. But unfortunately, Roberts and Nolte certainly don't have much chemistry and they've both been better with other leads playing opposite. There are some fun moments in this and as mentioned, it's not really bad or dull as much as utterly predictable in every way, but it's not a movie where the chemistry of the two leads or the storyline will stick in one's mind after.There's nothing wrong with predictable sometimes but as predictable movies go I have seen much much better.This is probably about average or so. "},{"Title":"Nick Nolte and Julia Roberts together in the same movie","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I Love Trouble is an okay romantic comedy with some charm in certain points. But that's all.As a movie, it is generally watchable (at least during its first half). However, in the second half the movie seems to become way more slow, lame, goofy and with a notorious lack of interest and entertainment. Only the «crazy speed at the rain in the car» scene, the forced wedding scene and the thrilling ending (with some good action) are the good things about the second half. Other than that, not really. Why? Because before the thrilling ending, that sequence starts by taking too long to finally win some life. Besides, there is a scene in a bar with dancing or country music, which is one of the most boring things for me in a movie. Not to mention that I don't see what's the point of both Peter Brackett and Sabrina Peterson keeping out-scooping each other.Nevertheless, until the first hour the movie is okay and contains some good humor. Besides, Nick Nolte is great as Peter Brackett and Julia Roberts is not bad as Sabrina Peterson.Overall, not a great movie, but certainly not as bad as they make it sound. "},{"Title":"One-Time Watch!","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'I Love Trouble' is a fairly entertaining film, that offers some interesting moments in the goings-on. What really stands tall in this film, are the performances by it's popular cast.'I Love Trouble' tells the story of how 2 Competing journalists at rival papers fall in love, while exposing a government-involved scandal.Written by the husband-and-wife team of Nancy Meyers and Charles Shyer, The writing in the first-hour is convincing & moves easily. But, in the second hour it falters and dips for quite some time, but the culmination is nicely done. Charles Shyer's direction is fair. Cinematography & Editing are functional. The Action Sequences are interesting.Performance-Wise Nick Nolte is terrific, as always. Julia Roberts is equally superb too. In the supporting cast, Olympia Dukakis, Robert Loggia & Saul Rubinek are noticeable.On the whole, A One-Time Watch! "},{"Title":"Had potential but has big failings in the script, atmosphere and in the two stars","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When a train crash happens, veteran newspaperman Peter Brackett is sent from the Tribune to cover the story despite him being a columnist.  At the scene of the crash he meets the beautiful young reporter Sabrina Peterson who he tries to hit on without much success, before dismissing her as an inexperienced youth.  The next morning she scoops him in the Globe, getting an angle on the story that he didn't have.  This sparks a rivalry between the two journalists but, as they find out more about the story they find themselves in mortal danger and are forced to form an uneasy partnership.In case you are film-illiterate, this film has even called a character `Thin Man' to help you realise what it is clearly aspiring to be.  The fast talking, battling characters aspire to be like those in the Thin Man series. However the main problem here is that this film has none of the wit, spark or fun of that series at it's best; instead it is all a bit lifeless and flat.  The plot is good but it doesn't decide to be a mystery thriller until very late in the game; the final set piece is good but, because the film had been aiming for `playful' up till that point, it just doesn't work out well and it can't just suddenly create tension out of nowhere.The rest of the film tries to be light and witty but it doesn't manage it either.  A major fault in this regard is with the script; it doesn't have any really good lines or sequences.  As much as I accept that Woody Allen is not everyone's cup of tea, he would have been the perfect part of a writing team here - witty dialogue in The Thin Man style is really his thing.  The other problem is with the cast.  Nolte and Roberts may both be big names, but they sadly have ZERO chemistry and this is a big problem.  The two have no lines and their lack of spark just makes it worse, to compare this with the Thin Man series does that a great disservice.  The support cast fares a bit better and contains quite a few famous faces such as Rubinek, Rebhorn, Loggia, Dukakis, Levy, Martin Smith and Gleason.  They all do OK but they can't help the failings in the script, atmosphere and in the two stars.Overall this is just about watchable but it's hard to ignore what it clearly intended to be.  It is pretty much a big failure as it fails to amuse, excite or entertain on anywhere near the level that it was aiming for. "},{"Title":"Bury the leads and below the fold","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Bland and unimaginative but many films are that what really drags this down is not the lack of chemistry between the leads but the transparent loathing they have for each other. The production of this was notoriously contentious between Roberts and Nolte and their utter abhorrence is something that seeps out of every frame of the movie. Sometimes that can fuel a set and make the picture better, as it did on I Married a Witch where Veronica Lake and Fredric March's mutual animosity somehow translated into a kinetic on screen chemistry, such is not the case here however it just makes an already weak picture that much worse. A good supporting cast and decent production values aren't enough to save this turkey. It stinks! "},{"Title":"Nolte/Roberts starpower make this...","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 2/8/2002 - 6 out of 10 (Dir-Charles Shyer) Nolte/Roberts starpower make this rather convuluted, unbelievable story watchable.  A very simple title for a very over-the-top complex story that starts with two rival reporters covering a train de-railment in Chicago and ends with having something to do with a chemical that helps cows produce milk at an early age.  As silly as the story plot is,  we follow Nolte as a well-known name for the Chicago Chronicle, and Roberts as a newcomer for the Chicago Globe with both of them having one thing on their minds - their egos!!  The movie starts out slow but once the two heroes start acting like they're actually trying to work together, things heat up. The exchanges between the two are comical and classic at times.    Roberts seems to always to be matched up with some of the best male actors in Hollywood and she usually comes out holding her own, this is no exception and the movie, it's ok too.  "}{"Title":"Dueling reporters uncover high level criminals","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Good comedy/drama about a pair of hyper-competitive news reporters who are after facts on the same story. While investigating they form an alliance to mutually solve the mystery but come under the deadly gaze of high tech thugs. Cute and amusing although unoriginal. "},{"Title":"Predictable oldies imitation but OK to watch","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Here in Greece this film was distributed under the title Front Page Love, so I was not that horrified from the title as the first reviewer (although this annihilation of the original title is a painful story here, causing major trouble especially when you're looking for a rental at a video store and their database has only the Greek title). As a movie it is an effort to imitate old cop movies full of exchange of witty lines and intellectual face-off. The scenario and the directing is not bad, but something about the two leads spoils it. They just don't have it for such roles. Apart from that, it's a pretty enjoyable action flick. "},{"Title":"A pretty humorous political thriller!","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is another government thriller which has some captivating moments that would engage a large audience. It stars Nick Nolte and Julia Roberts as rival Chicago newspaper reporters Peter Brackett and Sabrina Peterson assigned to cover the same story involving a deliberately derailed train. They soon find themselves embroiled in a corrupt cover-up plot involving scientists and government officials.The movie starts off a little slow when we are introduced to the reporters, who take a while to grow on you, especially Nolte's character. His somewhat crack-up personality give you a little shallow personification of him, but his character does develop more as the plot progresses on. The back and forth between Nolte and Roberts in trying to get clues and the scoop of the story first was pretty humorous, especially when Nolte literally sends Roberts on a wild-goose chase when he gives her a false tip.The suspense builds when unknown assassins start pursuing the reporters, sending them on a chase around the state (wished Nolte and Roberts would at least show a little more scared emotion since there are people who want them eliminated). It all leads to a surprising and unpredictable climax as all the pieces of the puzzle are put together.The corruption portion of the plot was suspenseful overall, but the subplot between Nolte and Roberts relationship was a tad awkward at times.Grade B "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've seen I Love Trouble several times and it never gets old. It is from the early 90s but is a story that is still entertaining today. Nick Nolte and Julia Roberts play competing reporters at different newspapers in Chicago. When a major story breaks, they both compete to scoop each other, but ultimately decide to team up when it becomes clear that their lives are endangered. Julia Roberts shines in one of her first leading roles, showing us what got her to be known as America's sweetheart. Nick Nolte is also fantastic. He is a very good actor who doesn't get many good roles anymore, because of his past. It's good to see him playing a likable character instead of making a cameo as a psychotic drunk. I Love Trouble, and I love this movie. It's a great story with an excellent cast and thoroughly entertaining. "},{"Title":"I Love Trouble-This Trouble Hasn't Been So Good ***1/2","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Had this film been made in the 1930s, William Powell and Myrna Loy certainly would have had the parts of Nick Nolte and Julia Roberts.The film is fast paced and provides plenty of interest as 2 competing reporters vie for a major news story regarding the derailment of a rear car of a passenger train, resulting in the deaths of 5 people.Nolte and Roberts soon discover that there is much more to this accident than anyone can believe. When they make their discovery, they are pursued by the culprits. In a very hilarious scene, the chased into a Vegas wedding chapel and wed in a quick ceremony with Nolte wearing a skull cap.Olympia Dukakis, Marsha Mason and Robert Loggia are wasted in this film. They briefly appear and don't have exciting parts at all. "},{"Title":"enjoyable 1940s throwback","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, once you get past the age difference of nolte and roberts, the film is enjoyable. I would have rather seen someone a little younger in Nolte's role, but other than that, i found the film enjoyable and well written. Where the film struggles however is editing. I actually think the film is about 20 minutes too long. There are a lot of traveling too and fro scenes that could have been edited out.Where the film succeeds is the acting quality. As I said above, the age difference in the leads is distracting, the chemistry in the actors is very likable (including a nice set of guest spots in the beginning, including Robert Loggia). Many of the montages used to illustrate the developing rivalry are well done and the clues in the film are very intelligent.Ultimately though, the best part of the movie is the fact that it is clean. A nice tribute to the tracy/hepburn days. "},{"Title":"Opposites Attract","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderfully entertaining love story, spiced up with adventure and intrigue. Nick Nolte plays the rough, tough male chauvinist while Julia Roberts charms us with her usual warm and attractive personality. The two are competing newspaper reporters who while chasing after the same headline story stumble upon a government and corporate conspiracy to conceal the truth about genetically enhanced milk producing cows. The director has beautifully combined the excitement of uncovering the conspiracy with the excitement of Nolte and Roberts falling in love. The interaction and chemistry between Nolte and Roberts is acted out superbly, never too much, never too little just enough to keep you excited with them to the very end. "},{"Title":"I Love Trouble Great Flick like the ones Hollywood used to produce!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie. It reminded me of an old Alan Ladd and Veronica Lake in a detective novel. It just clicked so well as I watched it. Two unlikely people not interested in either one, meeting up, and sparks fly, but so does the love interest after awhile. It was exciting, it had all the earmarks of a 1940's film. I could see even Cary Grant and Rosalind Russel in the parts. It was that good! Something that gives you the flavor of the movies of the past, and also some of the new blended into a film that just makes you want to put your feet up get the popcorn and settle in and really be entertained. Don't miss this movie. Julia Roberts who is always at her best, makes comedy look so easy, and Nick Nolte plays the cad to a T. Great Flick. I can watch it over and over again and not get tired of it. Well done! "},{"Title":"A good romantic comedy mystery movie.","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Julia Roberts and Nick Nolte play two newspaper reporters, who are competing for news breaking stories from two different newspapers. I admire the way they act with each other through the plot of the movie. It would be interesting if Roberts and Nolte do a film together again. They are a good movie team for a film. It almost reminds of the old movies with Tracy and Hepburn, the they used to act during the 1940's and 1950's. The film is reminisce to time when movies had class on the screen. I like this movie to watch because it for your troubles and put them on hold for a while. It is not mind bending triller, but the film is enough to entertain you. Enjoy yourself to watch this film and ease your mind.   "},{"Title":"You'll love the other movies like it better","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Dramatic comedy about two rivaling newspaper people, i should say, racing, and battling, each other for the story of their lives.  I've seen this kind of thing a million times in the screwball comedies of the 30's and 40's and chalk this one up to be nothing more than a revisionist work of one or more of those.  However, it is cute and fun to go through a rather entangled--though not too much--story with Nick Nolte and Julia Roberts who have excellent chemistry and seem perfect for their roles.  But again, its nothing you haven't seen before, and the characters themselves seem reworked blueprints from old stories like His Girl Friday which Roberts may or may not have referenced even, telling Nolte, in the movies defense, she wasn't his girl friday. Good but not great,see it if you have time. C- "}{"Title":"Slightly Infectious","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have this movie on tape and no matter how many times I watch it, I can't seem to understand how the movie goes from one point to another. I guess because it bores me to tears sometimes and catches my interest at others. The rivalry is ridiculous because you know from the start it's the age-old Hollywood I hate you-I love you competition. You knew from the moment they were introduced, they were gonna get together. The competition was more of who can annoy each other the worst? *SPOILER* When they accidentally got married in Vegas to outrun a guy who looked like Inspector Gadget was far far too absurd. The background story seemed to develop out of nowhere with all the answers at the end. Crazy wild goose chase kinda movie, but not too bad. I watched it more than once at least. "},{"Title":"A hilarious thrill-ride!","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was apprehensive when my great-aunt first suggested that we rent I Love Trouble since romantic comedies normally aren't my thing.  Well, to say that I was pleasantly surprised by the film would be a drastic understatement!  Aside from his classic performance in Mulholland Falls, this is undoubtedly Nick Nolte's finest cinematic moment!  Although I'm 33 years old and happily employed as an insurance salesman, I seriously considered switching careers after watching Nick Nolte play Peter Brackett, a suave, saucy, yet down-to-earth newspaper journalist.  Julia Roberts is also fantastic, especially since she has not played in many movies of this type before.  Despite the movie's adult subject matter and brief yet shocking sexual content, it is by far the best film I have ever watched. Though comparable to Mr. Baseball in many ways, its powerful script and excellent direction make it an even better film.  My advice  rent this movie in the next 57.3 minutes - you will not be disappointed.  A deeply touching yet humorous masterpiece!  10/10 "},{"Title":"Awful title, cute movie","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  As with the other reviewers, i admit that I was skeptical of the title at first. But Julia Roberts is my favorite (non teen) actress so I decided to get it just for kicks and giggles. I liked it. It was funny, romantic, and scary (at the time I saw it, i was ten). It had a clever and interesting plot; it made you think-could that really happen in the future? and even though Roberts and Nolte's chemistry wasn't that great, it still kept me entertained for two hours. Not Robert's best movie, but if you're looking for a movie to rent and all the ones you want are gone, get this one. "},{"Title":"Great Entertaining Film","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Enjoyed viewing the youthful faces of Julia Roberts,(Sabrina Peterson),Closer,'04 and Nick Nolte,(Peter Brackett),Clean,'04. I thought that Nick Nolte was too old an actor to play against Julia Roberts, but naturally, that is my opinion. The story starts out with a mysterious man carrying a business case containing a gun and various other items and all of a sudden there is bad train accident which disrupts the lives of Peter Brackett and Sabrina Peterson; who happen to be newspaper reporters for two different Chicago Newspapers. Peter Bracket is also an author of a new book that was recently published and becomes distracted with Sabrina Peterson in more ways than just one. They are both rivals for a big news story and are very much at odds with each other through out the entire picture. Funny and entertaining film from 1994. "},{"Title":"A bit long","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This one was okay, but a bit too long. The funniest part is actually the scene where Nick Nolte and the boyscouts find Julie Roberts skinny dipping. And isn't Nolte a bit old for Roberts here? Well, if you're looking for a contrived romantic comedy, look no further.  "},{"Title":"Intended to evoke the old newspaper movies","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Clearly intended to evoke the old newspaper movies of the '40's and '50's. Set in Chicago (of course) Even the transitions from one scene to another are right out of the old studio system films. You expect to see Gable or Bogart starring, but you get Nick Nolte. And Julia Roberts. Nolte is good, but...Roberts, as always, completely lights up the screen with her wide smile. The basis of the movie is the main characters banter, set against the plot. Banter just isn't the forte of Roberts and Nolte, who are better suited to dramatic roles. There's nothing wrong with this film, but it ends up being just OK.  "},{"Title":"Funny and cute!","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film!I really had fun watching this movie.  It was not only funny, but it also had a little bit of suspense in some parts. Julia Roberts is terrific as usual, and Nick Nolte is actually pretty good in this.This is fun for the whole family!Enjoy it!! "},{"Title":"It's all in the name","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a perfect example of how important the title of a movie is to its box office success. This film sounded so dumb I really don't know how I ended up watching it. Maybe I thought it was a Nick and Nora Charles reprise. It was actually kinda fun, though. Which is really saying something because I'd normally rather have a root canal than sit through one of Julia Roberts' robotic performances. "},{"Title":"no chemistry rom-com","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Peter Brackett (Nick Nolte) is an over-confident womanizing veteran reporter on the Chicago Chronicle with a new book out. He is told to cover a train crash and is scooped by the young cub reporter Sabrina Peterson (Julia Roberts) from the rival Chicago Globe. Their professional rivalry is put on hold when a conspiracy puts them in danger and the bad guys start shooting. Their combative relationship leads them to fall in love.The chemistry is bad and that's before I read about how Nolte and Roberts didn't get along. I actually like Julia saying that he has no chance. This would be good as a non-rom-com. The age difference is a big part of it. There is a definite ick factor involved. Second, I don't get the comedy part of rom-com. The movie has little kids getting on the train and then the train crashes. Any comedy is dead right off the bat with the possible dead kids. This could be a thrilling investigation but the movie keeps jamming the rom-com at the audience. The constant light comedic tone is horribly distracting. The two hour running time is also 30 minutes too long. "},{"Title":"I Love Julia","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sabrina Peterson is a rising young journalist with a Chicago newspaper. Peter Brackett is a veteran columnist for a rival paper. After they are assigned by their respective editors to cover a major train accident they stumble upon a dangerous conspiracy (involving wrongdoing by a big chemical company). This could have been the plot of a standard thriller, something like Julia Roberts' previous film, The Pelican Brief, in which a rising young lawyer teams up with a journalist to expose a dangerous conspiracy involving wrongdoing by a big oil company. I Love Trouble, however, is not a standard thriller, but rather a light-hearted romantic comedy with thriller elements. A strong influence seems to have been the screwball comedies of the thirties and forties; one can imagine the role of Sabrina being taken by Katharine Hepburn with Cary Grant or Spencer Tracy as Peter.A common feature of these films is an element of friction between the male and female leads; they quarrel throughout but nevertheless end up falling in love. Perhaps the best modern example of a screwball comedy is the Coen brothers' Intolerable Cruelty in which George Clooney plays a cynical, manipulative divorce lawyer and Catherine Zeta Jones plays the mercenary, gold-digging ex-wife of one of his clients. In I Love Trouble the element of friction is provided by the rivalry between the two newspapers, which turns into rivalry between the two journalists. Peter initially takes a patronising attitude to Sabrina, whom he sees as raw and inexperienced, but she starts to win his respect when she scoops him over the train crash story. When they uncover the conspiracy they are forced to work together in order to survive, but nevertheless still continually try to outwit one another to get scoops for their papers.Since 1994 Roberts has become one of Hollywood's most successful romantic comedy actresses, but this was only her second film in the genre. The first, of course, was Pretty Woman, the film which first made her a major star, and like the earlier film, I Love Trouble is heavily dependent on Roberts. She not only looks lovely but also brings her brand of star quality, the ability to seize hold of a film and to make it her own personal property. Nick Nolte is not an actor whom I would necessarily have associated with romantic comedy, but here as Peter he makes a likable hero, even if at 53 (twice Roberts' age) he is perhaps rather too old for the part. Roberts and Nolte bring out the contrast between their two characters; she bright and enthusiastic, he cynical, hard-bitten and more laid back.I Love Trouble is a film which has largely been overlooked; even Roberts' greatest admirers would rarely rank it among her greatest achievements, and its current rating on this board is only 4.9. This is an attitude which I find difficult to understand. The film is not perhaps as complex as Pretty Woman or Notting Hill, or as funny as America's Sweethearts, but I would certainly prefer it to something like the over-formulaic and predictable Runaway Bride. Like most rom-coms it is a lightweight film, but it is an amusing and entertaining one which moves along at a good pace. 6/10 "}{"Title":"o.k. movie","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I HAVE SEEN THIS MOVIE,and I have to tell you the plot is really like something out of the 1970's.Although there is one good scene in it that I like.It is the scene were Julia Roberts character is getting out of the water at a lake dripping wet and naked,she is confronted by an entire group of boy scouts. Nick Nolty's character is the only thing standing between her and the boys about 10 to 14 years old.Julia Roberts begs him with everything inside her, not for him to move,he ask the boys,ANYBODY GOT A CAMERA,then he grabs a very short towel she's managed to get hold of that cant even cover her,and snatches it off of her body stripping leaving her completely wet and naked, at the same time he runs away from her leaving her in absolute and complete shock!!! She is so shocked that if you slow this part down and look,she only tries to cover her boobs leaving her totally and completely wet and naked,and her privates and belly totally exposed to the boys who have her surrounded,allowing them to take pictures of her instantly!!She cant do anything from being in shock,but to stand there, trying to cover her boobs, and gasping loudly. "},{"Title":"I Love Trouble","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Homage to Thin Man series is a bland suspense-comedy lacking in comedic chemistry between stars Nolte and Roberts and a lackluster mystery surrounding a train derailment, which pits  Chicago reporters Nolte and Roberts against one another...until they decide to band together to find the answers. Some brief moments of charm, but altogether flat.  "},{"Title":"One of the most charming, romantic, hilarious, and enchanting adventurous comedies I have ever seen","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" I LOVE TROUBLE, in my opinion, is one of the most charming, romantic, hilarious, and enchanting adventurous comedies I have ever seen. If you ask me, Alan Silvestri's score was absolutely romantic. In addition, I thought that the performances were superior, the directing was excellent, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the casting was perfect. Also, I was surprised that Peter (Nick Nolte) and Sabrina (Julia Roberts) fell in love for real after awhile. In addition, I was on the edge of my seat from start to finish. I'm sure you will be, too. Kudos to Charles Shyer and everyone involved for a job well done. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan Nick Nolte or Julia Roberts, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a feel good time, so see this movie today. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Julia Roberts nude","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you're a heterosexual male, there's only one reason for seeing this movie, or any part of it. And if you're reading this comment, you probably already know what it is, from the one line summary. I did write it to get the attention of aforementioned group. If you're not in it, feel free to ignore this comment or despise me. I'm used to it. Anyway, yes, in this movie, there is one scene where Julia Roberts is, even confirmed by the trivia segment of the main site for this film, completely naked. Of course, we don't see all that much... she is against nude scenes, after all. But what we see is enough to form about as close to a complete (and realistic, mind you) mental picture of her body. Anyway, it's probably as close as we're ever going to get, anyway. About the one-hour mark in the movie, about halfway in, Roberts is bathing nude in some water. She gets up and begins to pick up her clothes, covered by Nolte whom she stands behind. Then some boy-scouts show up, and, being heterosexual males, they of course stare at the lovely Julia, and who can blame them? Anyway, after some chit-chat between Nolte and Roberts, Nick decides to be a man and let the boys have an eyeful... he walks away, leaving Roberts standing butt-naked in front of the boys. We get plenty of alluring shots of her back, legs and thighs from behind, and this sight alone is enough to please me... no need for full nude shots. This sequence is the only thing in the movie worth watching for any straight man, I'm sorry to say. Should I go through the normal routine? Why not. The plot is dull and pointless, not to mention predictable. The pacing is awful. The acting is flat. The characters are mostly stereotypes, and all paper-thin. If you are forced to watch this movie by a girl who couldn't tell a good movie if it hit her in the face, just look forward to that one scene. If it's on TV one night, just keep half an eye open for that scene. If you're able to see it on VHS or DVD for free with no obligation to see the whole thing, fast-forward or go directly to the scene. If you're not in the group that this comment refers to, then by all means see the movie. Try desperately to explain how the movie is good, or even decent. I'll gladly shoot your comments into the ground with simple reasoning. I have seen the movie a few times, and after the first time(where I payed attention) I have only seen this one scene attentively. Do I have anything against the two stars? Not at all. Do I have something against formulaic movies? Yes, but not if the movie does offer something new. Argue with me all you want, in my eyes there is nothing worth spending time on in this movie apart from that one scene, if you're a straight guy. I recommend this film only to people who don't care about quality in movies, and big fans of the actors. I do think, though, that every single straight guy in the world should see the scene I've mentioned at least once in their lifetime, unless they find Julia Roberts to be more than just a little unattractive, of course. 5/10 "}]