[{"Title":"From the twilight of a legend gone too soon....","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"49 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many of the titles featured in this Internet Movie Database represent films that for various reasons are welcomed with scorn regardless of the good intentions of their creators. One such film is David Kirschner's The Pagemaster, created by him as a means to share with his two daughters, Alexis and Jessica (both of whom, by the way, have cameos in the film), the wonder of reading. The story was born out of a clandestine visit by David, Lexie and Jess Kirschner to the New York Public Library's Center for the Humanities (the Headquarters Branch). Both Kirschner girls were little back then, and Dad ran Hanna-Barbera at the time. But what those two chldren took out of that visit was a spectacular sense of wonder --- and, consequently, that's how their father developed the idea for The Pagemaster.Some 3 1/2 years later, the result of David's concept stands as a spectacularly imaginative adventure where the joy of reading is made manifest within the simple space of 75 minutes. What a lot of people grumble about, as far as this film is concerned, is the fact that this was Macaulay Culkin's penultimate appearance as a child actor. There were many in and out of Hollywood who wanted to see his career implode; and part of that, as we all know by now, was due to the bitter divorce and custdy battles between his parents. That, more than anything, was the lynchpin of the disgust most of us had for this kid.And what of the film itself? Well, the story of Richard Tyler still enchants me, if it doesn't anyone else. Who wouldn't want to have adventures with three delightful book characters representing their namesake genres --- Adventure (Patrick Stewart), Fantasy (Whoopi Goldberg) and Horror (Frank Welker)? Not only that, encountering both Jekyll and Hyde (Leonard Nimoy), Captain Ahab (George Hearn), Long John Silver (Jim Cummings) .... and a fire-breathing dragon --- and taking them on any way you can is perfect fodder for an 11-year-old constantly fearing the world around him.One particularly funny line in the film comes in the live-action prologue, co-starring Ed Begley, Jr. and Mel Harris as Richard's parents. Alan, the father (Begley), recalls to his wife Claire (Harris) the day he signed his son up for Little League Baseball ...he drove everybody crazy with statistics about how you can get a blood clot just by being hit on the head with a ball. 'Did you know that shin-splints can lead to blood clots in the legs?' Claire, he brought in a medical journal! Nobody wanted to play after that! And now, I'm building him a treehouse in a tree he refuses to climb! Looking back, it's not how Begley utters that line, but rather, it is the way he delivers it that makes me laugh.And then, there's James Horner's delightful score, punctuated by the central theme tune --- recorded as a single by Capitol recording artist Wendy Moten. Entitled Whatever You Imagine, the song, with lyrics by the indefatigable Barry Mann and Cynthia Weil, was even nominated for a Grammy, which, alas, it didn't win. But the tune was eventually embraced by yours truly; and has since been adopted as Blackwolf the Dragonmaster's personal song.These are just some of the special memories I have about The Pagemaster. But of course, it is the Pagemaster himself, voiced and spoken by Christopher Lloyd, who drives home the story's central point. It is he, more than anyone else, who gives Richard Tyler the strength he needs to confront his own fears, regardless of the world around him. The result, of course, is that, by the time our tale ends, Richard becomes a stronger and better person --- all thanks to the magic of books. I sincerely believe that, given the current popularity of the Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings books, the wisdom of the Pagemaster is paying off, long after the film has been forgotten. After all, without books, we couldn't take on the imagination in our own way fearlessly. And that, I think, is as much reward as a young person needs in this world. 'Nuff said.  "},{"Title":"I'M THE ONLY ONE WHO LOVES THIS MOVIE","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"32 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, in 1994 I was obsessed with Macaulay Culkin. When I saw a trailer for this film, I couldn't wait to see it. When I went to see it though, my family and I were the only ones in the theatre! The same thing happened to my aunt and my cousins. I remember loving the film. I wanted that awesome bike he had. I got the videogame, and I got my copy on video. AND JAMES HORNER'S SCORE WAS AMAZING! I thought it was a good movie that had all the genres, even cooler that it was live action/animation. It's sad about it's bomb at the box office. It's quite a forgettable film, but I love it and I still do. Don't forget that Joe Johnston who is now quite acclaimed directed the live action scenes. Great for him.  "},{"Title":"I honestly don't understand the 4.8 rating, for I thought this movie was terrific!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Pagemaster in my opinion, was a wonderful film, and I do think the 4.8 rating is too low. I have seen much worse movies, that are rated higher than that. Sure it's not Disney, but it is a good family film that I guarantee if you give it a chance that the whole family will love. The animation is not so bad, perhaps a little dated and rushed, but I've seen worse, and the dragon was excellent. The music by James Horner was beautiful, very fitting with what was going on on screen, very reminiscent of Land Before Time and Once Upon a Forest, and Whatever You imagine was amazing. The story tells of a young boy named Richard, who is serious and fearful of everything, until an unexpected visit to the library changes his life forever. I loved the story and the clever and diverse references to the literary giants, like Treasure Island, Jekyll and Hyde and Moby Dick, and the message of the film about facing your fears that doesn't preach. Macaulay Culkin is excellent here as is Christopher Lloyd, and Patrick Stewart (rousing and witty), Whoopi Goldberg (sugar and starch) and Frank Welker (in a fine Igor impression) expertly bring the snappy screenplay to life. I loved the witty banter between Adventure and Fantasy, and the librarian's rant about the different literary genres. And I don't think it is Macaulay Culkin or Christopher Lloyd's worst film, Culkin's was Richie Rich, Lloyd's was My Favourite Martian. All in all, a terrific film, with a 10/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"This movie deserves a place in your collection!","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"25 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a great movie. This kid, Richard Tyler, played by young Macaulay Culkin, is really paranoid, and always talks about injury-related statistics. During a frightening storm, he takes temporary refuge from the rain in a library, run by the eerie Mr. Dewey, played by Christopher Lloyd. Richard is instructed to find a pay phone so he can tell his parents where he is.In the middle of the library, there's a huge ceiling painting of Dr. Jekyll, Mr. Hyde, Long John Silver and his crew from Treasure Island, Captain Aham and Moby Dick, a fierce dragon, and in the center, an old man with a long white beard and nobleman clothes holding a scroll. The ceiling starts dripping paint, and the globs are transformed into a huge dragon, which transforms everything it touches into animation. Richard, now a cartoon, meets the old man, the Pagemaster, who tells him that to get out of the library and return to normal, he must past three tests, described only as adventure, horror, and fantasy.Soon, he also meets three hilarious talking books. The first, Adventure, played by Patrick Stewart, is probably the funniest guy in the movie. The second, Fantasy, played by Whoopi Goldberg, is also funny, but it's because of her attitude. The third, Horror, played by Frank Welker, is a brain-dead coward who looks like Frankenstein's Monster. With his three new friends, Richard has to pass the tests to get his normal form back, admittance to the exit, and most of all...the courage he never thought he had. "},{"Title":"Peters Out Quickly","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"23 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The beginning of this movie is excellent with tremendous sound and some nice humor, but once the film changes into animation it quickly loses its appeal.One of the reasons that was so, at least for me, was that the colors in much of the animation are too muted, with too little contrast. It doesn't look good, at least on VHS. Once in a while it breaks out and looks great, but not often Also, the characters come and go too quickly. For example, I would have liked to have seen more of Moby Dick. When the film starts to drag, however, it picks up again with the entrance of the dragon and then the film finishes strong. Overall, just not memorable enough or able to compete with the great animated films of the last dozen years. "},{"Title":"Get away from the computer and read a book, gosh darn it!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Pagemaster may have been the only really good movie that Macaulay Culkin ever did. Playing accident-obsessed youngster Richard Tyler, who goes to the library and gets transferred into a world of horror, fantasy and adventure, he makes the most of the role. Patrick Stewart (a pirate-like book named Adventure), Whoopi Goldberg (a fairy-like book named Fantasy) and Frank Welker (a maladroit book named Horror) show themselves to be as adept in these kinds of movies as they are in their normal roles, as does Christopher Lloyd (the librarian and the Pagemaster).All in all, this movie really shows you how much there is to read. I think that my favorite scene was the whole Jekyll and Hyde sequence - although the dripping painting was also pretty impressive. A very well done movie. Also starring Ed Begley Jr., Mel Harris, and the voices of Leonard Nimoy, Dorian Harewood and Phil Hartman. "},{"Title":"J'adore!","Date":"10 June 2010","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" - It's in the middle, by the waterfall! - No, it's East.. by some broccoli.I'm sorry. But I absolutely love this movie! I remember it so well from when I was a kid, how I watched it over and over again, never getting tired of it. For years I have been wanting to see it again, but I couldn't remember what it was called. And when I Finally found it, I was a bit scared to actually see it. I mean, whenever you have had so high expectations on a movie (especially one that you've seen and loved as a child) you always in some way get more or less disappointed. But this time I have to say I didn't! Sure, the colors and contrast isn't as powerful as it could be and the part where he gets chased by the color isn't half as realistic as I remembered it too be, but for a 4-yearold (which I was at the time this came out) it's more than enough to get the engines running! This movie is partially responsible for my massive interest and collection of fantasy-books and movies at home, as well as my ridiculous fear of thunder. I mean, come on, it's really nicely put together! It's got it all! Plus, even if they are only in there for a short period of time, you build up an interest for all the stories you come across throughout the story, like Moby Dick and Dr Jekyll. And that was the intention of the maker of this move, right? To get the children into reading. At least I remember asking my mum to read all those stories to me after seeing this! Okey, maybe I'm letting myself get a bit carried away.. I'll be honest, If I hadn't seen this as a kid or had kids myself, I probably wouldn't think that much of it. It's a bit dated which we all can tell and with todays technology you could make this 10 times better . But setting that aside, this is a timeless story! And I hope that when I have kids myself, this movie will help them get their lazy asses away from the computer and into the library.In the end I will not rate this movie from an adult living in our time's point of view, but from the heart of a little girl. And never the less, this adults heart still beats hard for this movie. "},{"Title":"this movie only has a 4.8? this movie was like, 70% my childhood!","Date":"25 January 2010","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie as a kid, and hell, I STILL do. Some of the cgi doesn't holdup as well, but then again, this is 2010 and that was 1994, so I'll cut that some slack. Yeah, maybe from an adult's POV this movie isn't so incredible, but then again, this is a movie made for kids, and I liked it as a child. It was a lot of fun, and It's still, easily, my favorite animated (slash live-action) film of all-time. I knock it down from a 10 because of the running time (about 75 minutes) but other than that, I see nothing bad about this film. A fantastic ride from start to finish, this epic tale of a young boy who is way to afraid of everything who's path leads him to courage is one I'll never forget. A Truly underrated movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"Part of my childhood","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Just because something is part of my childhood doesn't mean it's good, and this movie is really not a great animated film. It's got a nice message, and it looks good, but the premise of jumping from storybook to storybook gets tiring by the end.Richard Tyler (McCaulay Culkin) is a scaredy cat who's always getting picked on. On a stormy night he gets stuck in a library, and ends up animated with several book friends. He meets Fantasy (Whoopie Goldberg), Adventure (Patrick Stewart) and Horror (Frank Welker), and he goes through many famous books. The plot is very slim, and kind of just jumps around from book to book, but it actually works very well. This also has a great musical score and it manages to make the movie sad at times. Unlike many animated films, you actually come to like the characters by the end, and that's hard to do.The Pagemaster is a very underrated, good animated movie that will appeal to kids and will amuse adults.My rating *** out of ****. 70 mins. Rated G "},{"Title":"People have lost too much imagination over the years!!!","Date":"22 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I only review the movies I really adore, some will slip that I don't adore but this one isn't one of them, it seems that over the years people have lost a lot of imagination, it seems as we go through the future we realize what cannot be true is so phony, but as I see it people will return to it one time, I am still a really liker of imagination, but people today don't wanna believe the things that no one can believe, so because of that this movie haven't got a lot of good reviews, I want to do this movie justice...The pagemaster is made for kids and adults who still dreams, it isn't the most serious movie at all but it does have some spots that has deemed it serious, mostly it is a movie that should be taken lightly.This movie wants us to be taught something like many others of its nature, in this movie we are taught two major things first 1. to take choices and not be afraid, to do things we normally would be a afraid of as a child, second 2. it teaches us the main thing, to believe, simply just to believe, we all know none of this is real but why do we have to disband these movies, they are imagination, fantasy something many today could need a whole lot more of.This movie is also done very good by the actors, they chose the right actors for every voice in the movie, but my favorite is of course Christopher Loyd as the Pagemaster, the one who granted a single wish for a kid who were afraid of everything.The music is perfect in this movie, as it is a fantasy music like this is needed, this is something people and companies have at least kept forever and haven't still forgot, now if only they would do the same for fantasy, for imagination, we all have a child in us, why grow up so fast, we get to be mature but that doesn't mean we have to let go the things that made us into what we are today, many of these movies have been forgotten but they will always stay inside us, so now it is time to say that this movie is all that it is a classic, a classic people just forgot.As I said above I only do reviews of movies I like, not movies I don't like so of course this is one of my favorite, I grew up watching movies like this, enjoy it, and for do yourself a favor and watch it again, slowly fall inside imagination, just one more time, it is worth it...Shh I have a talent for guessing what people need "}{"Title":"Predictable 90s part-animated film that has not stood the test of time","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The main argument that I have against this film is that it seems to try, and subsequently fails, to be Disneyesque. As a result, it does not come across as an original or innovative idea. However, this is definitely not the only thing wrong with this disappointing feel-good extravaganza.First of all, there are some definite cast issues Macaulay Culkin is quite unbearably irritating as the cowardly Richard Tyler, a role that, in my opinion, would have benefited a lot from a more comic portrayal that would have made the audience relate to him more easily. Another annoying feature is Whoopi Goldberg as Tyler's animated literary companion, Fantasy. She is the wise-cracking character that you find very often in animated feature films, like the Genie from Aladdin (portrayed engagingly by Robin Williams), except that Goldberg, for all her talent, does not really have the extreme pathos that Williams had, and that the role requires. Patrick Stewart, the man with one of the greatest voices to ever grace the big screen, is somewhat wasted as the obligatory coward-who-thinks-he's-so-brave, Adventure, and although Frank Welker's Horror (the hunchbook) is amiable, the character still comes across as boringly formulaic, like the film. The cast's only real saving grace is the live-action Christopher Lloyd as Mr Dewey the librarian, not to mention the latter's animated alter-ego, the Pagemaster. As he so often is, Lloyd is brilliantly over the top. Otherwise, the only other interesting vocal contribution is that of Leonard Nimoy as Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, although his appearance is limited to a small cameo.Furthermore, the animation, for a modern day viewer, is not impressive enough to distract the audience from the dull plot, and neither is the dialogue, which falls flat (especially with Culkin's unenthusiastic delivery) and the gags are mostly grindingly facetious and unfunny (Would you like to crawl into a corner with a good book?). There is also a song in the middle of the film, Whatever You Imagine, written by Barry Mann, James Horner and Cynthia Weil, and performed by Wendy Moten. The song seems to be an attempt at capturing the Disney feel of incorporating Pop songs into the story-line. However, whether you like Disney's songs or not, you have to admire their talent for incorporating them into the plot, as can be seen in The Lion King (a film of which I, personally, am not tremendously fond) with Elton John and Tim Rices' Oscar-winning Can You Feel the Love Tonight, not to mention the other songs that they wrote for that film, all of which fit seamlessly into the plot. In The Pagemaster, no such cohesion between plot and music is achieved even minimally.However, although this film is mostly disappointing, not all is lost. The story, for all its flaws, wastes no time in getting started, and there is a certain nostalgia surrounding the film for the endless stream of, mostly mediocre, but still harmless, cartoons of the 90s, when computer-generated animation was yet to be exploited. The film does make a respectable attempt at being educational on the literary world, but some of the references are too fleeting (more Sherlock Holmes would not have gone amiss) while others were given too much emphasis, especially the Treasure Island segment, although Long John Silver is quite endearingly modeled on Robert Newton's classic portrayal of the character from the 1950 motion picture. Pixote Hunt, Maurice Hunt and Joe Johnston handle the direction skillfully, and, had the script and the story been polished up, this film just might have been passable. Having said that, I can't deny that, when I first saw the film, as a young boy, around ten odd years ago, I was sufficiently entertained, so it is definitely a good, innocent film to plant your children in front of if it's on television, but definitely not worth buying. "},{"Title":"A nostalgic childhood favorite of mine holds up today after 20 years have passed","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hello. This is gavin.thelordofthefuture and this would be a review of a film that I've seen twenty years ago when I was a kid. The story about an 11 year old boy with statistics named Richard Tyler who stumbles upon a library during a thunderstorm and enters it. After meeting an old librarian, he goes to the fiction section and sees a mural with four pictures, but little did he realized that he gets transported to a world where every fiction story comes to life and sees a wise old sorcerer called the Pagemaster. Then, his adventure begins and meets three fiction books named Adventure, Fantasy, and Horror and together, they must encounter haunted houses, pirates, and monsters in order to help get Richard back home.Why am I reviewing this in the middle of a Christmas break? Well, let's just say that I've been watching this since I was a child and seeing how it has been 20 years, that's why I made that risky decision. Now, is there anything that I don't like about The Pagemaster? Well, let's just say that the only nitpick I do have is the animation. Don't get me wrong. It's beautiful and is very creative in it's making of the world of literary including Dr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde, the pirates led by Captain Long John Silver, and the Dragon in the climax of the film, but as time went by, it became a little dated to me.Anyway, everything else still holds up. The story is very engaging with very clever writing and the morals about facing your fears and using your imagination doesn't preach on you as it is done perfectly. Also, it has some very good characters and they still hold up to this day. Macaulay Culkin is likable as Richard Tyler, Christopher Lloyd relishes his role as the librarian Mr. Dewey and The Pagemaster, and the three talking books, Adventure, a swashbuckling pirate book with Patrick Stewart's solid pirate accent, Fantasy, a sassy, but caring fairy tale book who pulls off some nice humorous moments while being wise thanks to Whoopi Goldberg, and Horror, a fearful Hunchbook and also has some funny bits with the famous Frank Welker, known for voicing animal creatures in other animated films. The other characters are also good with cameos from Leonard Nimoy as Dr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde, Phil Hartman as one of the pirate crew members Tom Morgan and Jim Cummings as Long John Silver.The pacing is very brisk and doesn't come to the point where it would bore me to death, but the best part about The Pagemaster is the music score from James Horner, one of my favorite music composers. To some, it does copy music elements from his other scores from Star Trek II and others, but to me, it has a nostalgic value to it. Why, you may ask? Well, the reason why I brought this up is because it does a solid job interpreting the theme song Whatever You Imagine that plays throughout the movie and has been stuck with me since my childhood ended. That piece of music alone is what made me watch this film over and over again.Overall, The Pagemaster became one of my childhood films and today, it still holds up. It has an engaging story, some likable characters, some clever writing, and some really beautiful music. As those aspects stayed with me in my memory, this deserves a gold trophy of recommendation as a film that is worth watching to some who hasn't seen it yet. Check it out and relive your imagination! "},{"Title":"Consider this your passport to the wonderful and quite unpredictable world of books.","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A timid boy, frightened of everything, takes shelter in an empty library during a storm. While trying to make a phone call, he slips on the floor and is knocked unconscious. When he comes to, he is an illustration in a land of books, ruled by the mysterious Pagemaster. In order to get home again, he must face perilous adventures with the help of Fantasy, Adventure and Horror.When I was a child and a teenager, many years ago now, books were my best friends. I spent more time in Middle Earth, in nightmare worlds, in the future history of such writers as Heinlein, Asimov and Clarke, and in the worlds of Jules Verne, Lovecraft and Edgar Allan Poe than I did in the world of flesh and blood. Did you ever get so lost in the pages of a book that you were really there? The Pagemaster endeavors to put across this blending of reality and fiction which can only be achieved in the printed word, and while it doesn't completely succeed, it is a charming story and an entertaining family movie. It moves along quickly enough that it doesn't get boring.The mixture of live action and animation fits the story well, in the same way that the use of black and white and color suit The Wizard of Oz. Christopher Lloyd's performance in the early part of the film when he is clearly in love with books and thinks he has found a kindred spirit is brilliant.All in all, not a bad film. I think I prefer something like The Neverending Story (1984, Wolfgang Petersen) for a movie with a similar theme, but this is still fun and worth watching with the whole family. "},{"Title":"An under-appreciated treat...","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Contrary to this film's IMDb rating, it truly is a beautiful, and sweet film.I only saw it once when I was a kid, and always remembered liking it. I found it and watched it again, and found that I loved it.(SPOILERS) The movie is about a little boy named Richard, who fears all sorts of things... because he only reads science documents, and not fictional stories. Caught in a storm, while running an errand, he ends up scaring him into running into an old library for shelter. He meets the library keeper, and winds up getting a library card (despite the fact that he tries to tell the man he didn't come to get books.) After he asks the man if he can use a phone to call his parents, he ends up finding himself caught in an animated world, filled with adventure, fantasy, and horror, and meets three books of those three genres. Richard and the books go on a quest to help return him home, and little Richard learns to face his fears.Very sweet story, wonderful casting (including the talents of Leonard Nimoy, Christopher Lloyd, Frank Welker, Patrick Stewart, and Whoopi Goldberg), and adorable animation, make this film a true gem. Very good movie for the whole family. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie as well, I remember having it on video when i was young and i wore it out so i had to buy another one but couldn't find it anywhere,I'm trying to get it on DVD at the moment as well.Something that i don't understand is that no one I know seems to have ever heard of it!Which is just ridiculous! I've always been a real book worm and when I was younger this film summed up everything I loved about books, and I guess it still does! It's amazing how such a brilliant film can go unnoticed, I honestly learnt some important lessons from it, as I am sure many other children did, and it's one of the most memorable movies from my childhood! If you get the chance to watch this film, please please do!Ignore everything written by the 'proper' critics and watch it for yourself before deciding what you think! "},{"Title":"An awesome film for a literary person like me","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like I said (a million times), I was shocked and surprised by the negative reviews I would see on the web. I thought it's a great film with a excellent soundtrack score by the James Horner (An American Tail, Krull, Titanic, Troy, etc), and a wonderful blend of live action and animation. This film became one of my favorite live action/animated films along with Disney's Song of The South (also the new film Enchanted), and Arthur and The Invisibles.The film starts with 10-year-old Richard Tyler who is scared to do anything that might endanger him, like riding his bike, or climbing into his treehouse. While seeking shelter from a storm in an old library, he is mystically transported into the animated wonderful and quite unpredictable world of books. I love the main title sequence with the clouds that was awesome! and the mural in the library too. "},{"Title":"A Film Which Reads Like Great Fiction","Date":"4 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Pagemaster is one of my favourite films of all time. A wonderful combination of animation, live-action and CGI brings to life this enchanting story. This film has a host of great actors and voice actors to bring alive this film. Macaulay Culkin stars as a timid troubled boy, Richard Tyler, who fears virtually everything. On an errand for his father, he stumble into a library where he is soon turned into an illustration. The Pagemaster (Christopher Lloyd) sends him on a journey into the library's fiction section to find the exit and to face his fears. Along the way, Richard is joined by a trio of animated books - swashbuckling Adventure (Patrick Stewart), sassy fairy tale book Fantasy (Whoopi Goldberg) and fearful Horror (Frank Welker). Together, the friends encounter some classic ficitonal characters as they search for the way home. An incredibly enchanting film, made by some of the world's best film animators. I give it a 10/10 "},{"Title":"great","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can anyone not like this movie. It is great in making kids aware of the joys and wonder of reading. It was short enough that most kids can sit through it without getting too impatient told a great story and doesn't get too preachy about the importance of reading. "},{"Title":"It's 'okay' at a stretch","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Now this was popular with Cartoon Network, when I was growing up this was always a classic movie special for the channel, and as a kid I do have some fond memories of this film. But as an adult I can see the problems of which there are many.What's the marshmallow? Macaulay Culkin plays Richard Tyler, a nervous and awkward child who allows statistics to control his life, meaning he never does anything sporty or risky like other kids. This all changes though when he enters a creepy library to escape a raging storm, and is soon thrown into an enchanted animated world where he has to locate the exit. On the way he picks up three books, Adventure, Fantasy and Horror, who help him embark on his quest through the library and all the mysterious and strange wonders it may entail.Now, the problems. It is quite slow in places which even as a kid left me rather turned off to it. At the same time there are quite a few little holes in the story that do make you scratch your head in confusion. Another problem I found as a kid was the fact that it only dabbled in three genres of literature. What about Science Fiction, Non-Fiction, Action, Celebrity Autobiography? I realise they're trying to keep it simple, but it didn't have to be as simple as that! Also, it's simplistic nature does cause some issues when they come across literary legends as they're literally just glanced over! If it weren't for the fact that I'd heard of these icons of novels already, you wouldn't know who they were or what stories they were from as the movie never takes the time to explain them properly!But on the plus side, the animation is very good, with some lovely colours and an interesting art style. As a kid I never had any complaints on that front. Another good thing is that the story, while as mentioned slow in places, does keep you gripped long enough to watch it.On the whole, a lot of problems with the film, but at the same time some good things that will keep you entertained. Perhaps for younger kids I'd say this movie is recommended, but for adults you'll probably find yourself disinterested. "},{"Title":"For 90s Kids Only.","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a 90s baby, I grew up watching this. The Pagemaster and a whole slew of other fun kiddie movies were the bomb. Now that I am an adult with a vast knowledge of movies, I have come to the conclusion that lots of the cool things I grew up watching really weren't that good. Compared to nowadays things, the stuff I grew up with are all epic masterpieces. When not compared and when not tying into any bit of nostalgia, I can understand why movies like The Pagemaster was not very well received.In one of Culkin's most underrated roles, he plays a total geeks who is afraid of everything. Nothing wrong with that. His parents are worried about him and will do anything to make him grow out of his shell. Nothing wrong with that. His dad (Ed Begley Jr.) sends him to a hardware store to buy nails. He wants his son to go alone to get some guts. Nothing wrong with that (I found). He takes his bike where he encounters a group of school bullies doing bike tricks on unfinished road construction with no workers around. Red light! How unrealistic is that!? He decides to take another route which lands him in the middle of a rain storm. I highly doubt a smart kid in the suburbs would not know another way. He goes into a library for shelter and meets a freaky librarian (Christopher Lloyd). This is where the problems subside. One thing leads to another and finds himself a cartoon with real life literary characters and book genres. He gets himself with Fantasy, Horror, and Adventure involved in different classic novel scenarios such as Moby Dick. Most of the movie is Culkin as a cartoon and the animation is great. The movie is supposed to make books seem like a ton of fun and it succeeds and turn a wuss into a daredevil (slight exaggeration). I was just very under-welmed with how everything was undertaken. The movie is 75 in length, but it feels like a lot longer. There were set-ups and aftermaths of each of his tasks like there should be, but they are all just weak. Wendy Moten composes a tremendous tune called Whatever You Imagine that I love and that plays a few times in this, but does not do much to help. I love everything that came out between 1990 and 2000. The fashion, music and movies are all near and dear to my heart. I don't care that The Pagemaster was not what I remembered because it takes me back anyway to a better time in my life. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The setup A cowardly boy who buries himself in accident statistics enters a library to escape a storm only to be transformed into an animated illustration by the Pagemaster. He has to work through obstacles from classic books to return to real life.The verdict It solidified the comeback for Culkin as a unique presence in American cinema. Yes, this does remind me a lot of Dragon's Den. In some ways it is the most ridiculous thing I've seen in years. Some of the dialog could be better. The story is well told and gives you a good idea of how Culkin becomes the hero. My only problem with the film was the supporting cast, but it's still okay. "},{"Title":"Moldy pages . . .","Date":"14 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'The Pagemaster' is no less innocuous than those grade school posters proclaiming the importance of reading. Here is a movie whose major subject is reading but it doesn't seem to have read any of the books it seems to be advertising.Macaulay Culkin stars as a kid who fears everything, stays locked in his room and knows everything about how bad and dangerous everything is (statistically). One day riding home from school he gets caught in a storm and wanders into a library not a million light years removed from Myst. He falls down an hits his head on the floor and the library mural featuring Captain Ahab, Dr. Jeckyll and Long John Silver spring to life. Suddenly he finds that he is in an animated world being chased around by this unholy trio who don't resemble any of the characters that I ever read.A hero in an animated film has to have sidekicks and here we get three talking books Fantasy (voice of Whoopi Goldberg), Adventure (voice of Patrick Stewart) and Horror (grunting voice of Frank Welker).The object of this world is that the kid will meet up with all three of the literary villains and find the nerve to stand up for himself.That's fine but the problem is that he never gains any real insight into what the books can teach him. The characters of Ahab, Jekyll and Silver are written without the slightest notion of what has made them last generation after generation in their respective classics (Ahab, Jekyll and Silver are so far removed that they could have been packaged with the first names Hershel, Myron and Shecky). The villains here are just that, villains to knock the hero around until he bucks up the courage to face them.The animation in 'The Pagemaster' is third-rate coming on the heels of 'The Lion King' and 'Aladdin'. The production looks dusty and drab, more like a cousin to The Incredible Mr. Limpet.In that, the movie doesn't really do anything that it sets out to do, here you have what essentially boils down to a chase picture in which the hero faces the villains one by one. I hope that children who sit through this movie will already know that machinations behind these characters so that this won't be their first exposure to them. "},{"Title":"The Pagemaster deserves better!","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I was a little girl, I used to love this movie and I truly believe it deserves a better rating. I haven't watched it in years and yet, I still remember the huge library, the three different books (Adventure, Horror and Fantasy if I remember well), their related stories and universes. I remember understanding the cowardice of the boy (why are heroes always so confident?) and how he overcomes it. And as a French student of English literature, I believe it's a nice way for a child to approach some classics of British literature. It could even be used in schools (am I going too far? aha). Perhaps that if I watched it now, as an adult, I'd hate it. But does it really matter? It's meant for kids anyway! "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not sure what exactly pulled me into the world of books - perhaps it was mostly Harry Potter - but I am absolutely certain that The Pagemaster had its hand in introducing me to the idea of stories. I read a few reviews complaining that movies shouldn't be telling kids to read more books, but I would argue that it isn't exactly the point of this film.As a very shy and anxious child myself, I identified with Richard Tyler (the main character). This story is about overcoming your fears. It is also about stories - not just books, but stories overall. Perhaps this is just my belief, but I think stories influence a person's life more than any other form of media. Movies are fast forms of stories (and not at all as deep as books), but that doesn't make them bad forms.Moreover, I don't know if anyone else noticed, but the plot moved from a place of fear - the horror section - to fantasy, plus they had to go through adventure to get there. Personally, I think this is a great message.Regarding the animation, it isn't as terrible as everyone is saying. No, it isn't Disney quality, but it serves its purpose just fine. Its no worse than watching a lot of older Disney movies. If people dislike the movie due to the animation, then I would counter that they aren't paying much attention to the quality of the story itself. One thing I did not like about this film was the cheesy song when they enter the fantasy world. If you think you can bear one potentially annoying song then you'll be fine. As it is a cartoon, they must have their LSD moment in there somewhere. "},{"Title":"common","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" it has a beautiful idea - introduce the young people in the great books universe.than, it is nice, not extraordinary but decent, amusing option for each age. it is a common film but few moments, the different way to discover the books, crumbs from another films, dust of other characters for actors, the soft feeling of a animation movie are good ingredients for not rejected it. the mixture between actors and animation is not really inspired but it is not boring or deep unrealistic. and, more important, Culkin is himself. so, not surprises. or great expectations. a film about books can not be an error. at least, the good intentions are precious. this film is an example. "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The story is OK, considering its for the younger generation or meant as a family movie.About the technical part, very well animated, pretty decent camera angles but a little poorly edited.This movie could've been a little longer. After about 26 minutes in begins to jump between stories and does so way to much and way to fast. Going from the Raven (short reference), Dr. Jeckyl and Mr Hyde, Moby Dick to Long John Silver. in a matter of 10 minutes. Also there is a sequence where two of the characters are presumed dead but you don't get a pause or anything. Allow the audience to savor the narrative and feel something about whats just happened.Also, some things makes no sense. Near the end of the story they get chased by a dragon. three characters hide in a cave and one keeps running. There is a short moment of romance between two characters, Adventure and Fantasy. First they kiss and everything is fine, then Adventure says something offending and gets kicked out of their shelter. Yes because we all know that remarks like that from someone you just kissed is punishable by death! How does that make sense? Also, Adventure gets INCINIRATED by the dragon but returns to the cave with a cartoonish flamed look. How does that make sense? Why run from something that can't harm you? Overall, its a OK movie. If you want a decent adventure movie aimed at children then you will enjoy the Pagemaster. "},{"Title":"fantastic kids movie","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this is a fantastic kids movie, with great animations and fun characters. yes its has some boring bits that are great for bathroom brakes but it is overall a funny kids movie. i am 16 and i still love to watch this and show it to the kids i babysit.be warned it has some semi-scary scenes that could make little kids jump, but over all i would absolutely recommend this movie to any one. it is cute funny and has simple character development and plot development so kids can follow it.over all i think it is a must see great family film. kids will get a great laugh out of the three lovely book that follow the journey and the incorporation of timeless characters that are mixed into the story as he searches for a way home. "},{"Title":"There's a lot in it to complain about, but I did marginally enjoy the film","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Pagemaster is a heavily flawed, highly panned family movie about a boy with fears of just about everything learning to overcome his fears when he becomes trapped into the world of illustrations in a strange library run by an eccentric man played by Christopher Lloyd. The film starts out with live action, switches to complete cartoon animation for most of the screen time, and then returns to live action for the last few minutes. Now to be honest, the quality of the animation sucks. It is dull, has very little vibrance, and looks more like a low-budget Saturday afternoon ten-minute cartoon. Which is a shame, for the script is good and the characters are more likable than their 2-Dimensional appearances.The film explores the worlds created by several different authors of classic literature including Capt. Ahab's mad obsession with hunting the white whale Moby Dick, to pirates seeking fortune on Treasure Island, the two-sided character of Dr. Jekyll, and so on and so forth. The bottom line is, despite the dry appearance, I did enjoy the substance that was held underneath.As a note, the title of the film has very little to do with the plot of the movie, and I did marginally enjoy The Pagemaster. It's just a shame that the filmmakers didn't put more budget, time, and effort into making the animation more vibrant and colorful and more attractive like the live action parts that were wonderfully done and directed. I compliment the acting jobs as well, and although I do not recommend The Pagemaster and had a lot to complain about it, I will not deny that I did like it. "},{"Title":"A strange and unhappy mix of numerous films and dreadful artwork","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First of all, I'd like to point out that I saw this movie just by accident. I mean, it was only by occasion that I had a chance to watch it and, even though I had not the foggiest idea of what was the movie about, I decided to watch it because I was in the mood of seeing something different. I knew this was an animated movie, but I didn't know it was a combination of live-action and animation. That was a big surprise when I started watching the movie. But even before that I was surprised when I looked at the opening credits because there was a list of famous actors, such as the legendary and unforgettable Macaulay Culkin, Cristopher Lloyd, Whoopi Goldberg and Patrick Stewart. I was delighted because it stars the great Macaulay Culkin.The story introduces Richard Tyler (portrayed by Macaulay Culkin), an intellectual boy obsessed and concerned about statistics of nearly everything. He lives with his parents but seems to be a lonely boy with practically no friends. That and his obsession for statistics worries his parents. When he goes to a library, he meets an eccentric librarian, Mr. Dewey (played by Cristopher Lloyd), who believes Richard is desperate for a book about a fantasy world with adventure, danger, darkness, dragons and so on. After that, Richard sees a spectacular roof painted with strange characters and fantastic creatures. Then he accidentally slips on some water and falls down unconscious. What's next? Well, Richard and everything around him is transformed into illustrations. Richard lives great dangers and adventures in a world of fantasy and horror, including being swallowed by a enormous fire-breathing dragon.The movie starts very well and (I've gotta admit this) it has some spectacular and very creative special effects in the library. Next, the movie becomes animated, but not for good. While the animation is good, I can't say the same about the rest. The designs/drawings, sceneries, picture quality and artwork in general are nothing but dreadful. That fantasy world is a horrible place. The animated characters themselves are, most of them, very ugly. The illustrated Richard looks good and similar to Macaulay Culkin and the giant dragon looks absolutely amazing, but the rest of the characters are too much and annoying, especially those animated books Adventure (a pirate-like book), Fantasy (a fairy-tale shaped book) and Horror (a horrific-looking book). Through great part of the movie, I found similarities and common elements to other movies and stories. Where do I begin? The tree-house idea comes from Home Alone. The fact that Macaulay Culkin wears glasses here is a similarity to his character from My Girl. A treasure island and the one-legged pirate Long John Silver comes directly from Treasure Island. There are also elements from Peter Pan and Moby Dick. But that's not all common elements with Jack and the Beanstalk, Harry Potter, The Lord of the Rings, The Black Cauldron, Sleeping Beauty, Ghost Busters and even with Asian anime cartoons are another reality. Some similarities with The NeverEnding Story can be found either. In the fantasy world, Richard is sent to a quest to face his fears. Another good example is the fact that he goes to a library (in this case, in the live-action world) and meets an eccentric librarian who tells him about strange and fantastic stories. Another similarity is that Richard gets angry in the end, for all they made him been through.Back to real life and the live-action world, Richard is still unconscious but when he wakes up, he seems to become a stronger boy and more ready to face life's problems.A good movie? Definitely not for me. Like I said, it starts very well and promising, but turns out to be a major disappointment when it becomes animated. Its combination of so many stories doesn't work well and its artwork is really terrible. The movie is also extremely dark, like The Black Cauldron and The Lord of the Rings, for example, which doesn't help either. Overall, a good movie for kids, but for adults I'm not so sure. It all depends on each person's tastes.At least Macaulay Culkin deserves credit for his performance. He might have messed up his life later, but he always proved to be an excellent actor. This was one of his last movies and may have been an attempt to do something different, but turned out to be unsuccessful. "},{"Title":"Could be so much more...","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched the film with a six yr old and we agreed that while The Pagemaster was decent conceptually, it was a moderately disappointing end product. That the main character was so foreign to us, the action so muted, and the magic so humdrum, we felt we rather watched the movie from afar than joined in the adventure with Richard Tyler. Perhaps the best part--the literary portal. Otherwise, a weak beginning, a weak ending, an unremarkable middle, and yet, a pleasant enough way to pass the time. Of course, it was just that, a passing of time, and not a use of it. Targeting a younger audience one would think the moviemakers would capitalize on its influence. We sat begging to be swept away, and because we wished it it was so, but not boldly enough with breathtaking sights and stirring sounds. How did Richard Tyler become so neurotic? Why? His parents seemed decent enough, yet even they were completely clueless. And the end--is that really it?! Just like that? Most importantly, the stories entered were not even decent teases. That was perhaps the most disappointing part. Ah--the worlds to which we could go given a ship with a steady course. But this one ventured to and fro, stopping nowhere long enough for us to disembark and lose ourselves in our surroundings. See it and then pool your money with friends for the remake...think Peter Pan or A Wrinkle in Time...  "}{"Title":"Wait a minute, a movie telling kids to read more? That's like McDonalds telling people to eat their vegetables!","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why is the movie telling kids to read more? Wouldn't that hurt your movie profit if all the children are reading books rather than watching your mediocre movie? I guess, I know why this movie bomb when it came out. Still, to me, personally. This movie isn't half bad. It's pretty OK to me. Take a look, it's in a book! Reading rainbow starts out, oops I meant, Page master starts out with ten year old Richard Tyler (Macaulay Culkin) who fears everything. By everything, I meant everything. He doesn't seem like not a real life character anyways due to his overused of statistics and encyclopedia size facts that come out of nowhere. I don't know why the movie choice Richard to be the main character, because he's probably had read some kind of book before. He had to get find those facts somewhere. He's already a book worm, but the movie is making him look like he never read a book before. One day, Richard gets caught in a harsh thunderstorm on a bike trip and takes shelter in a library. Here, he is met by Mr. Dewey (Christopher Lloyd), an eccentric librarian who tries to find a book for Richard and gives him a library card. Christopher Lloyd over acts and is somewhat creepy in this scene. Richard wanders off and finds a large rotunda painted with classic fictional characters that he supposing don't know of. Richard slips on some water that had dripped from his coat and falls down, hitting his head and knocking him unconscious. He awakens and finds the rotunda paintings melting, forming a wave of color that transforms him and the library into illustrations. This is where Director Jon Johnston ends, and directors of the animation parts, Pixote Hunt and Glenn Chaika start. Richard is approached by the Pagemaster (Also Christopher Lloyd) who sends him on a journey into the fiction section to find the exit. It's funny how the Page Master puts Richard in life threating danger just to prove a point that he has courage in him. It's like putting a young baby in a lion cage and tell it to grow up. It's not like reading will make you brave, anyways. Only survivoring through those life threating events can do that. Reading about interesting characters in books isn't truly living, folks. Being a interesting character in real life and living through something is truly living. Along the way, Richard befriends three anthropomorphic books Adventure (Patrick Stewart), a swashbuckling pirate like book; Fantasy (Whoopi Goldberg), a sassy but caring fairy tale book; and Horror (Frank Welker), a fearful hunchbook with a misshapen spine. I'm surprise that Sci-Fiction wasn't part of the group since a lot of children, I know. Read that. I guess nobody heard of that genre in Richard's world. At less, they didn't jump into young adult novels like Twilight. That would be horrible. The three agree to help Richard to find his way out if he checks them out with his library card. Together, the quartet encounter classic fictional characters and worlds on their way to the exit. I like how they try to put as much literature works into the film, but I have to question that most of the works they did put in, aren't technically for children. Example the Hounds of Baskervilles has one of the hardest reading levels of all, due to its large amount of vocabulary, use of the English language, and large amounts of geographic and science facts. Not only that, it has a large amount of drug use, sex, and violence that isn't suite for children. Moby Dick wasn't written for children at all as well due to Melville employs stylized language, symbolism, slang language and the metaphor to explore numerous complex themes that would be way too complex for the normal ten year old first time reader. Still I like the fact, that they meet Dr. Jekyll (Leonard Nimoy) from the book Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Then Long John Silver (Jim Cummings) from Treasure Island. It's sad to say that both those classic animation characters are nothing like the literature in which they came from. Example Dr. Jekyll, for example, isn't creepy and homicidal. He's just a scientist addicted to a potion that frees him from his uptight persona. It's only Mr. Hyde that acts upon crude action. It's ironic and hypocritical that the movie writer tries to use classic literary characters to make kids read books when the writer himself didn't read the books either. The characters were brief and unexplained, but also inaccurate. I do like how the majority of the cast has appeared in some form or another on Star Trek. The animation was pretty well. The paint dragon was badass for when this was made. If you look close, you'll find out that in the worlds are practically everything is made out of books. The rocks, the stairs, the houses. It's a nice little detail which the animators inserted. I love the soundtrack by James Horner. I thought the music in here was fantastic and often use in other film trailers and commercials. I find it weird that a movie is telling children to read, rather than schools or even the parents. I think the best way to get children to read is to turn off the television and read to them. Then allow them to read to you. Simple like that. You don't need this mess. movie to do that. "},{"Title":"At least, it's funnier than reading the yellow pages","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Those of you who have already watched E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial will easily find similarities with The Pagemaster. Both films are about a young boy, frightened by life in general, who becomes more courageous after an extraordinary experience.And while Elliot met a friendly extraterrestrial, Richard Tyler (Macaulay Culkin, in his most memorable role after the first two Home Alone movies) became the main actor of a much more special and elaborate adventure.Richard is presented as an ultra-nerdish young boy, who seems to know every statistic by heart. It's the necessary background for such a movie. It needs a kid whose characteristics make that he would not be able of doing anything in life. And add to the situation that almost everything known to him scares him, especially heights.During a bicycle ride, Richard finds himself stuck in a thunderstorm (and also ridiculously pursued by blue lightning) and he finds a shelter in a library.While he searches for the exit after he met eccentric librarian Dewey (Christopher Lloyd), Richard is mysteriously transported to an animated parallel universe where some of the books are alive and well-known book characters are too.Richard's search for the exit becomes a dangerous and sometimes exciting adventure. He's accompanied by three of the books pirate book Adventure (voiced by Patrick Stewart), fairy book Fantasy (voiced by Whoopi Goldberg) and Gothic book Horror (voiced by recurring voice actor Frank Welker).Richard also meets characters from various well-known books. These include the giant squid (Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea), the Hound of the Baskervilles (from eponymous title from Arthur Conan Doyle), Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Captain Achab (from Moby Dick) and Long John Silver (from Stevenson's Treasure Island).There is one thing that I still don't understand. Richard is an educated boy (his statistics readings prove it), but he never put a single foot in a library? And where did that parallel universe come from? Is it simply because a water drop fell from Richard's coat? Or is it just because it's a question that I'm not supposed to ask?There is also that obvious message provided by the movie. Books are a good thing. Books can give you courage. Books are life. But the pagemaster's voice make this statement balance between hypnotism and propaganda. And neither way is really suitable.Don't ask me why, this movie isn't a disaster, although it's difficult to find good words. Maybe it's because magic finds his way into yourself and doesn't ask you if it can enter. It simply does. And at some moments, it is impossible to watch elsewhere. This is especially true during the climatic fight with the dragon.If The Pagemaster was a book, there are a couple things that would be sure. First, it would never win the Nobel Prize, the Booker Prize, the Pulitzer Prize or any other award of any kind. But if it's found by anyone (however children would be a preference), these pages wouldn't be worthy of the fireplace. It's not necessarily thrilling, but it's not scrap, either. "},{"Title":" Great","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OMG! I used to love this movie when I was little it brings back such fond memories!!! This movie was great I dnt care anyone says! Maculy Calkin (or how ever u spell his name) GREAT JOB!!!!!Of course he was really good in Home Alone and Home Alone too! did u no Maculy Calkin (or however u spell it) was in a music video for Michael Jackson??!! I jus saw it on this Michael Jackson thing that talked about his life!! well great job Pagemaster I loved the little Pirate Book he was funny! "},{"Title":"Okay for the kids, but I don't know about the adults","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw this movie in 7th grade on video.  I really liked it then, but now I don't.  I think it's pretty stupid, but it does have very familiar voices.  Patrick Stewart (from Star Trek The Next Generation) does the voice for the adventure book.  Whoopi Goldberg (from Sister Act)does the voice for the fantasy book.  I'm not for sure who does the voice for the book Horror (who actually turns out to be more goofy than scary).  Macauly Culkin (from Home Alone) plays the cowardly Richard Tyler who's afraid of just about everything including tuna fish sandwhiches (don't ask me why 'cause I just don't know; I just heard his mother say it at the beginning of the movie).  He meets the librarian who is played by Christopher Lloyd (from Back to the Future) and journeys into a cartoon world of classic literature.  I do recommend this strongly for the kids, but we as adults might just find it crap. "},{"Title":"passable but derivative entertainment","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  THE PAGEMASTER is an okay film, concerning an adventure-challenged boy(Macauleywhere is he now?Culkin)who drifts into an animated fantasy land where he gets in touch with the joy of reading, ideas, and words. It riffs heavily on an earlier film, 1969's THE PHANTOM TOLLBOOTH, concerning an imagination-challenged boy(Butchwhere is he now?Patrick)who drifts into an animated fantasy land where he gets in touch with the joys of... uh, reading and, ah-hah, ideas and ... words. Just why no film critics seemed to have noticed this is beyond me. Maybe because both films were kinda mediocre and quickly forgotten upon their initial releases. Or maybe because both starred child stars on the decline. Of the two, I believe I like TOLLBOOTH better, if only for the Chuch Jones animation and the kitschy Lee Pockriss-Paul Vance(of Itsy Bitsy Teeny Weeny Yellow Polka Dot Bikini fame)songs. While that one might be hard to find, THE PAGEMASTER isn't horrible, just not too original. "},{"Title":"This movie should go to the MOON.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  About 4 years ago, I liked this movie. I would watch it over and over and over. But now... I don't. Actually, I think this movie would have been great for Mystery Science Theater 3000. It has a bunch of comment-heavy actors (Macaulay Culkin, Christopher Lloyd, Patrick Stewart, Whoopi Goldberg), and a pretty cheesy plot. My favorite part is when Culkin is riding his bike and he comes across a gang and a gang member says, Hey, Tyler! Where ya goin'? The MOON?? Also look out for the classic line, Do you have feeling in your toes?On the other hand, it's better than The Good Son. "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"3 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Watchable but clunky and boring in spots. Clever animated characters will certainly entertain the kiddies. Not for adults, although I have managed to sit through the film several times with my kids. There are certainly worse fantasy flicks out there. Recommended only to those with very young children in the house. "},{"Title":"Not *so* bad, but...","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is a really good movie lurking just beneath the surface of the layers upon layers of cheese that is the Pagemaster.I found this out when I watched this again this morning after neglecting it for years and years.  I remember hating it with a passion when it first came out, but this time, I found that the special effects are quite good.  The plot is just the Neverending Story with a creativity-endectomy, but it's an okay little flick for anyone who just wants some really awesome eye-candy.  The animation is amazing, and I especially liked how the animators let their characters look and act a bit more surrealistic than the norm.  I'm giving it a grade of three as I *would* have given it a two (just for parody value) if I had ever decided to watch this movie expecting it to absolutely blow my mind story-wise. "},{"Title":"Just disappointing","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Richard Tyler is a little boy who is scared of everything. He doesn't like riding his bike or climbing on his tree house because he knows what kind of accidents might happen to him. So one day he is riding his bike and because it is starting to rain, he decides to wait in the library until it stops raining. In there the whole story takes place. He experiences all kinds of staff and in the end he is not scared any more. But the whole story is unbelievable and even good actors like Macaulay Culkin could not make the story better than it is.  "},{"Title":"*Snore...","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The whole makeup of this film is an absolute bore-fest, you might as well sleep through the whole lot because it would be no different if you put the effort in to watch this film. I mean it's meant to be adventurous and epic, but the way it goes about it is enough to make you cringe. On top of that, it features many different characters of famous literature including Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, Captain Ahab, The Tiny People of Gullivers Travels and Long John Silver, but the problem with all these cameo's is, it doesn't explain who these people are or why they're famous. They just appear and disappear without a word to the audience of who these people are or what they're known for. Worse still, it features the uselessly bland expression that is McCauley Caulkin, who was the eldest in a line of three brothers who continue to keep up the family tradition of blank emotionless faces and acting that makes you want to cry or question whether or not you have a soul left.The film begins with Richard Tyler, a young nervous bookworm of a boy who lives his life by statistics which means he hasn't the confidence to do fun things like most kids do without scrutinising them endlessly (if I had a child that bland I'd be very worried). Whilst building him a tree-house (which he most likely wont use), his father asks him to get some nails from the hardware store. Whilst on his way, Richard gets lost in a storm and finds his way to an old Library, where Christopher Lloyd is the strange Librarian who wants to enchant Richard into taking out some books from three categories, Horror, Adventure and Fantasy (treating them like they were the only three forms of book in existence, forget Sci-fi and Romantic Comedy, it's looks like there's only three in the world). But Richard only wants to use a phone. Whilst searching for the phone, he slips and falls, knocking himself out. When he comes to, the ceiling begins to drip on him and before long he is engulfed in a huge animated flood that transforms him into an illustration. He is soon confronted by the Pagemaster (a name that sounds dull to begin with, founder of the written word? More like founder of the most boring subject matter award!) He is soon sent off on a voyager (By way of supersonic library cart) and comes across his first booky friend, Adventure, a Scurvy Dog of a Book who wants Richard to check him out of the Library. It's not long before his second friend of the books arrives named Fantasy, a stuck up fairy like book. After escaping the Hounds of the Bascavilles, the trio becomes a quad as they bump into Horror, a simple minded book which is raggedy. Together, the group must find the Exit, but they must first face the various fictional monsters that lie ahead. Will Richard make it home? Will they ever find the Exit? Will Richard ever get his dad's nails? Set your alarm clock for 45 minutes time and you'll find out soon enough...Again, very boring subject matter which has no reference to any of the famous characters that are featured in the movie. There are only three categories of literature that are explored and there is no reference to any other category so for viewers who are not fully embalmed in the world of literacy, they'll only believe that these three categories exist. Big shocker when they bump into Sci-fi, Non-Fiction or Heavily Indulged Romance (I'm talking to you 50 Shades of Grey). Granted the animation can be quite enjoyable and I really do see that a lot of effort was made into making this film, but if only their time and effort was put into something that wouldn't have viewers snoring away merrily within the first 5 minutes. Good for a watch on a wet Saturday afternoon, but other than that, a real turn off... "}{"Title":"Pagemaster stinks- pure & simple","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Adding to the voices of those who found this movie awful, I can only add Amen! One question- the whole movie is devoted to showing the character how books can help him and early on the viewer discovers that he has never had a library card...how, then, did he get all the facts and statistics about accident probabilities that he was so obsessed with? And, what kid his age knows as much about accidents as the National Safety Council? The father character was complaining about his kid's obsession with safety and his fearfulness...OK, who put the Safety Bike together for the little bugger? The Caulkin character? Not even!! Utter hogwash...any good fantasy has at least a little believability factor...this one had zero from the outset. It struck me as a quickie film made to cash in on MC's popularity while it was still hot. "},{"Title":"Macaulay Culkin's and Chirstopher Lloyd's worst film","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a cartoon! You're an illustration! what does that suppose to mean?! This plot could not be worse as a boy, who's afraid of everything, becomes very brave at the very end of the film because he went into a library.  The only purpose of this waste of celluloid was to encourage American kids to read, when a cheaper, and more effective way of doing this could have been a series of adverts! Even the talents of Macaulay Culkin(as the kid), Christopher Lloyd (as the so predictable that he's a the Page Master librarian), could save this pointless film from the dull plot. Even the voices of Whoopi Goldberg, Patrick Stewart,(even) Leonard Nimoy, or the Hollywood God of voices, Frank Welker as the cartoon characters don't save it ever. I can only describe it as a 1990s equivalent to the even ghastly 1978 adaption of the Water Babies, because the bland animation makes the film worse, not improving the dull plot!    "}]