[{"Title":"One Of Disney's Better Efforts","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"23 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" How much of this story is true is up for dispute. I suspect most of it is highly exaggerated. Nonetheless, it is inspirational and fun to watch an excellent adventure tale.The movie reminded me of White Fang with the winter scenery and the young hero, played by MacKenzie Astin, looking and sounding much like Ethan Hawke. The story was simply about a dog-sled race in the early part of the 20th century.The picture is beautifully shot, especially the train scenes, and looks very good on DVD. The villains in here aren't as despicable as in other films, so it's more pleasant to watch. I enjoyed the entire story except for the whistling at the finish line which was a bit stupid, but that's minor.This is one of Disney's better efforts. "},{"Title":"Iron Will","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Here's a feel good movie that I showed to a bunch of 8th graders who are way too cool to ever like something with a plot so contrived. I have seen it at least 10 times in the last two years. It has never failed to produce emotional responses, at least as early as when Gus gets savaged by the bad guy's dog, and Will takes out a gun (obviously thinking of putting him down), and most certainly when Will slugs the guy late on that evening. It has the predictable villain, and other events that most people could forecast, but I had kids who otherwise are apathetic standing up and cheering as the events unfolded. My conclusion kids seem to be cynical and jaded, but when you give them a reason to be optimistic, they have hope and are uplifted. Iron Will inspires me; particularly when I see its effect on middle school students. I would rate it even higher if I couldn't predict many events in the movie. This really works well with other Iditerod/dog stories. "},{"Title":"Go on, let the tagline decieve you... it's worth it, though it's not exactly true.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Being that I like to wonder about what really happened in historical films, I had been curious about what really happened in that race. I did everything I could to find out about the real Will and found out some interesting information. On a history of dog-sledding site it is said that the race made famous was dramatized in the movie Iron Will, was loosely based. That's an understatement. They change the hero's name from Frederick S. Hartman to Will Stoneman. It's not so bad, I love the movie it's excellent, and I suppose if they had kept the ending to what really happened it wouldn't have been so inspiring (nothing melancholy, but Frederick actually lost the race). What I like about Disney films is that they have some theme to it. Writers and English Lit teachers know what I am talking about An inner meaning that the writers have inside the story. You see this over and over again in movies, and Disney is excellent at it.The acting is great, the screenplay is all right, history aside it's not too bad. After all, history can be bleak sometimes, and hope springs eternal, we can always dream and imagine right? For film score fans like me, the music, which I always am interested in, is not so bad, the main theme is nice, but it's not as good as the music from Interview With The Vampire or Forrest Gump.Bottom line, don't be taken too much by the tagline about it being a true story; if you do research you will be disappointed. Other than that, see it if you haven't yet. It's excellent. Just because it has hardly anything to do with the truth doesn't mean it's not a great movie. "},{"Title":"Old-fashioned heartwarmer","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" IRON WILL Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby Stereo1917 In order to save the family farm after his father is killed in a tragic accident, a teenage boy (Mackenzie Astin) enters a lucrative 500 mile dogsled race from Winnipeg to Minnesota and experiences all manner of adventures along the way.Unashamedly old-fashioned drama for children of all ages, based (very loosely) on a true story of courage against the odds, played out against the backdrop of a world teetering on the brink of war. Actor-turned-director Charles Haid (Hill Street Blues) bathes proceedings in a warm nostalgic glow whilst simultaneously turning the narrative screws for Astin (Sean's younger brother), and Joel McNeely's magnificent score swells repeatedly at various dramatic junctures, underlining the film's breathtaking visual splendor. As the young hero whose exploits offer a brief distraction from the nation's fear of international conflict, Astin is handsome and resolute and holds the screen with conviction, while Kevin Spacey provides heavyweight support as a hard-bitten journalist whose cynicism is dispelled by Astin's plucky fortitude. Also starring Brian Cox, David Ogden Stiers, August Schellenberg and George Gerdes as the chief villain, a nasty Scandinavian who seeks to crush Astin's spirit, to no avail. True, the storyline is contrived and melodramatic (especially the final sequence, when Astin finally crosses the finish line), and some viewers will find it obvious, corny and manipulative, while others will be swept along by the polished production values and heartfelt emotion. An irresistible confection from the Disney stable, and hugely entertaining. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films!","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Based on a true story, this journey begins in South Dakota in 1917. Will Stoneman is a 17 year old young man who loses his father. Will is left with devastated until one morning he notices a flyer of the Carnival Derby (a dog sled race from Winnipeg, Canada to St. Paul Minnesota) in which his father was thinking of competing. After getting his mother, Maggie Stoneman, to comply, she gets Ned Dodd, an Indian who lives with the family, to get Will straight into training. Once Will arrives to the competition, he is greeted with a ridicule of laughter, yet do they know how bad he wants to win. Will that be enough to get Will from the beginning to end of the race and win, in one piece through the meanest, toughest stretch of land, and weather conditions that he has yet to embark on? "},{"Title":"Awesome, Great, Inspirational, Heroic etc etc.","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Awesome movie, In the same league as Rocky. Just too good. A must watch.After his dad buys the farm in a tragic dogsledding accident, it's up to young Will Stoneman (Mackenzie Astin) to pay off the mortgage. And there's only one way to do it Win a $10,000 prize in a 500-mile dogsled race. David Ogden Stiers is the railroad magnate who puts up the prize money, and August Schellenberg is the sage Indian who helps the plucky lad develop an iron will to win. There was one more hero in this movie apart from Mackenzie Astin, the Dog Gus which in the movie was his father's favourite dog. The dog was really terrific.  "},{"Title":"Very Good Historical movie!","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I recently saw this movie again which I've now seen probably 4 or 5 times. If you like true stories as I do, then it makes the story that much more interesting and entertaining to watch.Although there is the very sad, and tragic scene where Will's father drowns in the river, the rest of the movie is uplifting and you find yourself cheering for Will, as he physically struggles to make it to the finish line in exhaustion, almost beaten by one of the two Indians who later help him stand up as Will is greeted by his mother.This is a feel good type of movie with of course, a sinister and evil Swedish man who will do anything to win the race, at the cost of the other dog sled racers who have done him no wrong. Until his sled dogs stop and refuse to race on, and turn on the Swede man in a rage, having been whipped continuously throughout the movie and terribly mistreated. They attack him and he is finally out of the race, and Will is vindicated.You will feel both uplifted and yet almost feel like crying as Will is greeted by his family and many others who have come to the race at the movie's end to cheer him on to victory. This is the kind of movie that you need to watch if you feel like giving up on your goals. Will proves that despite his many adversities and struggles with fatigue, muscle soreness, a rival enemy, and bitter cold weather, that you can accomplish anything. His nickname IRON Will is clearly an accurate way to describe him. "},{"Title":"so cold, you feel some of it.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  We rented this film because Kevin Spacey is in it.  When it came on, my daughter (12 yrs old) exclaimed Oh no, not another cheap Disney film! My wife also made noises of discontent and I was wondering why Kevin was in it and if I'd made a terrible mistake.Well, it was good.  True it had some bad Disney unrealistic heart-jerking story in it, especially at the end.  The bad guys were really Disney evil, but the rest of the film worked.Kevin Spacey gives his best at whatever role he tackles, and this is no exception.  The sledding scenes are very good and it is really cold - you can feel it, and so can the actors judging by the breath.The film get a few tears out and we decided that, although we never would have rented it if we knew it was a Disney film, we liked it.  We give it 8. "},{"Title":"...a timeless thriller...","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" From Hayes' and Milicevics's story/script, director Charles Waid has given us a film that will be enjoyed for decades....one that should warm many hearts. Those who put this type of movie down most probably are the very ones who need to get its message the most nice people in a good story, with a thrilling ending.....Disney, or not.Mackenze Astin was wonderful as Iron Will. The kind of young man he portrays is not seen too often, in modern-day USA. Didn't you expect to see him whip-out his cell-phone and call for help when he needed it? How can it matter if the story is actually true ? It's the message of determination and upholding good, human qualities that wins the heart. How inspiring to see a film which teaches us that teenagers should know they are necessary to keep a family going, not taking for granted they are owed everything, and are willing to make their own way.Kevin Spacey (Harry Kingsley) showed his skill at playing any role. His writing from the heart certainly helped inspire Will's determination to overcome all obstacles which stood in his way, no matter what - the reaction between racer and dogs was graphically detailed in this film. Amazing ! George Gerdes Guillarson (Borg) as the evil opponent was skilfully played, showing there is always a war between honest participation and almost criminal behind-the-scene dealing in any competitive sport. All of the racers' roles were wonderfully played. Every role was cast to perfection.Sappy or not, we need more films like Iron Will. I rate it at 20 - "},{"Title":"cheering for the underdog","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  When his father is accidentally killed, South Dakota farmboy Will Stoneman (Mackenzie Astin) decides to enter a dog sled race (a 522-mile dog sled race between Winnipeg and St. Paul that occurred in 1917.) in order to save his family from financial ruin. His mother (Penelope Windust) wants Will to use part of the prospective $10,000 race winnings for college, but Will just wants to save the farm. With the help of Indian handyman Ned Dodd (August Schellenberg), Will begins to train for the race. But the rich mogul underwriting the race, J.P. Harper (David Ogden Stiers), doesn't want Will to enter, thinking the competition too arduous and too dangerous for such a young boy. To Will's aid comes yellow journalist Harry Kingsley (Kevin Spacey), who convinces Harper to permit Will to enter the race. But Harry also has his own agenda he sees a great story in Will and thinks it will sell newspapers and advance his journalistic career. With his father's best dog Gus at the head of his dog team, Will is ready and determined to win the race. Will discovers that winning the race is only half his battle. Dealing with the petty and malevolent human beings involved in the race in particular, the egotistical Scandinavian champion Borg Guillarson (George Gerdes) and the wealthy gambler Angus McTeague (Brian Cox) prove to be as much of a challenge to his mettle than any natural obstacles Will might encounter. Disney did a nice job with this story it turned out to be a good film. I know it is typical Disney, but it wasn't as sappy as other Disney type underdog movies. "}{"Title":"Iron   Will","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I like this movie for its' basic realism It looks like America might have looked in 1917 attitudes included. The irasible Storekeeper who Will works for pretty well sums up the local attitude after the Newspaper man Kingsley sent arrives  Where's the box?  He asks, assuming young Stoneman has died in the course of the race.  Don't You get the Newspapers here ?  the shocked reporter responses and passes him several.I enjoyed Mackenzie Astin's performance, but it didn't surprise me, He's Sean's brother and the son of John Astin and Patty Duke who both did a fair bit of acting. David Ogden Stiers' character was almost strictly Charles Winchester. I also liked Kevin Spacey's reporter out for the big story who in a sense was the biggest underdog of all... Imagine getting to page One in the midst of a World War from the K 9 section. uplifting , though not too believable. There's also that scene where wealthy gambler Angus McTeague visits Will in the dog shed and offers him 3000 dollars to drop out of the race. The Boy is sorely tempted and after He leaves, lead dog Gus gives him a almost disgusted look and Will says  I didn't take it... did I ? No. young Stoneman is not cowed by anyone or anything but Gus the dog and is not all that nice... just human. Could it really happen ? doubtful, but then it is Disney. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Family Fare!","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Iron Will is a good, predictable film that you can immediately tell it's a Disney-produced film because of the inner deep meanings that are essential with all Disney films. This is a movie that is good for all ages. I saw this in 5th grade, and I just saw it again many years later and still thoroughly enjoyed it. It's very predictable but if you don't think and just watch, this movie will be good.Charles Haid's film is a coming-of-age story about a kid who recently lost his father due to a tragedy and his farm is in danger of being foreclosed. He enters a dogsled race that's eerily similar to the Iditarod and his goal is to win the top prize that will allow him to keep the farm and go to college.The acting isn't all that bad. Mackenzie Astin does okay with what he got to work with. Kevin Spacey is magnificent as always. I always love when Brian Cox plays a slimy guy because he is so good at doing it.Overall, this is your typical Disney film. It's family-friendly and it features many adorable dogs. Speaking of dogs, I do like that Gus(the lead dog on dog team). He's a courageous little guy. Despite the film being predictable, I still hung on to all the tense moments. It's a good, little-known film that people should see. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"When Disney was good it made movies like this","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" There's no denying that Disney have went horribly astray in recent years, churning out pure garbage that even the most deluded of families find appalling, and all in the name of political correctness. Walt built the studio and his reputation on taking risks and pushing boundaries through the right of free speech. But the Disney label now seems to be ashamed of its past and leans toward conservative values. They have all but erased their racist film Song of the South from existence and show little, if any, of the courage and nerve Walt thrived upon in the 30s and 40s. I'm not sure what has provoked this alarming shift in quality from a once flawless studio. Perhaps they think that every mother out there shelters every one of her children against any and all things that can possibly contaminate their fragile minds and only the trusted House of the Mouse knows what's best.Set in 1917 the story follows Will Stoneman (Mackenzie Astin, looking like Sean Patrick Flannery) a boy who dreams of saving the family farm and going to college. But his only chance of doing so is by winning $10,000 in a cross country dog-sled race. With little training and overwhelming odds against him he throws himself head-first into the race despite the adversity.It's a great movie for those who love adventure, escapism, choo-choo trains, period settings and Huskies. I'm not keen on dogs in the slightest but Huskies are lovely.Kevin Spacey and Brian Cox (as old then as he is now as the man was born middle-aged) provide good support but the movie belongs to Astin, who somehow hasn't achieved the level of fame his brother has. His acting skills are certainly not in doubt and this movie proves he's a good lead.Iron Will is a perfect example of how far Disney has fallen in the past decade. Made in 1994, it's a solid adventure film with strong characters, lovely scenery and an uplifting story. Flash-forward to January 2002 (a mere 8 years) to the pile of rubbish Disney movie Snow Dogs starring Cuba Gooding Jnr. A very similar movie in terms of story but a WORLD apart in tone. One is serious and respectable, the other features multiple clichés and fart jokes.What would you rather expose your kids to? "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I got the chance to work on this movie on the special effects crew as a local hire. It was a really interesting how we shot the movie, and how it ended up being put together. Makes you understand how important the editors are. Things that we shot weeks apart and in different locations ended up in the same scene in the movie. w Wen he goes off the cliff I am hiding just over the lip holding a safety line. It was extremely cold the first couple of weeks shooting - it was shot mostly around Duluth Minn, then it got warm and everything melted and we spent HOURS spreading potatoe flakes to make snow. The final scene of the movie - most of the snow was trucked in to cover the streets. "},{"Title":"Better Than I Thought (SPOILERS)","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" SPOILERS Wow, my second Disney movie in two days. I must be going insane. Anyway, I liked this movie way more than I thought I would. When I watched it I thought it was going to be a typical Disney movie with sloppy plot and a normal kid saves day kind of movie. I was wrong. This was a great movie and for once a child did not save the day. It was a teenager. I also could not believe that Kevin Spacey was in this movie. Kevin Spacey, for crying out loud!Here is the plot of this movie. After Will Stoneman's father dies in a tragic sledding accident Will has to try to take care of his family. He starts to become the man of the house. The only problem is that he does not have any money to provide for his family. The only way to get money is to enter a dog-sledding race. If he wins he will receive $10,000, which was a lot back then. Since he is so young people do not think that he is going to win, or live, but a reporter makes Will famous. Will discovers that the climate is not the worst of the troubles, it is the people who are determined to win. In the end Will wins the race by the scruff of his neck.Overall, this is a terrific Disney and family film. There are some dark parts in this, and it is not Academy Award winning material, but trust me, you will discover that this will be much better than you would think. For some strange reason White Fang and this seem similar. Maybe it is because I saw both movies in the same week, and they both have teenagers in them and they have to do with dogs. Anyway, this is a great family movie that you should not miss. This is one of the most impressive movies I have seen since Witness.8/10Recommended Films White Fang, Balto, Call Of The Wild. "},{"Title":"AWESOME, pure delight","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" This film, among other dog films, is one of my favorite. Not only does it tell how a boy rushes to save his family farm by entering a race that could kill him, he learns the value of trusting his dogs and that not everything is impossible. Against all odds, Will makes it through the race and wins. He is not only faced with the wilderness, but those other racers that are threatened by him. This is a movie purely of selflessness and courage. The scenes are fantastic and it is a very enjoyable movie that everyone should own. I find that all the movies that have the most meaning and that teach us the most, are those about true stories and are usually about dogs or horses. It is always a good choice in movie if it is based on a true story because those who write, and those who watch, these films are honoring those who actually did the feat and respect them for what they did. "},{"Title":"The Grey Rating Iron Will","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" The Grey Rating Iron Will A flexible rating system used to determine the quality of a movie based on a methodical comparison with the film masterpiece, The Grey.+ Winter and cold conditions.+ Hypothermia + Water in sub zero temperature + Survival in arctic conditions + Perseverance of the protagonist against overwhelming odds+ Savage canines (not wolves exactly) - Definitely overdone - Predictable - Lack of Sir Liam Neeson "},{"Title":"Happy 20th Anniversary!!!","Date":"9 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Hike! Hike! Hike!!! The Hunger Games ain't got S*** on this movie! I was privileged, I repeat, PRIVILEGED to have grown up with this film! VERY appropriately rated as a Disney film, yes! Families all around can enjoy this film! Along with Balto, this flick introduced me to the sport of dog sledding! Also introduced me to many big Hollywood names, like Kevin Spacey, Brian Cox, Brian Ogden Stiers (RENOWNED for Disney movies), and especially August Schellenberg (R.I.P). They all played their appropriate roles. Although, I'll admit, I don't often like Kevin Spacey as an actor - always seems to act as antisocial & controversial characters. Also don't forget Richard Riehle, the guy who says If you're late again, you're fired, near the beginning of the movie; classic character actor of the century (in over 300 films!!!). Plus, I like the idea of John Terry playing Will's father, and just all-round playing father figures - he's just so kind & likable.I'm utterly surprised to this day why this film is so overlooked & underrated! After all, 1994 *was* the big year of MANY big blockbuster films; maybe that's why it was so overlooked. Mackenzie Astin, the brother of Sean Astin (Sam from Lord of the Rings), is great in this film! Such an under-appreciated actor! IMO, he's even hotter & more talented than Leo DiCaprio. He plays a REAL ACE in this movie - I fully realize just how well-written his character is! If more people in the world were like his character, Will Stoneman, the world would be a much better place to live!A 6.5!!!?????? SERIOUSLY!??? This flick should switch around ratings with Never Cry Wolf, which is a '7.6' a horrid & disappointing film that was downright BORING & ridiculous & uncomfortable to sit through, and should be totally removed from the Walt Disney category!!They're just so many good things in this film. The train always gets fabulous shots, too. That scene on the bridge of trying to outrun the train will always seem to scare me. LOLThe frostbite in this movie really sends shivers down my spine - after all, it was the movie that introduced me to the reality of frostbite. Just looking at Stoneman at the end of the movie, he looks messed up! He gave everything he had to finish that race!I mean it, if I ever go on live TV, I'll make sure to bring this movie with me to show on air, just to give it the attention it deserves & needs!Disney Channel! Get this film on the air sometime! Or at the very least, Disney, re-release this movie so that we can again see the true story about Will Stoneman on the big screen!Beautifully directed, beautifully shot, and beautifully acted!9/10!! "},{"Title":"For the young at heart...","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  'Iron Will' is a movie to see if you are young enough at heart to enjoy it, young enough at heart to believe in an against-all-odds-courage-finding story. Maybe it's predictable Disney-type stuff, but by the end of it you are cheering along with the rest. Mackenzie is great as young (Iron) Will Stoneman, who loses his father in a dog-sled accident, and boards the train to Winnepeg to take part in a sled-race to Minnesota, the prize of which is $10,000 - and the motive behind it is to save his family's farm and send himself to college. Spacey is, as always, fantastic, as a ruthless reporter covering the sled-race for his newspaper, especially Will. Throughout the race he discovers, to his own surprise, a conscience, and a heart. It's a movie with a lot of heart, and the ending, while some may think it's pre-determined, is still enjoyable. This movie *sparkles* whenever Spacey is on-screen, and he saves it from being marked cheesy.A good remedy for when you've begun to lose faith in the human race.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Disney Movie","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I don't watch a lot of Disney's live action movies because the majority of them can be broken down to the same plot, but Iron Will is worth watching because it's supposed to be based on a true story. It has great strength and determination and explores the extent of the human spirit as well as pride the USA once had in its heroes. A young hero, Mackenzie Astin, formerly of the Facts of Life series, against all odds, both human and natural, somehow wins a snow sled race and becomes a man in the process. Like I said, typical Disney fare, but this movie tells that story much more strongly and directly than any other Disney version. I'd play this movie to teach my kids some values. "}{"Title":"Will.  That's all it takes.","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  A definate family movie for the young and old.  This tale will break your heart, fill you with hope and keep your eyes glued to the screen... even if you watch it at 3 in the morning... like I did.The movies plot was fascinating and very well developed.  I did find however that the opening half hour wen't by very quickly.  On the other hand, I was able to grasp the story.  I guess that's all that matters.  The heart pounding action and suspense that is created in the actual race is brilliant.  My hats off to Disney once again... and also the the wonderful cast that gave so much to a wonderful story. "},{"Title":"A cheer for the underdog.","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" A seventeen year old boy loses his father, needs money and competes in a dog sled competition for a large prize. The snow and cold scenery is fantastic. You seem to feel the cold as the film progresses. Criminal involvement depicted is what seemed to be true during the year period of the film. The progress of the race keeps the viewer's interest and you emotionally cheer on the young man who is competing, especially since he has fears brought on by his father's death. Being set in 1917 allows the use of a period steam locomotive which creates authenticity and historical interest. This film is a cheer for the human spirit. We need more of this today. "},{"Title":"Fine Great Movie Experience","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  What a wonderful story. The beautiful sites and Cities across North Country of the beautiful USA and Cold North America. More movies from Midwest recommended. I wish my part was speaking and I could see myself on the big screen. My friends did... Cool. Excellent job. I love the Duluth Sceneries. "},{"Title":"a not-so-good movie that i reaaally like","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  as far as great films go, this is not one of them. will's actions are predictable, the ending is predictable, the whole movie is a cliche in and of itsself. its just another underdog saves the day, beats the evil bad guy, wins the race, is loved by all kind of movie. but, despite all that. i still like it. its just cute. it makes you feel good, doesnt make your brain hurt, and is easy to watch when you have nothing else to do. hoooray for this movie. its not great, but its not so poor that its unbearable. "},{"Title":"Good family drama with plenty of action!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Definitely a movie for the entire family! Iron Will boasts an excellent plot with good acting and beautiful scenery. Without a doubt, kids will love the adventure and suspense that keeps you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"I would give this film an A+.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  This film is a good rousing adventure for the entire family.  This is the kind of movie kids should be raised with! The fact that it's based on a true story makes it even more appealing. Disney knows how to do it. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderfully inspirational movie that we loved!","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" It is indeed difficult to find excellent, inspirational movies that are based upon true stories like this one is! At the conclusion of this movie, both my friend and I were moved by it's full impact!My friend and I have both lived hard lives. To see a movie such as this is very helpful for those who have had hard lives. I am proud to have added this movie to my DVD Movie Library. Along with such movies as; March of the Penguins, and One Night With the King, these are all movies I have found to be both inspirational and uplifting during a time when one can use all of the edification one can acquire.Not only have I rated this movie with my highest rating possible at a 10, but if your rating went higher, I would give it a higher rating. I will definitely be watching this over and over again. Thank you very much for this opportunity of sharing how two of us thoroughly enjoyed this move. More like this kind of movie I would love to see! Thank you very much! Sincerely, Michael G. Murphy. "},{"Title":"Just passable old-school corn...","Date":"12 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" Midwestern farm kid in 1917 enters a grueling Winnipeg, Canada-to-St. Paul, Minnesota dog-sled race. Live-action adventure from the Disney Studio, scrubbed clean with good intentions, seems to have come off the same conveyor belt as The Journey of Natty Gann and Homeward Bound. It's old-fashioned and inoffensive, despite clichéd villainy and an impossibly corny slow-motion climax (not to mention gaps of logic so wide, you could drag a dog-sled through them!). Mackenzie Astin (real-life son of actor John Astin and actress Patty Duke) is fairly good in the lead, though the movie is poorly directed and edited, without an ounce of honest inspiration. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I knew that was going to happen.","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":" I got this movie for free and I should have picked a different movie because I knew what was going to happen right from the start. It's another predictable Disney movie that's a feel good one with triumph and overcoming difficulty. Will wants to go to college so he enters a dog sled race and everyone knows he's way too young and inexperienced to win. Guess what? You already guessed the ending. It was pretty annoying watching him argue with his dog and blame his dog for all the problems. That dog saved Will as Will saved the dog. This is a cheesy Disney movie and good if you're younger. I prefer The Lion King instead of this movie but if there is nothing to do on a cold Sunday morning, I suggest watching this. "},{"Title":"Routine 'victory against all odds' picture","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  No surprises here as a young man overcomes prejudice, harsh weather, and evil men and their henchmen as he attempts to win a big sled race. All this so he can save the family farm and have enough money to go to college. Interesting, but this ground has been plowed many times before. Lots of chills and thrills.  "}{"Title":"Not too bad, but definitely not worth watching over and over again","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie in 8th grade.  This was during the 1996 Iditarod and the teachers decided that this would be a good movie to show us.  This was definitely not a comedy.  The scene where Will's father dies in a frozen pond makes this film sad.  When Will has to come across many obstacles like an evil Swedish musher who is determined to win the race gives this film some suspense.  I did not mind this movie at all, but because I just don't like emotional movies that much (although I did like Titanic quite a bit) made it a film that I just don't care to see again. "},{"Title":"Quite boring.","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  A quite dry and astonishingly boring based-on-true-events story of an Alaskan dog-bobsled competition. Disney produces and distributes this mediocre underdog film that plays like a mix between Rocky and Braveheart (don't ask).2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Or, as the Chemists refer to it, Fe Will","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family","Review":"  Coming from a long line of sled-dog losers (including Magnesium Will and Nitrogen Will), Iron Will is determined to become the first in his family to declare, I did a rod! and actually mean it. He thwarted at every turn by multiple Cold War stereotypes, but never once forgets his dream, a dream of victory, a dream of respect, a dream of himself and Jim J. Bullock as roommates in an all-girl's college in the late seventies. Can he make this dream a reality, can he outsmart Ivan von Evilstein, will he reach the finish line on time, will Jim J. Bullock have the deposit by the 15th? Not without the help of his sled dogs Mr. Peabody, Seabiscuit, Rover Dangerfield, Notacat, The Good Humor Man He Sees Everything, A Hero Ain't Nothing But a Sandwich and Pat Morita In a Dog Costume. This movie comes highly recommended, but not by me. "}]