[{"Title":"Dumb comedy or one of the best films of the '90s?","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The comic genius and timing of stars Sinbad and Phil Hartman take what could have been a run-of-the-mill dumb comedy film and turn it into a wonderfully likeable tour-de-force. The premise has been done time and time again, it's basically a fish out of water story. Yes, the gangsters are dumb almost to the point where they're annoying. Sure, we see the message coming from a mile away.But there are a few things that separate this film from other comedies, and elevate to the status of excellence. First of all, it's hilarious. There are few jokes that don't work and they are immediately forgotten as this fast-paced romp wastes no time. The speed-up of scenes and the quick editing (several shots seem to last for no longer than a few seconds) do get a slight bit irritating, but it serves its purpose by catering to the fast-paced story and Sinbad's style of comedy. Take for instance, the party scene in which Sinbad is explaining what the GFH on his suit jacket stands for. Slow down the scene, and it loses the humor.Since the McDonald's issue has been cited again and again in reviews with varying degrees of criticism, let me address it briefly. First of all, there are a lot of people who love to eat McDonald's food. It's not healthy for you, but you'd be lying if you say that it tastes awful. Now, Sinbad's character is established as the lazy, unhealthy, always-eating slacker from the very beginning as he comes home to his apartment and enjoys his McDonald's and 2 liter bottle of soda. The real Derek Bond is completely contrasted with the impostor Derek Bond's lifestyle. Hence the fish out of water comedy. Sinbad's character is put in a desperate situation where he assumes this other man's life and the man he is pretending to be is the complete opposite of him. He's got a successful career as a dentist and he maintains a strict diet of vegetables and muescli cereal. So, when Sinbad's Kevin Franklin character, in this awkward and unfamiliar situation of staying with a suburban family's house and pretending to be someone who everyone expects to be a health-conscious stuffy professional, manages to escape for a moment and sees the familiar golden arches, he's so happy that he feels like he's in a commercial. He knows McDonald's and in many places, McDonald's seems to be an unchanging, constant source of familiar greasy food. McDonald's works in the context of the film because it's a real fast-food place that we can relate to, because we've all eaten there at one time or another. To me, if there was some fictional place like Lou's Hamburgers, it wouldn't work. The character design might come through, but there could be no jingle resounding in our heads, and it'd take you out of the reality of the story (which I discuss in next paragraph). Yes, McDonald's is a real fast-food joint, and Kevin Franklin loves to eat there. Does that make Houseguest a McDonald's commercial? I don't think that it does, I think it maintains an element of reality that we as viewers can relate to. Perhaps we needn't always be so cynical as some professional film critics are.Now, I mention the 'reality' of Houseguest and you must think I'm absolutely crazy. Houseguest is an unrealistic film that requires you to throw logic out the door entirely if you wish to enjoy it, right? Well, not necessarily. I think looking back at this film, eight years after it was made, we can look at the family suburban life depicted, and notice the real-ness of the characters. Phil Hartman's character Gary Young is a hard-working businessman at a law firm. He sucks up to his boss and the boss's wife and spends more time with his job than his family. Gary's wife tries to be there for her family, but she's taken on a career with frozen yogurt stores and it's turning out to be far more time-consuming than she imagined.Then, there are the three children. The oldest girl is distancing herself from her family, trying to find comfort in a Goth phase, taking pleasure from sad poetry and a boyfriend who seems to think that he's a tough kid from the hood. The middle child is the only son, Jason. He tries to win his father's approval by playing basketball and hoping to be good. The youngest daughter seems not to be getting any attention, either. Her busy parents don't have time for her, and she's been getting lessons from television programs instead.The dysfunctional middle-class family serves as a foil for Kevin Franklin, pretending to be someone he is not, who will ultimately find the desire to help these people, who have unknowingly opened up their home to him, a complete stranger. Kevin Franklin doesn't have a job, a family, or kids, and yet it his interactions with the Young family that allow both them and he to better themselves.Now, if you've seen the movie, you're probably reading this and thinking, This guy's nuts. He's completely overanalyzing some stupid comedy. Well, perhaps I am. Houseguest is indeed a silly, hectic fish-out-of-water comedy; somewhat formulaic, but very much successful. However, to dismiss the film as 'bad' or a 'stupid comedy' is a superficial assessment of a film that really has a lot going for it.Sure, the film is glossy and not without faults, but then, so is life and the people that we interact with. Houseguest is a winning comedy, and one of my favorite films of the 1990s. It presents laughs but also provides a realistic look at individual and family life in the '90s, even if this comes out of an unrealistic set-up of a man assuming another identity to avoid the mob.Much-maligned and underappreciated, Houseguest is a gem of a family comedy that I certainly hope you will give a chance. Or if you initially didn't like it, some more thought on these matters and maybe a second chance. "},{"Title":"Heaven Help Us All, I Loved a Sinbad Movie","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I thought for sure I was going to run kicking and screaming from my television... a film with Sinbad? Unwatchable! But this gem proved me wrong, as I not only watched it but loved almost every second of it (and Sinbad is always on the screen, so surely it must be his doing!).The story is a common Hollywood theme a guy (Sinbad) passes himself off on a group or family as someone he's not in this case, a childhood friend of a father (Phil Hartman). A little variety exists in how to play this out, but the same old stuff happens stranger teaches family a lesson and learns one himself along the way.What made this film great was the cast. Sinbad was surprisingly insightful and was able to make even average activities seem far-fetched and outrageous. Phil Hartman had a relatively minor role and didn't really get to provide us with a full performance, but his physical facial comedy of biting into a piece of turkey was extremely amusing (facial comedy plays a large part in this film, later coming back when a wine taster is testing a glass).Jeffrey Jones has too small a part (this man is so under-rated in Hollywood), but does well with what he's been given. And most of all I think Kim Murphy's career should have ignited from this film, but I guess producers didn't watch it. Murphy is obviously beautiful (which seems to be enough to make it in Hollywood), but more so she played her Gothic character perfectly. I was amused with her delivery of the lines concerning Edgar Allan Poe's last meal, her Smiths t-shirt (perfect choice) and the really wacky line about evil rats. The writers did their homework when writing in Murphy's character and she repaid them in spades. (Can I use the word spades when talking about a Sinbad movie?) The soundtrack was amusing. Best feature the fact that some scenes were so obviously McDonald's commercials, with one really extended scene including a McDonald's theme song. Heck, after that moment I would have cut off my own leg for a double quarter pounder with cheese.I love this movie, and would not be against displaying it proudly on my movie shelf for all my relatives, friends and guests to see. I do not know why this film has gone underground and has been long forgotten my many people, but it shouldn't have been. This is comedy gold, people. "},{"Title":"underrated comedy","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Frankin (Sinbad) is a guy who dreams of starting his own business. However, getting it off the ground is another matter altogether, and soon Kevin discovers that the two loan sharks who fronted him money want to be paid, and paid promptly, otherwise Kevin will be spending some time in the hospital. On the run through an airport, Kevin is trying to find a way out when he overhears Gary Young (Phil Hartman) wondering where his friend is. It seems that Gary has arranged a reunion with an old friend from childhood, but since he hasn't seen him in 25 years, he has no idea what he looks like today, beyond the fact that he's black. Kevin fits the bill that far and claims to be Gary's long lost buddy, which Gary buys hook, line, and sinker. Gary seems to enjoy bonding with his old friend, and Kevin likes staying at Gary's fine home and raiding his icebox, but Kevin discovers that impersonating a stranger is a lot more complicated than he expected after he's forced to perform oral surgery and give a speech at a grade school Career Day presentation. However, this is all small potatoes on the oh, no scale when the loan sharks track Kevin back to Gary's home in the suburbs. Houseguest was funny, it is underrated if you ask me, Phil Hartman and Sinbad made a great team. I recommend Houseguest if you want to see some classic Phil Hartman, he was great. "},{"Title":"Very good for a family movie","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Most family movies seem hastily thrown together but HOUSEGUEST is an exception. The dialogue sparkles, the direction isn't just 2-takes-and-go, the cinematography is whackily speeded up in some places and the editing is rapid fire. And unlike most family movies, it lasts for 110 minutes. That's about half an hour longer than is usual. I know this hardly seems like a valid point but I reckon it proves the movie's got more content than fart jokes etc.My only gripe is the obvious McDonalds plugging about 40 minutes in. If you can just turn away for these 10 seconds then it's not so bad. It's a shame that it's there tho because it tarnishes the credibility of the movie.Sinbad is always good and the late, great Phil Hartman can make any film watchable so they really add to this brilliantly entertaining comedy. Do yourself a favour and watch it. It's not just for kids. I watched my VHS a zillion times and I was so impatient for this DVD to be released.So it's barebones, but who cares? I'm just glad to have it. The 1.781 anamorphic picture is super and the Dolby 2.0 surround track is decent enough. After all this is a dialogue driven comedy but some sound effects and music are presented pretty well. My subwoofer even go a big kick from a gunshot near the end.Pick this one up whenever you see it. No matter what age you are, you and your kids will enjoy. "},{"Title":"Hey, Kevin Franklin, in da house!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Houseguest. One of Sinbad's funniest movies and Phil Hartman's funniest movies. Sinbad plays a 35-year old, never want go get a job, con man, who is in to the mob for $50,000 dollars. After trying to escape from the con man, he impersonates a dentist and that's when the fun begins.Right off the back, Sinbad brings the laughs. All of of lines about the great white shark biting his friends head off and the GFH off of his suit jacket. This is a wonderful movie and I would recommend it to anyone, because Sinbad is a comedian that doesn't need profanity to be funny.Funny 10/10! "},{"Title":"A funny, good movie!","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie surprisingly works and is very funny and enjoyable and it's also, what I think to be the litmus test of a good movie, always good for repeated viewing without losing its charm.  I pass by the film on cable and find myself watching it again and still laughing.  I know this seems hard to believe especially since the story is ridiculous and the script is pretty banal.  I've come to the conclusion that it's the genuine talent of Sinbad, an exceedingly funny man who unfortunately seems to have disappeared from show business as of late. Phil Hartman adds a great deal to the film with his always impeccable delivery but I can't help but think of his horrible tragedy and kind of fall out of the movie's whimsy at times.I always liked this movie.  It manages to rise above most Hollywood comedies that are inevitably annoying and dispensable. This movie is fun and has great acting which makes up for the fact that it is, by nature, just a screwball comedy. It's a total guilty pleasure but I say go for it.   "},{"Title":"Phil Hartman was way under-appreciated","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" For what this movie was it was perfect. I first watched this when I was an ignorant kid but I can still appreciate it now that I'm an ignorant college student. Phil Hartman could not have been better but that should not be surprising if you're one of the many out there that deems him a genius like myself. Sinbad did his part and contributed to many laughs. The story is what you'd expect with an underachiever from the hood hooking up with some white surburbians. Sinbad's job is to bring us into the lilly white community of Zwickley and deconstruct the Puritan values and customs that everyone has become accustomed to. Sinbad makes white people let loose by passing around a wine bottle and dance to Brick House. Sounds great doesn't it? But if you're looking for mind perplexing subject matter you're in the wrong place to begin with. Sit back, laugh, and enjoy a very underrated '90's comedy. One of the few leading role works by the late Phil Hartman. "},{"Title":"Super Movie!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  What a great movie this is. Humorous, well acted, dramatic, and well written. A Pittsburgh get rich-quick man, Kevin Franklin (Sinbad) is in big trouble! He borrowed money from the bad guys, and now they want it back, or Franklin is history! In attempt to skip town at the airport, Franklin runs into Gary Young (poor old Phil Hartman) who is waiting for his old friend Derek Bond who he hasn't seen in 25 years. Franklin becomes Bond, and lives with Gary for a few days. What an adventure he has, not knowing who Derek Bond is, and trying to be him! A lot of excitement and humor happens now! Kevin learns a lot, but also teaches Gary's family things they needed to help them from falling apart. Kevin really improves the Youngs, and they improve him. Now if only the bad guys weren't still after Franklin. Can Kevin get the Youngs to help him with the bad guys, and will they all make it?!If you like Sinbad and poor old Phil Hartman, check this movie out. It's also great for you if you like adventures and comedies. On a scale of 1-10, I give this movie a nine (9), and a letter grade of A! Check it out for yourself. You'll have a ball, and you might even learn some important stuff!  "},{"Title":"Some funny. some annoying parts","Date":"7 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was in college when this movie came out in 1995, and me and my friends all thought it was hilarious then. Now, at age 40, I still find some parts funny, but some parts dumb, I guess that's just me being older and more mature. Sinbad was very funny, but from an older perspective, he's just too hyper excited and he can really drain the viewer out. We get a couple more of the comic book style gangsters that we've seen in so many other 90s movies (I.e. Getting even with dad,  Cop and a half,Man of the house). And Phil Hartmsn and his wife could be a little brighter for not being able to see Sinbad as an imposter. Jeffery Jones definitely had had his day, his  Ferris Bueller funniness is long gone. But there's still some funny zanyness. I laughed some. Like I said, some of the movie's fun, some is annoying. "},{"Title":"Houseguest - Sinbad - Phil Hartman","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I first saw this in the theatre I was 16 years old and actually liked the movie a lot against a lot of public ratings that were low for this one. I thought Sinbad and Phil worked well together to deliver funny punchlines and anything these guys on to ME is GREATNESS. the plot sucked as most comedies plots suck which I rate as 10 star effort. Serious Comedies do not deserve plots so fine work there. The cast was acting pretty cliché and everyone on the movie was cool and fun during the delivery of the film. Whoever gave this low scores is someone who does NOT like the genre much and does not like goofy or corny stuff. I do so this 1 gets a 10 all day. 1 of the top 100 Comedies all time to me with The 3 Amigos in my top 10. "}{"Title":"Not smart, but some funny and fun scenes thanks to Sinbad's comic work.","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The plot is formulaic, the characters are trite. Even worse, the characters are all negative stereotypes without any parody with which to lampoon them. As such, the movie is nearer to a Saturday morning cartoon than to National Lampoon. It is not smart. Still, much of Sinbad's comic delivery is fun, I'll admit! His award-acceptance monologue near the beginning I find hilarious. I can picture a golden age icon like young Mickey Rooney or Jimmy Stewart doing the same scene with a zany innocence... but Sinbad is a comic for our times and because of the edginess of his character (who was set up to look like a petty criminal) that scene couldn't have been more funny. I also enjoy the tooth-removal sequence. It's comedy worthy of Jerry Lewis or Lucille Ball, and that the entire film is really a build up to that scene makes it forgivable. I watched it because mistaken/hidden identity stories are often funny... and I watch any and every movie with Jeffrey Jones. "},{"Title":"Slap me five there brother....","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Franklin has a dream, but he's having trouble finding the fast lane to his first million. Borrowing from loan sharks to finance a new business, Kevin finds himself in debt to the Gasperini Brothers. Seizing an opportunity to escape, Kevin passes himself off as a prominent Baltimore dentist to an unsuspecting family, The Youngs, becoming their house-guest for a weekend.......Sinbad was never a big star here in the UK, the movie he will be remembered for here is Jingle All The Way, as the one who was annoying Schwarzenegger for the duration of the film.But as always in the US, the nineties always seemed to give popular TV stars a three picture deal, David Caruso was one, but he sank big time, despite some big films, and there was this guy, who was given some safer projects.And this is one of them, a film where the family are not getting along, a supposed family friend arrives,who is a little different from before, and before you can say 'it's a wonderful life' everyone loves each other, and the bad guys are given their just desserts.Sinbad is watchable, and the rest of the cast are stereotypical to this genre, but in the end, its harmless, slightly diverting stuff.And that would make a wonderful poster quote 'slightly diverting'Wonderfully endorsed by McDonalds.... "},{"Title":"Great for family entertainment","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I remember that we had this movie on VHS and that I really liked watching it when I was younger. I remember it being very entertaining at the time.Sinbad stars as a con artist who is trying to hide from some mobsters. In an airport he gets mistakenly befriended by a geek lawyer who thinks he's a long lost childhood friend. He becomes a house guest and makes himself comfortable in the lawyer's home and really gets to know his family and neighbors.This movie is very funny and well suited to watch with your family, I know I loved to watch it back then. "},{"Title":"A great movie but not without its flaws","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Franklin (Sinbad) is a big man with big dreams but try telling that to his car that backfires so often that he probably doesn't go through the drive thru at McDonald's (his favorite place to eat). Growing up as an orphan money centric Kevin has tried to get it any way he can, by selling baseball cards, watching tapes on home based businesses and finally borrowing 5k from Happy, the local loan shark. When it comes time to collect none of these business opportunities have paid off in the least so he has two options. The two mobsters kill him or he can have another day of life and an opportunity to pay 50k he naturally takes the latter and decides to skip town which is when he runs into Gary Young (Phil Hartmann) who is looking for his uptight conservative Derek Bond (Ron Glass who's well known for his role in Barney Miller) and he pretends to be the real Derek Bond with hilarious results especially when trying to remember the childhood he had with Gary at Camp Maple Ridge and the lyrics to Goodnight Irene First A presentation in which he BS's his way through with hilarity, trying to figure out the details of Derek Bond before a garden party that he livens up after a mishap with an ice cream machine and a wine tasting that would otherwise be uptight and conservative. As he bumbles through the time at the Youngs he realizes that their family though a shining example of the nuclear family with a successful Mom (owner of a yogurt franchise) and Dad (who works for a rival frozen desert company in town) but the kids are not exactly the Leave It To Beaver kids.The oldest girl has a thing for dead guys and depressing poetry wearing black all the time and has a boyfriend named Steve but he prefers ST3 he is simply the son of a Congressman who thinks he's a white boy who grew up in the hood around black people (those who have are often called white chocolate). The daughter is just--trying to find her voice as well but not in the best of ways, Kevin teaches her to embrace life and living things and to not let a guy like ST3 take advantage of her and Kevin teaches ST3 a lesson Don't leave a chicken dinner for a chicken McNugget (this other girl he was with at a shop Kevin went to) by getting pretty creative. His Son Jason is obsessed with pleasing his dad who wants him to become an all star basketball player, Kevin teaches him confidence by teaming up with him to be victorious over a bunch of teenagers who hog the basketball court and wins their clothes. The youngest girl is ignored so he basically watches cartoons with her throughout his time at the Young Family Gary, the Father is pitted against his wife by being given a Beaver Meadows account that is going into a frozen yogurt business and he has a conflict of interest. When mentioning this to his boss, Mr Pike, Pike simply says that he knows that Gary is best for this eventually Kevin steps in saying that he needs to stand up to his boss and can it which he does, Gary then resolves to work as in home counsel for his wife.As all this is going on, the thugs are homing in on Kevin until their search leads them to the Young Residence with the real Derek Bond who then states that he is the real Derek Bond and that this man is an impostor. Then things make sense for Gary and the family after Kevin is taken away and the family then decides to go after him when the real Derek Bond berates Kevin as a two bit crook. Final chase happens between Kevin and the mobsters and they acquire a scratch off which can be worth a cool million, they then part ways with Kevin and let him go.One year later, Kevin is rich with that Porsche thanks to a Handbook for House-guests he published. Now that the Youngs know who he is and that he was being himself, they forge a continuing friendship with Kevin and his friend Larry, and the movie closes with food themed Christmas Classics showcasing the voice talents of Phil Hartmann and Sinbad This movie is wonderful for both their comic stylings. Phil Hartmann is a great reactor and his delivery is amazing. The garden party scene really does fit in with his style as well,it's a good movie that really makes him shine while also making his co stars shine too. It's more of a farce comedy that I give 6 out of 10 stars, a nice family comedy and all around fun. It has its shortcomings but I really don't see them when I look at its message, I'd say it's more like a tale of friendship and it's power to change people for the better.And that is my review "},{"Title":"This Guest is welcome anytime so, do seek out this fun-filled movie which can buoy spirits in a big way!","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin (Sinbad) is a poor single man living in Pittsburgh, with his hamster, in a small apartment. An orphan, Kevin once bragged to his grade school classmates that, one day, he would be very wealthy. Trouble is, none of his get-rich-quick schemes have panned out and Kevin is in debt to the local mobsters. When they come to collect, Keving speeds off to the airport to catch a flight. However, with the mob on his heels, Kevin overhears an even better opportunity for him to lay low for awhile, at the airport terminal. It seems that Gary (Phil Hartman)and his children are waiting for an old camp friend that Gary has not seen for 20 years. Kevin seizes the moment and declares himself to be Dr. Derek Bond, a dentist, to Gary and the kids. Gary is delighted to see him and takes him home. Once there, in heavenly suburbia, Kevin finds out he is supposed to make a speech at the local elementary school, on career day. Okay. Kevin also learns he is reputed to be a strict vegetarian. Horrors. But, as the family showers him with gifts and parties, Kevin wonders, as do we all, how soon will they learn the truth about his identity? This is a great film, very funny and very spirit-lifting. Sinbad's Kevin is a such a lovable character, despite his scheming, that everyone is hoping for a happy ending. Hartman, likewise, is dead-pan funny in his role as a much put-upon lawyer with a family that looks perfect but which, in reality, has some problems to overcome. The setting is lovely, the costumes are nice, and the look of the film is quite wonderful, too. Do you want to cheer up yourself and your family in a big fashion? This is the film for you, as to watch it is to love it and laugh it up till the clouds overhead are long gone. "},{"Title":"Sinbad's best movie","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When I saw previews for this, I really wanted to see it. Unfortunately I never got time to go the movie theater to go see it. But when it became a new rental, I went right down to Blockbuster and rented it. And I loved this movie. The pairing of Sinbad and Phil Hartman was excellent. The part when they leave the airport is hilarious and also when Sinbad tells Jason Caress the wheel like a woman. Don't hold it like a pervert! Then Jason says But I don't know how to caress a woman. LOL. That part was hilarious. From beginning to end, this movie is definitely an all-time classic. Too bad they don't make movies like this anymore. Now a days it's over-hyped garbage like The Da Vinci Code or these teen slasher psycho movies where everyone just runs around and screams. Another part I really liked was when Sinbad says to the wine critic Sounds like someone needs a woman. That part was hilarious too. Houseguest is a comedic gem that very few comedies can live up to. Definitely worth seeing for anyone who hasn't seen it yet and definitely worth buying to add to your collection! "},{"Title":"Another Sinbad Triumph!!","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Kevin Franklin (Sinbad) finds himself in debt and is forced to pull off the hoax of the century by posing as an affluent dentist in suburbia, USA. Naturally, hilarity ensues as Franklin, a street smart con-man, is forced to adapt to the norms and conventions of middle-class white America. Expecting a conservative dentist, the host family bites off more than they can chew as Franklin turns their world upside down! Get ready to raise the roof!!! lol! But amid all this comedy is a great lesson about acceptance of other cultures and lifestyles. Not only does Sinbad change their lives, but something in Sinbad changes too. I just bought this on DVD (finally!) and haven't laughed this hard since A Night With Sinbad at the Dallas Convention Center in '96 where he introduced his now famous peanut butter bit! "},{"Title":"The Youngs Were A Dysfunctional Family Always on the Go. But That All Changed Once Kevin Franklin's in the House!","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Meet Kevin Franklin, a down and out wily con. All his life he had been told by his peers that he would be nothing. Kevin figured that by now he'd at least be a millionaire and driving a Porsche. Well the clunking, compact junker he drove hardly compared to a Porsche and he was a million dollars short of being a millionaire. Rather than get a job, Kevin tried numerous get-rich-quick schemes. One of them included buying the entire 1994 season baseball cards. He was also in debt to the Mob. He was $50,000 in the hole and when Pauly and Joey Gasperini came to collect the money, they were very angry to hear Kevin didn't have it. So they gave him one more day. Kevin used that to try and escape by fleeing the country. Pauly and Joey caught him at the airport, of course. So Kevin made a run for it. He then ran into a man named Gary Young, his son Jason and daughter Sarah, who were awaiting an old friend of Gary's, whom he hasn't seen in 25 years Derek Bond. Kevin quickly assumed the identity of Derek and left with the Youngs, but first he had to detour the real Derek Bond who arrived shortly after; Kevin came home with the Youngs and met Gary's stressed out wife, Emily, and their Goth teenage girl Brooke.Kevin slowly learned about the man he was portraying. He got down everything except his profession, which he learned at a fancy dinner party that night Derek Bond is a dentist; Kevin wore a suit from a bag he just grabbed off of baggage claim. Unfortunately it was a suit from a funeral home and had the initials GFH (Groverton Funeral Home) on the front pocket. Kevin had to keep making up titles and statements that the initials stood for; Kevin also managed to bring some life into the party when it came to wine sipping. The next day, Gary brought Kevin to the country club where he would be taking in a game of golf with his family dentist, Dr. Ron Timmerman, and Gary's boss, Mr. Pike. It was then that Kevin saw Pauly and Joey enter the club looking for him. Apparently their boss, Happy Marcelli wasn't too happy that he didn't get his money. So, to speed things up, Kevin introduced the concept of speed golf. It was loads of fun until, when speeding around the course in a golf cart, Mr. Pike fell out and ruptured a tooth. They rushed him to the clinic where Derek Bond D.D.S was expected to perform the tooth removal procedure. With luck on his side, Kevin pulled it off, or rather pulled it OUT; Kevin knew he couldn't keep lying to these people forever and he wanted to get back to his old life, but he found it hard to leave. Especially with Pauly and Joey after him.There was constant tension and friction in this family. Gary and Emily always fought, and Brooke was so depressed with life. Especially when her boyfriend Steve started cheating on her. Kevin was able to console her as well as convince Steve to make amends...By parking his Jeep on the railroad tracks. Not only that, but Kevin gave Gary newfound courage to stand up to his boss and subsequently lose his job. It all had to do with the fact that Gary's firm got a frozen yogurt account and Emily just happened to be in the yogurt business. It would only make for further and fiercer fights. But unfortunately, Pauly and Joey found out where Kevin had been staying so Gary, Emily and Kevin return home to find the family taken hostage. Not to mention, the REAL Derek Bond was there too. It was then that Kevin confessed everything. Gary felt really hurt. Pauly and Joey take Kevin away, and since the real Derek Bond was a real snob, Gary and the family race after the mob to save their old friend; Kevin managed to elude the cons in the 5K jogathon, which he and Gary quickly took part in. But in the end, they were cornered. That's when Kevin remembered a winning Lotto ticket he had gotten the previous day. It wasn't a direct winner but it gave the recipient a chance to go on The Big Spin. He gave the ticket to Pauly and Joey. Epilogue Happy Marcelli and his men were out $50,000, and Kevin wrote a book on how to be a good house guest which brought him the fame and fortune he deserved. He invited his friend Larry the tattoo artists and the Youngs over for a big Christmas BBQ. He and Gary sing a medley of Christmas songs with food.Houseguest is a good movie. It's funny. Sinbad is hilarious! See First Kid, Jingle all the Way and Good Burger too. He's a riot. Phil Hartman is good too. He was such a great actor. Unfortunately he was murdered by his psychopathic wife in 1998. He is missed to this very day. Ron Glass of TV's Barney Miller is here as the real Derek Bond D.D.S., Jeffrey Jones, the degenerate pervert, is here as Ron Timmerman. Mason Adams is Mr. Pike, and he unfortunately passed away earlier this year. Stan Shaw is Larry, and fans of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood will recognize Don Brockett as Happy Marcelli and Chuck Aber as the Big Spin Host! Sadly, Brockett passed away in 1995. But anyway, if you like Sinbad and Phil Hartman or movies of this genre, then Houseguest is YOUR movie! Check it out, won't you? It's a laugh riot when Kevin Franklin's in da HOUSE!!- "},{"Title":"See it a bunch of times","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I have to say, when I first saw the movie, I thought it was incredibly dumb. After about the third time, I thought it was so funny. It gets more amusing the more often you watch it. It's sort of like that song that you think sucks the first few times you hear it, and then you listen to it a few more times, and it sounds a little better, and then after about a month, you really like it. Sinbad and Phil Hartman play off each other very well, and amongst the stupidity, there's a light hearted lesson in friendship and the ability of people to change. I don't know how much more I can write about the movie without going into spoilers, but just go out and rent it. "},{"Title":"house guest rules","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" The movie house guest was a very funny movie that will please most of the people who view it. The movie is more along the lines of family airing but it does have adult humor the will satisfy young and old viewers.The only bad thing about the movie is that it has an impossible story; I don't think Phil Hartmans character would believe such a bogus story. All Sinbad had to do was read the sign that said Derek Bond Let phil tell you of the info you desire and BAM an impostor is coming into your house posing as your old camping chum. Also during the movie sinbad does some pretty outrageous stuff that would not only get him in trouble, but would have his identity revealed. The movie is funny and I would recommend renting, or even buying, its just that good of a movie. "}{"Title":"Hey, Kevin Franklin, in da house!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Houseguest. One of Sinbad's funniest movies and Phil Hartman's funniest movies. Sinbad plays a 35-year old, never want go get a job, con man, who is in to the mob for $50,000 dollars. After trying to escape from the con man, he impersonates a dentist and that's when the fun begins.Right off the back, Sinbad brings the laughs. All of of lines about the great white shark biting his friends head off and the GFH off of his suit jacket. This is a wonderful movie and I would recommend it to anyone, because Sinbad is a comedian that doesn't need profanity to be funny.Funny 10/10! "},{"Title":"Too much funny scenes here","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It's quite a shame this film is way underrated at 5.5 stars over 10. While a dumb boring movie like How to Deal gets .2 star higher, I guess many of those who watched Houseguest simply have bad taste.Oh well, Sinbad's talent can never be better than what he exhausted here. Really funny how he can't help but grab that McDonald's burger from his friend's hands. And that splash of soft-serve ice cream scene, that was hilarious.I want to see more Sinbad films in the future. "},{"Title":"Great funny family film","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  From the first time we saw Houseguest, we loved it.  After renting it 3 times, I decided it would be more cost effective to buy it.Sinbad is hilarious and Hartman is the perfect foil.  It's unnecessary to describe the film because so many others have done that, but suffice it to say it's a wonderful, funny feel-good movie.  Your kids will love it and so will you.  It's clean and very family safe.     "},{"Title":"Under-rated and under-exposed!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The 1990's saw a whole string of low-budget, straight-to-video comedies that slipped by unnoticed among the blockbusters that drew the crowds. Sadly HOUSEGUEST seems to have slipped by with them.Expertly cast, warmly scripted and hilariously acted it sees Sinbad star as Kevin Franklin, a loser who owes money to the mob. Fleeing town he gets mistaken at the airport for Gary Young's long-lost friend. A man without options, Kevin goes along with it all and soon finds himself pretending to be a dentist, a wine connoisseur and an expert golfer. Meanwhile, he wins the hearts of Gary's young family (also expertly cast and very believable) and soon, when the family know the truth, they're rallying around helping Kevin to leave his sordid, dangerous past behind.Full of laughs, HOUSEGUEST is one to watch. Don't let this one slip! "},{"Title":"Totally hilarious and fully entertaining","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This very fun and entertaining film focuses on family values and using teamwork to resolve problems.  Perhaps this is why film critics told their audiences to stay away from this movie.Sinbad is Kevin Franklin, a Pittsburgh native who is always telling his friends and neighbors that one day he's going to have a million dollars and drive a Porsche.  But for his entire life, he's been nothing more than a nobody, living off loans from friends, and, recently, from a local Mob boss.  When debt collectors come to Franklin's apartment to collect $50,000, his loan plus late penalties and interest, Kevin goes to the airport to leave town.While at the airport, Franklin meets the Young Family, who is there to meet Gary's (Phil Hartman) old time friend Derek Bond.  Gary hasn't seen Derek for twenty years, Kevin simply responds to the name 'Derek,' share a couple of laughs, and instantly the two develop a very trusting friendship in each other.  Meanwhile, the real Derek Bond (Ron Glass) is assaulted by the mob enforcers as a result of hilarious instructions during a conversation between him and Kevin.While staying at the Young house, Kevin begins to help with the domestic problems that have been tearing the family apart for some time now.  He teaches their son Jason (Chauncey Leopardi) to play basketball and believe in himself.  He spends time listening, talking and watching cartoons with their youngest daughter Sarah (Talia Seider).  And with their oldest, Brooke (Kim Murphy), Kevin teaches her that if her boyfriend spends time with another girl, she doesn't have to cry at home, but to find someone else--someone better.  With Gary, Kevin teaches him that his family is more important than his job after his boss gives him an assignment that causes severe stress in his relationship with his wife Emily (Kim Greist).  In time, Kevin rescues and restores the strength of a family completely opposite to him-and his way of life.Just one viewing of this movie will be totally hilarious and fully entertaining.  This film is another example of learning to ignore the biased advice of industry-paid critics.  You'll be satisfied that you did--not only with this movie, but with others that have been panned by the critics. "},{"Title":"Houseguest is a great comedy for the whole family","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Phil Hartman and Sinbad star in Houseguest a 1995 comedy about what happens when one stranger pretends another person's best friend and the close relationship these two form even after the truth is revealed.Phil Hartman has starred in great movies like Blind Date, The Coneheads , and Jingle All The Way, but this is probably his least seen movie although it's a funny one.Phil Hartman plays Gary Young, a young executive who has problems with his wife and young kids . Hartman dislikes his boss but doesn't have the guts to stand up to him.Sinbad plays Kevin Franklin, a guy who has yet to pay a debt to the mob for $50,000, Instead of paying the debt, Franklin goes on the run and proceeds to impersonates one of Young's best friend, a dentist named Derek Bond. Young hasn't seen Bond in a long time, so he has no clue what Bond looks like. Franklin does a good a hilarious job of fooling Young that he is Derek Bond. In one instance, Young invites Franklin to a party and asks him to look at the teeth at one of his guests, a beautiful young woman. When this beautiful woman starts to smile, Franklin sees she has lost a couple of teeth, and responds Oh!!! Geez, it's a funny scene that had me laughing. Pretty soon Franklin starts showing Gary Young's guest how to boogie and dance, using the black soul in him. I enjoyed this moment, because although the movie doesn't state it, part of it's enjoyment is the togetherness of the black culture of Franklin with the white culture of Young. When both guys starts partying together, we see both white and black people can exist together in peace. Anyhow, more fun ensues as Franklin is asked to perform an important dental procedure to an old friend of Young, and proceeds to do utterly stupid stunts with great results. Franklin then bonds with all the kids of Mr. Young including Jason, Joey, Sarah Young. In one scene, he takes the kids to play basketball against a couple of young bullies and he and the kids proceeds to beat up these kids playing tough basketball. The kids love Franklin with all his warmth and humor, than even at the end when they find out his real name it doesn't matter, because they know he is a good guy.We get more laughter close to the end, as the Young family helps Franklin get rid of the mob idiots that are following him. By the end of the movie Young, is a totally different, he is more secure and confident, thanks to his best friend, that he stands up his boss and becomes closer to his family. Only 2 people reviewed this movie, so that tells me, that alot of people still haven't seen it. I recommended this great movie to everyone "},{"Title":"Sponsoring... Ronald McDonald style....","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie has the good humor of Sinbad and Phil Hartman. This movie is decent and family safe. This movie could be somewhat interesting, except for the painfully obvious sponsor. Houseguest is the longest Mc Donalds commercial ever made. "},{"Title":"A funny movie... and oh! The Big Mac!","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After watching For Richer or Poorer, I'm reminded how much better I liked Houseguest.  Even the first time this movie was made, the plot is nothing new, but Sinbad makes it wholesome and we can relate to him at some level as is with the other characters.  His pretense at being a vegetarian is a great, humorous struggle for him.  The ending featuring Sinbad and the late Phil Hartman singing the Christmas Burger Medley was great.  Anything to remind me of that casserole scene in For Richer or Poorer.The verdict 4 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Sinbad's DEFINITELY in the House!!!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Don't hold Sinbad's squeaky-clean image against him...he's hilarious in this film - eclipsing the talents of Phil Hartman and Ron Glass.  Sure, there's the annoying bumbling gangsters bit, and endless pitches for a certain well-known burger chain, but Sinbad triumphs against all odds.  The only good family film in existence.     "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Houseguest has Sinbad and Phil Hartman at their best!  Sinbad is Kevin Franklin, a 35 year-old Philadelphian who owes big money to the mob.  At an attempt to skip town, he spots Gary Young (Hartman) at the airport waiting for a friend he hasn't seen since summer camp 25 years ago.  Kevin takes the chance, and becomes Derek Bond.  He wings it, not knowing anything about his new identity (not even his occupation--a dentist), doing everything from speaking at a high school job fair to pulling a tooth! Kevin and Gary form a solid friendship and a solid performance in this hilarious and heart-warming film. "}{"Title":"Phil Hartman actually gives it some amount of levity","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" By no means a great comedy, Houseguest actually comes across as being fairly entertaining thanks largely to the presence of the late, great Phil Hartman. Hartman's deadpan, ironic delivery always cracked me up on SNL, and although his film career never really took off prior to his death, he had some good supporting roles, and this is one of them.Sinbad is basically as annoying as ever (although, admittedly, not nearly as bad as some other comedians-turned-family-entertainers) and the plot is very basic and recycled - a guy on the run from some Mafioso types decides to take on the identity of someone else through a series of bizarre misunderstandings. In this case Sinbad finds himself pretending to be the old friend of Hartman's, who is now a brain doctor. There are actually some rather amusing scenes involving the forced and awkward such as when Sinbad is forced to give a speech on brain surgery despite knowing absolutely nothing about the topic.Overall, not by any means a great comedy, but something that can easily divert your attention on a rainy Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Potential to be a good movie","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This movie had the potential to be a hilarious Sinbad comedy. I enjoyed it far more when I was a kid. After watching it again today, I realized how bad it really is. The cinematography was pretty bad. The camera cuts back and forth far too much, especially during dialog between two characters at once, making it almost dizzying to watch at times. Editing was noticeably bad in some scenes. For example, a character is standing in one spot, then the camera angle changes and the character is now standing in a different spot. Or how about the scene when Sinbad is leaving the airport in the red Volvo wagon and spins the tires taking off causing the rear wheels to spin and smoke. Did anyone notice the patch of oil under the smoking tire they show a close-up of? I've driven that kind of Volvo and I can say from experience those Volvos can't spin the tires like that on dry pavement. So it was obvious the wet patch on the ground was oil they poured there to cause the rear wheels to spin and smoke when Sinbad took off fast. Just simple stuff like that that can make a movie seem cheaply and poorly done. "},{"Title":"Happy 50th, Sinbad!","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Since today is Sinbad's 50th birthday, I wanted to talk about one of his movies. Houseguest is probably the sort of movie that can only appeal to eleven-year-old boys, but it has its moments. Portraying a debt-ridden man (Sinbad) posing as the friend of a suburban man (Phil Hartman) and moving into his house to avoid some gangsters, it's pretty silly, but not harming anything. A particularly goofy scene is the whole washing balls sketch.So, it's the sort of movie that you watch with best buds. Don't expect a religious experience, just expect to laugh (I'm sure that you will). Among other things, it goes to show what we lost when Phil Hartman was murdered. Also starring Kim Greist and Jeffrey Jones. "},{"Title":"Yuck! (2)","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was a painful movie to endure. This movie must hold the record for fast motion scenes. I am a Phil Hartman fan and that's what prompted me to give this movie a 2 and not a 1. Maybe its for kids, I don't know, but I was bored from the outset. I kept checking the clock to see how much longer the movie was, then I finally checked the box to confirm the length of the movie. These aren't things you should do if it's a semi-interesting film. And, that's not to mention the endless, shameless, plugs for McDonalds. What a waste of talent. If you want to see a better, well written houseguest check out Peter Sellers in Being There. "},{"Title":"A funny, entertaining, family film. Sinbad rocks!","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I never have heard of the comedian Sinbad before, until I saw this film. For the first five minutes of the film, I was hooked. It made me laugh, think of my own life as a slob like his in this film, and it gives moral lessons that an ordinary family needs to learn. Sinbad saved the film. No one else could have done his role in this film. He was entergetic, entertaining, and flat out hysterical. Phil Hartman did a few things for the film, but it was Sinbad who did the majority of the film. I just wish Sinbad did more movies. This is the only film I have seen him in. He's a mix of Jim Carrey and Eddie Murphy. If Sinbad goes on another comedy television show, it should be Whose Line is it Anyway!     "},{"Title":"One of the best comedy movies ever made!","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Its a must see! It never gets bored the jokes comes so fast sometimes that for people who don't speak fluent English/American will miss a lot.If you see the movie with sub language, it must really suck. Sinbad is king, the other actors also do their job terrific! Go see this movie today! Its a must see! It never gets bored the jokes comes so fast sometimes that for people who don't speak fluent English/American will miss a lot.If you see the movie with sub language, it must really suck. Sinbad is king, the other actors also do their job terrific! Go see this movie today! Its a must see! It never gets bored the jokes comes so fast sometimes that for people who don't speak fluent English/American will miss a lot.If you see the movie with sub language, it must really suck. Sinbad is king, the other actors also do their job terrific! Go see this movie today! "},{"Title":"Sinbad is amazing","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie at home. I love that movie. Sinbad was Hilarius. Sarah Young was cute. The Youngs dog is very interesting. My Favorite part when Sindbad was driving very funny. The Young's teenager is very cool. Sinbad and The Young's boy playing basket ball was very cool. Whats funny when Sinbad dunks the basketball in the hoop. In this movie Houseguest Sinbad was very smart and funny. Whats also funny when he talks about something in his car. My friend at Boca Sarah loves that movie. I hate when those bad guys tell Sinbad to do is give them the money. It's also funny when Sinbad throws the burger. Everybody will love this movie you will laugh at this movie it's hilarious "},{"Title":"Good film that's very funny, albeit somewhat crude","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" HOUSESITTER, in my opinion, is a good film that's very funny, albeit somewhat crude. It's a story about what can happen when you don't pay off your debts. If you ask me, the way that Kevin (Sinbad) talked his way into staying with the Youngs (Phil Hartman, Kim Griest, Chauncey Leopardi, Talia Seider, Kim Murphy) was pretty darn clever. However, when Kevin performed that oral surgery, I think I wanted to puke. This was because he wasn't a certified dentist. In conclusion, if you like Sinbad or Phil Hartman movies, this is definitely one to see. You will truly enjoy it, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Houseguest!","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" One of the most hilarious films of all time in My opinion is Houseguest! It stars Sinbad, Phil Hartman, Jeffrey Jones, Big Tony Longo, Paul Ben-Victor, Stan Shaw, and Ron Glass! Sinbad is very good in this film and he is funny. Phil Hartman is hilarious in this film. He shows that he really was a quality actor. I am amazed how big Sinbad and Jones are when they stand next to each other. Jones is very good in this film too. Tony Longo, who also is a big man also performed good. The action and chase scenes are really great and a lot of the scenes are really funny! The dialog is really good in this movie. The music by John Debney is very good. I really like this film and I think its one of the best! If you love Sinbad, Phil Hartman, and the other cast members and love action comedy films then I strongly recommend Houseguest today! "},{"Title":"Fun and games in suburbia","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I would watch Sinbad read a phone book!  This comedian is so genuinely funny and made a so-so script so, so believable.Sinbad portrays Kevin Franklin, someone down on his luck, but up  in his attitude.  He tells all that he will make his first million one day soon and mail orders every info-mercial guide to make money that there is. Unfortunately, he is greatly in debt to some Mafia-type loan sharks who constantly circle him as their only prey.  To escape their threats, Kevin high-tails it to the airport.  While hiding from them, he overhears Gary Young (Phil Hartman) explain to his young son and daughter that he is waiting for a childhood friend, Derek Bond, to arrive but that Derek is always late.  When the kids ask what Derek looks like, Gary explains that he actually hasn't seen Derek since childhood but he assumes him to be black and tall.  You can see the lightbulb go off over Kevin's head and he steps into assume Derek's identity and proceeds home with the Young family.Yes, the story was a little contrived, particularly the dentist office scene, but Sinbad is just so gifted in making you believe  in him and laugh at him.  It's a combination of his size and the honesty in his eyes, I think.  Watch this movie and tell me you did not laugh out loud at the scene in the car when he is explaining his accident or how he makes a snobby wine tasting,  an all-out blast of a party.  He is a nut.And watching Phil Hartman only makes you miss him more.  He is playing the straight man here to Sinbad.  Anyone else would have been ho hum. Hartman makes you care for him and his family.Another film you can watch with your family.  As always with Sinbad, the only f word associated with him is funny!  "}{"Title":"So I watched this movie with my niece recently....","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" and I think it may very well be the worst piece of crap ever put on film. Character development is an art form.... but not in this movie. Sinbad has a complete and life altering change of heart in, literally, 46 seconds. Seriously. I timed it.I also love the scene that by law has to be included in any movie where a black character spends more than 18 minutes with a white family the black character teaches them how to partay. However, what makes this scene particularly intriguing is that Sinbad starts looking into the camera during the party, and only in this scene does he do that.Please, I beg of anyone who owns this movie, destroy your copy. Save future generations from ever learning of Sinbad or his film exploits. Save the memory of Phil Hartman, and don't tarnish his legacy by showing people this movie. "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever Made?","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Many comedies are great comedies. Many of them are funny, entertaining, and clever. But House Guest, ( Sinbad and Phil Hartman ) is one of those I'm gonna need to pretend like I know what i'm doin', even though I don't know what I'm doin' comedies. It's one of those I have to act like I'm someone else kinda comedies. Every laugh's a screamer, every joke, clever, and every Sinbad goes, there's TROUBLE!!!! It's one of those movies you have to see again, and again, and again, mainly because it was just too damn funny. While watching the movie, I would say to myself, It would be hilarious if that really happened, or if someone really said that, or I could just imagine me trying' to do something like that. The movie's great. I hope I gave you a good enough of an idea to help you understand how funny this movie is, without spoiling it for you.... The only reason why I rated this Movie 6/10 is because IMDb has it voted as that.... "}]