[{"Title":"Insult me!","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"37 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's rare for a cop movie to combine elements from The Untouchables, Thelma & Louise and The Brady Bunch.Unless, of course, the lead character has a tendency to run his car into parking meters.The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult brings the lofty trilogy to a close with the same old cast (Kennedy, Simpson, Presley) and slapstick antics involving a prison breakout, terrorist plot and the Oscars.  And there in the center is Lt. Frank Drebin (Nielsen) on the verge of retirement and fighting with bad guys, shopping carts and Weird Al Yankovic while trying convince lovely wife Jane (Presley) that the spark in their relationship is still there.How can you talk down a movie like this; it's as useless as putting up a tent in a windstorm, so they say.  You have to enjoy stupidity, one-liners, gags and visual puns, as created by the ZAZ boys (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker) and delivered by a cast of pros (including Fred Ward and Pia Zadora!!), all with the tone of adolescence and insanity you've come to know and love.And if you don't, why are you reading this?Kudos go to Anna Nicole Smith, who makes her debut in movies here in a big way (sorry) and shows she is at her best when laughing at herself.  Good job, Anna.Favorite scene?  I lost count after the first 10 minutes; it's an exercise in futility, every scene will make you chuckle, laugh, guffaw, roar and/or howl with delight.  Besides, why spoil the fun?And as for Nielsen...as always, he is THE MAN!  Even when throwing up in a tuba.Ten stars for a great Final trip down into Dumbville.  And one star more for the very last scene - classic!Thanks, Frank.  "},{"Title":"An appropriately funny and silly conclusion to the police squad spoof series","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Retirement has not been good for Frank Drebin. His marriage is on the rocks and he feels emasculated as he no longer has the power of the law or the ability to shot bad guys. When he is offered the chance to help out with some undercover work, Frank jumps at the chance &#150; even though Jane storms out. When the info Frank finds points to imprisoned bomb expert Rocco Dillon he agrees to go into the jail and infiltrate his gang in order to find out his plan.Despite the fact that the second part was a little bit of a dip from part 1, Debin was brought back for a final insult and managed to produce a very enjoyable conclusion to the series. Opening with one of the best moments from all three films (a hilarious expansion of The Untouchable train station scene) the film keeps up a very consistent tone that has plenty of big laughs as well as lots of little things that will keep you chuckling. Its not that the film has no misses (it does) but they are covered by the sheer weight of hits that it includes. The plot is fairly simple but is well done to include a few basic set ups &#150; the prison, the break out and the Oscars; each part is very funny if you're in the mood for it and, hey, even if you're not it is pretty infectious.The writing is good &#150; it is easy to forget how hard it is to write a good spoof, but recent attempts have shown had easy it is to misjudge the film and just be silly rather than funny. Another big part of the film working is yet another great performance from Leslie Neilsen, who makes it all look so easy! Ward is a great addition to the cast and is much better than the bad guy from the second film &#150; Ward plays it gruff and straight, making it all the funnier. Presley is so-so, with her character kind of shoe-horned into the film to her detriment, but she does have some good moments. Freeman is good value and Smith, well, Smith has a good body and that's about it &#150; but fair play to her for sending herself up like that, it's not like she needed the money after all.Overall, this is a very enjoyable film as long as you are in the mood. Even if you aren't roaring with laughter you'll still be chuckling along. The material is hardly the height of wit or intelligence and some viewers may find it to be all a bit broad but fans of the genre will love it and get plenty of laughs from the material and the mostly good performances.  "},{"Title":"Outrageously funny! Film parodies and Leslie Nielsen at his best plus 1993's Playboy playmate of the year Anna Nicole Smith all make for the best comedy film ever!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The third and final installment and best of the Naked Gun series features Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) talked out of retirement to track down a terrorist who bombed a city hall building. First Drebin must go undercover in state prison then after escaping Rocco Dillon (Fred Ward) plans on bombing the Academy Awards you bet Frank and the police squad to the rescue no matter how comical. The laughs just keep coming with this film! The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult showed that films have parody, films throughout the years can become copycats except scenes are different with parody. Prime example is at the beginning of the film when the famous stair scene with the babies and the mob from the Untouchables is portrayed in a humorous manner. In fact parody is present in the opening credits in the form of Star Wars and Jurassic Park. Slapstick comedy mirrors almost every scene of this film as every funny and even the serious moments involve horseplay of some kind. And the dialogue is just as funny as can be these Naked Gun characters try to make everything they say twisted to where it sounds just as funny as possible. Leslie Nielsen is the funniest man ever in comedy films every scene he does cracks me up! George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson are nice funny sidekicks to Nielsen once again the casting of them both paid off they always made the Naked Gun films a pleasure to watch. 1993 Playmate of the year Anna Nicole Smith has better than average acting abilities and why she doesn't act more is a mystery to me she added a certain needed sex appeal to the final Naked Gun. I hate Paramount finally done away with the Naked Gun movies I hope to see another one made. Buy or record this one it simply is one of the funniest movies of all time it's sad in a way the series ended I know I laugh and enjoy this film so much I just had to record it and add to my video collection, like me you will watch it again and again for the many laughs and stupid mishaps. "},{"Title":"Classic laughs","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have to say that this is one of the greatest comedy trilogies I have ever seen. Leslie Neilson has never stopped with the laughter and his fearless performance as Frank. Presilla does a fantastic job and her Thelma and Louise with Ellen Green was just memorable and fun to watch. OJ Simpson, the downfall I like to call it, because three months later came the murder trials.Anna Nicole Smith was actually amusing in this film, I loved the crying game parody. There are a lot of great spoofs and jokes in the film. I think anyone who needs a good laugh or loves the Naked Gun movies should watch 33 1/3, it's just guaranteed of a good time.8/10 "},{"Title":"Ultimate fun throughout","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed the movie. The film is entirely fun and you cant stop laughing at the silly things that happen in the movie. Though it gets a little boring for a short while, overall the movie is a blast. The scenes are executed well. The Hollywood spoof of the movie was just fun and rocking. Anna Nicole Smith is amazing in her sex appeal and has done justice to her part.The actors have done their part well and the movie entertains you completely. Though the jokes are silly and not realistic, a movie is to entertain and this justifies its purpose. A nice watch over a Saturday afternoon. "},{"Title":"The Final Insult is a enjoyable way to end The Naked Gun series.","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now former Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) has a tough time that he is not working with the Police Squad anymore and his wife Jane (Priscilla Presley) is now an lawyer. Although she wants a baby, he has a tough time getting her pregnant. His former partners (Oscar-WinnerGeorge Kennedy and O.J. Simpson) wants Frank to spy on Tanya Peters (The late Anna Nicole Smith), since Tanya is involved with a hired bomb expert Rocco Dillon (Fred Ward). Which Dillon is in prison, at first Frank was supposed to get her address but he lost it. When Jane leaves him, thinking that Frank was fooling around with another woman. Frank decides to go undercover as a prisoner to get closer on Dillon. Frank knows that Dillon is planning to destroy and kill many of innocent people for a price but where ? Directed by Peter Segal (The Nutty Professor 2The Klumps, Anger Management, Tommy Boy) made an entertaining spoof comedy, based on the short-lived TV series back in the early 1980's. Nielsen is always an hoot in the lead. The cast seems to be having an great time. Although the reviews were mixed and at the box office was less promising than the first two but still, this was an major success on video. There's some lively cameos throughout the feature. If you are fan of these type of silly comedies or The Naked Gun movies, you will certainly enjoy it. Written by Pat Proft (The Naked GunFrom the Files of Police Squad!, Hot Shots! Part Deux, Scary Movie 3 & 4), David Zucker (An American Carol, High School High, Top Secret!) and Robert LoCash (CB4). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A lesser showing for the second sequel","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" So, here we are then, with the third part of the very silly 'Naked Gun' series. For some reason, David Zucker isn't in the director's chair this time; and his replacement is the man who would go on to direct the 2004 disappointment '50 First Dates' a decade later; Peter Segal. This doesn't matter, though, because Zucker still shares a writing credit, and the series always belonged to Leslie Nielson anyway. Still, this third part isn't as good as the first two, by quite a margin. The story is less expansive this round, and the film is also a lot shorter (probably a comment on the fact that the writers were running out of ideas...), but it still has it's moments that are really funny. As usual, quite a few of the jokes don't work, but there's usually one that does just around the corner after a failed one. One sequence in particular involving Frank Drebin in a dance number is one such moment.The thin plot is mostly a parody on the crime classic 'White Heat', and it involves Frank Drebin going undercover in jail and eventually having to try and thwart an act of terrorism. Naturally, this is just a springboard for lots and lots of gags, but that's no bad thing. Leslie Nielson approaches the role with the usual gusto, and does well with it again. Leslie Nielson's comedy works because he looks so ridiculous, and he can just stand around doing nothing and make you laugh. The Naked Gun series is a good waste of time if all you want is a laugh and this second sequel delivers on that front too, although not in quite as good a way as the first two did. Still, there's a lot worse comedies around. "},{"Title":"The final installment of Naked Gun a bit funnier than the second part.","Date":"5 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought this one was almost as good as the first film and a bit better than the second one. I liked the whole infiltration of the prison plot and the retirement aspect of the film more than all the politics of the second film. However, Leslie plays Drebin in a bit more of a goofy fashion this go around. There are also other things in this film that were not really in the first two installments like the scenes that parodied other movies. Scenes like these were not in the first two movies, from what I remember anyway, but there are a couple of them in this one. Such as the opening which parodies The Untouchables and a Thelma and Louise one as well. However, the film has a nice conclusion at the academy awards which makes fun of Hollywood's biggest night in grand fashion. The plot has Frank retired, but he is coaxed out of retirement to break into a prison and find out a sinister plot. The villain this time is Fred Ward and he is good as is his gang. There are some surprises here and there too. I just thought this one was a bit more humorous than two, but not quite on par with the first one. Close, but not quite. "},{"Title":"The End of The Parody Movie's Golden Age !","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Unlike the first Naked gun movie, produced in 1988, (Jim Abrahams) and (Jerry Zucker) weren't part of the writing this round, leaving (Pat Proft) and (David Zucker) alone in preparation of going solo afterwards. I felt that that left its bad mark here, where the movie was all about 2 acts only  getting to the bomb expert, then that expert's job at the Oscars !Speaking about problems; true that the atmosphere was dynamically ironic, but the cast somewhat wasn't as dynamic. For instance (Leslie Nielson) seemed less energetic with obviously sick voice for most of the time, (George Kennedy) was almost having a paralysis. Not to mention the absence of many cameos, especially with the idea of parodying the Oscar night. Aside from the charming flavor of having these stars on screen, their presence assures the movie's conscience as a parody for flaws everybody admits.Away from that; there were many clever scenes (the parody of The Untouchables, the scene of the wife leaving the house..), and many clever lines (I used to be white ! / Yeah, I remember the Osmonds !). It reached the top during the Oscar night sequence, which is a classic act I can't get enough of despite numerous times of watching.Knowing that I write this in 2012, you must notice that the direction was smart and vivid. The pace was fine, without dragging on with one sequence pointlessly. How creative before how funny the laughs were, since they didn't incline totally to for instance the toilet humor, the fart jokes. And, most importantly, look at things like the characters' problems and solutions; the lead's wife wants to have a baby, but he has no capacity since leaving the police force, therefore his return will provide finally the self-respect he lost and needs. OH MY GOD. Back then, making a parody didn't mean being an idiot as a director or writer yet! Watch all of (Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer) recent spoofs to understand that better, and to cherish this movie, along with its era, more and more.It's an entertaining comedy, but more short and less full than its 2 antecedents. It marks the start of the end of the parody movie's golden age; the age which began with (Airplane! &#x96; 1980) by (Jim Abrahams), (Jerry Zucker), (David Zucker) and (Pat Proft) who had special thanks credit in that movie. One of the end's reasons is the breakup of that golden team. After the departure of (Jim Abrahams) and (Jerry Zucker), (Pat Proft) and (David Zucker) would go to play solo as well. Sorrowfully not a good thing for them, or us, as it turned out to be. Because next movies like Jane Austen's Mafia!, BASEketball, Wrongfully Accused, and Scary Movie 3 don't stand comparison to the insanity, precision, and movie culture of one Naked Gun movie.P.S  the Arab is always a terrorist in Hollywood movies ?? It's almost like how the Afro-American was always a servant in old Hollywood movies ! While that attitude became old itself, why the Arab status doesn't get old at all ?! "},{"Title":"The best of the bad sequels","Date":"21 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie doesn't pretend to be anything other than a sequel. It doesn't pretend to be a serious movie. For that I have to say, the critics underrated this movie. Leslie Nielsen is a brilliant comic actor. I see in Nielsen an actor committed to take comedy to the highest level. Nielsen doesn't care about a lame joke or two, as long as he nails the point of his comedy. The last half hour of the movie, I was rolling on the floor with laughter. The academy awards scene was one of the funniest ever. Everybody was good in the movie, even the Anna Nicole Smith. Fred Ward was funny as a bad guy. You don't think of Ward being a comic actor, but he was so honestly playing a bad guy that the comedy just oozed out without effort. OJ Simpson, who is hard to see the same after his murder trial, is a very intelligent and talented comic actor. Believe it or not, he knows how to do funny things without having to act. I love this movie, and recommend a good dose of Nielsen anytime life gets you down. "}{"Title":"A Riot","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" To enjoy this farce, one must not get lost in the ridiculous plot. Leslie Neilson is as funny as ever. An older looking Presilla Preslie is just okay as his long suffering wife. Although it starts off slow, the movie evolves into one hilarious parody after another. To name a few The Prison scene with Nielson eating the paper plans.The digging of the escape tunnel, getting rid of the dirt.The obvious fake plastic dummies (escape from Alcatraz)used to fool the guards while digging an escape tunnel (notice that tunnel looks much like the tunnel from the great escape?) Getting rid of the dirt.Whomever thought up the Oscars sequence is a comical genius.How about Anna Nicole Smiths stripping in front of Neilson. Her shadow showing not only gigantic boobs but a surprise penis. Remember that movie? Neilson of cause runs off puking into some band players tuba.The only distraction is OJ Simson. This was his last movie and one can't help but think that he's in the process of planning to kill his wife.Sit back, watch the video and just laugh. "},{"Title":"Silly, amusing comedy","Date":"16 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The three Naked Gun movies from 1988, 1991 and 1994 are all extremely goofy comedies starring Lesley Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy and OJ Simpson. They're consistently amusing and, pretty much, interchangeable. The first two were hugely successful at the box office; the third one didn't do bad, but nowhere near as good as the first two. Whether or not you prefer one to another depends on the story and guest stars.As far as the two sequels go, I slightly prefer part 3, but all three come in handy when you want to turn off your brain and enjoy something silly. Priscilla was one of the most beautiful women to walk the planet in her prime and looks great these films. The highlight of part 3 is the guest appearance of the Marilyn Monroe-ish Anna Nicole Smith; she was a whole lotta woman and it's unfortunate she died so young at the age of 39 in 2007 (like Monroe who died at age 36 in 1962).The film runs 83 minutes and was shot in the Los Angeles area.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank Drebin comes out of retirement to help Police Squad infiltrate a gang of terrorists planning to detonate a bomb at the Academy Awards. This is probably the worst of the sequels, with nothing to laugh at, though the Jim Henson creations are well made The story is well told and gives you a good idea of how a cop named Frank becomes the hero. My only problem with the film was the supporting cast, but it's still okay. Some of the dialog could be better. The real centerpiece of the film is its slapstick. The plot is not as well thought out as the original, but it still does the cast well. It's Die Hard in a Donut Box. "},{"Title":"Underrated Sequel,Better Than the Second Naked Gun,","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult is a hilarious movie with a decent storyline and yet again another brilliant and comedic performance from Leslie Nielsen as Frank Drebin.Its definitely not as good as the outstanding first Naked Gun,one of the funniest comedies ever made in my opinion,but I thought it was an improvement from the first Naked Gun,I thought there was a lot more hilarious scenes in this one and I really enjoyed the scenes at the Academy Awards towards the end of the movie.Some people may disagree,but I think this Naked Gun is an improvement over the second one and fans of the first won't enjoy it as much,but they will laugh a lot.Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) must convince a gang that he is also a criminal in order to stop a bomb from being set off at the Academy Awards. "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) comes out of retirement to help Police Squad infiltrate a gang of terrorists planning to detonate a bomb at the Academy Awards.An excellent spoof on police and prison movies... with plenty of visual gags, quirky remarks (like the midget at the urinal). If you did not think that OJ Simpson was a funny guy, you need to see him in this role... wow, such a great actor! What can I say? Just a good, fun comedy... so sad we have lost Nielsen and Anna Nicole Smith... and OJ Simpson, sort of. At least we still have Mary Lou Retton, I guess. "},{"Title":"Third time unlucky but still worth a punt - 65%","Date":"25 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are certain films that, on occasion, can escape almost any criticism and a fine spoof is one such occasion. The first two Naked Gun films are wonderful examples of the genre, filled with both visual gags and rapid one-liners that also remain funny after multiple viewings. Sadly, there can be too much of a good thing and this final entry into the series feels tired, strained and kinda desperate.Spoof stalwart Leslie Nielsen returns for the last time as Frank Drebin, Police Squad's most decorated officer who is retiring to spend time with his new wife Jane (Priscilla Presley). But Drebin can't ignore the threat of crime for long and after working undercover on behalf of his old buddies Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) and Nordberg (O.J. Simpson), Frank soon finds himself back in the fold and pitching his wits against determined bomber Rocco (Fred Ward) who is planning to blow up a critical target after he escapes from prison. Can Frank get the job done, even with the voluptuous distraction of Rocco's moll Tanya (Anne Nicole Smith)? The thing with all Naked Gun movies is to not take it seriously and The Naked Gun 33 ⅓ The Final Insult is no exception. It's as daft and stupid as peeing on an electric fence but sadly, the humour isn't quite as successful this time around. There is some noticeable repetition of gags - not just from the earlier movies but also from Police Squad, the TV show that spawned this franchise - and some of the visual gags felt a little lame. Thank God Nielsen is still on form, perfectly cast as the straight-faced idiot working in his own little world with its own little logic. The rest of the cast simply work alongside him but some seem distracted almost - Smith has little to do besides pout and squeeze into some lingerie while Kathleen Freeman, as the matriarch of Rocco's gang, feels a little wasted.But despite the flaws and rough edges, there is still a good deal to laugh at and much to savour, as if you're watching aging rockers having one last hurrah before splitting up for good. The magic might have faded a little, the lines in the face are a bit more ragged and the tunes may sound a bit familiar but who cares if you're still having fun? It simply isn't as funny as the two earlier films - that is just the facts - but you can't knock it for lack of effort. But a much-reduced running time and a recycling of old ideas means that The Final Insult feels more like an epilogue instead of a glorious last chapter. "},{"Title":"Best of the trilogy","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Successful movie franchises usually tend to start of with a bang, only to slowly fade out like a candle with every new installment. Naked Gun however, it just kept getting better and better. The original was funny, so was 2 1/2, but to me 33 1/3 is really the one that never gets old. So many classic Leslie Nielsen scenes in this one, so many great quotes. The structure (or lack thereof) is similar to that of the first two, but the finale at the Oscars is by far my favorite of the three. The movie's also tightly paced, it doesn't go on for any longer than it needs to. It's not that the others are boring, but there's still a noticeable difference. Many disagree with this, but to me The Final Insult will always be Leslie Nielsen at his absolute peak. He has his character down to a tee here, too bad he didn't get better scripts in his later days. But oh well, I can always watch this one again. "},{"Title":"Frank's final case","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'The Naked Gun' trilogy ran from 1987-94, starred the late Leslie Nielsen as incompetent cop 'Lieutenant Frank Drebin', and must be unique in the annals of motion picture history for being the only successful franchise based on a flop television show ( 'Police Squad' ran for a mere six episodes in 1981 ). Jim Abrahams, David and Jerry Zucker were wise in my view to call it quits after just three movies. It would have been sad to have seen the series go the way of 'The Pink Panther' or worse, 'Police Academy'.Peter Segal occupied the director's chair for this final escapade. It opens with a splendid spoof of the finale of Brian De Palma's 'The Untouchables' ( 1987 ) as a gun battle erupts between hoods and police on the steps of a railway station. Soon bodies are dancing in slow motion, lawn mowers come from nowhere, babies fly out of their prams, and an Arab terrorist, President Bill Clinton and The Pope show up. Frank retires from Police Squad to spend more time with wife Jane ( Priscilla Presley ), but no sooner has he learnt to bake cakes than ex-boss Ed Hocken ( George Kennedy ) recruits him in the fight against terrorism. Rocco ( Fred Ward ) is planning on breaking out of jail and committing a major atrocity. Posing under the name 'McGurk', Frank goes behind bars. Like Jimmy Cagney in 'White Heat', Rocco is mother fixated. He also has a glamorous girl friend in the shape of fully cantilevered Tanya ( the late Anna Nicole Smith ). Discovering that Frank is back on duty, a furious Jane walks out on him, teaming up with the man-hating Louise ( Ellen Greene )...As with the earlier pictures, the humour is scattergun throughout, taking pot-shots at 'Thelma & Louise', 'The Crying Game', 'Star Wars','The Great Escape' and 'Jurassic Park'. The late Nielsen is as wonderful as ever, deadpanning his way through every absurd moment. Praise must go too to Priscilla Presley, who again provides the perfect foil. It is a little uncomfortable now though to watch O.J. Simpson as 'Nordberg' in the knowledge that, only a short time after this was made, he would stand trial for his wife's murder. Anna Nicole Smith is gorgeous - she would sadly die thirteen years later ( aged 39 ). Kathleen Freeman scowls her way through the part of 'Muriel', who gives Ma Barker a run for her money. Jerry Lewis must have enjoyed working with her - she graced most of his post-Dean Martin pictures.The last forty minutes of the film are absolutely brilliant as Frank and Jane gatecrash the Annual Academy Awards ( we see rioting going on in the distance ) where Rocco has placed a bomb in the envelope containing the winner for 'Best Picture'. Raquel Welch, Pia Zadora, Mariel Hemingway and Elliott Gould make cameos. Taking the place of chat show host Phil Donohue, Frank proceeds to wreck the event by reading the wrong autocue and then vomiting into a tuba. Some nice gags at the expense of these overblown celebrity jamborees; the Best Actress nominees includes soap queen Morgan Fairchild, 'Brady Bunch' star Florence Henderson, and gymnast Mary Lou Retton ( who back-flips onto the stage to collect her prize ), none of whom would stand a chance of being nominated in real life.Funniest moment? During Zadora's song and dance number 'The Start Of Something', Frank slides through an arch composed of male dancer's crotches, his head painfully making contact with each one.So then the 'Naked Gun' series ended on a high note. In the wake of Leslie's death, some wag suggested the first film be remade as a 'tribute'. I would suggest that the best tribute to Leslie would be to let the series stand as it is, and not sully it with an inferior carbon-copy starring some tenth-rate flavour of the month comic. Who could possibly play Frank as well as Leslie? "},{"Title":"Good Finale to the Trilogy  ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although it is a case of diminishing returns as This second Sequel is the lesser of the three hits, it's still a masterpiece compared To Epic Movie (2007) or Disaster Movie (2008)LT.Frank Drebin (The Legend that is Leslie Nielsen, in his last great spoof) is back although by now he is retired living a quiet life with wife Jane (Pricilla Presley) but his old pals Capt Ed Hocken & DET.Norberg (George Kennedy & O.J Simpson) manage to coax him out of retirement to go undercover at the State Prison & stop mad Bomber Rocco Dillon (Fred Ward) along with his batty ma (Kathleen Freeman) and Girlfriend Tanya (The Late Anna-Nicole Smith) from bombing the Academy Awards.While I really enjoy all three Films in the series, I feel as if the humour here is not as good as in the other two, it resorts to vulgarity for cheap laughs rather too often with Boob Jokes,Sperm Jokes & Poop Jokes but hey as I've said above, in comparison to later spoofs from Freidberg & Seltzer this is a Masterpiece.Good though not Great end to the trilogy ***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Frank is back one last time.","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The director might be different but the comedy is the same.David Zucker is replaced by Peter Segal but that doesn't affect the movie's quality because the gags are still there and they are just as hilarious.In this 3rd installment Frank is married to Jane, and he's retired from the Police Squad. The film introduces the criminal Rocco Dillon, who is stuck in prison. He's contacted by Papshmir to be given a target for a bombing. Frank is pulled out of retirement, and has to go undercover pretending to be a prisoner named Nick 'The Slasher' McGuirk at the jail where Rocco Dillon is being held, and they break out of jail. When outside they are escorted by Dillon's gangster mother to his country retreat. At his hideout Frank is told of the plot to blow up the Academy Awards. While Jane arrives looking for him, she is taken hostage.Sounds promising indeed.The opening scene(a parody of The Untouchables)is a real legend in comedy film-making.The end at the Oscars is also legendary.Anna Nicole Smith(may she rest in peace)makes a great role and is hotter than ever.But the ending scene with her will make you fall on the floor with laughter.Priscilla Presley is also gorgeous and Leslie is in top form.George Kennedy and O.J.Simpson are both excellent as always and the trio is a fantastic team.A perfect end to the greatest comedy trilogy. "}{"Title":"Leslie Nielsen is Unstoppable!","Date":"1 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult', the third and final film in the Naked Gun series, is a hilarious slapstick fare, where it's lead star, the late Hollywood Legend, Leslie Nielsen, proves once again, that he is an unstoppable/unforgettable talent. 'Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult' Synopsis Frank Drebin comes out of retirement to help Police Squad infiltrate a gang of terrorists planning to detonate a bomb at the Academy Awards. 'Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult' is a faithful & satisfying sequel. It raises a lot of laughs, especially in the climax, the entire Academy-Awards Sequence, which is absolutely hilarious. Pat Proft, David Zucker & Robert LoCash's Screenplay is genuinely funny & extremely arresting. Peter Segal Directs this slapstick comedy, decently. Cinematography & Art Design, are worth a mention.Performance Wise Nielsen, as mentioned before, is unstoppable in here. The legendary actor delivers a laugh-out-loud performance, and holds the film from start to end. Priscilla Presley supports well. George Kennedy is excellent. O.J. Simpson is fair. Fred Ward & Kathleen Freeman are passable. Others lend support. On the whole, 'Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult' is slapstick comedy at its best. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although the jokes are finally becoming tedious after the 2 films before this, Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult is still a worthy entry into this hilarious series. We follow Frank Drebin who is now retired and the funny gags showing him as a house-husband. The best joke is when he confesses he wore a black teddy to try to save his and Jane's tottering marriage! However, the jokes, though for the most part funny, are fewer and far between. This makes for a film that is lesser than its predecessors but still worth watching. The finale at the Academy Awards is a laugh out riot and definitely helps to bolster this film. A solid 7 out of 10. Bring on The Naked Gun 4! "},{"Title":"Anything But an Insult","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed the first two Naked Guns. I laughed at the gags and slapstick and inside jokes that I missed. Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult is even better than the two installments, and, despite the subtitle, you won't be insulted.Police Squad Lieutenant Frank Drebin is now married to the love of his life, Jane (Precilla Presley) and has retired from his job. Unfortunately, she wants a baby, but Frank is sterile. Fed up with him, Jane leaves him.Frank's police buddies Ed and Nordberg (George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson)force him to get back on the squad. He accepts, taking the case of a criminal (Fred Ward) who, along with his mother and sister (Kathleen Freeman & Anna Nicole Smith) plan to bomb the Academy Awards. As usual, it's up to Frank to save the day... and his marriage.The Final Insult continues the ZAZ (Zucker-Abrams-Zucker) team's staple of non-stop jokes and gags, and a great amount of them work. Laughs here are frequent. Peter Segal, who went on to direct the very funny cult hit comedy Tommy Boy, started his film-making career with this sequel, and he does a great job setting up the jokes, especially the slapstick free-for-all at the Oscars, which has to be one of the funniest climaxes in the history of comedy. Pratfalls and sight gags galore, it had me laughing hard.I think this is the best of the series, and if they make a fourth installment, maybe they should rehire Segal. "},{"Title":"How low can you go?","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" O.K., there are still plenty of laughs, but the plot is being stretched into its attempts to continue the Naked Gun franchise. So when all else fails, spoof the Oscars. That's what happens here with a terrorist attack on a burning L.A. (spoofing the recent riots) and even turning Priscilla Presley into Susan Sarandon from Thelma and Louise. This might as well The Naked Rip-Off because all of its ideas seem taken from other recent hit movies. If the Ghost spoof in Naked Gun 2 1/2 got a ton of laughs, why wouldn't other movies? That seems to be the consensus for Zucker and Abrams, and while some of them work, many of them land with a thud. Still, those which do land are very funny, and the new additions to the cast are quite amusing.Nielsen goes undercover to get the goods on federal penitentiary prisoner Fred Ward who has a Marjorie Rambeau/White Heat like mother, played by the very funny Kathleen Freeman who threatens to steal every scene that she gets with her gruff personality that only a son like Ward could love. Ward has a sexy mistress with a secret (played by Anna Nicole Smith) who keeps running into Nielsen and eventually makes a play for him. While on vacation with pal Ellen Greene, Priscilla Presley runs into estranged hubby Nielsen who along with Ward has arranged a prison escape, and eventually, the entire group ends up at the Oscars where the pretentiousness of the ceremony is deliciously spoofed, giving a very funny ending to an otherwise mediocre movie.Unfortunately, there's minimal footage of Nielsen's old Police Squad cronies George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson, and with Simpson's personal life about to catch up with him, some of the things he goes through are quite ironic. The Oscars scenes are worth the price of admission with Nielsen pretending to be Phil Donahue (instant Phil, just add spec's), giving co-presenter Raquel Welch a difficult time. Cameos by other big names like James Earl Jones and Olympia Dukakis (presenting best picture) are intertwined with a deliciously bad musical number featuring none other than that Butterfly/Lonely Lady herself, Pia Zadora, who while not one of the best actresses to come and go in Hollywood in the past 40 years, can certainly sing and dance.Somebody here must have been a huge fan of The Brady Bunch, because in addition to a cameo by Ann B. Davis in her Alice outfit is Florence Henderson as an Oscar Nominee, the one Nielsen hopes will win (And it's about time!, he exclaims). The prison scene has one funny gag showing Nielsen's way of protecting his virtue in the shower, and the ingenious ways that Nielsen and Ward get rid of the dirt they are digging out for their escape tunnel is amusing as well. But much of it seems forced, and if they hadn't convinced themselves that Smell of Fear was where they should have quit, hopefully reactions to this one was. As popcorn films go, it has its moments, but the lack of originality is what truly kills it. "},{"Title":"That as good as the first two, but still funny.","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Leslie Nielson returns as the final time as Lt. Frank Drebin for this final sequel of the Naked Gun series. This time, Drebin comes out of retirement to help the Police Squad foil a plot to bomb the Academy Awards.Like the first two films, it's non-stop laughs from start to finish that will send you laughing your hearts out. There are plenty of deadpan and slapstick humor to keep you entertained and there are no shortage of surprises to keep you engaged. I enjoyed how the movie featured real actors like James Earl Jones, Raquel Welch and Mariel Hemingway during the Academy Awards sequence.While funny, this film just lacks the same charm as the first two films, as it relied too much on sexual innuendos and silly gags, and the characters just lacked a little depth. Overall, not as good as the first two Naked Gun movies but it is still pretty exciting.Grade B "},{"Title":"Of Doing Frank Drebin","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Oscar night. Who will win? Who will lose? And will somebody get that numbskull off stage? Waitaminnit! That's no ordinary numbskull --- that's Lt. Frank Drebin! And he's crashing Hollywood's biggest party to stop a sinister terrorist plot that could spell curtains for him --- or will a simple lampshade be enough? OK, Internet Movie Database denizens, I'll admit it When I first saw that synopsis, I had to laugh. The two previous Naked Gun adventures had tickled my funny bone, so I knew what to expect from Nielsen, Presley, Simpson, Kennedy and the other twits conned by Team ZAZ into making a fast buck for this little darling. The references to Thelma & Louise, Beavis & Butt-head, and even Johnny Mathis are worth the ticket admission alone, and the cameos from Charlotte Zucker (mom of Jerry and David); producer Robert K. Weiss (who really could play the tuba if he wanted to) and even director Peter Segal are wild things. Then, of course, you have the Oscar Night spoof itself, complete with the uncredited voice of occasional Oscar announcer Les Marshak, and Pia Zadora grooving (?) to Steve Allen's The Start of Something Big and getting humiliated during it. Did the filmmakers, I wonder, want to get revenge on Pia for, say, Santa Claus Conquers the Martians? Hmmmmmmmmm......But hey, if putting your mind on hold for 90 minutes is cool for you, then you need the Naked Gun trilogy, particularly this, its concluding link. Gee, I wonder what WOULD'VE happened if they'd gotten stupid enough to do Naked Gun 4.  "},{"Title":"Has its moments, but a bit flat after the first two movies","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Has its moments, but a bit flat after the first two movies.The first Naked Gun was great an hilarious slapstick-comedy. Clever, witty dialogue and brilliant sight-gags. So quotable. Naked Gun 2 1/2 The Smell of Fear was a decent sequel. This was especially as far as comedy movies go, as the drop-off in originality and quality is normally quite steep from the original to the first sequel.Admittedly, it wasn't as good as the original, mainly because by now you know what to expect. Plus, it would have been difficult to match the originality and hilarity of the first.This, the third in the series, still has some great moments, especially towards the end, but can't maintain throughout the same level of hilarity and originality as the first. For the first 75% or so of the movie it is so-so, with not too many great gags. It is only at the end - the Oscar ceremony - that it gets laugh-out-loud funny.Overall, entertaining and funny enough, but not as good as the first two movies, especially the first. "},{"Title":"So Many Movies to Insult, So Little Time!","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Lt. Drebin and Nordberg are at it again. This film makes fun of every police and prison movie ever made not to mention Thelma and Louise and the Crying Game (20 years before it was even made!) It's got it all Love scenes, precious bodily fluid and crotch jokes, self-abuse, transsexuals and the infamous gumball opening titles. Like Blazing Saddles, this will truly insult everyone. Lt. Drebin has become Mr. Mom to his lawyer wife Jane (Priscilla Presley) and he must come out of retirement to help the Police Squad foil another terrorist act by the evil Pap Schmear. As before, the bumbling Drebin uncovers a terrible plot; to blow up everyone at the Academy Awards. Not exactly an original idea. A ton of actual celebrities, including Vanna White, Pia Zadora, Weird Al, Rachel Welsh and Mary Lou Retton. Anna Nicole Smith plays the mobster's gun moll to the hilt, with a bit of something extra. Stereotypes of Ma Barker and James Cagney as well. No, that isn't Arthur Fiedler conducting, but it sure looks like him. Very funny but very uneven. In order to enjoy this parody, you have to separate the Nordberg character from O.J. Simpson, especially with the delivery room ending! There is not enough for George Kennedy and the bumbling Police Squad to do. It's mostly Frank on his own. Great backstage stunt work at the end, as Drebin and the bad guy fly up to the top of the stage catwalk rigging via the curtain counterweights and ropes. Only 82 minutes but worth it! Probably rated R for content. "},{"Title":"I wish there was a 4th installment","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've loved every naked gun film from start to finish and this was no exception. Leslie nielsen does well as Lt Frank Drebin. The funniest bit to me was when Rocco Dillan had jane held hostage above the stage and she tries to tell frank her feelings and shouts out to the audience I now know thats why you couldn't perform decent sex. Drebin's reaction was just hilarious. Watch it now if you haven't already. Overall I'd give it 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious second sequel","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult, is the hilarious third movie in the very funny, very popular comedy series. In the department of big laughs, this movie falls in between the first two Naked Guns (a notch below the first film; a notch above the second one). Big laughs! Big laughs! Big laughs! That's what The Naked Gun series is all about. The original gang returns once again. Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, and O.J. Simpson all came back for a third go-around of absolute craziness. One point of interest on the part of O.J. Simpson, this movie was released to theaters just three months before the murders of O.J.'s wife and her friend; and that bizarre police chase of O.J. in the white Bronco down the Los Angeles freeways that was captured on TV. So seeing this movie again when it was released on home video a few months later made me feel a little strange. Anyway, seeing the movie today, it's still a explosively funny picture. If this is truly the last film in this series (and right now it looks like it is since I haven't heard anything about a fourth Naked Gun film), they went out with a hilarious bang. A great job by the cast and crew. And a bonus for this film long-time veteran character actress Kathleen Freeman is a hoot as the villain's gun crazy mama. She's been acting for a long time and has appeared in lots of movies (usually in bit parts) and guest appearences on TV shows. She steals most of her scenes in this film and gets plenty of laughs. I'm pretty sure the cast and crew of Naked Gun 33 1/3 were very proud to have gotten her to star in the film. She's terrific as always.**** (out of four)  "}{"Title":"You'll laugh 'till you stop","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is by far the funniest Naked Gun and one of the best comedies of all time.  Leslie Nielsen is his usual self.  The flashbacks may be the funniest and most memorable scenes in the movie.  Because there is a thin plot, it is worth watching again just for the laughs.  "},{"Title":"Least In The Series But It's Still A Hilarious Sequel, And A Great Way To End This Fantastic Series!","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the least in the series, but it's still a hilarious sequel, and a great way to end this fantastic series!. All the characters are great, and the story is funny, plus Leslie Nielsen is simply amazing in this!. The opening is very funny and clever, and the finale will have your sides splitting!, plus i thought Leslie and Priscilla Presley had wonderful chemistry together once again!, plus the ending is hilarious!. Fred Ward is way way better then Robert Goulet was, and Anna Nicole Smith actually surprised me here!, plus one of the funniest moments in the film for me is when Leslie gets sick from Anna and goes and pukes in someone's Tuba!. It paves way for another sequel, and Leslie is funnier then ever here!, plus not once does it feel stale or routine!. The trio of Lelsie Nielsen, George Kennedy and O.J Simpson worked wonders once again!, and, the prison sequences were simply a riot!, plus Kathleen Freeman is great in her role!. This is the least in the series, but it's still a hilarious sequel, and a great way to end this fantastic series!, and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is great!. Peter Segal does a great job here, with awesome camera wok, and keeping the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is wonderful!. Leslie Nielsen is amazing as always, and is amazing here, he is incredibly hilarious, extremely likable,had wonderful chemistry with Priscilla Presley, had the same lovable qualities as always, as Frank Drebin, and just did an amazing job overall! (Nielsen Rules!!!!). Priscilla Presley is beautiful, and does excellent with what she had to do, she plays it straight once again, had wonderful chemistry with Nielsen, and just did an excellent job i loved her as usual!. Fred Ward is great as the main villain, he was funny had some cool lines, and did a great job!, a vast improvement over Goulet indeed!. Kathleen Freeman is good as the cranky Mother, i liked her, just wished she had more to do. George Kennedy and O.J Simpson are very funny, once again, and worked incredibly well with Nielsen as usual i loved them!. Anna Nicole Smith surprised me here by giving a very decent performance, she was somewhat sexy at times(AT TIMES!), and managed to play her part very well good job!. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Series is starting to loose it's steam","Date":"26 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun 33 1/3 is a good example of a sequel made to please it viewers after the last to films were successful. Now with this film, it's not a perfect ten. The acting is a little dumbed down and the jokes have been used in every movie. The plot is fresh though with a convict planning on becoming the world ruler with the help of his girlfriend and his momma, and all they have to do is blow the winners of Emmy Awards at the next ceremony. Leslie makes his final appearance as Frank Drebin, who is now retired from police work till he decides he must do one more mission without his wife finding out. The original cast from the last two films are back including Kennedy and Simpson. This film shows good scenes with Frank in disguise at a sperm bank, Frank trying to bust out of jail, a black convict saying he was ounce white, and Frank and his wife sneaking into the Emmy's under the persona's of Weird Al and Vana White. Sure this film is not as good as the first two but it's still wicked funny! A great spoof, if you loved the first two watch part three. It gets the big 8 because you can see how the series is aging. Go out and see for yourself, you'll have a blast! "},{"Title":"fresh & hilarious","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In this second sequel, Frank decides to come out of retirement to go undercover at state prison, but he finds a terrorist in the same cell as him. He tries to stop the terrorist from bombing Oscar Night.I wasn't expecting to laugh that much as this, considering that it's the 2nd sequel. Boy was I wrong. This was endlessly hilarious. It hurts to laugh after a while. I think this is the funniset of the 3 films, and is the most entertaining. NAKED GUN 33 1/3 THE FINAL INSULT- ***1/2 out of 4.   PG-13 some sex-related humor, comic violence, and some language. "},{"Title":"Definitely not an insult.","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Leslie Nielson, Priscilla Presley, Fred Ward, and Anna Nicole Smith.Frank Drebin has a new life now.  Retired from the Police Force and married to Jane.  This changed him too.  He has a lot more 'feminine' (you'll see) qualities now.  But when Ed and Nordberg ask him for a 'favor' he must return to the case.  He must stop a well-known criminal from destroying the most well-known ceremony ever...the Academy Awards.  This delivers the most hilarious opening sequence I have ever seen and I am still debating if this is better or worse than the first one.  A must-see. "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"12 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first film is a classic, the second while inferior is very enjoyable and this one is also very funny if for me the weakest of the series. It could have been longer, and there are moments in the movie where it does rely a little too much on the jokes and slapstick of the previous two. However, the dialogue is endearingly dumb and silly still, and the film is filled with gags and most work, the best for me being Frank's antics during Zadora's musical number and Frank wreaking havoc at the Oscars. The story is fast-paced and fun, the production values are of good quality, Priscilla Presley is strong support and there are some neat cameos from Pia Zadora and Fred Ward. And once again, Leslie Nielson is wonderfully deadpan. All in all, a very funny movie. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"yeah, it's a sequel","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sequels are often criticized for their corny plot, bad writing, bad acting, etc. But with this kind of a movie, who's seeing it for any reason other than the jokes? I mean, nobody saw the first Naked Gun movie for its enticing plot or the ingenious acting ability. They saw it to laugh. And Naked Gun 33 1/3 serves the same purpose, because, after all, everyone knows that the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker team will never run out of jokes.And unlike Airplane II, which pretty much just re-used all the same jokes from the original Airplane!, there is some good, original stuff here. Maybe not the best of the series, but the movie still does its purpose - to induce laughter unto everyone. In fact, the whole series is just starting to blend together. I was reading quotes from the first Naked Gun the other day. I saw that one quote was Drebin saying I faked every orgasm. The thing is, I coulda sworn that was from the third Naked Gun movie.So if you liked the kind of humor that was in The Naked Gun, Naked Gun 2 1/2 and Naked Gun 33 1/3 will not disappoint you. Just stay away from Repossessed and Spy Hard. "},{"Title":"Fearlessly funny Frank Drebin is back!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  THE NAKED GUN 33 1/3 THE FINAL INSULT (1994) *** Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, Fred Ward, George Kennedy, OJ Simpson, Kathleen Freeman, Anna Nicole-Smith. (Cameos Raquel Welch, Pia Zadora, Weird Al Yankovic, Vanna White.)  Intrepid and inept Lt. Frank Drebin is back again this time forced out of retirement to stop a mad bomber plotting to destroy The Academy Awards in Hollywood.  Nielsen and company still manage to keep their deadpans and the hilarity at full tilt.  Best bit opening aping of De Palma's ripoff of The Odessa Steps sequence from Potemkin used in The Untouchables. "},{"Title":"No Insults Here.","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult (1994) Dir Peter Segal / Cast Leslie Nielsen, Prescilla Presley, Fred Ward, Anna Nicole Smith, Kathleen Freeman Hilarious comedy that promises a final insult but unlike Friday the 13th The Final Chapter, it is meant to insult its promise. The final insult appears as an apology for crimes Lieutenant Frank Drebin solved out of pure luck. Now retired and happily married to Jane until he goes undercover in prison to seek out who is activating bombs from inside. After a prison break Frank must botch a plan to bomb the Academy Awards. He knocks out and replaces Phil Donahue as host then proceeds to embarrass co-hosts, ruin dance numbers, and puke in a tuba. Interesting idea with numerous sight and verbal jokes thanks to director Peter Segal. Leslie Nielsen is hilarious as Drebin who misses life on the police force but makes a big undercover comeback that concludes in mock drama. Prescilla Presley returns as Jane who wishes to have a child but is thrust into Drebin's undercover fiasco after she leaves him. Fred Ward plays bomber Rocco whom Drebin hooks up with during his undercover job in prison. His defeat is hilariously embarrassing. Anna Nicole-Smith plays Rocco's erotic girlfriend who attempts to seduce Frank. Kathleen Freeman provides a lot of laughs as Rocco's mother who doesn't trust Frank. Pointless fun but a welcome romp. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Time to retire","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is now retired. Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley) is a high powered D.A. but she has baby on the brain. Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) and Nordberg (O.J. Simpson) ask Frank to go undercover to take down a gang of terrorists planning to detonate a bomb at the Academy Awards.Sometimes a character needs to go into retirement. This is the case for Frank Drebin. It's not that the franchise has changed. In fact, the humor remains very similar. The public is just done with this character. The effort is still there with only David Zucker returning as writer. Leslie Nielsen is still inappropriately funny. The 'Untouchables' opening is lots of fun, but it's time for the franchise to go away. The franchise could never continue anyways after the OJ Simpson murder trial. "}{"Title":"right up there with the original and a big improvement over part 2","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" hilereous isn't enough to describe police squad's encore, leslie nielsen has rarely been funnier, and pretty much all the cast return for a third helping of nakedness, like iv'e said on the previous 2 naked gun movies plot isn't a biggie here, its the gags that sell it, and here they are more outrageous than ever as leslie nielsen's frank drebin goes undercover in a max security prison and gate crashes the Oscar's and hilerity ensues. the naked gun 3 is a rare beast in movie land, where a second sequel actually holds it place right next to the original, and thankfully this does, i said the naked gun was the funniest movie ever made, but this is damn close, a big improvement over part 2, the final insult is a must see comedy and a superb encore to the police squad franchise. "},{"Title":"The Naked Truth","Date":"15 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" OMFG! Where is Naked Gun 4?? Leslie Neilson at his best! I'm just dying to hear the Police Squad theme again on the big screen! They just don't make spoofs like they sued to...GRRR!! PLEEEEEASEEEE!!!!!!! Fred Ward is on form and the jokes are just outreagously brilliant - this is exactly how a spoof should be! I'll be a fool and even say OJ Simpson is amazing in this movie - everything just comes together perfectly. It's hard to call a Naked Gun movie bad - and it's virtually impossible with this movie. As I said, shame they don't quite make spoofs like this anymore - even though when they do, it generally has Neilson involved! But I've never been to the cinema to see a Naked Gun movie, and I'd LOVE to! So here's to the best spoof sequel out there. Now it's time to CASH IN! And make plenty of jokes about cashing in P Oh, and OJ! Well, I enjoyed watching this movie again a LOT. I wish there were more spoofs with Leslie Neilson. And, like a victim of AIDS, I only had so long to enjoy a sequel to Naked Gun 33 and a Third. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as strong as the two previous films","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" In the third, and at least for the time being, last instalment of Naked Gun series, Frank Drebin (Hilarious Leslie Nielsen) has retired from the force and is now trying to have normal family life with his gorgeous wife Jane (Priscilla Presly). But Frank is a man of action, so when he is offered an undercover job by his old captain Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) he takes it, despite he had promised to leave the police work behind him.And who am I kidding here? The plot is only an excuse to get Frank into potentially hilarious and/or embarrassing situations. The bets laughs of the story are delivered in the first half of the film, after that the amount of hits and misses grow, but in all the comedy manages play through at least in the level of above average, thus being safe from being a total travesty. But it never does manage to get in the level of Naked Gun 2, which is by far the funniest of the trilogy.In conclusion, Nielsen has been in a lot worse comedies than this is, so I'll give it my thumbs up, as it really does deliver a couple of laughs, despite the latter part of the film provides more of smirks and grins. "},{"Title":"Frank Drebin is back , well reincarnated by a hilarious Nielsen","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a pretty funny spoof with a unstopped string of gags which holds up almost to the final. Again Frank Drebin(Nielsen) return from retirement to help Police Squad(George Kennedy, O. J. Simpson). Drevin is back this time to save the Oscar Academy from a plot hatched by a nasty villain. The dumber law officer from Inspector Clouseau goes undercover a penitentiary where is a top terrorist named Rocco(Fred Ward). He along with his mother(Kathleen Freeman) and girlfriend(Anna Nicole Smith) are planning bomb the Academy Award ceremony . Meanwhile, his wife Jane(Priscilla Presley) is desperate for pregnant and leaves him.This amusing picture is plenty of slapdash and slapstick, displaying lots of laughs and silly gags. This third part with the deadpan, botcher Drebin, has been planned by ZAZ,  Jim Abrahams, Jerry and David Zucker. They're known satirists with successful work and longtime collaborators and made their own comedy troupe, the Kentucky Fried theater. The parody is hilarious, continuous and absurd , though sometimes is gross-out, but some moments here and there also is intelligent and bold. However lacks the freshness of its predecessors, two prequels titled ¨From the filed of Police Squad¨ and ¨The smell of fear¨. As always, the usual cinematographic references , being an entertaining to find them out, as the parody includes ¨The untouchables(Brian De Palma)¨ and ¨The great escape(John Sturges)¨and prison films. Habitual cameos and long invited actors, such as, James Earl Jones, R.Lee Ermey, Rachel Welch,Morgan Fairchild, Mariel Hemingway, Pia Zadora, Elliot Gould, among them. The film is professionally directed by Peter Segal. The motion picture will like to Leslie Nielsen enthusiastic and lunatic humor buffs. "},{"Title":"You'll laugh 'til there's tears in your eyes!","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie just takes of right from the start, even the slogan on the newspaper made me laugh so much tears were in my eyes, then the lawnmower going down the stars, it was so hilarious!Many people criticise the middle part of the movie, yes there were some boring bits but on the whole it was just hilarious, also hilarious is the sperm Donner bit i think i yanked it to much! haha hilarious stuff and the noises he makes when he's well doing it are top notch!Anything else, oh yes the finale at the Oscars is also hilarious, especially when the man is hot when the other man says don't move and nobody gets hurt! this movie is all gold!I recommend this movie to anyone interested in comedy, got depression or has a sense of humour!!!9/10, top notch comedy! "},{"Title":"My 50th movie review for a pretty damn good sequel.","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 3 may not be as good as the first 2 (especially The Naked 2) but it is still hilarious. The movie is about Detective Frank Drebin who is kicked out of his house by his wife after lying about retiring the police force and ends up moving back permanently on to a big case in which he has to go undercover as a bad guy. The movie is watchable in every way and there are around 30 jokes to laugh like hell at. The movie is really funny and Leslie Nielson does another great performance as Detective Frank Drebin and once again proves he is really good at satire. Overall this movie is definitely worth a watch and is almost as good as the first 2 but not that good. So I rate it 72%. "},{"Title":"Better than Naked Gun 2.","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This Is much better than the second film with lots of really funny bits in it. If you've read my comments on the other two Naked gun films you'll know that I wrote a few funny lines from them, so here is some from this have you tried some tablets or sexy cloths-Doctor to Jane well--Jane gets interrupted by Frank, Ive tried them all, they don't work. Brilliant. A burglar runs out of shop past some kitty litter without Frank knowing, Frank! Didn't you see that-Shopkeeper, What, oh, oh yes 2 for 1 on cat litter Such a funny man. A swat team go over to Rocco's mum,  Stop! don't get any closer she says holding up a hand gun, Kick all of your guns over here- Rocco's mum, then about fifty guns come piling towards her. Great! 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Finale to a Minor Series.","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun 33 1/3 marked the end to the popular parody series that was always impressive at the box office and always somewhat indifferent with the critics. The first was about as good as it could be, the second was a bit disappointing and this installment is somewhere in the middle of the series. This time Leslie Nielsen and company try to stop yet another madman (Fred Ward this time) from blowing up the Academy Awards. This was O.J. Simpson's last performance before the infamous murder trials, Anna-Nicole Smith became a household name soon after this, George Kennedy retired from film-making and Priscilla Presley's daughter Anna-Marie made headlines with a failed marriage to pop-star Michael Jackson. Of course, Leslie Nielsen continues to make sorry films like this so the more things change, the more they stay the same. 2.5 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"It's just not the same as before","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Leslie Nielsen comes out to play once more as Frank Drebin in this third Naked Gun installment. But, alas, the bloom is off the rose with Deadpan Drebin coming out of retirement to nail a jail-based terrorist. Meanwhile, Frank's long-suffering wife, Jane (Priscilla Presley), has had enough and sets out on her own.The original Naked Gun was a masterpiece spoof, even topping such parody classics as Airplane.  Naked Gun The Smell Of Fear wasn't as good but was still laugh-aloud and a superior spoof. Frank Drebin is probably the funniest screen character since Closeau and the Naked Gun films are probably the funniest comedy series since the Pink Panther films.  But, unfortunately, The Final Insult does not receive these credits. The gags have gone and laughs are at a low. I could write much more but to summarise it - Naked Gun III is a big dissapointment.....but, at least there was Spy Hard!  "},{"Title":"Insult? Check. Final? Definitively.","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Look, I'm just not going to spend too much time on this (mostly) piece of crap. Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult suffers many defeats, probably the first/foremost The absence of the original ZAZ (Jim Abrahams, David & Jerry Zucker) creators who brought you the masterpiece Airplane!, the way above average The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad! and the mostly funny Top Secret! Them, like the police chief in the first two Naked Gun's knew well enough to distance themselves.Sure, it defeats some comedy disasters unbelievably, it gets better as the movie progresses. How much better? Well, start on the absolute cutting room floor and work your way up a few inches. So, there were a few, I'll admit, funny segments in the 2nd half to finale, but most fell flat. Such as Where's Waldo &#x96; REALLY?!? &#x96; and an actual Beavis and Butt-Head tribute? Gimme a break.I failed to mention to amount of homophobia in the previous two chapters. This one tops the other two threefold. Yeah, I get one was mocking The Crying Game &#x96; duh, but it's still not a pleasant thing to see, when it's this vicious and not simply funny.I'll quickly skim the plot Jane (Presley) and Frank (Nielsen) are fighting and leaving each other..again. Frank is also leaving Police Squad behind, as all movie cops have to retire somewhere in the story line. And some bad guy in jail (Ward) plans a break out, with Frank's help in the slammer undercover and metal-wrapped to avoid gay-sex in the showers. Ha ha ha ha ha ha and ha. No, I'm really not laughing at prison dropping the soap jokes. Literally &#x96; they went there.Anyways, the target is the Academy Awards for no other reason to blow up the place because this movie won't come close to winning any awards.Now that it appears I've completely bashed this movie, I will say there are a few funny moments Jane's exit from Frank &#x96; really hilarious as were the fake movies and presentations at the Oscars. There were a few tiny, tiny moments sprinkled, but NOT ENOUGH for a recommendation.Seriously, this movie, despite some moderately funny moments, felt eerily spliced together and most as an afterthought. Even the Oscar fake movies, as humorous as they were, seemed rushed. This movie gets no endorsement from me, and thank goodness this would be the last &#x96; mark my words I guarantee neither Leslie Nielsen or George Kennedy will anytime soon be appearing in a fourth movie, much less any feature length film. And you can forget about O.J. Simpson &#x96; who hilariously plays a dumb and distracted cop here &#x96; once he's released, he'll undoubtedly do something else incriminating. "}{"Title":"Least of the trilogy is still quite good","Date":"9 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Frank has retired, and is essentially a housewife, a whole new field where he can be incompetent. Jane continues working and now wants a baby, and the two aren't... having relations. He's called back to duty for one last mission(have you heard that one before?). The most prolific terrorist bomber in the US, Rocco(Fred Ward, a badass as usual... and just wait 'till you meet his mother, played by Kathleen Freeman!) may be planning his biggest score, so Drebin has to go undercover as a criminal, meeting up with him in jail. We have some fun with him trying to pass as such, and the new setting and situation are very welcome, since the first two followed essentially the same formula of solving a case. The main cast return and do well, and the new blood are great as well... then again, perhaps Anna Nicole Smith is a tad flat(...sorry) in her delivery, though she does give it her all when mugging. This does have several gags and jokes that just fail, and it was smart to end the series here(and don't get me wrong, it's an appropriate final chapter). The style of humor is the same as the others, with sometimes only a single element off in a scene and everyone reacts in a realistic manner and the laws of physics behave as they should, telegraphing the punchline, etc. Like the others, this has aged surprisingly well. There is some direct sexual stuff, albeit no nudity, and a little mild language, in this. I recommend this to any fan of spoofs and/or action/crime thrillers with tough, no-nonsense cops. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult!","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult is a good and mystery film that has a good cast including Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, O.J. Simpson, Fred Ward, Kathleen Freeman, Anna Nicole Smith, Ellen Greene, Ed Williams, Raye Birk, Matt Roe, Wylie Small, Sharon Cornell, Earl Boen, Jeff Wright, Lorali Hart, Mallory Sandler, Karen Segal, Vanna White, 'Weird Al' Yankovic, Rick Scarry, Mary Lou Retton, Glen Chin, Philip Yamaguchi, Shannen Doherty, Olympia Dukakis, R. Lee Ermey, Morgan Fairchild, Elliott Gould, Kevin Grevioux, Raquel Welch, Timothy Watters, Randall 'Tex' Cobb, and James Earl Jones! The acting by all of these actors is very good, The movie is hilarious and never lets up and the action is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is great by Ira Newborn! The film is really good and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very thrilling film. If you like Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, George Kennedy, O.J. Simpson, Fred Ward, Kathleen Freeman, Anna Nicole Smith, Vanna White, 'Weird Al' Yankovic, Rick Scarry, Mary Lou Retton, Shannen Doherty, R. Lee Ermey, Morgan Fairchild, Elliott Gould, Kevin Grevioux, Raquel Welch, Timothy Watters, Randall 'Tex' Cobb, James Earl Jones, the rest of the cast in the film, the Naked Gun series, Comedy, Crime, Action, and interesting movies then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"It works, though not as much as the previous two films","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Maybe I'm looking at this movie from a somewhat biased viewpoint, because out of all 3 Naked Gun films, this is the one I've seen the most times. So when I just purchased it on DVD, as part of the Naked Gun gift set, the gags weren't as fresh to me. I watched it several times when it appeared on ABC, and since the movie doesn't contain any foul language or overt sexual gags, very little was snipped from the TV version. Needless to say, the reason why this sequel doesn't work as well is because of the absence of David Zucker as director. This time Peter Segal occupies the director's chair. Segal definitely has talent. He's the same director who brought us Tommy Boy, My Fellow Americans and the hilarious Anger Management. But his approach to humor isn't the same as Zucker's. Zucker is better at handling slapstick, while Segal is better at scatological comedy. Though the same writers contributed to this third installment, Segal's a little rusty with the timing and delivery of these gags. And in farce, timing is everything. In the other two films, I found all the gags either funny or hilarious. If I didn't get a belly laugh, I was probably chuckling at least. The Naked Gun 33 1/3 contains some gags that simply don't work and settle for flat payoffs. But on a positive note, most of the gags do work and the cast still gives their all. It's a shame that O.J. Simpson got involved in murder. He could've made a fine comic actor. I don't exactly visualize him as a leading man, but he would do well in quirky supporting roles like these. Another good thing about the film is Anna-Nicole Smith, who at the time looked absolutely stunning! And though I didn't receive as many belly laughs as I thought, there are a few, like the conclusion at the Oscar ceremony. The sperm bank scene is also hilarious. Unfortunately, the joke is worn out for me, now that I've seen the movie about 5 times. If you're in the mood for a good comedy (though not a great one), The Naked Gun 33 1/3 delivers. But don't go in expecting too much. "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHA","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you dont laugh at this movie there is something wrong with you. Funny as hell. This movie is a great way to end the Naked Gun trilogy. Also any movie with OJ Simpson rules.Rating Ten Thumbs Up. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie has to have the funniest beginning of a movie in history. Spoofing the untouchables is imaginative and hilarious.  I liked what OJ did in the beginning.  The rest of the movie is excellent and absolutely hilarious.  I have to say that this one was better than the 2nd, and I'm debating if it's better than the original.  The whole squad is back and funnier than ever.Overall the whole movie is very funny and creative and Anna Nicole Smith is very sexy!  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not great, but still a lot of fun","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Naked Gun 33 1/3 is stupid, ludicrous and definately one of the funniest films of 1994.  It is another collection from the ZAZ team (although I'm not sure if they're working as a trio in this film) which brings back Leslie Nielson as the awesomely and always funny Frank Drebin, who has to come out of retirement to stop a criminal from blowing up the academy awards.  Madcap, hilarious comedy, and while it isn't as fresh as parts 1 and 2, it is still very worthy of any ZAZ fan, or admirer of stupid comedy for that matter.  There are also a plethera of cameos at the climactic Oscars including the triumphant return of Weird Al Yankovic!  The OJ also appears in this movie as a sign that he will never play Nordberg again (unless he is made as the Killer Nordberg or something).  B+ "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though sequels sometime fall short of the original movie this movie tried its hardest to live up to the first movie The Naked Gun "},{"Title":"what's the deal","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why do all of leslie nielsen's movies get bad ratings when the original naked gun got a very good score? The next two naked guns are basically the same thing. Besides the individual jokes, there is no difference, and it's not like the jokes have gotten worse. I think leslie is getting a raw deal. If you like this kind of humor i can't understand how you could differentiate between any of nielson's movies, especially the naked gun series. If you're like me and you like nielsen and the genre you'll definately like the naked gun 33 1/3. The jokes are similar to the previous naked gun movies and all the original cast is back. 3/4 stars "},{"Title":"Right from the start","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was laughing out loud at this movie right from the start, and I mean the opening credits! I won't spoil it by telling you any details. This is completely absurd and politically incorrect humor. I mean gross, folks, and thank God for that! Really, it is a blessing! "},{"Title":"Funny, but the signs of aging start to show.","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final InsultLeslie Nielsen returns as bumbling policeman Frank Drebin in this third installment of the popular franchise. It's still funny, but the signs of aging are starting to show at this point, and some of the scenes - such as the sperm bank and showing Anna Nicole Smith's hairy legs - come off more as Farrelly Brothers humor than ZAZ.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "}{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like Slapstick then this is the movie for you! Full of sick humor and non-stop laughing that will leave you rolling in the aisles. The best Naked Gun of the series by far!! The funniest movie I have ever seen in my entire life! "},{"Title":"Laughs from beginning to end!","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We're talking about the funniest trilogy in the history of cinema! Maybe a lot of people don't like this type of humor, but it's definitely my type. I like it when nothing in a movie  is left in its place. They make fun of practically everything and that's the way it should be. Excellent job Mr Abrahams and Mr Zucker! I'm one of those who wanted more of these guys... "},{"Title":"another very funny entry in the naked gun series","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the naked gun 33 1/3 is very funny, but 2 1/2 is just a hair funnier. the formula still works after the second one. it still has the the unbelievable one liners. great fun i give this movie *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Diminishing Returns","Date":"4 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The third installment in the series has Lt. Drebin retiring from the force, only to return to apprehend a terrorist. It's a case of diminishing returns, as the gags become more forced and the jokes become staler with each entry. Nielsen seems to be having a ball, as he reprises for the final time the role that showcased a flair for comedy that had been hidden through most of his career. It starts with a funny spoof of the train station steps sequence from The Untouchables, which in turn was an homage to Potemkin. Much of what comes after that is quite lame. Things do pick up towards the end as the action shifts to the Academy Awards, and a number of has-beens and B-listers gamely make cameo appearances as themselves. "},{"Title":"End of the Trilogy","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun 33 1/3 (1994) *** (out of 4) Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) comes out of retirement to go undercover in prison so that he can find out where a mad bomber (Fred Ward) plans to hit next. This third and final film in the trilogy is no doubt the weakest in the series but I think there's enough charm to make it worth viewing even though the laughs are fewer are far between what we're use to. What really brings the film down some is the screenplay, which comes off rather tiresome and weak. Many of the gags just don't work as well as they should and that includes the opening sequence spoofing The Untouchables. The scene looks incredibly well but there just aren't any laughs. The ending, taking place at the Oscars where Drebin causes chaos with people thinking he's Phil Donahue, works pretty well but once again doesn't feature any hilarious gags. Nielsen is his usual funny self here and works well with new bad guy Ward. Ward really has some nice jokes that come off well as does Anna Nicole Smith. George Kennedy, O.J. Simpson and Priscilla Presley return but they're all reduced to rather thankless roles. If you weren't a fan of the first two movies then I'm fairly certain you'll hate this one but I think fans will find this here charming enough for a viewing every once in a while. "},{"Title":"Mostly all new jokes... FINALLY! Truth in advertising!","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" For my latest review (sorry for not writing one for so long), I will examine the third and final film in The Naked Gun franchise. It's good that they stopped here, before we started to grow tired of the series. Since this is going to sound very similar to my reviews of the previous two films in the series, I'll try not to waste too much time repeating myself.The Positives -It's still very funny. 'Nuff said. -All the actors (with 2 notable exceptions that I'll get to later) are great. Again, 'nuff said.The Negatives -As I've said lord knows how many times before, these movies have jokes that are so juvenile and downright dumb that you feel guilty for laughing so hard. Yet again, 'nuff said. -Anna Nicole Smith can't act for beans, and she doesn't manage to pull off too many jokes. Also, O.J. Simpson is even more of a drag here than before. It's no wonder they were both nominated for (and won) Razzies for this film (thankfully, these were the only 2 awards the film was nominated for). -As the tagline (and the title of this review) clearly state, not all of the jokes are new, and you can clearly see that the film lacks a feeling of freshness.My 3 choice words Simpanna Nicorrible, Funny "},{"Title":"not always on target but amusing nonetheless","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Third entry in the Naked Gun series is sloppily made but often very funny. Frank Drebin has retired from the police force and is adjusting to married life with working woman Jane. Their marriage is anything but ideal, and is only exacerbated when Frank's former colleagues persuade him to go undercover and infiltrate the gang of an infamous criminal mastermind/terrorist. There are plenty of hits and misses, but still much better gags than its predecessor and a hilarious climax at an Oscar ceremony. The series formula is clearly wearing thin, but this latest addition is better than you'd expect thanks to Nielsen and his enthusiastic co-stars. **½ "},{"Title":"good thing that they ended here","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" And not just because of the whole imbroglio involving O.J. Simpson. One gets the feeling that they were running out of ideas here. In Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult, Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) has to stop a terrorist (Fred Ward) from setting off a bomb at the Academy Awards. Needless to say, the whole thing is an excuse for a series of gags. Still, the whole thing just seems lower than the previous two installments.No matter, Leslie Nielsen is always good for a few laughs. Probably the best scene in the movie is when he's supposed to have sex with Priscilla Presley. That would truly be an embarrassment! I guess that it's good in that respect. But like I said, it's a good thing that they ended the series here.Also starring George Kennedy, Kathleen Freeman, and a whole slew of guest appearances by many people as themselves, including Weird Al Yankovic (happy birthday, Al!). "},{"Title":"The third place!","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yeah, the third installment also comes in third at the finishing line. More and more of the visul gags and Nielsens face are not really funny any more. But is still has enough power to be an above average comedy. And it has Weird Al playing the biggest part of all the three Naked Gun Movies! "},{"Title":"funny!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film might disappoint some fans of this series, but I liked it and thought it to be funny.I am glad they made it, and hope they make a fourth. It featured good laughs throughout.** 1/2 out of **** "}{"Title":"Getting a little long in the tooth..","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Lt Frank Drebin is called out of retirement to lead an investigation into terroristic activities in LA and a possible attack at the oscars...Like the Tagline says mostly new jokes but some are stale and there seems to be less laughs in each new naked gun and in each new Leslie Nielsen comedy in general..hopefully this is the last because another would be an insult! on a scale of one to ten..4 "},{"Title":"Dreadful","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The first two Naked Gun films provide satire-based humor, combined with absurd, slap-stick comedy. Despite the characters' overt inadequacies and inflated egos, the audience appreciates their humanity and goodness, which is also respected by the films themselves. Unfortunately, 33 1/3 goes too far in the realm of absurd, to the exclusion of any meaningful satire. The reliance on stale sexual innuendos and silly gags degrades the artistic potential of the project. Frank Drebin- making cookies? A Naked Gun film cannot succeed without Leslie Nielsen's dry, straight-laced, albeit incompetent police persona, as a comic base. Many of the other characters lose depth, as the film depends more on gags than on combined humor of character and situation. I recommend #s 1 & 2, but you should save time and money and avoid this catastrophe. "},{"Title":"A Little Flat","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Frank Drebin is back, so you pretty much know what to expect. In this third instalment, Frank goes undercover to infiltrate a gang of unusually dim crooks, and the film climaxes with Drebin impersonating Phil Donahue at the Academy Awards ceremony (all in the line of duty, of course).Although there are plenty of funny gags, and I don't want to sound critical, this is a little flat compared to the last two films.  Also, there's more emphasis on bad taste gags, which won't please everyone. "},{"Title":"Wow, not a single laugh! A sad way to conclude the trilogy!","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun From the Files of Police Squad!, although not one of my favourite comedies, is still a very good one in my opinion, often hilarious! I also found some hilarious gags in the first sequel, The Naked Gun 2½ The Smell of Fear, but found it slightly disappointing in the end. Because of this, I then watched this final installment in the trilogy without very high expectations, but even those expectations were not met! I was unpleasantly surprised by the fact that I didn't laugh once, after many gags in both of its predecessors made me laugh so hard! Sure, I smiled occasionally, but kept a straight face for the most part. Lt. Frank Drebin, now married to Jane Spencer, retires from Police Squad. However, Rocco Dillon, a terrorist who is currently in prison, has a plan for another terrorist attack when he escapes, so Drebin is lured out of retirement and put on the case, which, unfortunately, causes Jane to leave him! He goes undercover to the state penitentiary where Dillon is currently being held, where he becomes known as a prisoner named Nick 'The Slasher' McGuirk. While there, Drebin is to get information from the renowned terrorist on his sinister plan.I strongly disliked quite a few scenes in this final installment in the popular Naked Gun trilogy, such as the one where a prisoner wants to rape Drebin in the shower, and found certain characters a tad annoying, such as Tanya Peters, played by Anna Nicole Smith. Yes, I know Anna Nicole died early this year, but I'm not going to lie. I also found that the movie seemed a bit too dark. Comedies can be dark and still funny, but not in this case. I don't know if I'm overreacting giving this film a 3/10, but I certainly wouldn't give it a much higher rating. If you ask me, it was good that Naked Gun 33⅓ The Final Insult was the last Naked Gun movie, as it was probably time for Lt. Frank Drebin to PERMANENTLY retire! "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult 5/10","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker made a mistake when making The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Smell of Fear they made it. They had success with their Airplane! series and the Hot Shots! series, both which had one sequel. However, for some reason, instead of creating another Airplane! sequel (which would have been a riot), they decided to create a Naked Gun sequel. Naked Gun 33 1/3 suffers from sequelitis. While the first sequel, Naked Gun 2 ½, seemed as fresh as the original, this one basically relies on the climactic ending scene (as were in the first two) to make you love it.Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is newly retired from Police Squad and six months married to Jane Spencer-Drebin (Priscilla Presley). She wants kids, while he's trying to figure out what to do now that he is retired. Ed (George Kennedy) and Nordberg (O.J. Simpson) need Frank to do one last job for Police Squad, and he takes it. Jane doesn't like that and leaves him. Now Frank is undercover to unearth a terrorist operation.There's one major thing that separates this movie from the other two Naked Gun movies it's not that funny. The first two were almost non-stop laughs, while this one only had one or two really funny scenes. At times it was humorous, but this didn't feel like the other ones. This one was almost a parody of itself instead of police films. It relied too much on parodies and references, too. There are takeoffs of The Untouchables and Thelma and Louise, and even Alice from The Brady Bunch shows up. This only had one or two moments of TRUE ZAZ humor when there's something so wacky and from left-field happens you can't help but laugh. Also, when someone says something, it's taken literally. There wasn't much of that humor here; in fact, the only instance I remember was when Frank was eating the paper (watch the movie to understand). Overall, the only reason you should see Naked Gun 33 1/3 is if you've seen the first two and want to complete the trilogy.My rating 5/10Rated PG-13 for off-color humor. "},{"Title":"Scraping the bottom of the barrel.","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The title's barely a joke.Neither is the tagline.The first movie felt fresh.  Unfortunately it was successful, because it provoked a rash of spoofs (mostly by the same makers, it has to be said) that were way too unfocused in their targets to be funny.  The thinking seemed to be that all that was needed to raise a laugh was to repeat the previous jokes used, with just the tiniest little tweak.  Goodwill towards gags that were funny the first time wears thin when they're constantly being shoved back at you over 90 minutes.  This is apparently all that is needed to make money though, and so the practice continued almost inexorably. Final insult?  Arrange to have yourself mugged right before you watch this - as an exercise, more honesty is attached to that method, at least...It only got worse over the course of a decade, though.  Spy Hard... ???! "},{"Title":"The Naked Gun Franchse.","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult (1994) was the last straw for the Naked Gun series. By this time all of the Z.A.Z. team has bailed out. But the producers wanted more. Not quiting while they were ahead doomed this series. I can see why they didn't cry when the t.v. show was canceled so many years ago. There's no creative gas left in the tank. The series has milked whatever laughs they had in the last movie. How many dated jokes can you cram in one movie? Well before the releases of Scary Movie two and three, this movie was the record holder. Only a few laughs can be found in this movie. The time for Lt. Frank Drebin to retire with honors has come and gone.A lackluster performance from the cast and a terrible script tank this movie. I was disappointed by the efforts of everyone involved. The final insult is to all of the fans of the series. At least they didn't try to hard to be funny. Thank god for small favors.Not recommended. "},{"Title":"The Cast Kind Of Tells You Something","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"10 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I guess it says something when you realize this was Anna Nicole Smith's first picture and O.J. Simpson's last. The fact they are both in this picture kind of defines what this film stands for not the highest class of comedy.Same on Leslie Nielsen to be part of this comedy which has a pastor yelling out Jesus Christ's name as a profanity at one point and then mocking Mother Teresa in another scene. That sort of cheap-shot stuff is still politically correct, but don't try it on other religions other than Christianity. It's pretty sad that Jewish people - many of them victims of hate - wrote, produced and directed this bigoted hateful satiric material. I didn't see any other religions made the butt of jokes in this movie.That, and five other blasphemes, numerous sex innuendos make this a real sleazy comedy, more like the stuff that was produced in the 1970s than 1994. I like good parodies but this was too much below-the-belt stuff that wasn't funny. I am not surprised this ended the Naked Gun series. They should have quit while they were ahead. "},{"Title":"Naked Gun 33 1/3 The Final Insult","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Based on the short-lived TV series Police Squad, the first film was brilliant, the second film was a good follow up, and this third film from the makers of Airplane! also had a good rating. Basically Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) has retired from the police force, and is having a difficult marriage to wife Jane (Priscilla Presley) who is desperate for a baby. He is brought out of retirement to work on a new case to go undercover in a state prison and get close to captured bomber Rocco Dillon (Road Trip's Fred Ward), who is meant to create devastation somewhere in the United States. They plan their escape and succeed, and pretending to be on his side Frank gets closer to finding out where Rocco will be causing his terrorist chaos. It is eventually apparent that a bomb will be detonated at the year's Academy Awards ceremony, placed in one of the Oscar envelopes, activated by taking out the card. In the end, after disastrous events during the event, the bomb is defused and the bad guy defeated, and Frank can be happy witnessing the birth of his baby with Jane, only to confuse it with another. Also starring George Kennedy as Ed Hocken, O.J. Simpson as Nordberg, Anna Nicole Smith as Tanya, Ellen Greene as Louise, Ed Williams as Ted Olsen, The Terminator's Earl Boen as Dr. Eisendrath, Raising Arizona's Randall 'Tex' Cobb as Big Hairy Con, Shannen Doherty, Olympia Dukakis, Full Metal Jacket's R. Lee Ermey as Mess Hall Guard, Morgan Fairchild, Elliott Gould, Mariel Hemingway, James Earl Jones, and Raquel Welch. Nielsen is still the stupid but lovable buffoon, from the police siren with catchy theme music and onwards, the scripting is still reasonably witty, and the slapstick, gross out and sight gags are still laughable, a good fun comedy. Detective Frank Drebin was number 47 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters. Very good! "},{"Title":"Hold Onto Your Sides - They May Split","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Usually when I write a review for a comedy on this site I normally state I detest the comedy genre and when I write a review involving a sequel I usually state that I detest the whole idea of sequels , so what do I think of NAKED GUN 3 THE FINAL INSULT ? I loved it from the opening parody of THE UNTOUCHABLES to the Oscars climax I sat through this comedy classic with a massive grin upon my face .Don`t watch this movie expecting high art , sophistication or even originality , but that`s what makes THE FINAL INSULT so great seeing parodies of THELMA AND LOUISE , WHITE HEAT , ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ ( Spot the Fred Ward connection ? ) , not to mention a few gags that owe a lot to Benny Hill . I loved every minute of this , especially the prison scenes    "}]