[{"Title":"A great way to spend a cold winter night","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"45 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What a great romantic comedy set in beautiful Italy, not only are the actors Robert Downey Jr (so handsome and such a talented actor) and the beautiful Marissa Tomei amazing but watching these actors play out such a romantic story and doing things that we would never dream of, to find your one true love. All with her best friend by her side. Brings me back to being 13, dreaming of who I would marry and the romantic innocence of those times. Its not only the romance but the friendships that give you that warm feeling inside, both the men and women in this film have a quiet kind ship with each other as when you see the three men sitting in the boat sharing wine, feeling rejected by women. ( I won't spoil that scene with anyones names) and the kindness of the hotel staff in later scenes.These days so many movies and the reality of the news is full of war, violence and betrayal. Why not put all of that behind you?.. So sit back with your favorite snack, some hot chocolate & maybe your best friend and escape into love, romance, zany impulsiveness and disappear into.... Only You. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Romantic Comedy","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Over the past 9 years, this has been what of my guilty pleasures. The story is obviously romantic fluff, but the performances of Marisa Tomei, Robert Downey Jr., and Bonnie Hunt are great and make what would normally be a prosaic love story into a true romantic treasure. Just remember to be prepared to suspend your rational side for a couple of hours. Marisa Tomei is so beautiful in this film, it's understandable why Robert Downey Jr's character falls in love with her at first sight. The Italian scenery is incredible and would make anyone fall in love with Italy. I have since visited this beautiful country and can attest to its romantic atmosphere. It is a great date film and comes highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Oh, soooo romantic...","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful movie...It is rather a fairy tale than a romantic comedy. The story is developed nicely and gives us some lessons about love and life and things in between.The actors, especially Marisa Tomei, do a great job in telling us this beautiful story. The finale is exceptional I will always hope for this kind of support when I am at an Italian airport...Watch this movie when you are in a romantic mood and want to see a film which believes in true love. Or watch it to get into a romantic mood. And enjoy the various plot twists... "},{"Title":"Be kind, I love this movie!!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How did I love this movie? Let me count the ways. The locations were beautiful, and I have always thought that Italy was the place for romance - Venice, Rome etc. look gorgeous. It was romantic, so much so that if you didn't believe in destiny before this movie, you will afterwards. Robert Downey Jr and Marisa Tomei's characters seem so suited to one another, except for the slight problem that he has the wrong name! Any fool could see that they were in love from the moment they met! Love the scene when Downey Jr's character reads Tomei's mind about what she is to wear for her date. Audience are practically cursing the screen in hope that Faith and Peter will finally get together. Awesome, magical, glorious!! "},{"Title":"Sweet, grab a pizza and a bottle of wine...","Date":"5 August 2006","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you want a nice night in with a lady (or just someone who fits that special romantic niche for you - whatever that is), this is a great choice.The acting is endearing, the story is simple straightforward and sweet. It steers clear of sickeningly romantic and sweet which tends to eliminate the male half of the audience when it comes to your classic chick flick.It's easy to see Downey Jnr's talent in this film, a friendly charming drug free character. A wonderful cameo by Billy Zane adds some wonderful moments.I guarantee, you show up with roses, a pizza, a bottle of nice wine and this on DVD - and you'll have a wonderfully sweet night in. "},{"Title":"Light, sweet, funny and romantic","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a truly great romantic comedy.  Tomei and Downey both create characters you will love.  The dialog sparkles, the location photography is beautiful, the pace keeps moving along and there are a few twists to the plot.  It's fluff, but the very best quality fluff you could ask for.  A *great* date movie.  Guys, even if you think you hate movies like this... give it a chance! "},{"Title":"Incredibly Sweet and Engaging","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie.And for all the stupid mistakes he's made, you have to admit that Robert Downey Jr. can turn in some pretty amazing performances.  Marisa Tomei also shines in this incredible fairy tale about looking everywhere to find your one true love.Light, sweet, and absolutely beautiful, Only You will show that at the most unexpected times (or with the most unexpected people) love can show up. You should be ready for it.  Don't let the love of your life slip through your fingers in an Italian airport.10/10 "},{"Title":"Watch it many times, you'll never tire of it","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Faith (Marisa Tomei) has been told by a gypsy AND a ouija board that she will marry a man named Damon Bradley. When he fails to appear before her 30 birthday, she becomes engaged to a podiatrist. However, she accidentally overhears on the phone that a man named DB may be headed to Venice. Faith hops a plane one hour later and begins a search through Italy for the man of her dreams. But, what about the cute American man she meets on the streets of Rome? One could watch this film 100 times and never tire of it. Tomei and Robert Downey, Jr. give funny, vibrant performances that are unforgettable. The lovely scenery of Italy is definitely a bonus and Bonnie Hunt gives an adorable performance as Faith's sister-in-law, as does Fisher Stevens as her brother. Do you want a movie to watch whenever you need a spirit lifter? For the romantic at heart, this film is a treasure to savor over and over. "},{"Title":"Absolute favorite romantic comedy of all time!","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Marisa Tomei is captivating. Robert Downey, Jr. is perfect in the role. I have seen this movie at least 10 or 12 times and never tire of it. It is light and breezy and just one of those feel good movies. Highly recommended. Guaranteed to make you want to go to Italy! "},{"Title":"Only Downey","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"18 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought Downey was wonderful in this movie!  He is so romantic!  And sweet.  He will do anything to show how much he loves Faith (Tomei); even set her up with her soulmate!  Robert Downey, Jr was the real star of this film.  I was mesmerized by him whenever he was on camera, and when he wasn't, I kept wondering when he would be back!  Credit to Marisa Tomei as well!  She does a great job playing Faith, a woman who follows her 'soulmate' to Italy only to find her true love.  Tomei is very pretty in the film and I love the red dress she wears when first meeting Peter (Downey).  Some of her best acting comes at the end, when she realizes her feelings and rushes to tell him.  The only bad thing about the movie is that Downey does not appear until 45 minutes into the movie!  Did it have to be that long?  I know of a few scenes that they could have cut.  Other than that, the movie is great.  Watch it with someone you love, or even your soulmate.     "}{"Title":"Best romantic comedy ever?","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know what you're thinking Nobody votes this as their best. It wasn't even a big hit. What about Moonstruck? Or Sleepless in Seattle? Or Philadelphia Story? 'Screen7' can't have seen those. I have seen all the great romantic comedies and many more. And multiple times. I own many of them. I like them all.But Only You remains at the very top of my list. I just love it! In my mind, it is near-perfection in the romantic comedy1) The two leads (Downey and Tomei) have absolutely terrific chemistry. Every bit as good as Hepburn and Grant or Cher and Cage or anyone I can think of. And they look great! 2) The plot has plenty of twists and turns that you are always entertained. But it doesn't make the mistake of being overly clever.Making this also a road-trip movie and a buddy movie really livens things up. Also making it a soft tribute to Roman Holiday gives it some depth.3) The setting in Italy is lovely! The cinematographer really takes advantage of the natural and cultural beauty without turning it into and art-flick.4) The supporting cast is great.... leading role quality performances. Bonnie Hunt. Billy Zane. Joaquim de Almeida. And they are perfectly cast 5) It has some warm fuzzy lessons in life but is not heavy-handed about it.6) It is a lovely safe fantasy -- there is temptation but goodness prevails. (I won't spoil the plot) There probably is no absolutely best romantic comedy because you can't account for personal taste but, as for me, Only You is definitely on the short list. "},{"Title":"A girl so determined to base her love life on a childhood Ouija board","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A girl who got a name off of an Ouija board of her future true love seeks him when she finds out a guy with that name exsists. She leaves her wedding plans on hold for this guy and blindly chases a guy she never met in the name of fate and true love and destiny, while bypassing any other guy that might be better suited for her.This is a funny movie that even people who hate mushy movies will love if they get into watching it. Girls, you should only watch this with men who really care about you or women who believe in true love and love a loving movie about true love.Even women who have been hurt and don't believe in true love will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Some kind of wonderful *SPOILERS*","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't we all dream of that? That somewhere out there is our soulmate, the one who is meant to love us and to be loved by us and whom we'll meet some day and live with him/her happily ever after? And what could be more wonderful than meeting this half in the summer in Rome and walk with him the night through, including stars, roses, unforgettable kisses and very romantic moments&#133;The things I mentioned above are only a part of the reasons why this movie is wonderful. It could be absolutely kitschy and in his simply way ridiculous but it never is. It's as light as a summer wind on a June afternoon in the Tuscany, it's very well told and just enchanting. It has subtile humour and clever jokes in it (How could you do this to me?! &#150;  Because I'm in love with you! &#150;  Ha! What kind of an excuse is that?!). You have great actors, most of them young and looking good, but all of them being terrific and obviously having fun playing their role &#150; Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jr as the protagonists, Bonnie Hunt as Tomei's reasonnable best friend, Billy Zane as &#150; well, the more or less bad guy and Fisher Stevens as Hunt's husband. Plus the wonderful landscape and sights of Italy where most of the story takes place &#150; we have Venice, Tuscany, Rome, Positano &#150; all beautifully photgraphed and just stunning.It's a light, funny fairy tale and love story, it's simple &#150; boy meets girl, boy and girl are meant for each other but they realize it when the film is about to end &#150; very entertaining and sweet. Definitely worth watching and a film that makes you wanna directly pack your bag and fly to Italy because you might fall in love there forever.10 stars out of 10  "},{"Title":"Yeah it's impossible but I LOVE this","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Faith (a young girl) has the name of her future love spelled out on a Ouija board. She grows up (into Marisa Tomei) believing she will meet him someday. Years later she's all set to marry safe, bland Dwayne (John Benjamin Hickey)...but finds out he has a friend whose name matches the one she's been waiting for. She goes off to Italy with best friend Kate (Bonnie Hunt) to find him...OK--this story is far fetched from the beginning but it manages to work. It's BEAUTIFULLY shot in Italy (some sequences were just unbelievable); has a great performance by Tomei; has a hysterical (and touching) performance by Hunt and I've always liked Robert Downey Jr. (who pops up about 30 minutes in). It's wonderfully directed and has a sweet romantic feel to it. I realize some of the admittedly impossible plot twists and situations will have certain viewers rolling their eyes--but if you're a true romantic (like me) this movie will pull you right in. I won't deny it DOES go a little too far at the end but I still love this.Also there's two small roles by Billy Zane and Joaquin de Alemdea--and they're both great.You got Italy, attractive stars, romance, great direction...what more can you ask for? Easily one of the my favorite romantic movies. I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"once in a life time","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" THIS IS MY FAVOURITE MOVIE... every time when i watched it. i believe in love. i believe someone keep waiting for me somewhere in the world. i hope all of them find our Damon Bradley and don t catch the flight) PETER I have to talk to her.KATE She's not here.PETER Where is she? KATE She went out to check into skywriting. I can't believe you lied. Is this a genetic thing, men will say anything just to get laid? PETER No! That's not fair. That's not it at all. Look, something somewhere got screwed up. Maybe some metaphysical wires got crossed. I may not have the right name, but I was there. I'm the guy. I'm-- skywriting?? KATE You didn't think this would be a problem? PETER It was an emergency. I only lied that night because it was the only way I knew to stop her. I knew if I didn't, I'd never see her again.KATE Good strategy.PETER Do you know I wasn't even supposed to be in Rome? My boss was supposed to come to this conference, and at the last minute he got the measles. The measles.Who gets the measles at forty-three? So they sent me.And I wasn't supposed to be in that piazza that night either. I'd gone to the movies, only it was sold out. So I was wandering around.Just wandering... When I got hit in the head with this shoe.PETER And then I saw her. And all I know is, when I looked in her eyes I saw something... light. And life and passion and yearning. And something else I can't even put my finger on, something I'd never seen before-- KATE Mania.PETER Whatever. And I thought, please God, give me a sign, give me some way to keep this woman from getting into that taxi and disappearing from my life forever. And He did.She told me the name. Granted, it wasn't my name, but it was a start.PETER And if that's not destiny, I don't know what is.KATE That's really romantic. "},{"Title":"A Throwback to the Romantic Comedies of the 40's and 50's","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ONLY YOU is a charming romantic comedy that reminded me of a comedy that Katharine Hepburn or Audrey Hepburn might have made back in the day. Marisa Tomei, in one of her most enchanting performances, plays an engaged woman, who, as a child, learned through a Ouija board and a psychic that her soul mate is a man named Damon Bradley. One day she gets a call from a friend of her fiancée who says he can't make the wedding and that his name is Damon Bradley. She learns he is on his way to Italy and drops everything and gets on a plane to hunt him down. Upon arrival she meets another American (Robert Downey Jr.), who, in order to get to know her, tells her that he is Damon Bradley but by the time she finds out he's lying, he's already madly in love with her. I don't know what it was about this movie, but it completely sucked me in and made me care about these people. Downey gives his usual slick and charming performance and Bonnie Hunt shines in the Thelma Ritter role as Tomei's best friend. If you're a sucker for movie romance, this is one of the best. "},{"Title":"Chick's Flick","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well It was great on a date! ( even married) So Get some popcorn, bring some Kleenex and wait...My wife loves this movie!!!!It's silly and predictable, but she loves it and will watch it anytime! Good cast and Downey might not be on drugs. I would even buy it for the wife if I could find it on DVD. The mystery to it is the real, guy she is looking for. Brown is the best thing about this movie trying to get her Husband to add some romance back into the marriage. I like the way the husband comes to find her and bring her back but, falls for her again. Nice 2nd story. I would recommend this for all ladies! I would recommend this for guys if they are in need to add a little romance to their life. "},{"Title":"one fine romantic comedy","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're looking for a feel-good movie, this is the movie for you. It is unbelievably cheery and joyful, as if there were no bad things in the world (or in this case, Italy). This heartwarming Cinderella story will make you feel better at the end. The story also touches the most talked about aspects of love is it all up to fate? I think the main character is named Faith on purpose. So that even though we put everything into fate's hands, in the end we still decided our fate by ourselves. You will understand it when you've seen the movie.My favorite moments are when they all were in Italy&#133;. oh how beautiful and the view is sooo breathtaking. It also had a terrific ending and a little twist in the end. So if you have spare time in a lazy afternoon, go and rent this movie. You will most likely feel good in the end.  "},{"Title":"Searching for Damon Bradley. Cute romantic comedy, I rate 7 of 10.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Only You is a romantic comedy in the vein of Forget Paris or French Kiss. The story gimmick here is as a young girl, Faith (Marisa Tomei) gets tricked into believing her destiny is to meet and marry Damon Bradley, and live happily ever after.  Thinking he is in Italy, Faith and her friend Kate (Bonny Hunt) go to find him.  She meets Peter (Robert Downey Jr.) who says he really is Damon Bradley. Although they hit it off, when she finds out his identity, she continues her search, the destiny thing.So, Peter gets his friend (Billy Zane) to pretend he is the real Damon Bradley, act like a jerk, so that Faith will see Peter's love for her. The friend gets fresh with Faith, Peter has to intervene, the scam is exposed, Faith heads back for Boston in tears.At the airport, both Faith and Peter hear a page for damon Bradley, so they both go to see, and meet up with this nicely dressed businessman heading for a different European city. Peter goes off to his plane, Faith and Damon talk briefly, she realizes she loves Peter, she has them stop departure so she can get on, she and peter hug, the other travelers in the cabin applaud.Not much new here, a cute little story told to entertain. Marisa Tomei became one of my favorite female actors in My Cousin Vinny (92), and she is good in anything. Robert Downey Jr, currently in and out of trouble for his drug problems, is one of the most talented male actors, and his prime supporting role is perfect. Billy Zane plays a goofy character, totally opposite from his Titanic character.  Bonnie Hunt is always good as the best friend next door type of character.   "},{"Title":"feeble fable","Date":"9 December 2009","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Only You' is the type of movie that makes anyone with a Y chromosome shudder in bewilderment. It embodies everything that romance-craving women want from a movie, and nothing a thoughtful viewer does. Marissa Tomei is told as a child that she will marry someone named Damon Bradley, and as an adult (I use the word generously) she decides to fly to Italy with one hours notice in pursuit of a stranger with that name. The crew at the airport accepts her idiotic reasoning for reopening the flight she missed (The man I'll marry is on that plane. ?) and off she goes to Italy. When a man does this it's called 'stalking' or 'a security situation.' In the movie's grotesquely stereotypical idea of Italy, she improbably locates Damon after being completely boorish with a hotel clerk. The hotel clerk, who's old enough to give this girl an earful, instead instantly becomes cooperative, because he has no life, pride, story or values of his own. Bad writing is like that. Oh and her sister comes along too. I can only recount that much of the plot because this was so phenomenally stupid after 40 minutes that my attention drifted. Most people, I find, appreciate 'common sense' both in life and in movies. Nothing in this remotely resembles life as you know it. For the length of the movie, Tomei and Hunt sit in judgment of men and their perceived failings, without ever once acknowledging Tomei is at best a complete flake, and at worst... a fickle, developmentally-delayed lunatic. In the end, after a similar plane-boarding crisis is overcome and true love bursts out on the plane, a crowd of Italian airport personnel stands on the tarmac waving bye-bye (to a jumbo-jet?). When one thinks of the painstaking care and artistry on display in old film noirs, this movie looks like garbage. "}{"Title":"A Love Letter to Italy","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have a problem with this film. I know it's schmaltzy, silly, OTT Romcom at its most cynically heart-tugging but I am simply a sucker for it - it gets me every time, most especially the last scenes at the airport (without wanting to give too much away) which always, and I mean always, squeeze a tear out of me.I have to give it an 8/10 because the film holds a quasi-gravitational pull on me - the moment I catch a tinsy glimpse of it if channel-hopping I am compelled to watch the film in its entirety - again. And while in this confessional mode, Robert Downey Jr is incredible in this film; how was he ever so cute? Marisa Tomei is also a feast for the eyes and their chemistry is sensational. But Bonnie Hunt steals the show - she is immaculate in this role and demonstrates a keen sense for deadpan humour.Best of all though is the scenery, the setting - Italy itself. The photography is sumptuous, idealised and mixed with a frothy Rachel Portman score we are being seduced by a 'fake' Italy if truth be told - it is impossible for somewhere to be so universally charming in every single shot. Even so, Italy is my favourite country in the world - the way it works its enchantments on the characters is totally true Rome is gorgeous, the Tuscan landscape is stunning, the road trip to Positano and the town itself are breath-taking, a genuine evocation of the wonders and ambiance of those places. It gets me every time.In sum - this film is lovely, heart-warming, escapist nonsense a genuine guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"If you love this movie, check out Billy Wilder's Avanti! (1972)","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I adore this film.  The script is fresh and well-structured, and contrary to other  reviewers I really like the leisurely setup of the first act before Robert Downey,  Jr. appears -- it's fun to watch the women responding to the call to adventure.   This film is like a dreamy fantasy-trip to Italy, comparable to the great (and  underrated) romantic comedy by Billy Wilder, Avanti! with Juliet Mills and Jack  Lemmon.  This movie connects back to that film with the delightful performance  of Gianfranco Barra as the concierge; his distinctive voice and excellent comic  timing mark his performance as Bruno in Avanti!   "},{"Title":"My favorite romantic movie.","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Only You is a very original film that catches your heart. The film has good looking women, humor, and a guy full of ideas who never quits in trying to win Faith's love. Oh, and it is set in Italy not Paris...thankfully. I first saw this movie on TV when I was bored to death living in the dorms at my university. At the end of the film I said to myself, yeah that's how it should be. (Romance that is). I knew my parents would like the movie; so I made a mental note of the name. Finally, I got around to buying Only You on VHS from half.com. My sister even liked the movie and I know I will be watching it shortly for the third time. I am surprised Marisa Tomei did not get very many lead roles after this movie. She is a great actor.  "},{"Title":"Makes my heart go pitta-pat","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't remember why I initially loved this movie so much, but from the first time I saw it I was just captivated.  Since then I've encouraged tons of friends to see it, and I've watched it myself about 5 times.  I love the music, I love Italy, I love Bonnie Hunt, Fisher Stevens, Billy Zane (hot!) and Robert Downey Jr.  The music by Rachel Portman (who did the score for Chocolat) is simply fantastic.  Marisa Tomei I could have switched out for some other actress in the leading role, but I think she does a good job. This movie is magical and fun; it's not meant for a cynic--which I think is why I liked it so much, because I'm usually very sarcastic about love stories, but this one was so inspiring and just a feel-good flick overall.  You have to suspend disbelief of course, and imagine that there's truth in all that Fate and star-crossed lovers bull... but the Destiny part is easy enough to swallow throughout this movie, and that's probably because of the romantic Italian settings. Personal rating 9/10 in the rom-com genre, and a lovely, lovely movie. "},{"Title":"My favourite film","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love this film, and I've watched it about 12 times over the years.I admit, it's definitely NOT the best film I've seen in terms of acting ability or directing skills.  It's simply a heart-warming film for romantics, which is why I love it.Films can touch you in some way for any number of reasons, and they become your favourite.  I can relate to the idealism ('the one') in this film, and the power of the belief in Destiny.The scenery is beautiful, which enhances the romance of the film, and makes me want to visit Italy.It's funny, silly, warm and fuzzy... I love this film! "},{"Title":"This is a lovely romantic movie like classic ones.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This could seem the typical love story and more or less it is, but that is what makes it so kind. This movie makes you remember the classic romantic movies, it has the same spirit. Italian sceneries helps creating the romantic atmosphere the film needs and, of course, the wonderful performances of all the cast Marisa Tomei, Robert Downey Jr, Bonnie Hunt and Joaquim De Almeida. If you want to dream of destiny, soulmates and love you must see this movie. "},{"Title":"My favorite romantic comedy film","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Truly, the best romantic comedy film ever had. I just loved and still love this film, it is so funny, fine, and we can dream with it. The actors Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jr. are perfect, what a chemistry!!! I think she should have more credits nowadays as actress then she is having. And what to talk about the locations of the film, just awesome, Positano must be a piece of heaven!!! JUST LOVE IT "},{"Title":"Funny, romantic and beautifulSPOILER","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERMy favourite romantic comedy ever. You either hate it or love it, and I absolutely adore it.As a young child Faith is told by a fortune teller that she'll one day meet a man called Damon Bradley, and that he'll be the love of her life. She becomes obsessed with this and is certain she'll end up marrying that man.Fast forward some 20 years. Faith is now a school teacher, still the hopeless romantic ever waiting for the mystical Mr.Bradley. But the reasonable side of her has already gotten engaged with Dwayne, a quite boring and predictable man. Then one day, when she's trying on her wedding dress, she gets a call from an old friend of her fiancé's, saying he won't make it to the wedding. His name is Damon Bradley...Thus starts a wild chase through Italy, with Faith and her sister-in-law Kate ending up in Rome, where Mr.Bradley is supposed to be staying. They finally meet up with him on a warm summer's night, and he's everything Faith had hoped for. They fall in love, and everything is fine until he decides to tell her the truth he's not Damon Bradley, his real name is Peter Wright. Of course she's furious with him, but all's well that ends well at the end she discovers that she's been chasing a dream all these years, and the man she really loves is Peter. He's the man of her dreams, not Damon Bradley.Wonderful acting by Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jr. as the couple in love, Faith and Peter. Bonnie Hunt(Kate) does a good portrayal of the overworked, overlooked mom who just wants a bit of romance in her life. And she gets it through Giovanni(Joaqim de Almeida), a quite typical Italian man, as opposed to her husband Larry(Fisher Stevens), a typical American who likes his beer and Sunday night football and playing poker with the guys. Also notable is Billy Zane as the false Damon Bradley.I think Only You deserves just as much credit as Moonstruck or Sleepless in Seattle, because it's a joy to watch. It's funny, romantic, and thanks to Sven Nykvist, director of photography, beautiful and breathtaking.8/10SPOILER "},{"Title":"Great romance, don't miss it","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is the best movie i've ever seen. beginning of the idea of having the lover who is decided for you by destiny, and expanding on how couples bury love under the surface of life going on, specially when someone forgets to remind his soul mate of how he still loves him as life passes on. The comparison between American and Italian life styles was amazing when we see that Italians have time for relief each day (la siesta), when they go for natural open areas and fantastic scenes, the comparison gets to the summit when you see the difference between the airport teams in both the American and the Italian airports and how the latest helps the girl to catch her lover. What we get of this film is that we should not stick to rules and open our arms to love whenever and wherever we find it. The acting of Marisa Tomie is hilarious and so that of Bonnie Hunt. a soul relief film to all with all these fantastic situation and Italian scenes. "},{"Title":"beautiful movie, a classic.","Date":"17 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" i grew up watching this film and i even taped it and would watch it again and again, until the tape went missing. i know the movie like the back of my hand, and i could even recite lines from the movie. this movie is part of my childhood. it's made me the hopeless romantic i am today.this is a unique movie that gives you a different perspective about love. how she goes out finding love, destined that fate has its way of bring two souls together. believing that the aforementioned name is her soul mate. everything we've forgotten about love. now it's all about playing games, and chasing one another in a different way. and everything about this movie is beautiful. heartfelt, sweet, romantic. just dashing ) the movie is also set in the beautiful Italy. "}{"Title":"I LOVE THIS FILM!!!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I want to be in love!  At least this film made me want to.  Bonnie Hunt is such an underrated actress.  She's beautiful and has perfect comedic timing. It was in this film that I became a fan of Robert Downey, Jr.  He is such a great actor.  I wish he'd get better, though.  Talent like his should not be wasted on drugs.  Marisa Tomei was really beautiful in this film.  Fisher Stevens is outrageous.  Big fan of his.  I really love the way this film was acted.  It's a great, funny screenplay.  Almost as good as WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING.  Italy really is beautiful.  The place added a sense of magic into the film.  Cinderella stories are just the best! "},{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This, overall, was a good film. One of my favorites. It was touching and easy to watch, and it made me believe in Destiny! Marisa Tomei is fabulous in the lead role and portrays her character on the dot. I wish more films were made like this, because all the world needs now is a little more laughter and love. "},{"Title":"If you love romantic film, this is the film you waiting for","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you believe in miracle of love destiny, this is the answer in the different way that you have to find out. The story of a woman that spend all her life to find her soul mate. She can do any crazy things to find the man who is being the other half of her. From US. to Rome to meet someone she never know, It's seem non-sense but it's change her life and also his life. He is the man who also believe in destiny and try to do everything to be her soul mate. If you you think, you will do that kind of thing. This is your film. Finest romance. Marisa Tomei and Robert Dowrey, Jr., They are not the best and I've not even seen them before. However you will love them if you have seen this film. This is the best thing I can do for everyone who love romantic film like me. If you don't like romantic film, Don't buy it "},{"Title":"Cool Characters, Cool Story, Cool Scenery, Cool Movie!","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sit back and enjoy! Billy Zane is a laugh and is really cool for playing a himbo and Robert Downey Jr. projects himself as a likeable guy here (what is he like in real life, I wonder...) - great comedy-romance movie to watch on a Sunday afternoon.  "},{"Title":"A GREAT MOVIE!!!","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie! I loved it sooo much. Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jr. are great in this very romantic love story about a woman searching for her other half who ends up falling for Robert instead!!! A definite favorite. "},{"Title":"A Nice film","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Came across this film by accident, just grabbed it off the shelf from the video rental shop.Now i am not normally a lovey duvvy film fan.but I enjoyed this film which had an a slightly diffrent plot than i have seen before.Ok so the outcome is predictable but a good film all the same. "},{"Title":"Location of hotel in Rome?","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only You is one of my favourite romantic comedies, and has been watched over and over again. Robert Downey Jr. and Bonnie Hunt does an amazing job, and the even though Marissa Tomei can be a bit one dimensional at times, I find her absolutely adorable and love her hairstyle and clothes.The scenery is breathtaking, and I'm very keen to visit some of the places shown in the film. Could anyone help me find the hotel they stay at in Rome? It is such a romantic location, and I would love to stay there too when visiting Rome next.The same goes for the beautiful hotel and small city they visit at the coast towards the end of the movie.Thanks in advance. "},{"Title":"A movie that makes me smile","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you have not seen this movie, it is a must.  The world traveler will especially love this movie with its spectacular shots of Italy.  It makes me want to pick up and catch the next flight to Rome.Any movie that makes me smile will get an A+ in my book and this movie made the grade.  From its sarcastic and hilarious comments made by Bonnie Hunt to the comical winey performance by Marissa Tomei, this movie will make you sigh in delight.If you ever wanted to see the beauty of Italy, rent this movie.  If you enjoy movies that take place in Europe, I also recommend French Kiss (Meg Ryan, Kevin Klein) another A+! "},{"Title":"The best tourism advertisment Italy could have hoped for.","Date":"17 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Faith (Marisa Tomei) has believed all her life she was destined to be with a man named Damon Bradley, based on nothing more than a weegee-board game and a fortune teller in her youth. She is, to put it politely, superstitious. When, on the eve of her wedding, a man called Damon Bradley calls her up and tells her he's on his way to Italy, she can't stop herself from chasing him all the way to Europe.The result is the best tourism advertisement Italy could have hoped for. It is a hugely enjoyable piece of romance and escapist enterainment first time through.This is my favourite Robert Downey Jr movie. He's never been more charming.Watching it is like the Italian holiday you always dream of; or, if you've already been, how you wished your own holiday had gone. The main thing in all our minds on our recent trip to Italy was going to all the places where certain scenes happen. It was great fun.Italy is indeed beautifully photographed by famed swedish Bergman collaborator Sven Nykvist.Highlight surely one of the best scenes in any movie, is the one where Marisa Tomei is getting dressed and Downey Jr reads her mind as to which article of clothing she'd like handed to her. Billy Zane's scenes as the Amalfi Coast Mimbo are smarmy but very funny. For me, though, Downey Jr steals every scene he's in.8/10.A sweet, beautiful and successful romantic comedy. Tomei's character is a little too corny for my tastes. Her performance is way over the top, also. Its what they were going for, that larger than life tone, so its not a failing of the film, but i personally find it painful to watch. "},{"Title":"A nice no brainer, but only due to the settings","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So look, from whatever angle you take, this is crazy... taking a chance is good, jumping in is nice, but this is pure and simply stalker-ish. If a guy or girl came after any of us, in the same context, it would make us really really scared, right? Think about it! Wouldn't you have the tendency to run away, call for help, call the police? I don't know about you, but I prefer my love stories a bit more real )The only reason I gave this movie 5 stars is for its setting in Italy, as I've seen this country and it is truly wonderful and can be a magical place.I was looking for movies about traveling, bu this is not so amazing to watch because of an unbelievably corny and not very well played scenario. I've seen both actors in other movies. It has no good lines for a real comedy and the plot is pushed way over the limits.If you want traveling movies with a better plot and some romance I give you the following names Under the Tuscan Sun, PS I love you, A Good Year and maybe, maybe Eat, Pray, Love. Not saying these are masterpieces, but they are way better ) "}{"Title":"Fluffy Tale of Love","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only You is all fluff, romance, hope, destiny and about a happy ending. This is Downey & Tomei's second outing together in a movie. Although this movie is all Tomei, it starts picking up steam only after Downey enters. He gains entry only after 45 mins into the movie. But once in, he hogs the limelight. For all the imprudent personal choices he's made, you have to admit that Robert Downey Jr. is one hell of an actor & this is something that nobody can take away from him. I only wish the director had brought him on a little earlier in this movie. He makes his character impossible to not fall in love with. This story is very hypothetical. Faith believes in the concept of a soul- mate. Eager to know the name of her soul mate, she & her brother find that the name of her soul mate is Damon Bradley. Later, at a carnival, the fortune teller too confirms this. 14 years on, Faith is engaged to be married to a podiatrist. While busy with the preparations, she gets a call from one of his classmates who is on his way to Venice, Italy. The classmate is called Damon Bradley. This strikes a cord with Faith and she leaves that instant to the airport to find out the face behind the name. Faith and her sister-in-law Kate both board the next plane for Italy hoping to find her destiny.The visuals in the movie look stunning & en-captivating with beautiful settings. This movie is quiet predictable but, enjoyable never the less. This one is a perfect date movie. Leave your logical senses behind & just flow with the story. "},{"Title":"A generic romance that is fine to watch on a lazy afternoon","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only You is a romantic comedy and tells the story of a young woman named Faith who plays a board game as a kid and it spells out the name of her potential partner. Fast forward a few years later and Faith(Marisa Tomei) is about to get married when she finds out that her potential partner is in Italy. So she packs her stuff and goes to Italy where she bumps into a very young looking Robert Downey Jr and he makes out that his name is Damon Bradley(even though his name is Peter). So Faith falls for Downey Jr's charms but when he tells her out straight that his name is Peter,she gets furious and another person comes forward and makes out they are Damon Bradley(Billy Zane from Titanic).But could Peter be Faith's soulmate and was there ever a man named Damon Bradley?Bottom line this is a very contrived movie. Its so predicable,and so mushy you just want to say to yourself why am I watching this corny contrived film for. But hey I thought parts of it were cute and I think Robert & Maria had great chemistry together yet the whole premise was a bit stupid. I mean this woman goes on a wild goosechase over some man that she was given the name of as a kid,she's already married but hey she would rather ditch her fiancé for someone else.It was an alright movie but still though I wouldn't mind watching it on a lazy afternoon.4.3/10 "},{"Title":"great setup for a romantic road trip","Date":"1 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Faith Corvatch (Marisa Tomei) is a romantic. She was convinced at the age of 11 by a Ouija game with her brother Larry and a fortune teller that her soul mate would be Damon Bradley. She's getting married to boring podiatrist Dwayne (John Benjamin Hickey). Kate (Bonnie Hunt)'s marriage to Larry (Fisher Stevens) isn't romantic anymore. She thinks he's cheating on her. Faith gets a call from Dwayne's classmate Damon Bradley for best wishes and he's leaving for Venice. She misses the plane and with Kate, they pursue him to Italy. They meet Giovanni (Joaquim de Almeida) who flirts with Kate. Faith falls for a shoe guy who claims to be Damon Bradley but then later reveals his real name to be Peter Wright (Robert Downey Jr.).It's a fun setup. Marisa Tomei is endearing and Bonnie Hunt is hilarious. They have great gal pal chemistry. It's a great road trip idea. Italy is visually scrumptious. The first half works very well. The second half has problems. It struggles with trying to finesse the Damon Bradley situation. The chemistry with RDJ is problematic with such a big lie. The movie just loses the rooting interest. He's a lying schemer. He keeps lying to her including the fake Damon Bradley. I'm not sold on this relationship. "},{"Title":"Rom Com of ALL ROM COMs","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is not as sexy as many, nor plot heavy as others BUT, a word in which myriad events can turn around (Jonah 12-4)!!... BUT, if you want a movie that has characters with passion, characters with gusto, a dreamy plot, a classic story of Boy gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl... this is the Rom COM of ALL ROM COMs. Why?? So many have said it in other scenarios, but for 21 years I have watched it with my wife & it reminds us of first impressions & how they bring so many people together & so many others who never continue to find out about others. (Yes, it was love at first sight when I saw her but a month or so before I even knew her name. I actually fell for her cause if I have not twisted my ankle in track, I would never had met HER.)AND THEN....there is Italy. Like so many other cinema aficionados have elucidated, the beauty of Italy, the might of Rome, the terraces of the East coast on the way south to Positano, the bright Tuscan sun...well , after awhile we finally went to Italy & it was truly 'Only You' & more. A beautiful country, etc. FINALLY, the plot. OK, the plot does not seem to be the deepest of social expectations, more like a mystery trying to find Damon Bradley. BUT, in the end, the plot speaks volumes about human foibles. We think we want this, we want that, we plan this & that & yet, what we really needed was there in front of our eyes the whole time, it just was not what WE wanted. We had FAITH but in the wrong person, place or thing.... BUT, no matter what......it's a movie to enjoy with someone you enjoy! Ciao, Baby "},{"Title":"Charming Little Movie","Date":"6 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Teaming up for the second time (after Chaplin) Robert Downey Jr teams up with Marisa Tomei, although this time it's Tomei who is the star, with Downey Jr taking second billing in this charming movie about destinyPlot In A Paragraph Apropriatley named Faith (Marisa Tomei) believes that two soul- mates can be united if they find each other. From the Ouija board, she has found the name of her missing half, and it is Damon Bradley. Later, at a carnival, the fortune teller sees the name Damon Bradley in the Crystal Ball and Faith is convinced.14 years later, she is engaged to a podiatrist and plans to marry him until she gets a call from one of his classmates who is on his way to Venice, Italy. The classmate is called Damon Bradley. So Faith and her sister-in-law Kate both board the next plane for Italy hoping to find her destiny.Both stars were nominated for Oscars at the previous years awards show. A pre his first run of drug problems Downey Jr was nominated for Best Actor for Chaplin (losing out to Al Pacino for Scent Of A Woman coincidently the one year I don't believe Pacino should have won. He lost out with better performances, in better movies than that year. Alongside Downey Jr, Clint Eastwood in Unforgiven Stephen Rea in Crying Game and Denzel Washington Malcolm X made it the hardest to call Best Actor category in years) whilst Tomei won Best Supporting Actress for My Cousin Vinny. It is Tomei who carries most of the movie, I don't think Downey Jr is in the first thirty minutes, but when he does he is as charming as you'd expect. The leads have a nice chemistry and the supporting cast is all good too, stand outs including Billy Zane and Bonny Hunt, but Siobhan Fallon isn't given much to do which is a shame. The movie looks gorgeous with some beautiful settings and even if a tad predictable it's a nice enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Only You","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" From director Norman Jewison (In the Heat of the Night, The Thomas Crown Affair, Fiddler on the Roof, Moonstruck), I spotted this pretty much out of nowhere and noticed the two leading stars, so I just to give it a try. Basically when she was a child Faith Corvatch (Marisa Tomei) used a Ouija Board that spelled out, in individual letters, the name Damon Bradley, and this is supposedly the name of her soul mate. Now grown up she goes to a carnival and has a fortune teller using her Crystal Ball sees this name as well as the man she will marry, and then, on the verge of getting married, she overhears a phone call from her future husband's friend, it is Damon Bradley calling from Venice, Italy. Faith is determined to track him down, so she and her sister in law Kate (Jumanji's Bonnie Hunt) travel from New York to the Italian countryside and streets of Rome in search of the man they only know by name. They are following his trail with any information people can give from his last known whereabouts, but they seem to keep missing him by small amounts of time, even once by seconds and inches. Then Faith meets a young American man (Robert Downey Jr.), but has no interest in him until he hears the name and identifies himself as Damon Bradley, and after a spending a night together they have both fallen hopelessly in love. It only falls apart when he confesses that he is not Damon Bradley, his real name is Peter Wright, and she angrily walks out wanting to go home, but Kate finding attraction for her from Giovanni (Joaquim De Almeida) the Italian businessman might make that difficult. Peter comes back to her though and says that he has been looking for a Damon Bradley, and found out he has apparently moved to Positano, so Giovanni drives Peter, Faith and Kate there to find her at a posh hotel. Then they find this Damon Bradley (Billy Zane), a playboy with long hair and many women lapping him up, and confident she should try and see how things go she invites him to go. Of course it turns out this Damon is actually Peter's friend Harry and the whole thing was staged, and meanwhile Kate's husband Larry (Fisher Stevens) has travelled to find them and make up with his wife, but they planned to come home now anyway. Larry reveals to Faith that when he did the Ouiji board as a child and spelled the name out, it was all a prank, and he paid the fortune teller too, he didn't tell her because he was worried she would never talk to him again. Getting to the airport Peter is there to see off Faith, and they both overhear a real Damon Bradley (Adam LeFevre) at the information desk, so they can truly meet him, he is a reasonably good looking man, Peter explains the whole situation to him and he is perplexed, and of course he mentions being in love with her. In the end this Damon asks Faith if she loves Peter, and that if she truly does then she should embrace it, and she manages to catch him on his plane to Boston in time, and they kiss, with all the other passengers applauding, and they fly off into the sunset. Also starring John Benjamin Hickey as Dwayne and Men in Black's Siobhan Fallon as Leslie. Tomei is obviously attractive and she is also charming as the woman searching for the supposed man she has a destiny with, and Downey Jr. is likable as the man she actually should be with, their scenes together are great, and the supporting cast, including sleazy Zane works well too, I can see what the critics mean by a Cinderella style story, it certainly has that quality, and it makes you laugh in the right places, a good fun romantic comedy. Very good! "},{"Title":"The Perfect Comedy Romance","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What could be more wonderful than this? Everything about it is right. What intrigues me most is the mystery as to why Diane Drake, who wrote this and the equally wonderful film 'What Women Want', has never written any other film. And who is she? She must be a very shy creature indeed, hiding her talents away in some burrow or nest somewhere, emerging only on two occasions to delight us with these magnificent scripts. With this one, the inimitable Norman Jewison was on hand to use his well-honed directorial talents to produce the ultimate feel-good film. The casting is perfect. Who could be cuter and more engaging than Marisa Tomei at this age? She has a personality uniquely her own, which is so rare in this age of starlet clones. Every film she appears in glows with her special presence. The leading man, Robert Downey, Junior, is her perfect match. Bonnie Hunt as Marisa Tomei's sister-in-law is the perfect support, such a well-judged performance in every way. The comedic timing is perfect, the lightness of touch is there, it all works. When so many attempts at comedy fail by trying too hard, this all gives the impression of being effortless. The story is magical, and so funny a childhood 'spirit message' giving the name of Damon Bradley to an eleven year-old girl that he would be her soul-mate and husband when she grew up. So fourteen years later, she sets out on a madcap search for him in Italy, with beautiful shots of Venice, Rome, and Positano to enrich the adventure. One has to keep in mind that this film was made in 1994, before the internet existed. I have just done a search on switchboard.com and there are fifteen Damon Bradleys listed in the USA. That would have ruined the story, as it takes all the mystery away. The girl would simply have looked them all up and worked her way through them, not nearly so romantic as a wild and hilarious adventure in Italy. So thank God for the past, or we would not have had this wonderful film. And this bring us to this consideration just how much magic has been taken out of our lives by having too much information available too quickly? (The fact that it is in an undigested form makes it so much worse.) Do we know too much, and thereby understand too little? Immersing ourselves in this delightful film can remind us of what life was almost like, just a little while ago, or would have been like, if we were Robert Downey and Marisa Tomei perhaps. "},{"Title":"You write your own destiny","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies i have ever watched. We are not looking for someone , we are looking for special one that we want to share our lives. Perhaps we all give the best of our hearts unconditionally who hardly think about us in return. After the movie you will understand YOU WRITE YOUR DESTINY NOT SOMEONE ELSE.  "},{"Title":"Delicious brain candy!","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a sweet, yummy movie! Faith and Damon will make you feel that we all really do have a destiny, and whether it's written in the stars, or in the life/love-affirming script of this film, it doesn't matter. In matters of the heart we make our own destiny, as these two find out. This is one of those happy, uplifting films that leave you with such a good feeling about life, you want to thank your lucky stars that you're here to experience what has to offer.  "},{"Title":"Romantic, enchanting and fairy tale.","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After watching the movie, I went out and got myself a copy of it on laser disc. I fell in love with the fairy tales of romance and scenery. Recently I got married and plan to travel to Rome and follow the route which Faith did. Sounds crazy,huh but I very hope it'll come through.  I love the pensione where Faith and Kate stayed, Pensione Divino Amore-Divine Love. Where is it actually located. Maybe whoever reading this will be able to help me locate the pensione.Faith can be cute and at the same time foolish but she sets her mind in tracking down Damon. She was so in to Damon and when she finally meet the real Damon she was lost with words. I think this scene should be elaborated. But I will never get bored watching it over and over again.  Whatever my husband said, I love Only You. "}{"Title":"One of my all time favorites...","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I know, I know, I have all these favorites, but I can't help it. So many movies are so good, it's hard to say that they're just ok.  But this one really is one of my favorites.Marisa T. plays a school teacher who has been obsessing over a man for the past twenty so years.  Oh, and did I mention, ...she's never even met him, never even laid eyes on him....  That's because she found his name off a Ouija board when she was eleven.  Oh, and a fortune teller told her that he would be the man she would fall in love with.  His name is, Damon Bradley.  But, this is all in the past, right?  Wrong.  Just when she finally decides to give up the dream, trying on her wedding dress one afternoon, since she is now engaged, she receives a phone call from her fiance's friend.  His name is, Damon Bradley.  She asks him where he is, and he tells her he's about to catch a flight to Venice, Italy.  Before she has a chance to tell him not to hang up, he does.She is now in Italy with her friend (Bonnie Hunt), and looking for D.B. But does she find him, or Mr. Write? This movie is Robert Downey Jr.'s best film, and Marisa T.'s as well.  Although neither are the best roles they've ever played, it's still their best movie. I give this movie a 10 out of 10. What can I say, I'm a sucker for a good romantic twist. "},{"Title":"Follow your heart...wherever it leads!","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found the film too adorable, HOWEVER, the SOUNDTRACK is one of the best I have listened to in YEARS.Oscar-winner RACHEL PORTMAN has outdone herself once again.Tracks # 2, 5 & 8 Lush and gorgeousTrack # 15 Epic and lovely!Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Unpretentious Cinderella story","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was not planning to see this movie, but after a few minutes I could not resist watching this predictable story. If you have a lazy afternoon or evening, it's even worth renting.The scenery is great, so great I thought The Italian Tourist Bureau must have sponsored it.  It's a Cinderella story, but although the plot is thin, it has just enough twists to keep you watching.There is one hilarious sound mix. Thomei's boring fiancee, a podologist, is helping a patient, the patient is hurt and starts a high 'AHHHHH' continued with a view of Rome and an Italian Song that starts with the same high A.Marisa Thomei even reminded me in some ways of Audrey Hepburn. The dressers must take credit for that.There is also a lesson American airports don't let people on an airplane when they say you're in love and you want to be on THAT plane, the Italian airports wave them out.  "},{"Title":"A great romantic comedy!","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Being a fan of Robert Downey Jr. i rented this film, and i was very pleased. there are a couple of laughs, and the plot and acting is great! its a film about following your heart, and believing in the impossible. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The script holds its best surprises until it's almost too late to make a difference... !","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The most rewarding scenes come when the farcical nature of the plot really kicks in; and as our intrepid heroines don't even get a SNIFF of the man they're looking for until about 30 minutes or so down the track, some viewers may well have given up hope before things start to get going.  It's a real shame if that's the case, too; because there's an old-style 'cute' movie here, buried at times under lots of unnecessary padding.  If I wanted to see how gorgeous Venice looks - I'd either go there or buy a brochure, travelogue is a genre that's pretty unedifying in cinematic terms...Downey manages the trick of making his character enormously likeable, thus rescuing the script from the hole the scriptwriters and Tomei have dug themselves into with their female lead.  OK, so the somewhat 'outlandish' plot necessarily REQUIRES a character of an 'impulsive' nature to make it work, but Faith is so annoyingly pigheaded and shrewish at times that it really becomes difficult to harbour sympathetic feelings toward her.  Thankfully though, the sheer understated charm of Downey's performance gradually begins to counteract this.  In grateful debt to those 'surprises' I mentioned earlier, what ultimately emerges therefore is a charming romantic trifle with a couple of serious flaws.  These niggles unfortunately prevented the movie from putting an even WIDER smile on my face - but it nevertheless concludes as being a jolly good show!(7/10 or ***/***** in profile ratings system.) "},{"Title":"More travelogue than movie","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What a beautifully photographed travelogue of Italy! Cinematographer Sven Nykvist captured gorgeous shot after gorgeous shot. Oh, yes, the movie. Pure fluff. Marisa Tomei is pretty, and carries off her part well. Robert Downey, Jr., while apparently a low-quality individual, is nonetheless a high-quality actor. I found Bonnie Hunt particularly charming. The film did have a certain amount of charm, and the actors did a good job given the limitations of the script. Worth catching on cable.  "},{"Title":"Charming love story with Downey and Tomei at their best","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It would be easy to say that this is Marisa Tomei's film, but Robert Downey, Jr. -- particularly during this part of his career -- was a particularly charismatic actor. And, Downey doesn't even come into the film until it is 1/3 over! But, then, to an extent, he dominates the film.Tomei has had a relatively successful career since making this film, but not as successful as I would have predicted, because she is delightful here. And Downey has had a successful film career since his recovery, but he has never been able to play the somewhat innocent love interest since his problems. And that's unfortunate, because as this film (and Chances Are) proved...nobody was better at least in this generation of actors (Cary Grant mastered it decades before).The movie is clearly a woman's film, but I still liked it. The plot is clever, with a couple of nice twists, and the theme of destiny is always an interesting one.Bonnie Hunt is charming as the best friend.If you like romantic films or light comedies, then this is for you. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Absolute darling, sweet,, uplifting, feel-good movie","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can and do watch it over and over again no violence, brutality, dark images or ugliness; all smiles, fun and beautiful locations with beautiful people in beautiful outfits. Locations themselves are worth watching it for, not to mention the acting which is brilliant. Tomei and Dawney seem such a wonderfully matching couple, you can easily believe they are a couple in real life. Bonnie Hunt is so beautiful, so natural, so perfect for this role. Loved the whole movie from start to finish, there are no slack moments, you must watch it or loose the thread. What is more, the story line is believable - well almost, apart from bits here and there, such as you can not just change flights at moment's notice and it seems the action takes place over not just 48 hours but at least five days or more! Recommend it heartily - and wish there were more movies like this and much less the other kind that are full of dark scenes, killing, gore and brutality. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Romantic Comedy EVER","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is so cute and so endearing, that I find it possible to watch frequently and still love it. Robert Downey Jr. is damn sexy to boot! The main character has it set in her mind from various childhood experiences with the supernatural that she is destined to be with one particular man, a Damon Bradley. But as she matures she settles for a foot doctor and they become engaged. Then one day, when a friend of her fiancé's calls, she gets his number and his name, Damon Bradley. Then the search takes them to Italy to find her soulmate! She is a wacky individual who thinks she knows what is best and doesn't want any regrets, so I find her believable. Her silly best friend is Bonnie Hunt and she is hilarious. This is reminiscent of romantic movies of old, and has enough twists to keep you interested through the movie, as well as their romantic tension. I love this movie, and have loved it for years. Great for teens, which is when I found this movie, but I still love it. "},{"Title":"Sweet cotton candy","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only You is an immodest, sweet confection, a romantic comedy from one end to the other that doesn't have much meat on it but is the kind of movie that you cozy up with with cup of hot chocolate. It is slightly better than I might have expected and that's probably due to the talent involved.The movie stars Marisa Tomei, probably the only actress who could have made this material believable. She has the effect of being cute without being cutesy. She plays the appropriately named Faith who, since childhood, has believed that her entire destiny is leading her to be with a man named Damon Bradley. She is told by a fortune teller at the age of 11 that she and Bradley are destined to be together. She has no idea who this man is, but stands hard and fast to the information that their bond is written in the stars.Years later, now in her 20s, she has given up on Damon Bradley and is about to marry a podiatrist. On her wedding day, she receives a phone call from a friend of her husband-to-be saying that he cannot attend. His name . . . Damon Bradley, and he's on his way to Rome. Without a second thought, Faith and her sister-in-law Kate (played by the invaluable Bonnie Hunt) jump on a plane and go after him.Faith and Kate run around Venice like maniacs trying to track down Damon Bradley and when they find him, he turns out to be exactly what Faith had hoped he would be. He is handsome, dark-haired, charming and looks exactly like Robert Downey Jr. Who wouldn't swoon? The two embark on a sweet tour of Rome, very much in the same vein that Audrey Hepburn and Gregory Peck did in Roman Holiday. In fact, one of their stops is Pavonazzetto marble monument of The Mouth of Truth which was most famously seen in that 1953 classic.Yet, it wouldn't be romantic comedy if they simply fell in love. A complication arises with the validity of whether or not Downey actually is Damon Bradley. That sets the whole movie off on a wacky romp through the countryside as he tries to prove to her that he really is in love with her, despite the validity of his claim.This is all not to be believed. Only You is the kind of happy romantic comedy of a bygone era, before cynicism became an insurance policy. This is a movie that believes in destiny and fate and love at first sight and it is played through a cast of actors who are smart enough and convincing enough to pull it off. What distinguishes this movie above most is that it is always just a notch better than it should be.Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jr. are beautiful people but they are such good actors that they are able to sell this story with a convincing charm. Tomei, with her wide-eyes, and pouty lips is able to push through this confection and make you believe that she really does believe everything that she is saying. Downey too is excellent, giving us a character who wears his heart on his sleeve. He loves this woman and he is willing to do what it takes to be with her. They're good together, even when the script tips in the direction of being too unbelievable for its own good.Both Downey and Tomei are wonderful, but for my money, the real gem of this movie is the supporting performance of Bonnie Hunt, as Faith's eternally-loyal sister-in-law. She always stands just to the side of Tomei and brings the movie an unexpected, and very funny, extra joy. Her comic timing is flawless. She has a manner of giving us funny asides that are delivered with just the right precision like I married a liar. Why? Because I married a man. I love that line and her comment when she and Faith are dismayed by an awful wedding dress that had been handed down, she says If I had a dress like that, I'd give it away too.Kate has her own problems back home with an uncaring husband (Fisher Stevens) how has long ago abandoned love for a union that doesn't stretch beyond Where's dinner? She's a portrait of what happens to a marriage long after the ceremony when two people have settled into a relentless pattern of misunderstanding. Yet, what comes of their relationship completely took me by surprise.Only You was directed by Norman Jewison, the man who directed Fiddler on the Roof, In the Heat of the Night and the one of the best romantic comedies of all time Moonstruck. He doesn't succeed as well this time. This movie often feels like a nice day off, something he made as a lark. The movie is like cotton candy, all about romance and love and destiny shot against the background of one of the most beautiful locations on earth. There's nothing really wrong with that, it is probably better than it should be, given the creative talents but it won't leave you with much to think about. "}{"Title":"A shout-out for the under-appreciated Bonnie Hunt","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was pleasantly surprised by this film. There are comparisons to Roman Holiday, sure, and not without reason. And yes, the plot stretches the limits of credibility. And there are some plot holes big enough to steer a gondola through. But forget all of that. Every once in a while you need a sweet, fun romantic comedy, and this is one of them. But it isn't the top billed stars, Robert Downey, Jr. and Marisa Tomei, or even the Italian scenery, that make this film worth watching. The real scene stealer, and the best reason to watch Only You, is the wonderful, and woefully under-appreciated, Bonnie Hunt. She shines in what in lesser hands would have been a throwaway role as the understanding sister-in-law/best friend/voice of reason (the kind of role that the major studios keep handing her). She steals practically every film she's in without even trying to. Now that takes real talent, and Miss Hunt has it. (And I defy anybody to see her in another film that doesn't get talked about much lately, Loggerheads, where she turned in an incredibly moving dramatic performance, and not be affected by her. One of these days, she's going to get another role that will really let her shine.) So do yourself a favor. Get this DVD, a bottle of Chianti, and see this with someone you love, or would like to. And then watch it again, just to see why Bonnie Hunt's name should have received top billing. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Beautiful romantic comedy that reminds me of watching movies for the pure pleasure thereof","Date":"20 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I am a fan of the romantic comedy genre, not because every one of them is great (because probably a majority are not) but because when I find one that I like, I am more satisfied that I would be with almost any other genre. Only You is a great romantic comedy. I recognize that there are a ton of things about the plot and some of the characters that I could nit-pick, but so few of these films are well done and have enough emotion to leave me satisfied and happy that I see no point in complaining. The film basically involves Marisa Tomei being led to believe from her teenage years than her destined lover is a man named Damon Bradley, and when she is engaged to another man, she receives a call from her fiancé's high school alum with the same name. Convinced he's the man, she flies to Italy to meet him and instead meets Robert Downey Jr, who has immediately fallen in love with Tomei and claims himself to be Bradley. Naturally, not a perfect film, and plenty of minor flaws, but I must say that this one was less predictable than the average film of it's type. It's mildly funny, and most importantly, it has, in my opinion, a perfect ending, the most important element of a romantic comedy for me. Beautifully scenic, mostly being shot in Italy. I'm not claiming the film to be flawless, but see it without super high expectations and you'll be pleasantly surprised. This film reminds me of watching a movie simply for enjoying it rather than criticizing it.***1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Little Gem of a Movie","Date":"20 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first caught this movie late one night on TV. I fell in love with the characters and the beautiful Italian setting immediately! Marisa Tomei is on fine form as the beautiful Faith, convinced that everyone has a soulmate and that destiny will bring them together in the end. Bonnie Hunt plays a wonderful supporting role as her sister-in-law Kate, who stands by her friend and follows her to Italy when Faith becomes obsessed with finding her true soulmate, Damon Bradley, after receiving a call from him in which he told her he would not be able to attend her upcoming wedding to her fiancée. A young Faith had been told by both an Ouija Board and a fortune teller that Damon Bradley was her soulmate. When searching for Damon in Italy, Faith (literally) bumps into Peter Wright (Downey Jr) a shoe salesman, who becomes instantly enamored by Faith and tells her that he is Damon. They spend a wonderfully romantic evening together, before he confesses that he is not who he claimed to be. She is disgusted, and immediately goes back to her search for Damon. The rest of the film involves Faith on a mission to find Damon Bradley with Kate and Peter's help, and takes them all on a journey they never expected. This is a gorgeous, romantic little movie and well worth a look. I can't recommend it enough. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I was about to write this comment and I came across a comment by Amy Adler from Toledo. She wrote pretty much what I wanted to write, so now I will have to rephrase.Giving a movie 10 rating reflects impractical thinking, in some people's opinion. I say, when your heart is full, 10 seems to be too low! Sometimes you feel so overwhelmed, you think, Gee, why can I not give 11 in 10? It happened to me when I watched the ending of A Very Long Engagement. And it happened when I watched Only You.It is not necessary to be in love with Italy to appreciate this film. But it is essential to get 100% of the taste that Norman Jewison and the whole crew worked so hard to offer. Robert Downey Jr. is Hollywood's lost cause. Usually, in a film, when he appears on a scene, story stops and frustration is imparted. But here, to my utmost astonishment, he is all that the hero of a romantic film ever needs to be! Marisa Tomei, probably unknowingly, outmatches herself and delivers the most charming role of her life. I am not saying it's the most masterful. I am not saying it's the most complicated. But charming, oh yes it is! Oh yes it is! At some points of time, when you feel all one with this film, you feel like you can breathe in the air with countless love pollens in it, drive through the long old roads with a view of the ocean, the ocean wind blowing your hair and nourishing your senses under the golden sun and making you believe, anything is possible in a place like this.This film has very simple elements that get into your veins and stay with you for the rest of your life. A lot of people worked so hard to make dead complicated plots and acting scopes. But I remembered none of those like I remember Only You. If you have never loved, never felt silly and thought you could give away your everything, never felt sad and wished you could just melt away with the sweet earth, or if you have forgotten how those feelings were because you felt them so long ago, then probably you might find Only You not worth losing sleep over. But for a true romantique, this is all there is, this is all there can be.A pure delight for the senses. A life altering experience to me. I have watched it a hundred times over. Still every scene is brand new. "},{"Title":"The Importance of Being Damon?","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a charming little date film, not deep or meaningful, but surprisingly engaging.  Marisa Tomei is winning and occasionally light-headed as Faith Corvatch, a woman intent on finding her soulmate, Damon Bradley.  Robert Downey Jr., not my favorite human being, nevertheless does well in the role of Peter Wright.  Often overlooked is the performance of Bonnie Hunt as Faith's sister-in-law, who at first runs away from, but finally overcomes, a crisis in her marriage.  Even when shown in such a fluffy film, it's nice to see Hollywood portray a dissatisfied wife who, when presented with the real chance to have an affair, still manages to remain true to her husband. "},{"Title":"Hollywood vs. real art...","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ...yes, why can't I just take it for what it is? A flimcy-flumcy childish fairytale on hallucinogenics?? Why??? I'll tell You why; it's a complete waste of location(Rome, Italy), talent(Tomei, probably director too), genre(romance) and my time. Not at any time, the director pays any respect to.... -anything. The stressed pace of action, lack of development of character, Rome set as a stereotypic background prop for romance(I love Rome) etc. etc. etc. Stereotypic 19.th century sexual roles without any hint of either adult love affair or sexual attraction. Just a predictable mass Hollywood production. Why does Tomei even consider playing any part of this? (I couldn't watch till the end just utterly crap crap crap- sorry(not)). Watch some Jane Austen(1995 Pride & Prejustice) or just Casablanca, and You'll lose the bad taste of.... crap in your mouth(sorry again). 100% disappointed "},{"Title":"Might have worked better with Bugs and  Elmer.......................","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie starts with the wonderful Louis Armstrong recording of Only You,and that,I'm afraid,is as good as it gets.It has a quite ludicrous premise - that a woman would choose to marry a man because of his name - smug performances,travelogue scenery and the patronising assumption by its producers that women will flock to see it because it portrays one of them as vain,silly,impulsive and blinkered.Not even the sight of Joe Henderson as a busker saved me from the slough of despond. Everybody involved has done much better work elsewhere,the two leads being hopelessly miscast as star - crossed lovers,because,frankly,they deserve each other.There is some lovely music on the soundtrack so I suppose one could shut one's eyes and think of any two actors who could have made a better fist of it.Bugs Bunny and Elmer Fudd come to mind........................................ "},{"Title":"Beautiful Scenery and Stellar Co-Stars Overshadow Tomei's Intended Audrey Wannabe Vehicle","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Poor Marisa Tomei. She made the fastest career beeline from the B-List to the A-List and back to B thanks to this overly formulaic 1994 romantic comedy. Directed by Norman Jewison in a dreamy manner that seems designed to repeat the unexpected success of Moonstruck, the movie is placed squarely on Tomei's shoulders to carry right after her questionable Oscar win for My Cousin Vinny, and she is unfortunately given a petulant, irritating character to play here. As Faith Corvatch, she is a Pittsburgh schoolteacher about to get married when destiny seems to interject with the appearance of a man whose name, Damon Bradley, was predestined to be the identity of his soul mate. A chance phone call leads her impulsively to Italy where she leads a bumbling Clouseau-like chase to find him. Accompanied by her sensible but supportive sister Kate, she misses him in Venice but thinks she lands him in Rome. He instead turns out to be a designer show salesman named Peter Wright. Smitten with Faith, Wright decides to help her find Damon but only to make her realize that he is her soul mate.Tomei has obviously been positioned as an Audrey Hepburn-type gamine, but her persona is too jittery and agitating to make the ruse work. She is also unfortunately overshadowed by her co-stars. Robert Downey, Jr. shows genuine comic élan as Wright, and it's unfortunate that it takes nearly 45 minutes before his character even shows up to complicate matters. The sharp-tongued Bonnie Hunt is almost too good as Kate as her character goes through her own sketchily-written marital trauma at the same time. She comes across as so clever, likable and well-grounded that she takes the focus off Tomei. The rest of the cast seem to play up their respective stereotypes - Joaquin de Almeida as a Roman lothario chasing Kate, Fisher Stevens as Kate's lunk-headed contractor husband and Billy Zane in surfer-dude mode as Faith's possible love interest. What does work is the beautiful cinematography by Ingmar Bergman's great cameraman, Sven Nykvist. Venice, Rome and especially Positano on the Amalfi Coast rarely have looked more inviting on screen. The 2004 DVD has no extras other than the original theatrical trailer. "},{"Title":"Sigh.","Date":"13 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is an incredibly annoying film. I'm a fan of romantic comedies if the actors and story are likable. The first 15 or 20 minutes of this movie were good, and I wanted to like it, but honestly...Marisa Tomei is such a bimbo, I can't see what Robert Downey Jr. even finds attractive about her, other than her pretty face. Honestly, I felt bad for him and thought he deserved someone better. Tomei's character is driven by what she believes is her destiny, but she just strikes me as superficial. In the last five minutes of the film, she magically realizes that Downey Jr. is her true soul mate...? If I were him, I wouldn't have wanted her by then. And it's pretty unrealistic that he seems to know exactly which shoes, earrings, etc would suit her. Even if they are supposed to be soul mates, he barely knows her for a few hours and already they're making out? This is unrealistic, folks. The only good thing about this movie is Bonnie Hunt who is good in everything, and the beautiful cinematography. If you want to see a romantic comedy that is also not very realistic but MUCH better on a whole, watch While You Were Sleeping-- a truly sweet and heartfelt film. Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"only you review","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Only you' is a tale about a woman who believes that she is destined to meet and fall in love with a man named Damon Bradley. This story is cute in a way although the lead actress ruins it for me. Her behaviour is often apauling infact her behaviour at the time when peter falls in love with her is actually rude and obnoxious. Personally, i found that this put me off the whole film really. Robert Downey Jnr. was fine but nothing special in rather limited role.  would give it 2/10 on the grand scale of movies and 5 in terms of romantic comedy. The best thing about the film is the beautiful Italian scenery. "}{"Title":"If you can ignore Marisa Tomei, a fun escape to Italy","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had to try to avoid watching or listening to any scenes with Marisa Tomei's self-indulgent, whiny brat character. Fortunately, Bonnie Hunt as her much more grounded, intelligent friend saves the film. Robert Downey, Jr. never seemed to scratch more than the bare surface of his character, and it was hard to imagine Fisher Stevens, who plays Hunt's husband, as a serious love interest for a woman like her (or to avoid seeing him as anything but the second banana he played to Tom Selleck in Magnum, P.I. for years). However, the Italian scenery is beautiful beyond description, and the music and romantic Italian atmosphere is an interesting foil for these three very-American citizens. The film overall is a pleasant enough escape if you've nothing else to do on a rainy afternoon. "},{"Title":"So-So RomCom.  Very Little Heart, Very Few Laughs","Date":"4 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A school teacher deserts her fiancé and runs away to Italy in search of a man who bears the name of her soul mate. This film actually serves no purpose. It fails to entertain, teach, or provide anything to its audience. The premise is ridiculous. The performances are quite superficial. The direction suffers from thinking far too much of itself. Norman Jewison is a hit and miss director, who either flies or fails.The degree to which this work failed depends entirely upon what exactly you think this work was aims to do. In my opinion, it fails utterly in all areas by which I judge a film. There is no meat to the story, no intelligence or cleverness, no attention to detail, and only the most superfluous of performances.All in all? This is a sappy, contrived, impossible tale, which defies the very existence of suspension of belief. You could find a LOT of more entertaining things to do with your time.It rates a 3.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Very light comedy about star-crossed romance","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Just the thing for that evening when you are so tired you want to switch off your brain, crunch some chips and watch without having to concentrate on plot or characters ! It's a girl meets boy type of film, going through the usual mishaps before they eventually realise they are right for each other. Light, sweet, occasionally funny but if there are better things on offer - accept them !  "},{"Title":"Only Women","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only women could possibly like this clumsy ready-for-Lifetime stinker. And perhaps the men who benefit from their women liking it. I expected more from Norman Jewison with this cast. Instead, it was the Italian cliché at every known landmark, every done and overdone romantic comedy cliché. Was there any doubt the man she was engaged to marry would be such a drip? Or that Fisher Stevens would overact? I would not have bothered to write, but when I read such praise on this site and in the External reviews, I couldn't resist. One more thing - my wife, who did watch most of it, thought it was stupid, too. She should know, she watches Lifetime all the time. "},{"Title":"A vapid but beautiful travelogue of Venice, Rome and other parts of Italy","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Been sight-seeing in Italy lately?  If not, see this, but don't expect anything else out of it. A tired trite Cinderella story about loses shoe, meets man, adores man, rejects man, falls in love with man.  Marisa Tomei has so many ticks that I can only hope some acting coach will get help her get in touch with her non-spastic self someday.  And you've got to wonder how can roofing people afford staying in the finest hotels of Italy in high season? Since this was made in '94, (speaking of 'high')  you can't help but wonder, Was Robert Downey high when he made this movie?  I frankly don't care, since I love seeing his wonderfully, if chemically induced  big eyes and he did play the ardent lover most convincingly, if goofily (which fits in fine with the theme of the movie 'goofiness'. Of course, our educational system has now produced a population who would think of goofiness as normal intelligence.The cinemetography is gorgeous...can someone please fetch me a word that is not tired so that I can describe the Italian beauty better?  The statuary, the coastline, the Ventian gondolas (how about a NON-Puccini aria for a change?)...magnifico!!!!Only moral virtue shown in this film (I like Sunday school lessons from films, since we get so little real virtue taught in church anymore) is that of perseverance.  Go after your dream and stick with it. "},{"Title":"A very light film","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie would not be able to disturb any thoughts, or whatever goes on in you mind. But it will entertain you with no harm done. If a girl was so narrowminded in real life, the best thing to do was to forget her. "},{"Title":"Marisa Tomei gives a Darwin-worthy performance in Only You.","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There are a few films which automatically make you want the cast to all win Oscars. There are even fewer which make you want them to win Darwin Awards (www.darwinawards.com). Only You is one of those films. I saw this film because Norman Jewison was great in a Soldier's Story and spectacular in Agnes of God. Why he managed to direct this train wreck I will never know. Even less understandable is how famous cinematographer Sven Nykvist managed to get saddled with it. **WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD, BUT SINCE THIS FILM IS SO BAD, WHO CARES IF I REVEAL IT TO YOU.** What happens in this 98-minute waste of film and life (obviously more for those people who had to suffer through the making of it) was that a woman named Faith gets told twice (once by Ouija and once by a fortune teller) that she will marry a man named Damon Bradley. Later is the only redeeming moment in this film (because it reminds me of a similar scene in Ferris Bueller with Ben Stein (Who makes a more engaging teacher, BTW), which in turn reminds me of the greatest book ever The Catcher in The Rye) where Faith is telling Plato's story of Soulmates and her students (she's a teacher) look on in boredom I haven't seen in a movie theater since the last time I was in a theater playing an Orlando Bloom movie. Later that day she is being fitted for her wedding dress in her apartment (she is to be married to as podiatrist in nine days), when she gets a call from a man named Damon Bradley. As she hears that name, she runs off to the airport, effectively calling off the wedding for a name. She takes a plane to Italy and, with her sister, searches for him. Later, she falls in love with Robert Downey Jr. in 2 seconds after hearing him call himself Damon Bradley. After 15 minutes of these two people falling in love, Damon slips and reveals his name isn't Damon Bradley and she attacks him. (OK, so you're going to dump him after falling in love with him, just because he doesn't have the right name. It boggles the mind as to how she even managed to get the Podiatrist.) Eventually, she manages to find another man (who also called himself Damon Bradley) and fall in love with him and breaking up in even shorter time. Ultimately it is revealed that a classmate pushed the Ouija pointer to say Damon Bradley and paid the fortune teller. She finally meets the real Damon Bradley, who was a jerk the classmate knew on his baseball team. Tomei finally finds him and dumps him for Downey. go Figure. Where is the Dad from Washington Square/The Heiress When you need him? Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"This movie was, and forever will be, awful","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I like romantic comedies. Roman Holiday is in my top three movies of all time. I love Italy. This movie is putrid. The reason? It is a god awful story, horribly constructed, and utterly unbelievable. In order for any romantic comedy to work, you have to believe why the two characters love each other, you have to believe that they were meant to be together. This generally works best when the love is slowly built up, even if the time period covered is very short (as in one day for Roman Holiday). With this film, we're supposed to believe this woman is in love with a man because of a name? Give me a break! We're supposed to have sympathy for this ditz who's willing to leave her fiancé in the lurch because of a name? We're supposed to believe that Robert Downey, Jr. falls in love with her in 5 minutes, when this woman clearly has psychological problems? This doesn't even get into all the clichés, Tomei's bad acting, etc. Best part of the film is the glimpse or two of Italian scenery. I'm shocked Jewison even agreed to direct this film with such an obviously flawed script. I guess he thought he had Moonstruck in Italy, and that he could make it work.Wrong. "},{"Title":"Annoying scene ruins mediocre film","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I just HATE that annoying scene where Tomei's getting ready in her hotel room with help from Downey and he's anticipating her every move by handing her her jewelry before she can finish asking for each piece. For example Can you hand me my... and he gives her the necklace before she can finish. This goes on way too long until they're running out of things for her to put on so she actually asks for an anklet!! And she wears an anklet on her date. I was only semi-annoyed by this film until she asked for that sickeningly tacky anklet and the film was immediately ruined for me. This film has some beautiful scenery of Italy but come on - anyone who wears an anklet is pure trash. No wonder Marissa Tomei never works - casting directors, producers and directors who've seen this are so turned off by her 'jewelry' they never wanna see her again. The costume designer should have been run out of town (also for those giant over-sized suits with cheap black shoes they put Downey in) and the screenwriter fined a million for that scene. "},{"Title":"Good movie if you're going to Italy","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Only you (1994) is a pretty silly movie (but it's not as silly as Only you 1992 which is terrible and which I first rented by mistake). However, if you're going to Italy, the Rome and Venice footage is just excellent.  Getting ready for vacations is kind of a hobby for me and this flick is well worth your time if you're (1) going to Italy and want a sense of what it all looks like; or (2) have been to Italy and want to spend an evening saying I know that, that's the Bernini Fountain by the Typewriter or whatever. "}{"Title":"Faith never settles...its ever changing !","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Only You Oh! Daemon Bradley ! The bane of our (womans') existence.A young girl(Faith) of 12-13 years of age ,with her group of friends visit a fair where her brother had naughtily passed a dime to a seer-lady asking her to tell his sister about a dummy name Daemon Bradley and let her know that this name will play an important role in her life &#150; all this just to prove his point ! The seer lady told her of this name and along with that she also told her that man makes his own destiny .The girl grows up and is soon going to get married to a doctor. Her brother is already married . Her brother's wife is not very happy about the marriage as there is a communication gap between the two of them. The heroine is very fond of old romantic movies and watches such mushy movies with full concentration &#150; and day dreams that she will one day find a man of her dreams who will sing and dance with her on the swing, around trees etc &#150; surprisingly this thought process is much like our mushy Hindi (Indian) film heroines.Coincidentally , while she was trying out her new wedding outfit, someone by the name of Daemon Bradley called up and she thought that God wants her to marry this man only ! &#150; how very innocent these girls are all over the world I must say ! The way the Follywood Directors have marketed such clichéd statements like Someone is there somewhere waiting for you only&#133;Only you &#150; etc. &#150; such silly dreams as shown to the girls all over the world is pretty misleading !- The Fairy Tales are to be blamed for such utter dreamy headedness among girls ! Anyways , with her wedding day just 10 days away , she packs her bags and along with her frustrated sis-in-law runs to find out who the man is &#150; her dream man by the name of Daemon Bradely !! &#150; just to get a glimpse of him !! &#150; She leaves her fiancé in a frenzy to meet with this unknown stranger &#150; showing that she had agreed to marry the well settled Physician just to get an anchor for life who will provide her with food, clothes and shelter ! Anyways , she meets a good looking fellow (Peter) who had heard that she was looking for a guy called Daemon &#150; on seeing her gullibility , he said that He is the one &#150; so she starts to date him and even kisses him on the mouth ! (although its not all that a big deal for American girls to kiss anyone or even everyone they meet ) &#150; once while they were about to jump on each other on a bed in some hotel, the fellow (who was actually a shoe maker / designer or something) confesses that his name is not Daemon ! She immediately kicks him off her body and severs relationship with him with immediate effect.The last scene was in the Airport the name Daemon Bradley was called out and both the girl and the fraud rush to see the man &#150; and it turns out that he is an older man &#150; not even good to look at &#150; and the fraud sniggers and says to the girl that she is most welcome to accept the one she has been waiting for all her life !! The girl also realizes that she has been a fool &#150; but at the same time also realizes that the fraud is better looking than the Physician fiancé &#150; so she decides to dump the poor Doctor and run to the liar fraud !! &#150; I wonder how she might have reacted if the Daemon Bradley fellow has been young and good looking !! Lesson Learnt  Girls are dreamy fools.Its time they wake up !! "},{"Title":"Go watch something else instead","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was very disappointed when I saw this movie. The plot was not strong and the acting didn't make this story any more believable. The chemistry between the main characters really didn't work at all!The only credit I can give this movie is the beautiful scenery, which probably should have added to the romantic setting of the movie. But it doesn't make up for the lack of good story.Perhaps they should have spent more money on a good plot and actors/actresses with a better chemistry than setting and clothing? If you have a choice, I recommend you to watch something else instead. "},{"Title":"A cutesy-poo movie for the non-picky fans of romantic comedy","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I had never heard of this movie before I picked it up (sort of randomly) at the video rental store, and I wish I never had really. It's a good date movie and an easy movie to just have on in the background while your doing something else, but if you are a movie fan and enjoy depth and meaningful emotions in the characters and the rest of good cinema, you shouldn't go here at all.The movie starts off simply enough a young girl finds things throughout her adolescence about a name of a man whom she will fall in love with and marry in her future. When the future arrives, the man never did come around until a fateful day when she talks with a man with this glorious name over the telephone and, dimwittedly, flies to Italy where he is supposed to be. I'll try and end the telling of the story there (in case you're curious), but be warned there is nothing amazing about this movie.The female lead character, firstly, is WAY too gullible (and has way too much money at her disposal) to even be engaged to, let alone have any friends who will give practically all their time and money to help her find this mystery-man. Secondly, who in their right mind ends up with a guy like the one she did in the end? I'll try not to ruin it, but it's pretty obvious when the two biggest actors are on the cover of these DVDs pretending not to like each other and all that. I thought that Marisa Tomei and Robert Downey Jr. didn't have any chemistry throughout the entire endeavor, even though they were good at playing their characters. There were pretty good extra characters and curve-balls thrown into the mix (a man in Rome who pretends to be her mystery man), but there were almost too many.The director did a pretty horrible job at the pacing of this film. He threw so much at you in the first 30 minutes that I thought my head was going to spin out of control. There was such an elaborate scheme of things taking place that it was almost to put into a movie and make it worthwhile. Robert Downey Jr. came off like a version of Pretty In Pink's Ducky to Marisa Tomei's characters the way he clung onto this chance encounter. Desperate does not equal in love. But this movie will try its best to prove that point wrong. Also the music must've been the second-thought for the film, although they tried to throw pop-sounding songs with ethnic vocalists of where they were in the mix of it all.All in all, I gave it a 4/10. It didn't please me much at all, but it was an easy movie to watch all the way through. The chemistry wasn't there for most of the characters, but they had quirks all their own, making them seem human enough. The music was typical romantic comedy fare, but it didn't really take me to the places that they visited (even the generic operatic pieces they chose failed to entice). Go rent it if you have trouble picking out a romantic comedy, and if you like the actors involved, but again, don't expect much. "}]