[{"Title":"Such a great movie, very under rated","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite childhood memories of all time, the live action Jungle Book, in 1967 we had a classic animated movie of the same title, it's a great movie, has fun music and terrific characters. When my family bought the movie The Jungle Book, I don't think they realized the surprise that we got when we just enjoyed watching this film. It's strange because this is made a little more for the grown up crowd vs. the children, but still I absolutely loved The Jungle Book and every time I see it, I admire it a little more for different reasons. The story, the setting, the actors, I don't know what it was about this film that I just love so much, but it holds a special place in my heart.In the Victorian period, Mowgli is the five-year-old son of a wilderness guide who accompanies his father on a hunting trip in the jungles of their native India. Mowgli becomes close friends with a British girl named Kitty Brydon, whose father, Colonel Geoffrey Brydon, commissioned the hunt. When Shere Khan attacks the camp and kills Mowgli's father, the boy and the wolf are lost in the confusion and are left to fend for themselves. Bagheera finds them and leads Mowgli to the wolf pack. Mowgli is befriended by the animals of the jungle including Baloo the bear cub, and they develop an unspoken bond as the growing boy learns to survive. While in the wild, the Bander-Log steal the bracelet Kitty gave him. Years later, after growing to adulthood, Mowgli once again encounters Kitty, who still lives in India with her father and her arrogant and deceitful suitor, Captain William Boone. Kitty and Mowgli recognize each other, and while his powers of speech are rusty, Kitty reintroduces Mowgli to civilization with the help of Dr. Julius Plumford and Mowgli introduces Kitty to his friends in the jungle. However, after spending most of his life in the jungle, Mowgli does not feel at home among the rude and snobbish aristocrats who are friends with Kitty's family. He falls in love with Kitty, but wants to go back to the jungle and to be with his real family.The Jungle Book is an incredibly good movie that I highly recommend. It has great laughs, like watching Mowgli learning how to becoming civilized in society with the help of Dr. Plumford and seeing how Plumford is also trying to learn from Mowgli how to be in touch with nature. I loved to love story between Mowgli and Kitty, it was so lovely and their kiss was one of those sappy moments that got a big Awww!!! from me. Then there's one of the saddest movie moments ever, when Baloo gets shot and Mowgli finds him and just lies with him crying, then Dr. Plumford reveals Baloo at the end of the movie and I cry in joy, they had me on so many rollar coaster rides of emotions. But seriously if you haven't seen this movie, I would recommend it very much, it's a very special film and deserves more recognition.10/10 "},{"Title":"A Solid Version Of The Classic Story","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" This was pretty solid adventure story with colorful backgrounds of a the country of India and jungle scenery. Jason Scott Lee as Mowgli is interesting to watch in the lead. Lee is an intriguing actor. He has an Asian background, but has played an Eskimo, here in Indian and other nationalities in other films. He is one of the more diverse actors I've ever seen, yet he isn't well-known.Cary Elwes is usually effective as a villain. He has the acting talent that makes him easy to despise! The animals are fun, too, from Mowgli's friends in the jungle to the monkeys and giant snake guarding the lost caves with the treasure. Nicely filmed and a good adventure story for everyone. "},{"Title":"I can't believe this movie rated so low!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  I love this movie,I rated it a 10.I can't believe this movie rated so low!This movie is full of action and adventure.The monkeys in it are a hoot.I loved the Indiana Jones style ending.The casting is perfect.My teenage daughter adores this movie.A must see that is perfect for the whole family.  "},{"Title":"Fine performances and direction in the spirit of Kipling.","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  The switch here, and Jason Scott Lee does it with skill and heart of genius, is that Mowgli talks to the animals in their languages.  We do not hear the animal speaking English.  But from the moment Bagheera offers his tail to the tiny Mowgli and Mowgli grasps that tail, we are in intimate communication with the animals. Mowgli, his pet wolfcub and the rescued bearcub Balu follow the panther through the jungle and I went with them. Every actor modulates his or her performance to make the story happen, to balance the telling.  Kitty, Mowgli's childhood friend, does not let one drop of saccharine spoil her natural young woman.  Cary Elwes as a villain is frighteningly archetypal (just as he is a beautiful hero in other films). . . But the animal actors are what compel me to fork over dollars for my own copy of the video.  Since they are surrounded by masterful cinema storytelling and heartfelt human performances, their work carries the main theme of this film. We know now how fragile the jungle and its inhabitants are as man approaches with guns and bulldozers.  The delicate balance of man and animal, the diplomacy of Mowgli at times, the essence of courage and loyalty -- all this is portrayed. If you know the original Jungle Book and the moral spirit of its author, you recognize that the character of the jungle inhabitants is respected.  In this film, while we are given an adventure extrapolated from the original literary situation, the Law of the Jungle is kept.  For sophisticated Kipling see the Michael Caine/Sean Connery film The Man Who Would Be King.   "},{"Title":"Lusciously filmed, with slick pacing, good performances and terrific music; while just lacking the 1967 film's charm, it is truer to the book, worthwhile and very underrated","Date":"30 January 2010","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" I'd better start off saying how much I love the 1967 animated film. I just loved how original, funny and light-hearted it all was. This film doesn't quite have the charm of the 1967 film, and there are some parts like the animal mauling that I found rather intense. Wilkin's death comes to mind. But there is so much that compensates; it is actually truer to the book than the 1967 film was and it is definitely worthwhile. I also think it is very underrated, the look of the film and the music should've at least guaranteed a 7.0 rating on IMDb, and whether I bring this film up to people the general impression is that a)they haven't seen it, b)it is inferior to the 1967 film or c)they hate it full stop. I admit it I do prefer the animation, as I grew up with it, but I really like this version as well. The animals are very well trained, I liked how wise Baloo was and Shere Kahn gave a good amount of menace whenever he was on screen. The film looks absolutely stunning, the cinematography is striking, the forests are lush and the waterfalls are sparkling. The costumes are fabulous, Kitty's dresses are to die for, and Lena Headey I must say looked gorgeous. The music from Basil Pouledoris, who also composed the music for the Hunt For Red October, is sweeping and rousing, and the pace and direction are slick. The performances are fine too, Jason Scott Lee is likable as Mowgli, John Cleese is wonderfully benevolent as Dr Plumford, and Cary Elwes makes a suave, handsome and charismatic villain. In conclusion, very good and underrated film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Not bad of its kind","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  Probably better for grownups than kids, who are likely to prefer the 1967 cartoon, of which this is essentially a live-action remake. Being Disney, it does not hew particularly close to the source material. But so what? It's a thundering good adventure, and Jason Scott Lee makes a terrific Mowgli. Just for fun, watch this and SQUANTO, with the equally good Adam Beach in the title role, as a double feature.  "},{"Title":"Boys young & old like adventure yarns and this is a good one!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  What a rollicking adventure story this film is - straight from the pages of Rudyard Kipling's Jungle Books and as uncomplicated as any schoolboy adventure yarn.  It's really about the laws of man and the laws of the jungle and the divergence of opinions which continue even today.  Most of the humans in this film are depicted as tiresome bores, courageous only when their finger is on the trigger of a rifle. The animals of the jungle seem to be the most maligned, but somehow get the upper hand.  After all, the jungle is their territory.  The film gives some hope for the future when Mowgli (reared by wild animals) and Kitty, a sweet English girl fall in love.  The athletic Mowgli with the agility of a leopard in his jungle home is forced to lead a party of soldiers to the monkey palace where untold treasure has been accumulated.  It's a difficult trek, but greed drives them on to the secret place.  Action hots up as the animals fight back to preserve their territory.  Kitty's life is threatened many times, but handsome Mowgli with his animal instincts is able to save her. A touching scene in the film (and one of the quieter moments) is Mowgli's discovery of a room in which the heads of hunted animals are stuffed and mounted as trophies on the walls. Without being too cynical, I must say that Mowgli is surprisingly adaptable as Kitty makes attempts to civilize him and teach him to dance.  He is certainly a quick learner. But the English aristocracy do not accept him.  If one can believe all that Kipling portrays, one feels his heart lies in the jungle which he trekked through himself during his travels in Africa. Maybe his attitude to the jungle is over-romanticized, but the resulting film adds up to great family entertainment.  With regard to the monkey palace, it is truly a wonder to behold.  The technological experts have done a great job in managing the special effects.  They defy analysis.  Better to just sit back and enjoy each exciting moment.  "},{"Title":"The plot summary is just as IMDb says.","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" What it doesn't say is how uplifting it proves to be mentally, morally,emotionally, physically,spiritually, and any other way i failed to mention. A truly captivating work of art, this can be enjoyed by children and adults alike. The characters take you into a world of magic and mystery where anything is possible. It is not something that is described easily though, rather, it must be seen to be FELT. It has evolved from its simple beginnings as a cartoon which few people watch anymore. Yet, my family watches this version often. Although it's to the point that we know the dialogue by heart, it never fails to bring tears, or to inspire. I highly recommend this movie for all. "},{"Title":"Darker and more intense version is visually impressive...","Date":"16 October 2011","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Having missed this when first released, it was a pleasure to discover that this version of Kipling's THE JUNGLE BOOK has been photographed with stunning results in WideScreen color. It features an excellent cast headed by Jason Scott Lee, Lena Headey, Sam Neill and John Cleese, all giving admirable performances.Detailed scenic wonders of the jungle with dense foliage, rippling waterfalls, exotic plants and animals--and best of all, the majestic looking sets for the hidden city holding all the treasures, are what make the film worth watching. The famous story has its share of jungle thrills and these have been broadened to include even more conflict in the jealousy that evolves between Mowgli and a British officer who wants to marry the girl. His only interest in Mowgli is to have him lead him to the hidden city. As the boy who finds out that Civilization can be more dangerous than any jungle, Jason Scott Lee is the perfect embodiment of Mowgli, capturing the character's innocence and naive nature in a way that is always credible. Lena Headey makes a lovely heroine as the girl he knew as a youngster who befriends him again, against the opposition of her arrogant British officer fiancé Cary Elwes whose untimely end makes for one of the story's most exciting and satisfying scenes.Background music by Basil Pouledoris is highly effective and Stephen Sommers directs the whole piece in workmanlike fashion with only a few scenes a bit too intense for young children.Summing up An adventurous tale well told in a gorgeously mounted production. "},{"Title":"Uh-oh they said macaque!","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Beyond simply being a children's movie, this adaptation of The Jungle Book actually looks at colonialism in India. You can see how the British treat Mowgli (Jason Scott Lee) once he enters their society, and how Capt. Boone (Cary Elwes) sets up the animal heads like prizes and proudly talks about hunting them. Seeing what the English colonizers do, you actually want the tiger to attack them.The truth is, I can't find any problems with this movie. It's a movie that I recommend to everyone, as a good look at history and with plenty of adventure to keep things going. Also starring Lena Headey, Sam Neill, John Cleese and Jason Flemyng.Oh, and I noticed that they mentioned macaque monkeys. It just reminds me of Sen. George Allen's recent racist comment involving the word macaca. "}{"Title":"This movie has so much action and suspense and follows the same storyline as the cartoon version but with so much more detail.","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Interested in seeing an action packed movie? If so, watch The Jungle Book live version. I really enjoyed it. This movie has so much action and suspense and follows the same storyline as the cartoon version but with so much more detail. The movie is about a boy named Mowgli who is taken away from his village after a tiger attack. He gets stuck on a runaway wagon that is on fire. After he manages to get off of the wagon he is too far away from his village and no one can find him. Mowgli is raised by a pack of wolves and grows up with a panther and a bear named Baloo. Eventually, he is found by civilization and his childhood love named Kitty. He then has to learn how to fit in with everyone. My favorite character in the movie is Mowgli because he tries really hard to fit in with everyone once he is found. He also tries really hard to always protect Kitty. He is a really good fighter and climber. My favorite part in this movie is when Mowgli finds a secret hideout where a lot of monkeys live. It is packed with mountains of treasures. He finds a dagger but then a snake pops out and tries to kill Mowgli. So Mowgli fights with the snake and eventually uses the dagger to kill the snake. It is really suspenseful. I recommend this movie for ages 6 and up. Younger kids might get scared watching this movie because there is a lot of fighting and suspense. Credit Anthony Aranda, age 9, KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. "},{"Title":"Just as good as I remember.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" My family used to own this on VHS, but I watched it to death. So I was pretty happy when I found it on YouTube. It wasn't the best version, but it didn't matter. I could still recite most of the dialog from memory. This is much much better than the animated Jungle Book to me because it's so much more real. Real live animals, real jungle flora, it's just perfect. I also didn't know who John Cleese was at the time, but now I can appreciate his excellent sense of humor.Mowgli and Katherine have such wonderful chemistry as well. They have a history, and it's easier to feel for characters who do. The soldiers were well cast, with Harley being my favorite. While I prefer Cary Elwes in The Princess Bride, he's still a good lead and bad guy. I highly recommend this to anyone who hasn't seen it yet. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Jason Scott Lee as Mowgli in Kipling's The Jungle Book. ***Spoilers ahead***It starts out simple enough Mowgli, as a young boy, is with his family, and his childhood friend, Katherine 'Kitty' Brydon, gives him a bracelet. Seconds later, Shere Kahn attacks their camp. Mowgli's father is killed, and Mowgli finds himself in a carriage with horses stampeding. Along with him are barrels of flammable liquid, but Mowgli escapes before the carriage explodes. Luckily, the horses don't get hurt. Lost in the jungle, Mowgli sees a bear cub stuck in a log. He frees it, and becomes friends. He also sees a wolf, resembling Bagheera. Years later, as a man, he sees Ktty, a grown woman now, in the jungle. It becomes a rescue time soon, and Ktty, along with her father, teaches him English. Captain William Boone (Cary Elwes, The Princess Bride) is her supposes fiancée, but she later turns him down.Mowgli earlier had discovered a monkey village, loaded with gold, and Capt. Boone. finds out about it. Circumstances lead them the the monkey village, and several people die. But Mowgli meets Shere Kahn, and this to me, is the best scene. Don't miss this movie. It may be a little too intense for children younger than 10, but otherwise,m it's a good movie.My Score 8/10. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" I like this movie very much and still consider this one the best ! There are several movies about this book, but still this one i never get tired. Amazing the animals and the actors are doing what they should do. All in all i can recommend this one to all !! If you look at this film as the standard nowadays is then you will see it is a older movie. But that should not stop you to enjoy this movie, every time you watch !! It is in my opinion not wasted money to buy this one !! How it looks like on blue ray, in my opinion do not buy it. Buy it on DVD , some movies are not made for blue ray. I hope the new jungle book that is coming will have the same impact as this one did to me !! "},{"Title":"Happy 20TH Anniversary!!","Date":"25 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" ...and I might even add it rightly deserves it's current Rotten Tomatoes' score of 92%, yet mysteriously only has a 6.0 out of 10 on IMDb. WHY!??And since there're also soon gonna be TWO remakes of The Jungle Book within two years of each other (2015 & 2016), I thought it'd be appropriate to write this review. (Looking forward to what you've got, Serkis & Favreau!)I certainly agree with the general crowd that this flick is quite an underrated masterpiece! (I mean, hey it came out in 1994, where nearly *every* film of that year was considered great movie - so that's why I guess movies like this and Iron Will faded away a bit from the public eye.) In my opinion, this is my favorite version of the story! Even though I do like the original Disney cartoon; and I now know there're some controversies here & there involving the PG rating with this (whether it'd be involving to the violence, the action, the language, or simply scenes that're too scary for young viewers.) I admit, I've often been so critical of films, that are not only bad, but have an inappropriate PG rating (i.e. Howard the Duck, Airplane!, Spaceballs, etc.) One of the scenes that scared me the most was where Sergeant Harley drowned in the black quicksand while chasing Mowgli. (But I also might add, it's one of those scenes that I found myself obsessed with pausing, rewinding, and re-watching so many times... for some reason.) Towards the end of the movie, each one of the bad guys die, in unique sort of ways - somewhat almost like the way the antagonists did in the recent film by Mel Gibson, Apocalypto. (THAT'S even a film worth checking out - I was mind blown!)But exclusively addressing those who may say what does this film have to do with the Jungle Book?, when the animals don't talk, and other things. I KNOW - but it's called an adaptation; things have to be changed; I mean, it's the Jungle Book but with more ACTION! Kinda like Indiana Jones. It stills somewhat keeps with the source material. I mean, it wasn't like the movie Eragon or the recent Noah film that disappointed SO many fans & critic.But moving back, I certainly have to say I'm quite a fan of the talented Hawaiian actor, Jason Scott Lee, since this was the first film I saw him in. I think he was a great pick to play the grown-up part of Mowgli, even though not Indian. Nice bod, though not Indian. lol I may even say he's one of those actors who're A LOT hotter & talented than Leonardo DiCaprio (an actor I really can't STAND!) And I'm a GUY... from the 90s. Here's my list on that issue http//www.imdb.com/list/ls058930557/And several scenes that include Mowgli RUNNING through the jungle was just EPIC, and still are to this; everything coming together with the slow-motion, his hair flowing in the wind, the soundtrack, and the tense emotion Mowgli has turning from sadness to revenge is just all-round BADA$$!Anyways, I think this is still a very good film. It introduced me to such things as the Blue Danube theme (much better used in this flick, in a rather charming creative way, than in 2001 A Space Odyssey, a film I just don't get); I was even introduced to big Hollywood names as John Cleese (just intellectual, likable, and really funny - a much greater performance, besides Fawlty Towers that I've seen him in; unlike the dumb & overrated Monty Python series), Sam Neil (I'm not much of a Jurassic Park fan, but I am of him! With his nostalgic appeal to so many general viewers, & his great talent with versatility & accents), Lena Headey, who was just very beautiful & all-round likable in this story (I mean, I feel as almost my childhood of her was RUINED by that atrocious & disgusting Game of Thrones series! I didn't know it was her until I viewed her profile on IMDb!), Cary Elwes, though I already knew him from The Princess Bride (great film); but even then, I didn't know it was him! Just really goes to show how talented he is at being versatile! (Amongst actors like Johnny Depp & Gary Oldman). Overall, this is GREAT ensemble cast, with every one of them giving quite an underrated performance each! Better performances than what most of them are generally known for being in.Not only is this a dramatic film, but it has quite a few (memorable) humorous moments as well. hehehe. Like the montage of how Mowgli has to adjust back into the human world, whether it being bathed by John Cleese (Alright, then) or being measured, reading the alphabet, or pushing a mirror than John Cleese is looking at. Ah, look... Ahhh! hahahahaha! LOL Too funny!I find this movie interesting for even portraying the culture of India in a rather decent & informative way, without delving too much into the occult (i.e. biased promoting Hinduism, Buddhism, or idol worship, etc.) Many of the shots of the sets and landscape are PRETTY WELL done! And do I even need to bring up the shots of the Treasure Room in Monkey City? ...Man, it's breathtakingly, beautiful! Can give almost ANYONE goosebumps!I bet the Nostalgia Critic has YET to review this film! Right along with Tall Tale and Rocketman - I want him to review & give publicity to these movies SO BAD!8/10 "},{"Title":"More the kings Ankus than the jungle book","Date":"20 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" The plot of this film owes more to the plot of The King's Ankus (one of the short stories in Kipling's second jungle book) than it does to the jungle book itself.Typical tale of treasure greed and death These are the Four that are never content, that have never been filled since the Dews began &#x97; Jacala's mouth, and the glut of the Kite, and the hands of the Ape, and the Eyes of Man.The human actors are mediocre with the exception of Mowgli himself but the animal actors are absolutely fantastic kudos must go to the trainers of these. It looks to me like most of this was shot live action with editing to superimpose humans into scenes with animals that could be dangerous and to add animals that would otherwise eat each other. Overall well told but hardly true to the title (at least its the same author) "},{"Title":"Why so Low IMDb?","Date":"25 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" I am shocked at the low rating this movie has. Sure, the animated version will forever be my favorite. But, I felt that Disney did a fine job bringing an animated movie and novel to life. Jason Scott Lee stars as Mowgli and does Rudyard Kipling proud by making the audience believe he can talk to animals. The animals that were featured in this version were great, from the wolf to the great Tiger. The story starts out with a hunting expedition in India led by Mowgli's father. As a boy, Mowgli meets and takes a liking to the daughter of the British colonel who financed the trip (played by the great Sam Neill). While they camp at night, a powerful and fierce tiger attacks the camp, killing several people including Mowgli's father. Mowgli ends up being separated from the camp and is presumed dead by everyone. In the jungle, he meats a baby bear and wolf and together they grow up. Eventually, Mowgli comes across his long lost love but even though he is accepted to society, he feels like an alien. If that's not enough, he must battle a corrupt army captain who has his sights on Mowgli's love. Ultimately, this is a film that is worthy to have The Jungle Book as it title, with great acting and beautiful scenery. Truly a film that everyone can enjoy. "},{"Title":"A little weak for a while, but then it improves and turns out to be a captivating adventure movie overall","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" 27 years after the release of the famous animated Disney feature, The Jungle Book, a live action Disney movie with the same title came into theatres. Both films feature characters from Rudyard Kipling's book of the same name, which I have never read. I think it was on the last week of 1994, in between Christmas and New Year's, when I went to see this live action version in the theatre. I was eight years old, and can't remember exactly what I thought, but certainly don't recall finding it boring. Shortly after that, I remember seeing at least a bit of it again at school, but don't recall seeing any of it after that until last night, when I saw it for the first time in well over a decade. It looked mildly disappointing at first, but didn't stay that way.Set in Victorian-era India, five year old Mowgli goes on a hunting expedition with his father in the jungles of India and quickly befriends Katherine Kitty Brydon, the five year old daughter of English colonel Geoffrey Brydon. After a tiger named Shere Khan kills Mowgli's father, the little boy finds himself lost in the jungle, and is raised by animals. He grows up here, living like the jungle animals and learning how to communicate with them. One day, Kitty happens to be in the jungle again, and Mowgli sees her, which lures him back to the village where his childhood friend still lives with her father. Kitty and Dr. Julien Plumford begin to reintroduce him to human life and teach him English, and Mowgli shows Kitty what life is like in the jungle. While these two are nice to him, there are other British colonists who look down on him, including Kitty's arrogant suitor, Captain William Boone. Mowgli is also disgusted when he learns about human laws.Around the beginning, when Mowgli and Kitty are five years old, it gets pretty sappy between the two. The musical score is really overdone in some scenes, such as the one where Mowgli discovers Monkey City, and often gets too sappy in the romantic scenes. There are several groin-kicking scenes, which are unnecessary, especially for a family movie. Despite the severe flaws, however, there's more good than bad. Jason Scott Lee does a very nice job playing the likable lead, and the acting in general is good here, including memorable performances from Lena Headey as Kitty and John Cleese as Dr. Plumford. The humour in this film is never hilarious, but is sometimes at least mildly amusing, such as the part where Dr. Plumford says, No. That's not a boat. That's Queen Victoria. I think casting a former Monty Python comedian (Cleese) in the movie helped. The adventure often gets exciting, very much so later on, and there are touching moments as well. One particularly heart-wrenching scene is Mowgli finding Baloo severely injured. This is a scene I clearly remember from my first viewing! Even though the 1967 and 1994 films have the same title and several of the same characters, and they are both from Disney, one being animated and the other live action is not the only major difference. The plot is a little different, and this film is significantly darker than the cartoon version. There are live action movies with talking animals (such as the hit 1995 family film, Babe), but this is not one of them. I'm not saying this is a good or bad thing, but it is another notable difference between these two Disney flicks. However, despite being very different, both films are good. One of the reasons for the PG rating of this version is the violence, which occasionally includes some fairly gory scenes. I wouldn't recommend this film for kids much younger than I was during its theatrical run, but for older kids and others who like adventure movies, this COULD be entertaining. It's no masterpiece, but it is fairly underrated. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie, I enjoyed it.","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" ***These are the spoilers***What an interesting piece of film here. Alright, well, I'll give my two cents here. It starts out with Mowgli, a young Indian boy, bonding with a young British girl named Catherine, who, like he, lost her mother when she was a baby. Things go wrong and Mowgli's father is mauled by a tiger, Mowgli himself being cast into and lost in the jungle. He bonds with the animals and loses himself to it, effectively becoming a savage, and donning a loincloth to boot.Years later, he finds a hidden city in the jungle and a massive treasure. But when he tries to get back Catherine's bracelet, he is attacked by a huge snake. After a desperate and losing struggle, he barely escapes the vicious reptile with his life and the bracelet. The next day, we see Catherine, who has developed into a beautiful and intelligent young woman, opposite Mowgli's cumbersome and illiterate character. They meet and Catherine flees into the arms of her fiancé, Captain William Boone, who, along with his friends, proceeds to fight Mowgli, which results in Mowgli being shot in the arm.Mowgli tries to meet Catherine in the British fort, but he is beaten down and captured. Over the rest of the course of the film, Catherine, her doctor, and her father attempt to teach Mowgli to read and speak proper English, which they succeed in to some degree. But ultimately, the jungle boy answers the 'call of the wild' and returns, but Boone wants the treasure he found. Along with his buddies, William tracks down Mowgli and forces him to lead him to the treasure. Once there, he attempts to kill Mowgli, and nearly kills the savage, but is killed by the same snake that attacked Mowgli earlier. Mowgli and Catherine fall in love, the end.***Spoilers end here***Very interesting. There were some things about it that are obviously intended for older audiences. Throughout most of the movie, Mowgli wears nothing more than a loincloth, rendering him effectively naked for the majority of the movie, while his enemies wear full clothing. Obviously not intended for kids. In one sequence, he is seen fighting a large (and fully clothed) man atop a cliff, nearly being beaten off the edge. I even wonder if there wasn't some grounds for a racist argument in there. In the final sequence, Mowgli (a naked Indian man) was attacked by William (a fully-clothed British man), and stumbled clumsily around to avoid William's deadly swordplay. I won't point fingers, but it's there.Anyway, good movie, if you like watching naked people get shot at and beaten around by not-naked people. Nah, it's a good film, and you should watch it if you're over 9, I would say. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"an enjoyable adventure","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Engaging, old-fashioned adaptation that captures the rousing since of adventure of Rudyard Kipling's classic tale. In the era of the British Raj, a young boy abandoned in the jungles of India is thought to be dead but survives after being raised by a family of wolves. Years later, as an adult, he attempts to rejoin civilization with the help of his only childhood friend the genteel daughter of a British officer. Soon, circumstances put him into conflict with a scheming young officer out to plunder the jungle's enchanting lost city. Elaborate production and effects, an ideal cast, and a wonderfully adventurous feel throughout make this a thrilling ride from beginning to end. Too intense for the youngest children, but lots of fun. *** "}{"Title":"Great movie! It deserves a much higher rating.","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie as a kid and recently revisted it. Now a serious film buff, I wasn't sure if it would live up to my current standards. However, I found it was still a great movie. Although very few people know about, I feel that it deserves much more attention. It's a wonderful reimagining of the classic story. It gives the viewer a great feel for Indian culture as well as the British colonial dynamic that influenced Kipling so much. The score is wonderful. Great action and script as well. Plus, the scenery is fantstic. It definitely deserves a much higher rating, but I find that the less well known a movie is, the lower the rating, even if it is really good. I highley recommend this movie to everyone. It's still one of my favorites. "},{"Title":"The Jungle Book as Rudyard meant it to be filmed!","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" This is an excellent movie, much more dramatic than the amusing animated version from 1967. Jason Scott Lee is a convincing Mowgli, half man - half creature of the jungle. Cary Elwes is a greedy and jealous snot! John Cleese is a stiff Brit with a soft side who patiently trains Mowgli to speak and dress. Lene Heady is a doll! There is plenty of action, suspense, greed, romance, wonder and just deserts to please every member of the family. But be warned, there are plenty of jump scenes, so the movie isn't for the faint hearted. There is some killing, but no blood and gore. And no bad language! I hope more folks will comment on the movie and raise the rating to 10 stars. "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  A very enjoyably movie, it's kind of Aladdin meets Indiana Jones. It's a little intense for very young children.  But overall a nice family action film. "},{"Title":"Kipling would have liked it","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  It's a good take on Kipling's masterpiece, and I liked it more (!) than the cartoon version.  David Sommers did a great job on it; I always wanted to see Mowgli grown up.  Mind you, he's a fast learner.  First he sees Kitty, then he starts a riot, goes to prison, gets discovered, and learns how to talk.  It happens to fast.  But that's the movies for you, and you can't really fault that.There are a lot of cool moments in the movie, like in the beginning, when Kitty gives Mowgli her bracelet; in his...re-entry into the human race, when he sees all the animal heads in a room, and you can feel this weird...presence.  It's kind of beautiful, kind of sad, and very, very, Kipling.  He would have liked it, I think.  "},{"Title":"The second Disney Jungle Book as far out as possible from Kipling but  the more delightful for its compensations","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Walt Disney was obsessed with Kipling's Jungle Book, it was his greatest dream to make his version of it, but he failed from the beginning, dying before having had the possibility to supervise the cartoon version of 1966, which in its failure to realize his visions did not live up to them. His work on Kipling was thereby left unfinished. As if they felt some duty of his legacy, his followers kept following up on Mowgli, and there were two more Disney Jungle Books to come, the first a full feature film with live men and animals, and the second concentrating entirely on the animal world. Both are great successes, although the first almost becomes anti-Kipling in its turning British soldiers into typical shallow Disney villains, you couldn't imagine anything less gentlemanly or Kiplingesque, and of course they are doomed from the beginning, like all Disney's demonizations, and the second is a remake, although better, of the 1967 cartoon but with astounding impersonation of the animals. This second version tells an entirely different story, departing demonstrably from Kipling, concentrating on the ankus incident and its problems of greed and human short-sightedness, but it's a wonderful film, and all the major characters are there. The monkey episode is given a new slant of delightful good humor, underscoring the main character of the film as delightful in its splendor all the way. None of the animals speak in this film but are the more expressive, especially Shere Klhan, who is only in for the killing but with a vengeance, turning him into the film's triumph. The Disney mark is here any animal is better than any man.And that is as far as you can get from Kipling. None of the three Disney Jungle Books have lived up to an ounce of the Kipling poetry, which is the main blood of his Jungle Book, but nevertheless, the ingenious conclusion of this film, which couldn't be more Disney, is just as good a story as anything of Kipling's.The outstanding music score adds to its qualities, bringing it almost all the way to a full 10 points. "},{"Title":"Underrated Old-Style Adventure","Date":"28 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Despite diverging in many ways from Kipling's classic novel, I love this film, and feel that it holds up well since when I was a child. It's been almost ten years since I last saw it and my affection for it hasn't declined. I cannot fathom why Disney hasn't attempted to revive it for a new release. It truly deserves more love.One night in the jungles of India, Shere Khan the tiger attacks a convoy of soldiers of the British Empire whom Mowgli and his father were guiding. As a boy, Mowgli is smitten by the Colonel's young daughter, Kitty. In the chaos, Mowgli and his wolf cub Grey Brother are separated from the convoy and his father killed by the tiger and lost in the jungle. Bagheera the panther discovers the pair and leads them to the wolf pack where they are adopted as members of the pack. Mowgli also adopts a young Baloo as his brother. Mowgli grows up in the jungle and discovers his childhood sweetheart Kitty wandering through the jungle accompanied by her suitor, Captain William Boone. Mowgli follows her back to the British fort and his captured by Boone, but is freed on Kitty's request and is taught by her and Dr Plumford the power of speech and the ways of civilization, and Mowgli begins to fall in love with her over time. Captain Boone learns from Mowgli of the location of the lost Monkey City and its treasure within. Unable to adjust to life amidst the British aristocracy and saddened by Boone's proposal to Kitty, Mowgli returns to the jungle. However, Boone hatches a plan to lure Mowgli back to lead them to the lost city.Famous Kipling elements such as the Law of the Jungle, the red flower as a symbol for fire and an affinity for nature are carried over which I believe makes it more genuine. Jason Scott Lee is emotive, innocent and sincere as Mowgli, and while I'm aware he's not Indian, I feel his performance solidifies his place in the role he truly feels closer in spirit to Kipling than the animated Mowgli (though I do very much like the animated film). Lena Headey is very likable as Kitty and has great chemistry with Jason, Cary Elwes is sinister and callous as the traitorous Boone, and Sam Neill and John Cleese both add humour and quintessential British charm to the film, especially Cleese in his interactions with Mowgli.As any good film should I was swept up in the action, emotions and characters and being an animal lover I always rooted for Mowgli and his friends. While I was scared as a child at first, I still revisited for it's adventurous spirit and rewarding ending. I'd even go so far to say as this is Stephen Sommers' best film, balancing the more sentimental scenes with serious action and tension very nicely. The animal training is flawless; Shere Khan is an appropriately menacing force of nature, Grey Brother, Baloo and Bagheera are warm, benevolent brothers to Mowgli, and King Louie steals the show whenever he's on screen. The jungle and fort locations have a rich atmosphere and provide some beautiful visual elements, benefitting from actual location scouting in India. Basil Poledouris provides a romantic and exciting score that honestly deserves more attention, underlining the action scenes and moments of affection between Mowgli and Kitty. At 1 hour 50 minutes, it feels very nicely paced and manages to keep investment going.My real problem with the movie is that, truth be told, this isn't really Rudyard Kipling's Jungle Book as the title would suggest. It can be too violent for a younger audience at times with the villains, Shere Khan, Kaa and the traps within the temple, and there are some instances of mild profanity but nothing I was especially disturbed by. And I suppose some people may be put off due to the fact that Sommers borrowed more from Tarzan (with Kitty as Jane) and Indiana Jones (with the human villains, temple and treasure) as opposed to Kipling that the movie's core concept does feel less original and the performances are just generally good enough to carry the story. Arguably its the best live action Tarzan film to date, only with an Indian setting, but it still pulls it off very effectively. Because of that same adventurous style, engaging visuals, romantic score and likable animal and human characters I still rate 1994's 'The Jungle Book' very highly and intend to watch it again soon. "},{"Title":"Bad Interpretation, Good Movie","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  I liked the novel, The Jungle Book, I liked Disney's animated feature, The Jungle Book, and I am man enough to say that the two bear little more than a superficial similarity.Having said that, the live-action remake of the animated retelling of the novel The Jungle Book, bears about as little resemblance to the original as Mowgli bears to his brothers in the wolf-pack. Despite that, though, this is a really fun movie. It isn't so much an adaptation of the Jungle Book, as it is a retelling of the original Edgar Rice Burroughs Tarzan story (where Tarzan actually speaks English, wears clothes, and is quite intelligent), using wolves, instead of apes. I don't think its a stretch to imagine that the script was originally sold as a Tarzan re-make, and Disney picked it up, made a few superficial modifications to it and sold it as the Jungle Book. I'm sure there are a few Rudyard Kipling enthusiasts out there who are absolutely aghast that anyone would link his name with this movie. I don't know that I would entirely blame them, either. As someone who, unlike much of Hollywood, *is* literate, its rather disturbing to see an author's name linked to something that bears little (if any) similarity to his original work. Once you get over that fact, though, it is a gem of an adventure movie. The rather predictable plot has plenty of holes in it, but its such an unfailingly amiable movie, you tend to ignore them.If you like jungle adventures like Tarzan or King Solomon's Mines you will like this movie. If you are a fan of the book or the cartoon, then you will probably be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Not Rudyard Kipling's Mowgli Stories-Good Cast but Weak Screen play","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Not a bad adaption, I would rate it a 7.0. Nevertheless, I still consider that The Jungle Book 1942 version in gorgeous Technicolor is rather better. On my seventh birthday I was given a Pan Book paperback entitled Mowgli Stories. The only illustration was on the cover against a vivid dark blue and black background a naked adolescent Mowgli is depicted wielding a flaming red and orange branch in resistance to the villainous tiger Shere Khan, who has come to claim him from the wolf pack. I no longer have that book but my research indicates it was published by Pan Book's in 1948. The paperback contained all eight of the Mowgli stories in roughly serial order taken from a miscellaneous collection of stories found in The Jungle Book and The Second Jungle Book. Although the movie's longer title is Rudyard Kipling's Jungle Book, it does not deserve to have Kipling's name attached to it. The Mowgli tales as Kipling wrote them are far superior to the weak screenplay of the film which diverges widely from the original and develops an entirely new set of characters. Would a late Victorian army colonel really contemplate his only daughter marrying even a refined native boy in those days? I think not. One may forgive easily forgive the numerous careless goofs. After all it is Walt Disney stuff not a documentary about British India in late Victorian times or whether the fuel containers on the horse cart should have the word paraffin or kerosene stencilled on them etc. However, I have seen far worse gaffs in some otherwise praiseworthy Oscar-winning movies, such asLawrence of Arabia. I wonder if one day somebody will make a new non-cartoon film entitled The Mowgli Stories which is much more faithful to them than what has been produced so far. It probably could not be contained in a time span of less than three hours and who would want to sit in a cinema theatre that long anyway? Perhaps the best way of presenting the Mowgli stories on screen as Rudyard Kipling envisioned them would be to produce an eight-episode made for TV series. Okay, I have grouched enough. In fairness, I enjoyed the film as it stands. After all my objections why do I give it a 7/10? First the cinematography and staged scenery were good quality, second animal handling was well done and third the cast was excellent. The lead star, Jason Lee Jones was first rate, just right for the part. Several Indian commentators on this site have disliked the fact that Jason is not an Indian and they also claim he does not even look like one. This is rather a pointless objection in my view. India (without Pakistan and Bangladesh) has about 1.2 billion human inhabitants and a long history of invasion and conquests with much interbreeding. Thus there are numerous tribes, ethnics and races in India. Indians themselves display a range of complexions from the ebony black of a Tamil to the light olive skins of a Mediterranean person further north. Jason reminds me of many Bengalis I have known where slightly Mongoloid features are common. To ignore the physical diversity of its inhabitants would be to deny India's cultural, ethnic and racial diversity which makes that country so interesting. Instead, I would have thought that Indians would more likely to have objected to the way they are depicted in the movie, either as rather silly or villainous. In fairness several of the British officers are depicted as silly and/or villainous as well.Downgrading natives was definitely not Kipling's style. In the Jungle Books and his novel Kim Rudyard Kipling reveals a true love of greater India and its people and culture. He was one of the few intelligent imperialists (called Empire Builders until well into the 1950s) who sought to understand the local cultures in whatever corner of the Empire they found themselves assigned for years. The could either isolate themselves in compounds or mingle. Kipling mingled and studied the cultures and manners of Her Majesty's exotic subjects though as a man of his day he did not commit the sin of going native. As the film is deliberately light-hearted Disney stuff bordering on comedy one could even accept John Cleese portraying - as he did in the Monty Python films and as Basil in the Fawlty Towers TV show- a very silly, uncouth, and highly satirical Englishman. One final point I need to make is that in my view the movie should have been rated PG-13 rather than PG. There are some particularly ugly scenes including man eaten by a tiger, by implication only, in one instance or another explicitly mauled to death by Shere Khan. That is scary stuff for a small child. Worse are scenes of a soldier slowing sinking to his death in a quagmire, an Indian bad guy being squashed by man-trapping devices and another man drowned in slow motion. Also young children tend to become very upset if animals are hurt or killed. There is a scene where an animal is shot and depicted to be in great pain. Anyone who cares to read the Mowgli stories (best after and not before you see this movie) will find them published in full athttp//thenostalgialeague.com/olmag/kipling-jungle-book.html A site dedicated to Kipling's work that is well worth visiting. "},{"Title":"The Bungle Book","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" One of my favourite films as a child was the Disney cartoon of The Jungle Book, largely because I was so amused by the antics of the singing, dancing animals- I probably knew off by heart all the lyrics to The Bear Necessities and I Wanna Be Like You- so I decided to watch this live-action version when it was recently shown on television. Although it is described as a remake of the 1967 film, the plot has been considerably altered. This film is officially known as Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book, in line with the common nineties practice of prefixing the author's name to the titles of films based on works of literature, a practice which appears to have been adopted for technical copyright reasons but which was often interpreted as a promise that the film would be more faithful to the original text than earlier adaptations had been. Sometimes, as in Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, this promise was kept, but in other cases it certainly was not. The so-called William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet, for example, is much more Baz Luhrmann's Romeo and Juliet than it is Shakespeare's.Similarly, Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book is only loosely based on Kipling's stories. In the original book, and in the cartoon, the hero, Mowgli, was a young boy. Here he is an adult, a sort of Indian Tarzan who has been raised by animals in the jungle after being accidentally lost there as a boy. The villain of the piece, both in Kipling's version and in Disney's, was the savage, man-eating tiger Shere Khan. Here Shere Khan is presented more as a sort of elemental force of nature, the enforcer of the Law of the Jungle, and the real villain is Captain William Boone, a renegade British army officer obsessed with finding a lost city in the jungle where, rumour has it, a vast treasure is waiting to be discovered. As Mowgli is here a Tarzan-figure he has to have his Jane, and one is provided for him in the shape of Kitty Brydon, his childhood sweetheart and the daughter of Boone's commanding officer. Most of the animals familiar from the cartoon and the original stories are here- not only Shere Khan but also Akela the wolf, Bagheera the black panther and Baloo the bear. Baloo is generally assumed to be a sloth bear, the only species of bear found in the area of central India in which Kipling set his stories, but here he is a brown bear, and Kipling certainly describes him as brown. In the Disney version he was a generic cartoon bear, of no recognisable species. This film also perpetuates a goof which originated in the cartoon by introducing a character not found in Kipling, King Louie, the orang-utan king of the monkeys. (Orang-utans are not found anywhere in India). In this version the animals are seen interacting with the human characters, but they do not speak, and certainly do not sing and dance. There are certain costume dramas films which reveal more about the period in which they were made than they do about the period in which they are ostensibly made, and this is one of them. The action takes place in the late Victorian or Edwardian era, but the film reflects two of the preoccupations of the late twentieth century, environmentalism and anti-colonialism. Kipling, for whom the Law of the Jungle meant preserving the balance of nature (not the dog-eat-dog tyranny of the strong over the weak, which is what the phrase has come to mean today), might have approved of the first concept, but I doubt if he would have had much time for a film set in colonial India in which all the British characters, with the exception of Kitty and the kindly Dr Plumford, are all shown either as villains or as silly asses. Lack of fidelity to a literary source is not always a bad thing; there have been plenty of films which have played fast-and-loose with their source material and which have nevertheless ended up as good as, or even better than, the original book. The Jungle Book cartoon, for example, was hardly faithful to Kipling, but was still one of the best Disney cartons of its era. This live action version is not in the same class. The storyline is a derivative hybrid of Tarzan and Indiana Jones, and the acting was disappointing, with only John Cleese's Plumford standing out. Lena Headey as Kitty lacked the charisma she showed in Waterland a couple of years earlier, and Jason Scott Lee as Mowgli looks wrong for the part. If Mowgli is supposed to be Indian, why was a Chinese-Hawaiian cast in the role? If they couldn't find an Indian actor in Hollywood, they should have tried Bollywood. Although the film was aimed at a family audience it does not really seem suitable for young children, both in terms of levels of violence and in terms of sexual references. (There is a running joke about a soldier who is continually getting kicked in the testicles to a cry of Ooh, me sweets!). Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book is the sort of film that does not really succeed on either level, either as a faithful record of the book or as an adventure film in its own right. More bungle book than jungle book. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Don't Expect a retelling of the book","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" This is an interesting movie but I was rather misled when I came to hire it. I assumed that the original Jungle Book by Rudyard Kipling had a lot of Christian anecdotes in it, though I have never read it. Upon seeing this movie I thought that it would be based closed to the book and with the suggestion of a couple of others, decided to show this film to a group of kids at an Easter Mission at Normanville. They said the movie was okay but as I watched it I was regretting that I actually chose this movie. I thought that it would have Christian anecdotes but it did not. I had a gut feeling that it did not follow the book and after reading Ebert's review I discovered that I was right. Basically, I should have shown three Vegetale videos instead.This movie seems to follow more of an Indiana Jones style movie than anything else. It contains lost treasure filled cities brimming with traps and an evil imperial empire seeking to find it and steal it for themselves. The place is the far reaches of India during the time of the British occupation and they are seeking to tame the wild land with their civilisation. This is the one theme of the movie that stands out and it is the taming of the wild. The jungle is wild and the British seek to tame it. The only problem is is that they cannot. The Black Jungle is the place which nobody enters because it is untameable.The story focuses on a boy named Mogli who is lost as a child during a tiger attack on a camp. He grows up in the jungle with a wolf, a bear, and a panther. These animals are his close friends but they seem to fall into the background when Mogli returns to civilisation. This is when the British decide to attempt to civilise him. At first they don't want to, they would rather beat him up until he shows them to the treasure, but later, when it is discovered that he was the child of somebody who saved the major's life, he is then released and they attempt to civilise him.I think it is bad to deceive an audience by the title of a movie, and I don't know how the ratings people hand out ratings, but I thought that this was not really a children's movie with the amount of blood, people sinking into quicksand and being buried alive in temple traps. "}{"Title":"Good remake of a classic","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Made for kids, but this movie is shot lavishly so adults could enjoy too.Mowgli gets separated from his surrogate family. He finds himself reared by animals of the forest until one day he is reunited with his surrogate family and restarts his life in civilization. He's the founder of the lost city. Now the greedy people wants Mowgli to show them the way to the city.The production of this movie is done very well, and all the details comes out right. Jason Scott Lee portrays Mowgli who's a Tarzan like character, only it happens in India. He befriends many animals who helps him in need.It's a good remake of a classic, and a good alternative to the one starring Zabu. "},{"Title":"The gorgeous animals provide some compensation...","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" Youngster in India is separated from his family during a battle in his village, soon taking refuge with the animals in the wild. A rather shameless return to proved territory by the Disney company, giving Rudyard Kipling's characters another go around. It's a handsomely-produced yet simple-minded and dull adventure, complete with ludicrous attempts at modern humor and a miscast Jason Scott Lee as the grown-up Mowgli (very grown as it turns out; Lee--his physique pumped to Rambo-like proportions--looks ready to play Tarzan, not this child of the jungle!). The 1942 version of Kipling's story (starring Sabu) wasn't exactly a barn-burner, but it captured the mysteries of nature and its creatures more perceptively than this version. Only assets are the animals (beautiful to look at), the elaborate art direction, and Basil Poledouris' sweeping background score. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"several good versions out there... skip this one","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" I bought the movie for Jason Scott Lee and his amazing pecs. I rate it a 10/10 for that erotic aspect alone. Very satisfying. Other than that there are a few cool tributes to the Sabu films along the way. Outside of those special interests, this is extremely flimsy storytelling and a film that simply can't stand on its own.Stephen Sommers - a director often credited for taking worthwhile projects and ruining them completely - is mostly to blame. His approach to acting seems to be whatever, dude. The lapse of focus is clear on the actor's faces - they actually look confused and have a hard time connecting their dialog to one another. Sommers prefers resting on the production values of a jungle that looks like it was made to order from Pier One.If you like Kipling steer clear. If you like the '67 animated version, read the book instead. If you like jungle ambiance you'd be better served with a Ramar Of The Jungle episode or a Bomba programmer. John Cleese is not funny here and adds nothing except embarrassment. The wild animals are real, but one of Disney's Indian producers evidently drugged them because they just sit around for their photo op and are allowed no input on the storyline. Once the script makes that fateful detour into the soggy predictable romance it's game over.This version was a bomb in 1994 and, along with Rapa Nui, affectively ended Jason Scott Lee's career in Hollywood. Sadly he was never seen topless again. "},{"Title":"Watchable, but there are better versions","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  There's a little problem with truth in advertising here. The only thing this film has in common with Rudyard Kipling's book is the title and the name of the principle character (Mowgli). After that, there is no similarity.It's a decent adventure story, but if you're wanting to watch The Jungle Book, you're going to be disappointed. For that, I might suggest the 1942 version with Sabu or the 1967 animated version.Jason Scott Lee acts the part very well, but I simply couldn't believe him as Mowgli. He just didn't fit that part. Most of the other characters were fine ... but, of course, they weren't characters from the book. I gave it a 4.  "},{"Title":"The Jungle Book, minus anything worthwhile","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  I'm glad that I only watched this movie via a video tape at a relatives house.  I'd have been VERY upset if I'd paid any kind of money to watch it.  This is basically a live-action remake of the Jungle Book.  More like a live-action Jungle Book which just has some of the characters and nothing to do with the original.  I guess in THEORY it could work, but this film bungles THAT in every respect.  And what a waste of good talent, too.  Cary Elwes and John Cleese are great actors, what in their right minds drove them to do this?  The movie's biggest problem is the lack of charm or wit that the animated Jungle Book or the original book had.  Also, while the ads marketed it as a cute family film, this is actually very dark and oftentimes very gruesome.  What age group were they trying to appeal to?  I like a certain amount of dark moments in movies, especially in kids films, but because the movie was so poorly represented, I felt lied to.  The story is just about Mowgli and this new girl Kitty as they go hunt down a treasure.  Kitty is in the film because now that it's the 90's, there must always be a strong female character in EVERY kids film, no matter how pointless to the film she may be.  I'm not trying to be sexist, I AM female, but Kitty is so cliched she doesn't add much.  The animals, which were so lively in the old version and the book don't talk or really do much of ANYTHING that makes them worthy of being here.  What was the point of including them at all?  Oh, that's right, they realized they were making a kid's film.  Basically, this movie definitely needed a few more rewrites and a much more clear idea of who it was aimed for.  What a waste of a good idea... "},{"Title":"This is NOT the jungle book","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":"  The first clue you get is the credit based on the characters of.... This is not the jungle book. It is a bad copy of it with all the charm of the original sadly missing.It's hard to pinpoint exactly what's wrong. From the stereo-typed characters, to a plot that's so predictable it becomes less predictable the 2nd time you watch it, to some patchy acting and some glaring timing errors... "},{"Title":"The Jungle Book","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Family, Romance","Review":" If you have seen the original Walt Disney Pictures animated film, this is nothing like it. The animals don't talk, I didn't notice Shere Khan the tiger, and their's no Mowgli father (Sam Neill), Cary Elwes or John Cleese. Young Mowgli is left behind after a trip through the jungle, now after many years Mowgli (Jason Scott Lee) has been found by Dr. Plumford (Cleese) and a bunch of explorers living in the jungle. They try to help him become a proper human being. The animals are cute, fury or necessary, but I would prefer it if Baloo, Baghera and Louie would talk. They are just there as far as I saw to laugh at humans making fools of themselves. Don't bother seeing this unless your an animal lover, or a fans of the actors. Adequate! "}]