[{"Title":"How does a movie that starts off so well conclude so horribly?","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ** 1/2 out of ****For the better part of an hour, Mute Witness is a first-rate thriller. So good, in fact, it was quickly becoming one of my genre favorites. Good premise, great direction, mostly terrific acting, smart writing, this one had it all. That is until just a bit past the one-hour mark, when the film suddenly makes a mind-boggling idiotic decision to change the tone and approach of the material, and it all devolves into a cheesy mess that left a sour taste in my mouth. This is the perfect example of a would-be great film that's merely recommendable thanks to an awful finish.Billy Hughes (Marina Zudina) is the make-up artist for a cheesy slasher flick being filmed in Russia. A quick intro shows us that she may be mute, but she's pretty good at her job, which she may have also gotten because her sister is married to the director. After shooting for the day is wrapped up, Billy stays behind and is accidentally locked inside the soundstage. Waiting for help to arrive, she stumbles upon two of the film's crew members shooting a porno film, which quickly becomes a snuff piece. After a fairly amusing opening scene and an effective set-up of the characters, Mute Witness kicks into full throttle quickly. Immediately after Billy witnesses the murder, we get one of the more suspenseful extended setpieces I've ever seen. These fifteen minutes consist of Billy creeping around the soundstage, desperately trying to avoid those crew members she just witnessed. It's a genuine breathtaking, edge-of-the-seat sequence, quite possibly the movie's highlight.But the fun's not over. A little over halfway through the picture, we get another great stalk-and-slash sequence inside Billy's apartment. You even get to see cutie Marina Zudina fully nude, in some of the more gratuitous bits of flesh baring I've seen in a while (she has a great-looking butt), not that I'm really complaining. Zudina is probably the best thing about the film, she's not only extremely cute, but also smart and likable, a quick thinker who evades her attackers not because she's physically stronger or faster, but because she's smarter. (spoilers) While I figured the film couldn't possibly keep the momentum up, I wasn't expecting such a sharp turn of events, either. The film suddenly goes from edgy thriller to a cheesy spy film, packed with silly and predictable double-crosses and plot twists. The simplicity and stark atmosphere of the first hour is gone. The number of villains is bloated from two scary individuals to what is apparently the entire Russian mafia. The introduction of the undercover cop robs the movie of its key strength. The fun of the plot was watching Billy outthink and outsmart her attackers by herself. Bringing this guy into the mix shoves her into almost a supporting role and virtually reduces her to a mere sidekick/damsel in distress. Possibly worst of all is the decision to place Billy's sister and her husband into the thick of the action. I don't think I've ever seen such an extreme case of two characters who I initially liked that come to annoy me so much by the climax. These two are made into bumbling fools, they've basically become the film's comic relief. Attempts at humor include them accidentally killing the bad guys, dropping bullets in crucial situations, and generally acting as clumsy as possible but still somehow not getting themselves killed in the process. Director Anthony Waller had such a firm handle of the movie's pace and tone that I find it hard to believe he'd suddenly undo all his solid work in an instant. But the film's downward spiral is entirely his fault, the man wrote and directed the picture. He should have just stuck with what worked. But the first 2/3's are so much fun, it's worth recommending to thriller fans. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An amazing piece of film that was well-conceived and kept me on the edge of my seat. Brilliantly orchestrated in its timing, and the comedy kicked in exactly when the tension needed a release. The acting was generally well-done (the Director should've asked Alec Guinness for acting lessons), and the shot selections were impressive (as in elongating the hall as Billy tries to race to the door in the studio). This movie didn't let up since the opening scene... "},{"Title":".terrifying, balanced by black humor, nerve wrecking tension","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mute Witness is a terrifying roller coaster ride, with lots of black humor thrown in to perfect balance. What makes it so totally different from the usual thriller/horror, apart from its Moscow setting, the Russians are played by real Russians actors, even the American mute woman - excellent casting idea, because she acts brilliantly. More twists to the plot than you could hope for and the main part of the nerve wrecking tension comes from suggestion or chases and less from graphic violence, which one would expect from a film of that genre and plot. Apart from Alec Guinness' guest appearance, no big names, which only makes the film more attractive. I would be surprised if Mute Witness hasn't got cult status by now among the fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"When You Need A Diversion, This Will Do It","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This may be the most tension-filled movie I have ever seen.In fact, it's so nerve-wracking, I haven't been able to watch it again after viewing it two years ago, but I will since I have the DVD. There were a couple of scenes in here that are almost too much to watch....so if you've got problems and need to escape for an hour-and-half this film will get your mind off anything else. The Russian actress Marina Zudina did a super job in facial expressions alone, which she had to do since her character in here is a mute. She plays a cute and wholesome makeup artist for a sleazy filmmaker. After the day's shooting is done and Billie is about to leave, she hears something. She takes a peek into the room where they were filming and discovers they are now shooting a snuff film and actually killing someone. Billie's eavesdropping is discovered and she runs for her life as the killers go searching for her in this big warehouse-type building.There are two extended scenes in which our heroine is running for her life and both of them will wear you out. The first I described above. The second scene, the climactic one, goes on too long and isn't as well done as the first. In fact, the film should have been trimmed a bit but, overall, since it's so good at keeping our attention, then it served its purpose as entertainment. "},{"Title":"Still Great after Eighteen Years","Date":"14 September 2012","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" In Moscow, the clumsy director Andy Clarke (Evan Richards) is making a slasher movie in a studio set with Russian and American cast and crew. The responsible for the makeup is the mute Billy Hughes (Marina Sudina), who is the sister of Andy's girlfriend Karen Hughes (Fay Ripley).One day, Billy needs to find a mask for the shot on the next day and she stays after hours in the studio set seeking out the object. However, the janitor locks her in the studio alone and Billy cannot find a way out.When Billy sees light in the studio, she accidentally witnesses the Russians Arkadi (Igor Volkov) and Lyosha (Sergej Karlenkov) making a porn snuff movie and brutally killing a woman. Billy succeeds to escape, but the police officers do not trust on her. Further, the powerful Russian mafia chases her believing that Billy has a diskette with evidences against the mobsters.I saw Mute Witness eighteen years ago and I loved this film. Yesterday I saw it again, now on DVD, and it still is a great film that combines thriller and horror with black humor in a plot with many twists. The director Anthony Waller masterly raises tension and relieves with black humor, startling the viewer and then making him or her laugh. Unfortunately the conclusion is a little disappointing but it is worthwhile watching this wonderful little film. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Testemunha Muda (Mute Witness) "},{"Title":"Clever Homage to the Thriller Genre","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A couple of years before SCREAM spoofed the slasher/horror genre with savvy, self-conscious young things knowing every trick in the book of what to do and not to do in a precarious situation, a little movie produced in Russia hit the theatres without any grandiose pretensions.This movie was MUTE WITNESS. Starring a cast of unknowns (except an extremely brief cameo by Sir Alec Guiness whose scenes were purportedly filmed eight years prior to the actual filming of this movie), it told the story of a mute make-up artist, Billie, who is working on a film on location in Russia produced and directed by her sister's boyfriend Andy. She is unaware that the set has closed when she goes to retrieve her belongings and inadvertently stumbles onto a porn shoot that becomes extremely bloody. Overcome with horror she alerts the murderers of her presence, a chase ensues, and finally she is rescued by Andy who take her home as they alert the police. The trouble is... there is no body, no evidence that anything of the sort took place. Even so, a mysterious inspector seems to be on Billie's side of the story....And to say more would be criminal. MUTE WITNESS is the kind of film that demands a scrutiny of viewing similar to the most intricate, clever thriller because as much as it is a convoluted thriller, it's one that pays its dues to movies like WAIT UNTIL DARK and the best of Hitchcock in its choice of camera cuts, deadpan humor, Americans reacting in foreign countries where they are powerless, and nail-biting suspense until it seems something must snap. Even if the story does become a little too implausible due to the fact that the story arc suddenly becomes the focus of an even greater conspiracy, the film succeeds in not trying to trick the audience with cheap shots (for example the sudden appearance of a person on camera accompanied by a crashing swell of violins) but with the fear of the unknown and that death is only a shadow away. Very smart. "},{"Title":"Late Night Surprise -- Suspense!","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I couldn't stop watching this movie, though it was far past my bedtime. Comparisons to Hitchcock are deserved -- this thing really plays with you.   It walks a wonderful line between real, immediate suspense and a dark, distancing humor.  Like many of Hitch's heroes, our doe-eyed mute witness has innocently stumbled into something truly horrific -- and we are taken on quite a ride with her, at turns identifying totally and feeling her fear, at turns watching in thrilling suspense as she is placed further in jeopardy.The filmmakers have put in a lot of tender care in working this out.  Right from the opening shots, they engage and challenge you to determine what is real and what is fabrication; who is to be trusted and who is a monster.   The plot twists and turns unpredictably.  Suspense is created with a combination of carefully chosen camerawork, imagery, music --  but most simply THE EYES of the characters, which sends raw fear right into you. A warning  there is some frighteningly real gore, as well as some nudity.  The horror scenes are done in an emotional way that make them far more scary and disturbing than in any teenage-slasher pic.And a teen-slasher pic it AIN'T.  The characters are quirky and feel like real people, for one thing -- a couple (including the heroine) you may even find endearing as I did.  There will be no mistake you're watching a movie made for grown-ups.  I mean, Alec Guinness is in it, briefly, and you know he didn't NEED the work!Pop this in the VCR some night when you can't sleep. . . and don't want to, yet. "},{"Title":"Gripping and Tense Thriller !!!","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't know how this film went unnoticed for so long.I saw this film on TV, i was flipping through the channels and came across this unexpectedly well made film. i missed the first, probably , 10 minutes, but that does not matter..this film literally gripped me, it is a real spine chiller.The absence of well known actors in the film adds on to the effect,u do not know what to expect from the actors because they are new. U never know when they will get killed or what they are up to. so it is all the more tense.Even though there are many new faces their performances were top class.The filmmakers play with your mind, just revealing enough gore to make imagine the rest. The shock, fear, horror and helplessness are also brought out well by characters in the film.The well written situations n twists,fast camera movements, slick editing and superb direction makes it an excellent suspense thriller. This film actually switches between the genres - horror and suspense thriller leaving the viewer clueless and tensed. Undoubtedly comparable to Hitchcock. I could not even move from the TV even during the commercial breaks .. i was the helpless MUTE WITNESS to this superb film. "},{"Title":"Tense and gritty little thriller!","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I went into this film expecting a slasher, and while Mute Witness does take influence from said style of film-making, this is much more than just your average slash flick. There are a number of thrillers that focus on a certain disability - blindness is more common (Blind Terror, Wait Until Dark, Cat o'Nine Tails to name a handful), but the implications of having a mute lead in a thriller such as this are well portrayed, and actually integral to the plot as the fact that the lead character can't speak is often the reason why she finds herself in dangerous situations that would be easy for anyone else to get out of. Our mute witness is Billy Hughes, a make-up artist working on a horror film production at a studio in Moscow. She finds herself locked in after hours one night, and after attempting to phone her sister for help, she stumbles upon what at first appears to be the making of an illicit sex flick, but soon turns out to be a snuff movie! She tries to convince the authorities of what she's seen, but finds that no one believes her story...Recently Hostel made the headlines for showing snuff movie making in a foreign country, but this film did it first and actually does a better job. It's maybe not quite as nasty as Eli Roth's opus, but the gore is more effective, and since director Anthony Waller (who went on to direct one of my favourite modern thrillers with 'The Guilty') implements a good sense of humour into the proceedings, Mute Witness is both sufficiently gory and fun to watch. The director certainly has a talent for crafting suspenseful thrill rides, as this one never stands still. The plot is put into action quickly, and Waller constantly introduces plot twists which give a big helping hand to the overall entertainment value of the film. The acting isn't bad for a B-movie, with young performers Marina Zudina, Fay Ripley and Evan Richards delivering good performances. The atmosphere is gritty, and the Russian locations are suitably unfriendly, which helps the film to retain a foreboding atmosphere. Overall, Mute Witness is a much better film than you might expect it to be. The plot flows well, and the atmosphere and tension are spot on. "},{"Title":"A really tense little thriller","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An American film crew are based in Moscow with Russians making up much of the actual crew outside of the main elements.  Andy is the director with his girlfriend and her mute sister Billy as makeup artist.  One night after a shoot Billy finds herself locked in the large building being used as the main studio.  She comes downstairs having heard a noise to find two men making a porno film that quickly becomes a snuff film before her eyes.  Billy flees the men but finds herself with no evidence to back up her claim.  Meanwhile the shadowy figure behind the murder plans to cover all loose ends.I have managed to miss this film everytime it has come on TV and everytime it was in a cinema.  The closest I got was taping it once but it started late and I only got 20 minutes.  Happily I finally got my video skills together and caught it late the other night.  I had heard average reviews of this and only hoped that it would be enjoyable &#150; which it was.The plot starts simple (mute girl in peril) and builds later into a bit of a wider conspiracy. The first half of the film is it's strength, real terror, genuine tension and thrills.  The actual murder is horrible and shot well to let you imagine more than you see. The following pursuit is also excellent and very well directed.  The second half of the film is still very enjoyable and tense but never reaches those heights again.  The plot opens up to a wider conspiracy and shadowy figures and it looses much of it's tightness as a result.  The film is still very good mind you  and is much better than a lot of large budget thrillers.It isn't scary but it is very thrilling.  The director makes plenty of good shots to help crank it up a notch when needed, however his script does falter at the final few hurdles   Zudina is good and does really well as the girl in peril.  She can't scream or cry and has to carry her fear in her eyes which she does well.  Ripley and Richards are more there for comedy value but do help lighten the tone.  The rest of the cast are anonymous chasers and don't have too much presence, but the director has done such a good job with the tension that they don't need to be monsters, only men.  Guinness is OK I guess.  It's interesting to have him in such a film but did no one else notice how badly redubbed he was.  It was clear he had redone his lines in a studio &#150; the sound quality was to crisp compared to other's dialogue and it didn't match with his lips as it should have done &#150; shame.Overall I enjoyed this film.  For the most part it is simple, tight and very effective.  Great tension.  All the cast really put their fear in their eyes rather than relying on screams etc to convey it.  The second half of the film dips a little as the plot gets a bit baggy and slightly less convincing but by then you should be sold and it's energy carries it over some bits that drag a little.  Overall a really good little thriller. "}{"Title":"Words cannot express the horror.","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Billy Hughes is a mute young lady working for make-up on a cheap horror picture being filmed in Moscow by an American director. One night Billy gets locked in the movie studio. Later that night she hears that someone might be in the building and goes to check it out. That's when she stumbles across a woman being brutally murdered, while being filmed. After escaping the clutches of the murderers, Billy informs the authorities, only to be red-faced when the men show it was an act. Billy knows what she saw and soon her life is in turmoil again from underground figures that believe she has something of importance.I don't know how this heart-pounding sleeper passed me by, but I thought it was a much older flick. There's one thing though, it's got to be one of the most jarringly, and intense thrillers I've seen in quite a while. It's just a great suspense builder and mostly everything clicks into place! The first half of the feature is surprisingly gripping with taut sequences that have your heart in your throat and clouds us with an atmospherically foreboding environment of alienation. Underling this is a humorously wicked black streak. Faults do pop up in the story, as it does lose that furious grip it held so early and goofy humour (or better putter comic relief) between Fay Ripley and Evan Richard's characters is a hit and miss affair by being too forceful. In the long run, it probably could have done without. Despite some cringe moments, this aspect didn't hinder my enjoyment of it. For me, the soft ending they decided to go with just didn't feel right.The interestingly mysterious premise was eerie to the bone and packed some unsettling goods. So multi-facet was the context and its thrills, there was something fresh to how this all plays out and the nervy jolts and unbearable tension are weaved into a range of sudden plot turns and twists. Really, they made superb use of the novel idea of this disability and to handicap the situation, by staging it in a foreign place where not too many spoke English and so we are caught up in the confusion too. The delicate Marina Zudina gives a harrowing portrayal of the American mute girl Billy. The way she able to display the erratic emotions through her eyes and actions gave it some gruff and believability. Director Anthony Waller shoots the flick in a rather stylish, well-timed and skillful manner, without loosing that grimy look that eventuates from its rigid surroundings and a powerfully airy music score persistently nags at you. The only real name to make an appearance was small cameo part by Alec Guinness. The performances by the cast were all fine, especially the nail biting turns by Oleg Yankovsky and Igor Volkov as the Russian murderers.This riveting feature that's mostly made up of unknowns, is way better than your average dark thriller. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"Nail Biter Supreme","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I tend to chew on a fingernail or two during great fights and great movies and that doesn't happen very often. Not saying this movie is an all time classic but it is indeed a supreme nail biter and should have a place among great suspense movies. I gave it a vote of 8 just because I wanted to do my part to get this movie over the current 6.8 rating and up to a solid 7 where it deserves to be. I found this movie on a single list of top 100 best suspense movies of all time while searching the internet for same. I had no real expectations about this title but wow, this low budget movie delivers big time. Name another movie made for $2.000.000 that delivers even 10% of the thrills and chills. It feels like an American movie shot overseas even though it is a joint effort from Russia | UK | Germany. There are no over the top gore scenes and only one or two gratuitous nude scenes which for me is a big plus. I don't mind a nude scene in its place or a little blood letting but many of todays so called horror and suspense movies have absolutely nothing to offer except some weird competition to see who can be more creative (grosser) at removing body parts. Todays movie goers are lazy, they don't want to think or use their imagination, they just want everything laid open in front of them and explained down to the last detail. They have to see the knife in slow motion entering the body from every angle to be entertained. If a character says  they found her head in a hat box I don't have to see the head, thank you, I do have my own imagination. I see many reviewers calling this director a Hitchcock wannabe but who in the business wouldn't want to be compared to a great director like Hitch. I see this guy closer to Brian De Palma with his quite, nerve twisting pace. I promise you this movie will have you on the edge of your seat almost from the title screen and constantly guessing whats coming next. SEE IT! "},{"Title":"superb action-comedy","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Man, I never laughed so much this year, and it's quite hard to make me laugh. While I expected some Hostel-style movie, the smile came to my face even from the beginning. This film-inside-film start with a female stabbed victim messing the whole set until she finally die. Her overacting drive the director nuts and his funny reaction tell us, the viewers, that Mute Witness is not a typically horror movie.The main character, the mute American make-up artist Billy Hughes, is played by the beautiful yet talented Russian actress Marina Zudina. Her performance is top-notch; her character can't speak, so the body language and the emotions on her face must compensate.And, oh boy, she did a wonderful job. Her sister (Fay Ripley) is the girlfriend or the fiancée or the wife of the in-film director (Evan Richards). They were both very funny most of the time. I won't spoil more, but the scenes following the bathtub moment, with them both, the fake policemen and later the angry neighbor were plain brilliant black comedy.The plot got twisted near the end, possibly misleading at one particular moment. But don't worry. Such a delicious movie can be viewed in family or with your boy-/girl-/friend. "},{"Title":"Well worth watching","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you enjoy suspense this movie has it. The fact that Marina Zudina portrays a mute adds to her haplessness and increases the suspense. Alec Guiness's appearance was nice, but didn't really add to the movie. I'm not sure if Evan Richard's part as Andy Clarke was an attempt to add a little humor or if he was supposed to just be a bumbling idiot. I thought the cinematography was excellent. This added not just to the quality of the production but to the suspense as well. The bathtub seen with the water droplets in slow motion was wonderful. Also the scene where the knife comes down and then it switches to Andy Clarke cutting an extremely rare piece of meat was very well done. I would call it overall good entertainment "},{"Title":"A great, fun and effective (if sadly overlooked) thriller","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" It is always a well-known, and important directorial device to set up the atmosphere of a film within the first 5 minutes. In the crucial opening scenes, the film should assert itself and make the viewers take notice and get interested in the rest of the film. Here, in Mute Witness, we find a prime example of this.*Scene spoiler* In the first 5-10 minutes, the film opens to a very Hitchcockian scene of a pretty blonde lady in her apartment, with the radio on. She's wandering around, applying lipstick, dolling herself up, and ignoring the news report of a serial killer on the loose. Of course, the serial killer is in her house, and monitoring her moves, knife in hand. She hears a noise, looks in a room, and there is her partner in a pool of blood. At the very point of her screams, she turns around to be faced with the knife-wielding maniac, who stabs her repeatedly in a brutal and horrifying act.......then something odd happens. As the woman convulses in her death throes, the killer sits down and takes out a cigarette to watch his victim perish. Before he finds his lighter, his cigarette is lit...from someone else in the room! The camera pans out, and we realise that there are more and more people in the room, some taking notes, some filming, some recording the death, and that the lady is taking an awfully long time to die, and making a very hammy job of it too. When the audience realises what's going on, and the whole scene is part of a film, the suspenseful and horrific scene takes on an element of humour.*End Scene Spoiler* I have highlighted this opening scene for several reasons. Firstly, it portrays the atmosphere of the whole movie perfectly. A thriller in the style of Hitchcock or De Palma, with some very disorientating, and even blackly humorous moments. - It conveys a central subject matter (that of the difference between a 'movie screen death' and a 'snuff film death', an issue which is elaborated on later in the film), and finally, it introduces the viewer to the characters, all as silently as possible.The plot of Mute Witness centres around Billy Hughes, an American special effects make-up artist who is working on the set of the film, being shot in a large warehouse in Moscow. Billy cannot speak, but she communicates in sign language through her sister. After the end of an evening's filming, Billy inadvertently finds herself locked in the warehouse by accident, and in her attempt to escape, is witness to two of the crew making what first appears to be a porno film, but turns out to be a snuff movie. Suddenly, her escape from the warehouse is a matter of life and death.Without doubt, the first half of the film is powerful and absolutely gripping. Billy's saving grace, and her handicap is the fact that she isn't able to utter a sound. (In fact, in my opinion, one of the best aspects of the film is the fact that it isn't chock-full of women screaming). There are some utterly disturbing moments, and some superb set-pieces of real suspense (The corridoor, and the elevator shaft are perfect examples). The timing is fluid, and the whole first half is an incredibly satisfying experience in itself.The second half of the film introduces new concepts. While there are still several suspenseful moments, the focus is on plot twists. New characters are introduced, and it is ambiguous as to whose side they are on. While there is nothing wrong per se with the second half of the film, it just doesn't quite measure up to the first half. There are some neat moments of black humour that perfectly juxtapose and punctuate some very dramatic scenes, but there are also some very lame comedy moments (coming specifically from Billy's sister and her fiancée, who happens to be the director of the movie Billy is working on), that almost ruin the film, just because they are badly misplaced and/or mistimed and ruin the pace. - At the end, the twists keep coming at a rapid-fire speed, and the climax of the film is, appropriately, as tense as the first half.There are several things that really make the movie work. The barriers of communication that Billy must face, both as a mute, and as an American in Moscow, mean that even an emergency call for help becomes a dangerous situation. The actress that plays Billy, Natasha Zudina, does a wonderful job in the film, with an engaging on-screen prescence, and a brilliant performance, and finally, the direction as a whole, but most particularly in the first half of the film, which truly is a study in Alfred Hitchcock's suspense/thriller film techniques.As I have already said, though, the let-downs in the film are from some terrible comic relief moments that really do not need to be added. There is already a consistent and effective streak of dark humour that appears in the film without the need for the characters of Karen Hughes and Andy Clarke (The sister and the moviemaker) to turn their scenes into some unusual sit-com. However, despite these shortcomings, the film is a thoroughly enjoyable thriller, and ideal for a group viewing at halloween. (Certainly better than the usual slasher horror film...!) "},{"Title":"a decent thriller","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is somewhat original, and all the actors did their job pretty well. There is a plenty of comic relief, too. Some things do not make a lot of sense (e.g. the first chase scene, why would the heroine not just hide somewhere and wait until the baddies leave?).  The Russians actually speak Russian without accent, but the cars are extremely strange, with models spanning like 50 years, and so the place seems weirdly out of time. Overall, if you like thrillers you will probably like this one as well. "},{"Title":"Excellent leading actress, overall suspenseful film","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like to watch independent films. Some of them are way better than anything Hollywood could ever create. That's why I'm happy I get IFC (Independent Film Channel) on my TV. I saw this film was going to be on IFC. I didn't really know much about the film at the time I decided to watch it, but I felt like watching a thriller movie.It is a good thing I caught this film. It is definitely a superior indie suspense picture. The leading actress, Marina Sudina, is beautiful and sexy and acts in her role very well. It is too bad that none of her other film work is available on video or DVD in the U.S.A. I would definitely see another one of her films. Anyhow, I think very highly of this film, not only as an indie thriller, but just as an overall excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Indecisive but fun","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was loaned this film on DVD by a friend, and would advise anyone else of the warning he gave me don't be put off by the first ten minutes. After that, the film offers laughs and scares in pretty much equal measure, and throws in Obi-Wan Kenobi for kicks (but the soothing voice of the Jedi Master does come off as incongruous). Overall, I enjoyed the movie, but felt that it was not sure what it wanted to be, as it never committed to horror or comedy, but in flirting wholeheartedly with both, didn't seem to be a horror-comedy either. There was enough mileage in there for a highly effective thriller, but losing the comedy (wait for the devastation of Billy's apartment!) would also seem a shame, so I guess sticking with the schizophrenia works. "},{"Title":"Rather Overrated Horror Thriller","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Billy Hughes, a mute makeup artist working on a slasher film being shot in Moscow, is locked in the studio after hours. While there she witnesses a brutal murder, and must first escape capture at that time, then keep from being killed before convincing authorities of what she's seen.Critical reception has been mostly positive and the film currently holds a rating of 80% fresh on Rotten Tomatoes, based upon 20 reviews. Variety gave the film a mostly positive review, remarking that while the movie can be entirely plot-driven, neglecting to develop intriguing characterizations, its suspense is so chilling, its narrative so disciplined and its style so pleasurable, they jointly triumph over the other deficiencies. The review from the New Yorker was more mixed and they wrote that the director's technique is impressive; the film falls flat only when he attempts to make the frightening funny. But the plot takes some nice twists and turns, the tension builds a good head of steam, and the tawdriness never lets up. Personally, I think the film is a bit over-rated. I like what they were going for, and it almost has a giallo quality to it with a character who has seen something but can do very little about it. But it seems to be mixing horror with political thriller, and not all that well. "},{"Title":"Entertaining thriller/horror film","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" An entertaining if not very well known thriller/horror film from the 1990s. In Moscow, a slasher film is being shoot at midnight in an old, decrepit studio (the setting is a plus for the movie, since in the 90s, Moscow had a reputation as an anything goes, mafia infested city). Billy, a mute make up artist (played very well by Marina Zudina, a beautiful Russian actress) accidentally witnesses a porno shoot there, done after hours, that soon turns into a real murder. When she is discovered, the homicidal crew of the snuff film starts pursuing her. More things happen that I won't reveal; the film is obviously not for everyone but is entertaining for those who like horror films, even though the ending is a bit of a letdown. The movie is also remarkable as Alec Guinness' last film he has a cameo a sort of a mafia don. "}{"Title":"Highly recommended despite some silliness towards the end","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first half to 3/4 of this movie are top quality suspense with a fine smattering of dark humor. The director uses camera angles and location beautifully and the screenplay makes a brilliant job of using the lead characters vulnerabilities (her inability to speak and being in a foreign country)as a major plot device. The chase through the building sequence is one of the most thrilling chase scenes I've witnessed - and all without special effects or big explosions! The movie had me on the edge of my seat and I lost several nails due to biting them, which no movie has managed in quite some time!! It reminded me of Wait Until Dark & The Spiral Staircase (original) and was every bit as beautifully directed as those awesome classics of old. I particularly loved the use of some very well thought-out close-ups and slo-mo camera sequences that added a unique style to the movie and enhanced it's sense of dread and danger.BUT I have to agree with other reviewers that unfortunately things fall apart a bit in the last half hour. Not enough to completely ruin the movie but certainly enough to pull the viewer out of the suspense and involvement that we'd been enjoying until then. (for some viewers this might actually be a good thing tho!!) I liked the ambiguity of the character that was introduced, I thought that worked well because we could not tell where he stood. But the other surprises and strange plot twists became a bit over the top and the movie lost a lot of it's very well developed feeling of reality. As for the sister/husband act in that last bit, they could easily have been left out (they were not important to the plot) and the movie would have been far better off for it. It really does feel like someone else took over and put together the ending because it's so different to the rest of it.But in the end this still rates as one of the best thrillers I've seen in recent times - as long as you don't count the ending. I highly recommend it. (I gave it a 7 but with a few adjustments to the screenplay it could easily have been a 9 & a new classic) "},{"Title":"She won't be silenced.","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Mute Witness is a brilliant suspense film that is completely undermined by the last 30 minutes. The entire first hour is a relentless edge of your seat thrill ride unlike any other. In the film, a mute girl, Billy Hughes, accidentally witnesses a snuff film being made and the killers must eliminate her at all costs. Through narrow escape after narrow escape our heroine isn't allowed a moments rest, and neither is the audience. I wish the whole film would have taken place in the studio with Billy trapped and the killers in pursuit. It was just so damn good. The lighting and camera work is amazing throughout this sequence and the acting by everyone is also quite good. However, seemingly out of nowhere the film changes tone and becomes a cheesy spy movie with everyone looking for some diskette! Let's not forget the goofy American couple running around in completely slapstick fashion. What the hell went wrong? It's like two people were writing the script and they didn't consult one another. The stupidity of the second half is made far worse by the near-perfection of the first. That first hour contained some of the best suspense I've ever seen in a film of this type. It's a shame because Mute Witness could have defined the genre. I still strongly suggest checking it out, but beware the insulting finale. "},{"Title":"Probably the most underrated horror film of the '90's","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is, without doubt, one of my favourite horror films ever! I really cannot believe that it didn't gain much more popularity when it was released, especially when the main contenders at the time were the usual Wes Craven sequels and copycat horrors, Mute Witness has all the style, suspense and quickfire plot twists of a Hitchcock/DePalma movie, coupled with some very sharp black comedy and a great plot. It never promises to be any more than a good popcorn-and-hot-dog movie, but it is difficult not to just enjoy the film for what it is.The plot centres on Billie Hughes - a mute girl working on the set of a horror film being made in a Russian factory. By a series of events, she finds herself accidentally locked in, and stumbles on the filming of a snuff movie.One of the best things about the film is the lack of screaming that seems to invade every horror film ever made. As the main character is mute, she cannot make a noise - something which is a blessing at some stages of the movie, and a curse in others.The director seems to have studied his Hitchcock very well, Even the opening scene is a tongue-in-cheek nod to both Hitchcock's Psycho as well as fairly generic slasher movie scenes.While the acting can be hammy at times, the whole film does hold it together, not only throwing in a couple of excellent scenes that put you right on the edge of your seat, but a few neat little questions about how the film is going to end.All in all, a hugely overlooked, well-paced and action packed psycho-thriller which I would recommend for any jaded viewer looking for something a little different from the usual Freddy/Jason/Scream/Michael Myers/Damien regurgitation's at hallowe'en. "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"3 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  We all went to a Sony theater expecting to see another 1994 release, the theater did a test sneak and those who chose to stay saw Mute Witness, there was no press on it beforehand, the audience was the most scared and freaked out of any film I have viewed with an audience, more than The Exorcist or Halloween. Several people could not handle the material and left the theater, and after the picture opened, the theater soon pulled it, as it was over the top in suspense gore and subject matter, and reciepts may have been off as a result. If you pay attention, and stay with Billy on her struggle, allowing yourself to get caught up in it, this film is one HELL of a nail biter. On video, it isn't the same, you really need an audience, preferably one that hasn't seen it before, to get the full blood-curdling impact. Waller does a very good job and makes it look easy. It is a genre piece and moves the audience into safer territory near the end, I believe, to keep the form consistent with its stylistic opening. The film has its place in history with the most intense material ever put on screen.  "},{"Title":"(SPOILER) Almost A Really Good Movie","Date":"12 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the acting in this movie.  Except for the sister.  She reminded me of Janice on Friends.  I could never quite believe she was anything but obnoxious.  My main problems with the movie were the anticlimatic ending and the execution scene with the sister and brother-in-law.  The guy falling out of the exploding car?  Maybe if his hand had been blown off and he ran to the mute for help and she kissed him and rushed him to a hospital, maybe then I could have gone for the ending.  I think somebody needed to die in the execution scene.  Mainly the brother-in-law.  He was such a pain in the ass anyway.  Or maybe the sister needed to accidentally kill the guy who saved the mute.  I could have even bought into the brother-in-law killing the hero and the ending being the two sisters being put in snuff films. It is worth watching again and as I always say, it is much easier to be a reviewer instead of an author. "},{"Title":"Well worth a watch","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've waited 9 years to watch this film, simply because i never saw it advertised on TV.  Eventually i caught it and it was well worth the wait. It's much better than your over-hyped scream or last summer garbage because it's all at a fairly quick pace, with no drawn out, creeping through the house to cheesy music scenes.  Only the bad dubbing lets it down a little but don't let that put you off in any way.  What lies beneath - over hyped and crap.  Mute witness - low budget, not hyped at all and very good. "},{"Title":"Hitchcockian thriller based around a witness to a snuff movie","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why this isn't available on DVD. Its a gripping thriller that maintains tension from start to end. Way better than most junk available on the video store shelves. Its nearest comparison that I can think of in terms of feel would be something like 'Panic Room'. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I'm ashamed to admit that I had never heard of this film until tonight, when I rolled in from the pub and turned the telly on.Great entertainment !Reviewers below have done a very good job of writing this film up, so I won't attempt to do it again.It is not a particularly scary film, but it does contain moments of great suspense. I agree with the reviewer who pointed out the parallels between this film and Spiral Staircase - a classic mute woman under threat film.Okay, I admit it, I'm a sucker for women who can't speak. LOL.Seriously, this film was great fun. But not a classic; I felt that the director tried just a little TOO hard to put in a few twists. Scrub that - a lot of twists ! So 7/10.Try to see it if you can - you will be pleasantly surprised, a lot! "},{"Title":"An hilarious thriller","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie ! I think I've seen it 5 times already (it was quite a success in France and they often play it on TV). Ok, it's a thriller and there is great tension. But mostly (and specifically in the second part) it is absolutely hilarious ! And very original. The directing and photography are just splendid.  "},{"Title":"Great under-rated film","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A great perfect little film that I saw years ago on its first release. Since then oddly I have heard little more, I cannot remember seeing it on TV or in the video store. Well worth hunting down and a hell of lot better than a lot of the rubbish Hollywood is now churning out. "}{"Title":"Hitchcock would have been jealous of this one...","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This first film by writer/director Anthony Waller is above all standards. Although made with a low budget it has all the ingredients a good thriller should have. The story is about a girl who works for a film company  and who gets to be the accidental witness of a murder while it's being filmed for a snuff-movie. Because she is mute, she later has lots of difficulty explaining the police what has happened. Besides that, they don't believe her. The plot in the movie keeps changing in a very original way without losing it's credibility. The high tension goes on for as long the film lasts and thus will keep you to the edge of your seat for 95 minutes. The acting as well as the directing is great. Marina Sudina (whom I had never heard of before) is not only a very attractive actress but a very good one too. Hitchcock would have been jealous of this one... 9 out of 10.       "},{"Title":"Far better than SCREAM 1-3","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is definitely one of the most scary and spell-binding films ever made. You are stuck to the movie from the beginning to the very end. Even though there are some plot holes, it keeps being exciting to the final showdown. Besides 8 MM and Peeping Tom this is one of the best films about Snuff Movies, a taboo theme of our culture. If you like the SCREAM Trilogy, you will probably love that one. "},{"Title":"A  mute girl witnesses a murder and puts her life on the line.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An intense thriller about a mute movie make-up artist who witnesses a snuff film being made when she is working late in the studio one night. After she tries to get away from the murder scene, she realizes she is in for more than she bargained for when the entire mafia is out to kill her for being a witness. This movie leaves you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Best thriller in some time","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It is a real shame that this film didn't make more than 1 million dollars at the box office, because it is a much better thriller than any other I've seen in its decade. The plot is simple Mute woman accidentally witnesses a killing in a snuff film one day, late at night in a big old film studio, something nobody was ever meant to see. Of course, by the time she gets out and the police get to her, no one believes her, and the killers tell the police they were making a movie and faking a killing! No one goes to jail, and the killers are now after her!This thriller is not only well acted, but very creepy, tense and satisfying. It had a perfect ending! This thriller seems very old-fashioned, which is great, and my only complaint is the well-deserved R rating. Had it gone for a PG-13, I think I (and many others) would have enjoyed it more. The whole 5-minute 'snuff' scene was very unpleasant, and the movie's violence should have been toned down a little, to fully perfect the wonderful 'old-fashioned thriller'-feeling to it all. But complaining of such is like complaining that the best tasting candy is not nutritious Who gives a hell?After the 'snuff' sequence, it's a roller-coaster ride of fast paced thrills and fun, and you'll be on the edge of your seat the whole time.9.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"In Russia, no-one can hear you scream.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is as close as anyone wants to get to the facts. 1000's of people disappeared in Russia and no-one knows if they became attractions for the Underworld. The film itself doesn't come with the warning that it is based on a true story - because no-one would believe the terrifying truth.Thank God if you aren't there. "},{"Title":"Either Count the Cliches or Enjoy the Ride","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  You may be tempted to count the cliches in this damsel-in-distress thriller. From the movie-within-a-movie opening scene to the ending's last surprise, there is not too much that hasn't been done before in Mute Witness. Had it been made in the US as originally planned, the filmmakers would've risked getting heavily panned. As it is, the Moscow sets and actors add a lot of atmosphere, the director and cameraman have a true flair for action sequences, and the mostly unknown cast are likeable and give good performances. If we know what's going to happen when our female lead takes a bath during a breather from being stalked by killers, my recommendation is just to enjoy it. "},{"Title":"suspense, suspense and violence","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a VERY good movie. I give it a 10.It's very different in that it's kind of a long stalking scene all the way through. The fact that the main character is mute is used throughout the story in a very believable way.She sees a murder (for a snuff-movie) and decides to run but is chased (this takes quite some time). I won't reveal the rest of the movie for it would spoil the experience, but rest assured it's very believable, well played, very intense and has some nice surprises plus a great ending.Don't miss this movie. "},{"Title":"Action packed and tense thriller.","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Mute Witness is a modest, yet very solid thriller that never really received the attention or good comments it deserves. The film &#150; written and directed entirely by Anthony Waller &#150; is a tense, action-packed thriller with black comedy aspects and horror influences. No pointless mumbo-jumbo or endless plot-twists&#133;just straight to the point mystery. Mute Witness handles about the vicious topic of `snuff'-movies and is effectively set in Russia. *** SPOILERS *** Since the production costs are cheaper there, a US film crew temporarily moves to Russia for shooting a horror film. An old hangar is used as film location. The female make-up artist of the team accidentally gets locked up overnight and while trying to find a way out, she witnesses the recordings of an authentic snuff-movie! She's caught and tries to escape but, since she's a mute, she can't cry for help and neither can she explain what she saw to the police properly. The girl's life is in real danger now, since there's a whole hidden network behind these snuff productions and they don't want the witnesses to be alive&#133; *** End Spoilers ***. Mute Witness contains multiple highly exiting action sequences and is rather bloody. Some of the mystery clues are effectively kept secret till the very end. Regarding the similar topic, I'd say it's definitely better than the more famous `8 mm', directed by Joel Schumacher and starring Nicolas Cage. The acting in Mute Witness isn't great, but the leading actress (who's Russian herself) looks really cute. Sir Alec Guinness makes a special appearance, too. And a very cool one, I may say. Surely recommended with guaranteed fun and scares.  "},{"Title":"Great beginning but weak ending","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The story is airtight from the beginning until the latter third of this movie. Then the story gets more and more outrageous. The Main character portrayed by Marina Sudina is fantastic and had a difficult role. This could have been a super-great movie had the ending been more realistic. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Well, this film came on on a workday at 230am.  The cute little actress who played Billy caught my attention initially and after the 1st 15 minutes I was held captive to my television till the very end. It has you on the edge of your seat, then throws in clever bits of comedy during the most tense sequences.The only draw back is that the story was not substantial enough to fill hour an a half film, causing certain sequences to drag just a little. Nonetheless, it was still very entertaining, and I recommended it to all my co-workers the next day.  "}{"Title":"Strictly average.","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Judging from this, his first feature, Anthony Waller seems to be a gifted director but a mediocre screenwriter. His directing is fast-moving and efficient, and he achieves a few astonishing shots (for example, a scene with water drops). But his poor script betrays him. At first, it's just repetitive, recycling the same situation over and over again; as it progresses it gets worse. Near the end, when a brilliant plan is constructed for the heroine's salvation, it gets implausible and downright dumb. At least the vulnerable heroine in this movie, well-played by Marina Sudina, shows an amount of pluckiness that is quite unusual for this type of thriller.    (**) "},{"Title":"Silence is golden.","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Marina Zudina stars as a mute makeup artist who witnesses a brutal snuff film being made, turns out it was real.  She spends the rest of the movie running from the criminals who know she saw the murder. The movie itself heavily recalls Hitchcock such as the Psycho worthy murder scene, the fact that protagonist Billy Hughes is a beautiful woman who has the disability, and other random imagery.  When she is on her phone using her computer the robotic voice is chilling.  And in a quasi-Rear Window moment, her cry for help with that device in a foreign country augments her dilemma, so she tries to flash her neighbor to get his attention!  Staying in the Hitchcock vein, the second half chase was adventurous and darkly comedic.  Some may say the humor was misplaced, but I found it to be a funny and welcome respite even after the brutal, suspenseful first half.  And look for some crucial foreshadowing, which I won't give away.  The Russian Ms. Zudina is ingeniously cast as the American, voiceless witness.  I was unfamiliar with her before I saw this movie.  Here was an actress who understood that her job was not to talk.  She performed her job well in facially expressing the gamut of pertinent emotions, therefore succeeding in invoking sympathy for her throughout the entire movie.  Superior acting, for she was Billy Hughes speaking. A first-rate, very well-made and entertaining thriller, superior to many others and highly recommended.       "},{"Title":"Back in (almost) USSR.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very good surprise,this horror low budget movie.The influences are definitely European,and Dario Argento's fans should relish with thatthe cinematography and the direction recall such works as suspiria and l'ucello della piume de cristallo with a simpler script and less showing off.The mute  heroine will make old cinema buffs think of Dorothy MCGuire's part in the spiral staircase(Robert Siodmak,1946),but this latter movie was hitchcockian to the core whereas this one ,I say it again,is more argentoesquethe scene in which the baddie tries to force open the frightened girl flat was in the two mentioned movies.The comic relief (the people above who cannot sleep because of the noise ) might be an allusion to HG Clouzot's les diaboliques.This is an action-packed story,using the settings with intelligence and dexterity.And very honest,at thatRussians speak Russian and thus are credible.This adds to the suspense because there are actually three languagesRussian ,English,and the heroine's one who can only communicate by looks and gestures.To top it all,there's a superb cameo for sir Alec Guiness -the only star of the movie,at least in western Europe and America-,who appears billed as mystery guest star in the credits.All psychological suspense afficionados must see this overlooked gem. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller!!!","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a true thriller, rent this!!! It's not from the director or screenwriter of Scream, doesn't feature overacting, overpaid TV actors passing off as stars, and is not a run of the mill special effects bonanza.  Instead you'll get a top-notch, edgy, very strong (in violence) yet thrilling nailbiter. "},{"Title":"A movie that will surprise you","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie over two years ago and it still sticks in mymind.  It is a movie which due to the setting and therelatively unknown actors gives this movie a sense oforiginality.The movie has plenty of scary moments and in a lot of places isvery funny (whether always intended or not).  If you arelooking for something different, then go and see this one.You will be pleasantly suprised. "},{"Title":"russian rollercoaster","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  In today's world of advertising and teenage horror and sensationalism it is very rare that one gets to see a movie and no nothing about it. Movies like Psycho and Blair Witch, while being great in suspense (both with great build ups) are spoiled by the fact that we know all about the best scenes and at least the plot before we see them. With Mute Witness, a rare treat, I stumbled upon this film and watched it, scared witless, in the middle of the night. I was scared by the menacing Russian ambience, the 'snuff' theme and the claustrophobic plight of the mute and the fact that the (amusing, which always leads to likeable) characters could meet the end at any second. Since this is a low budget and rare film we watch it without any expectations. It also has Fay Ripley in a rare movie role, watch and prepare to be excited, scared and thrilled in totally unexpected ways. "},{"Title":"A Slightly offbeat and Hugely Enjoyable Film","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This Film is Remarkable for many reasons,  a minor, but worth noteing one is the story behind Sir Alec Guinness's appearance in the film.As mentioned before his scenes were shot few years before the main bulk of the film was completed , the Director approached him personaly at a hotel (in Russia?) and literaly begged him to appear.The great man agreed on two conditions, the first that he was'nt  credited at all, and second that his scenes could be shot the next morning in the 15 minutes  before he left for the  airport, he had no knowledge of the plot or what the script would be and  incidently recieved no fee.The final result pays homage not only to Sir Alec's  acting but also to the editing and foresight of the director. "},{"Title":"A good low-budget thriller","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Despite a little blood (in the post-Tarantino age), this is not a horror film but a Hitchcockian Thriller.  The Hitchcock comparison applies directly to the good use of a gimmick - the main character and witness being Mute; well acted by a Russian actress as an American.  Without this device, the film would falter greatly, but it's still well made enough to grab your attention within the first few minutes and keep it for the duration.  Several times I thought I knew where it was going (who the bad guy was) - but that's exactly what the filmmaker wanted. Worth seeing for a good thriller. Interesting side note (spoiler?) Alec Guinness isn't credited in the credits.  Legend (read magazine I read years ago) has it that the director shot the footage of Guinness years before the rest of the film was shot, and held onto it until the film could be completed.  In the time that passed, the setting of the film moved to Russia, among other changes, I'm sure.  This explains why he's not in shots with any other actors. His scenes are pretty well edited, considering. "},{"Title":"SCARY!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  First half of the movie scared the hell out of me and normally I'm not easy to scare, but second half of this thriller didn't work quite a well, but still very scary! A good thriller, than use simple ways to make good horror. Lowbudget, set in Russia, unknown cast, and made in Europe. but still great fun, and yes there is a few laughs throw in for good matters as well! "},{"Title":"A big surprise !","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Too good to be true. That's basically what I said to myself after 45 minutes of Mute Witness. The suspense is built up like I've never seen before in a movie. It's absolutely brilliant. The camera movement, the timing and the music gives you a hell of a ride. Unfortunately, the movie doesn't keep its promise for the ending... it could have been the master movie of suspense.  "}{"Title":"silence has broken","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  'Mute witness' is a very extra-ordinary movie. The makers didn't need a lot of special effects or famous faces to turn this film into an uplifting experience. It is a great example of what we call 'pure film making'. When suspense is being built up, the camera movements become so intense (shaking) that the audience is immediately thrown in to the action, into the emotion of the main character. For example, in the chase-scene in the hallway, suspense is culminating as the murderer catches up with the girl, and finally, there is the ultimate climax the girls falls down, the camera follows her in slow motion (sorry for my 'strong language', but you could compare this scene with an orgasm...). The fact that the story is situated in Moscow, gives all this a gloomy atmosphere and makes it different from other (Hollywood) movies. The 'Black humour' of 'Mute Witness' is splendidly built in. In short, 'Mute Witness' is a ride you'll never forget, without a second of silence. Silence has 'deaf'initely broken!   "},{"Title":"Thrilling...horrifying...and sometimes even amusing!","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this one in a sneak preview without knowing what to expect, and it turned out to be another reason to go to these sneaks. Not being one of these stupid Russian-Mafia-stereotype movies I liked this film from the very first minute. This is stalking, chasing, hiding, running to the extreme but never predictable or somewhat un-original. This is a film that really made me think and still does. I must admit, I haven't seen it in a while but I remember it to be one of the best serious suspense-thrillers I have ever seen.   "},{"Title":"A thriller in Russia in silent peace","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the movies one has to start watching with an open mind. One knows it's going to about a mute, one could look forward to or be afraid for a lot of sentiment.Well, forget it. The movie starts with a little black humour, and then gets started. From then on its takes you on an ever frightening ride through the dark centers of Moscow. All right, it must be said the unexpected twists are expected, and the mute is mainly used as a plot tool or fear builder. But this movie doesn't let you go.It's like the old gangster movies, but then without any glamour at all and in Russia. And that's one of the most important aspects of this movie it's situated in Russia. This does have a great impact on the movie, according to me it makes it better. Everything becomes simple and basic, life is without nonsense. This could be a great potential for more movies in the future, gangster movies about the Russian mafia.It is a beautifull and terrifying movie. It's horror, but you can't feel but sympathy for the little mute. One last advice don't look this too late in the evening if you want to sleep well. "},{"Title":"Mute Witness- a good piece of filmmaking with no heart","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a superb technical exercise by a director who obviously has talent to spare. It's suspenseful for almost every minute of its running time. The film contains a number of very clever moments, some of which are quite funny, and all of which give the impression that the director has thought deeply about his craft. But the film has at least two major flaw. Firstly, the film is too busy, even giving the appearance of being rushed. This is, of course, intended to make the film more suspenseful, but there are sometimes too many suspense and action 'ideas' thrown together into one short sequence, and this renders a certain amount of the action quite implausible. Everything is played at the same fast pitch; there are virtually no sequences which manage to be slow-paced and dreadfully suspenseful at the same time; in other words, the kind of talent for suspense that we associate with Hitchcock. Nevertheless, for what it is and what it tries to do, this is superior as a thriller to almost anything else out there, with the possible exception of David Fincher at his very best.The other major criticism is that the film has no heart, no humanity. It's not simply that there is not time given to emotion and character  development, although this is true enough. Nothing in the film ever particularly engages our sympathy, beyond wanting the heroin escape from her truly repugnant pursuers. Without humanity there is of course no real ethic or moral conflict to be found, and this in my view reduces the film to a great technical exercise which is hollow inside. There is a horrible murder scene in the film, and one desperately wants something (anything) to offset the ugliness.  It's inferior to a film like 'Control Room' which balances brilliant suspense sequences with drama, created by minimal but effective exposition of the conflicting motives of the characters. In short, if you're going to be heartless and pitiless with your story and characters, you had better have the brilliance of a Hitchcock (or an Argento at his best) to make up for it. Anthony Waller is almost there, but not quite.   Film trivia Alec Guinness tells in one of his books how he came to do this cameo (which he almost immediately forgot about afterward). The director simply saw Guinness in a restaurant and begged him to do the scene. Guinness kindly obliged him by memorizing and speaking his handful of lines, which of course made no sense to him at all. Guinness' real voice is obviously not being used when we hear the Reaper giving commands via walkie-talkie in the climax. At least they could have taken the time to do a better impersonation of Guinness! It's probably the film's biggest technical gaffe, and certainly the most annoying.  "},{"Title":"one scene that's on par with Hitchcock...the rest is so-so","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented Mute Witness based on a lot of overly positive reviews I'd read praising its craftsmanship and suspense.  After seeing it, do I believe it's on par with, say, Hitchcock's Frenzy?  Not at all.  Is it a passable way to kill 90 minutes?  Sure, and to its credit, it is much better than a lot of the dreck lining video shelves...but it is also just frustratingly average.  Writer/director Anthony Waller builds an effective setpiece early on (reminiscent of the 'museum scene' in Dressed to Kill), where Billy (Maria Sudina), a mute makeup artist on a low-budget movie, witnesses what appears to be a snuff film, and proceeds to get chased through the building by the perpetrators, always keeping one move ahead.  This is very complex and well-done, but sadly, it's the high point of Mute Witness.  After that, the film becomes a labyrinth of plot twists that even the director can't keep track of (though you'll be one step ahead of each), made all the more confusing because of some very, VERY thick Russian accents (oftentimes I couldn't tell if it was Russian or just very broken English the characters were speaking--subtitles please!), and two American filmmakers who bring an awkward sitcom quality to the proceedings.  I like movies that don't deliver what is expected, but I dislike it when movies emphasize style over character, which Mute Witness does seemingly every five minutes in the last act--Waller has apparently watched too many Dario Argento films.  Despite its flaws, Mute Witness is an okay film, buoyed by a fantastic lead performance from Maria Sudina, who is more expressive and charismatic than most Hollywood starlets.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Scary? Well...","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have noticed that quite many people consider this film to be scary. Well, I guess they haven't seen a lot of scary films. This is an ok thriller, but nothing spectacular. I have to admit that the scene in the beginning where the murderers are chasing Billy is quite thrilling, but scary? No. And from that moment on, the films loses its edge. After that chase it comes somewhat an ordinary thriller with no great surprises. But it's not a bad film, you can watch it once at least. And the actress who plays Billy, the lead character, is pretty cute.I gave it an 6/10. "},{"Title":"It FEELS like Hitchcock, but it certainly isn't as good as the real stuff","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" At first this movie really had my full attention. I'm not saying this was an original movie, like I had never seen before, but it sure had something to offer that really appealed to me. It's a pity that it all went wrong in the second half of the movie.Billy Hughes is a mute make-up artist who works on an American slasher movie that's being shot in Moscow. One fine evening she witnesses the making of a snuff movie in the studio where her crew works. Now she has to try to escape from the murderers (Russian people who work in her film crew), to stay alive and to convince the authorities that the murder that she witnessed is real.I like to watch good thrillers and I'm a fan of European movies, because most of the time they pay more attention to the character development and the story. Even though this movie sometimes reminds me of a Hitchcock movie and even though it has a European cast and director, it can't convince me all that much. It has some good potential, but somehow they have messed it up and made it look like a mediocre Hollywood movie. The story is quite original, the locations are nice, but it is the acting that doesn't always do the trick. I'm not saying the actors are bad, but they aren't great either. I guess there are people who really love this movie, but I'm certainly not one of them. I give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Uninspiring thriller...","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had never heard about this movie prior to finding it by sheer random luck during a visit to the local secondhand DVD store, and at less than $2, it was an affordable chance to buy it.And having seen the movie already, I must admit that I sat there with a lacking sense of entertainment. The story in Mute Witness just wasn't particularly interesting or captivating. But giving the story the benefit of the doubt I stuck with it to the very end. But the story just never turned the interesting corner.The acting in the movie was actually okay, but the actors and actresses had very little to work with in terms of storyline and direction.I was surprised to see Alec Guineness making a short appearance in a movie of this type. Sure, his mere presence added something to the movie, but it just wasn't nowhere near enough to do anything to this train wreck of a movie.Mute Witness just isn't really worth the time or effort. "},{"Title":"The first hour was really good","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" The first half of the Mute Witness was really understandable and thrilling- it made sense. The start of the movie, which takes us into a studio where a murder is being rehearsed, is really shot well. Then, we are introduced to a mute make-up artist, her sister and her sister's husband, who is the director of the film. It has quirky moments in the beginning, which is actually funny and witty, and you know that these things must be occurring during a film's shooting. Side-actors thinking they are the prime actors and trying to lengthen the screen to show their presence to the audience, even though their role is miserly, many a times, happens in cinemas. So you could relate the plot. Then, at night, the mute lady, is mistakenly locked at the studio- what could she do, she couldn't shout as she was dumb. She calls her sister, then witnesses a murder taking place in the studio by two of the people working in the film and decides to fled. The murderers search for her and find her when her sister and her husband arrive at the spot and she explains to them with gestures and hand movements about the murder. But no one except her sister pays any heed to her as the accused have eradicated all their evidence. Then, we are shown that the accused are working for someone who tells them to kill the witness. They attack her at her house but she outwits them and while her sister, worried, and her husband arrive at her place. Till here, the story is perfectly clear. I loved everyone's acting and found their performances strong. The way they show the lady being murdered is quiet brutal and intense, though not scary in my opinion. The way they show the mute girl escaping is shot really well. The camera effects, the sudden silence, the heavy breathing, all are taken in such a way that the audience is glued to the film. There is some dark humor in this film but in the first hour only, it gels with the film pretty well. The agitated sister, who is so worried about her sister, gives a power-packed performance, while her husband, who takes the matter lightly, too, gives a real good role. As the film is shot in Russia, many of the people speak in foreign language, but you can cope up with them because there is a translator in the beginning and well, you can understand. The scene where the girl is lying in the tub is taken pretty well, in slow-motion and I loved the camera-effects, the 'plopping' of the water. Really strong.But after that, we are introduced to a person who is from the police and rescues the girl. Then, there is a mish-mash where the story turns way too stupid and confusing that I was perplexed at the end, not with the story at all. The 'Reaper' thing was all c**p and the film became more sleazy. The sister and the husband's role became quite unnecessary and stupid as from a powerful role, their role turn absolutely stupid, and they were more kept as the funny guys. The mute-girl too became childish and a side-kick while the police-man became the hero of the film all of a sudden. I reckon that there would have been different script writers for the first and the second part, because after about an hour, the film became the complete opposite. Its reputation tumbled down and that's the main reason I am giving it a six out of ten. THe first have surely deserved an eight. "},{"Title":"Mute Witness","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A grand idea for a thriller, but poorly executed in this Russian made film. Alec Guinness makes a small appearance.  "}{"Title":"Another Hitchcock wannabe...","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Mute Witness begins strongly with a simple but intense set-up that has a mute American make-up girl accidentally getting locked in the decrepit Russian film studio in which she is working on a US film being directed by her brother-in-law. While trying to find her way out she inadvertently witnesses the filming of a snuff movie and subsequently finds herself hunted through the deserted studio's dimly-lit corridors. All of this is well paced and filmed &#150; the murder scene, like Hitchcock's famous shower scene, cleverly uses the viewer's imagination to provide the gory details &#150; and the film manages to create an increasingly claustrophobic atmosphere as the heroine's avenues of escape are systematically reduced.Unfortunately, it can't sustain this level of tension for long, and once the plot is opened out things start to unravel. For some unfathomable reason, writer/director Anthony Waller decides to introduce a 'comedy' element in the guise of the heroine's film director brother-in-law, and the whole thing nearly falls apart completely as he and his wife (the heroine's sister) are given increasingly larger amounts of screen time.The story grows a little confused as it widens from a lady-in-peril thriller to more of a conspiracy plot involving a shadowy figure called The Reaper (Alec Guinness in a cameo he filmed about nine years before the rest of the film was shot!) and police complicity in the snuff trade, and by its climax, Waller has thrown in so many twists and red herrings to try and disguise some glaring plot holes that you're left deflated by thinking about what could have been.. Waller was obviously trying to deliver a Hitchcock homage, but this is all the evidence you need that aiming for Hitch on your debut effort is aiming way too high. "}]