[{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My jaw was on the floor throughout this film. I was amazed at the intensity of Crissy Rock's performance and I was aghast at all of the horrible things that she had to endure. Vladimir Vega's subtle work as Jorge should be given an equal amount of credit. The emotional honesty in this movie is amazing and I had to pause the VCR a couple of times because I was so shaken up. Definitely worth your time, and an excellent introduction to the work of a worthy director. "},{"Title":"In search of a mother's dignity.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Kenneth Loach ,among all the great directors in the world,has always been one of the very few who depicts the riff raff ,to quote one of his works.In his universe, you will not find the young lawyer ,the yalie,the dynamic executive,the journalist with good prospects or the handsome detective with his gorgeous assistant.All his characters are individuals struggling against the authorities and who cannot winthe little boy from kes,the young girl from 'family life,the two buddies on the dole from looks and smiles,and the unfortunate mother from ladybird ladybird. Ladybird,ladybird is a harsh movie,sometimes unbearable,definitely not for all tastes.Crissy Rock is absolutely astounding,she does not play the part,she really lives it,leaving us on the edge of our seat.Her screams,her tears,her anger are so real that,had Loach not said it was a true story,we would believe in it anyway.Loach's treatment is stripped of any embellishment.No need for strings when fate strikes once more the heroine.Her partner,an immigrant,is a good man who loves her sincerely ;he suffers because he feels helpless,and when she beats him,he does not complainhis despair is so deep he contemplates suicide.We are far from the immigrant macho cliché. The heroine must come from a poor social background,so she was never taught the rules of the game,so she is bound to fail.But Loach avoids to show us the people from the social services as baddiesit's for her own good,they say.They reason by the establishment's rules,but they never try to communicate with the mother,deemed irresponsible,unable to get a place in the community.The end of the movie preserves the viewer from despair though.Every dog has his day,they say.May it be true for this poor couple! "},{"Title":"Possibly the most powerful & disturbing film ever made","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I challenge any parent who has been questioned over the care of the children or any person who has been unjustly accused of neglect as I have have once been, to sit and watch this disturbing powerhouse of a film. I paused it twice during my original sitting and had to take a moment to deal with what I was being confronted with once again. Rarely . . . yes VERY RARELY does a film or a movie engage me to this point. I have seen several Ken Loach films and I live in admiration of this artist/man, but yet I wasn't prepared for what I sat and watched. I give this 10 out of 10 and am shocked that it hasn't been recognised further by any awards society such as The Bafta and Academy Awards.Chrissy Rock, I take my hat off to you to have the guts to give all that you gave for your performance, the the actor that played Jorge . . you have delivered a standout performance. Ken Loach, you are my hero.Indeed I stand by my title, possibly the most powerful and disturbing film every made. Magnificent. Ambitious. It delivers. "},{"Title":"an incredible performance!","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Chrissy Rock gave an unforgettable performance in this little seen film. i highly recommend anyone to go out and rent it. another great but little seen film is Once Were Warriors. my advice is if you go to the video store to rent a couple movies, and are interested in how movies should be made,search for these 2 titles,and you'll see your trip to the video store was well worth it! "},{"Title":"A Knockout!","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film defies description and cannot be put into a category. It's one-of-a-kind in every positive sense ot the label. Performances are all sensational, with a breakout debut by the female lead. When I learned this was based on a true story, I was even more astounded by this remarkable gem of a film.SEE IT! You won't forget it; you definitely won't regret it. I guarantee! "},{"Title":"Heart wrenching drama","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Ladybird, Ladybird is one of Ken Loach's most dramatic working class drama's. The use of melodrama to put across political points about the oppression of middle-class systems on the working-classes is subtly brilliant.After watching the film I was very depressed for quite a while.Although I was obviously traumatised by social services taking not just one but two of Maggie and Jorge's children shortly and immediately after birth, I couldn't decide if it was somehow her own fault. If you leave your four children alone in a hostel and one of them nearly dies in a fire can you really expect to be deemed capable of providing a 'safe' environment for children? Her rage about this judgement of self it seems is immense. She cannot as Jorge suggests 'talk nicely' to anyone. The frustration of her being trapped by her circumstance of class is evident.That said, I think it was very harsh of social services to condemn the women to be without children for the rest of her life, people can change and with Jorge it seems that she does find a more stable centre but the pain of the loss will never fade.I hope that the real Maggie and Jorge find peace and are one day reunited with their 'lost' children. The fact that this film has been based on real life makes it even more heartbreaking.Not the cheeriest of films but one that you should watch at some point in your lifetime and form your own views. It's very thought provoking which is what Loach intends his films to be. "},{"Title":"Who Deserves to Have Children and Keep Them?","Date":"20 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a story about a British woman who struggles to keep her children. Ken Loach's movies are always good and they always deal with sad and gritty subjects. The thing that struck me most about this movie was that although I initially felt sympathy for the main character, Maggie, I quickly lost it. She's so upset she is completely uncooperative with the social services people, who are often judgmental and unlikeable, but who are only trying to do their jobs. When Maggie finds a lover who does not abuse her as her earlier partners did, she refuses to appreciate his steadfastness, his decency and his loyalty to her, and she tries to drive him away. I was surprised to find myself so unsympathetic to Maggie. My frustration with her grew, and I found myself saying, aloud, God, she's impossible! Even though I didn't like the character, the movie is so good, I could not tear my eyes away from it. Ken Loach is a genius. I think the hardest works are those with unsympathetic main characters. If you still find yourself fascinated, even though you find yourself detesting the protagonist in a movie, it makes the viewing even more memorable. I sometimes feel sad that I have no children; yet, when I see this story, I feel better about it. I also wonder why I cannot muster much sympathy for Maggie, even though I have things in common with the character. Society is especially unforgiving when dealing with parents. In its well-meaning interest in the welfare of the children, it often fails to reach out to the parents who are sometimes quite good people, but who are struggling to cope. Almost everyone could benefit from seeing this movie. It's highly instructive. It makes you think about the roles we, as adults, play in society, and what our responsibilities are. None of the questions and issues raised by this movie are easy to deal with. There are no easy answers. I think both great objectivity and subjectivity are necessary toward finding solutions, and both are seldom possible at the same time; hence, mistakes are made, all around. The character of the good man she finally finds is beautifully played by an unknown actor. I wondered how he could continue to be so good, and yet I felt myself completely frustrated with him and annoyed with him when he tried to explain his reasons for being a political exile from his country of origin in a court hearing. He was so upset that for once, he couldn't think clearly and couldn't express himself adequately. This showed me that despite his good qualities, under extreme pressure, he could be as hard to understand and to help as Maggie is. This movie is based on a true story, which is, sadly, not hard to believe. This same type of situation is played out again and again. What to do? Leave children in questionable households, or take them away? Try to see this movie and to share it with someone who is troubled, who has been abused, and who has had problems dealing with administrations of almost any kind. It's very instructive, even though, as I've said, no answers are given. "},{"Title":"Who needs spectacular scenes  when the story is enough to teach you humbleness?","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Before watching this movie I already knew that Ken Loach is famous for his socially inspired movies, which sometimes look more like a documentary than like pure cinema. That already prepared me for what I was about to see, as I knew that it wouldn't be a 'life is oh so beautiful and lovely' movie. But that it would be such a moving and touching film, I really didn't know.Ladybird Ladybird tells the story of Maggie Conlan, an unmarried mother of four children from four different men, who she has all left. In a karaoke bar she meets Jorge, a Paraguayan immigrant who is different from all the men she has had in her life so far. He takes his time to listen to her story and that's how we too get to know all that has happened to her. She has had an unhappy childhood, has been beaten and kicked by all the men in her life and social services have taken away her children from her, because they were convinced that she wasn't able to take care of them when one of them almost died in a tragic accident. Together with Jorge, she keeps fighting desperately for the custody over her children, so they can make their family whole again. But these bureaucrats are convinced that Jorge doesn't just love her for no reason. They believe he only uses her to stay in the country and when they get children of their own, they are confiscated as well...When it comes to the acting I can be quite brief. It's just excellent. This was Crissy Rock's very first role, but she acts like she hasn't done anything else in her entire life. The same for Vladimir Vega. Together they make you forget that you are watching a movie with actors in it. This feels more like a documentary, filmed by a camera crew that just happened to be in the right place at the right time to film one of the most touching and realistic docu-drama's ever.I don't really think there is a perfect way to describe what this excellent movie does to you. Saying that it shows the darkest side of human kind is perhaps not even strong enough, because it is also a very sober, but incredibly touching movie. And even though some people say that it's sometimes difficult to sympathize with Maggie Conlan, I don't follow them in their opinion. Of course you could say that it's her own fault that she has lost her children, but when you see how she has been treated from her childhood on until adulthood, you can understand why she acts and reacts the way she does. All she has ever known was violence and shouting, so it's no wonder that she does exactly that when feeling threatened.As a conclusion I would like to add that I'm not easily moved by a movie anymore, but this one certainly did something to me. It's hard to explain why this is so powerful as I believe that the feeling of realism can't be the only reason. I guess you just have to see it for yourself. All I can say is that I liked it a lot and that this is what true cinema should look like. You really don't need any spectacular scenes to make a great movie. A powerful, humbling and touching story like this one is more than enough and that's why I give this film a well deserved 9/10. "},{"Title":"Intense Drama with even more intense acting","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen several Ken Loach films in the past like BREAD AND ROSES and MY NAME IS JOE and I really think that Loach is one of the most talented directors around.His social films are very intense and miles away from your regular Hollywood or Pinewood movie.I thought that MY NAME IS JOE was an intense drama(and it is very much so)but LADYBIRD LADYBIRD is the absolute powerhouse of drama and despare.The acting performances of Crissy Rock and Vladimir Vega are so intense that it seems to be really happening.Loach uses a lot of unexperienced actors to play in his films and this time around it's no different.Both Rock and Vega make their cinema debut here.The fact that Loach uses these unfamiliar people enhances the reality of his films.The verbal fights between Rock and the social workers are almost unwatchable as are the fights she has with her former boyfriend. The way that Loach uses flashbacks to tell the story is very well done.Still there are some points of criticism.I know that the film is based on a true story but some things are not very realistic.For instance why should a political refugee of Paraguay start an affair with a sad and unbalanced woman from Mersy Side.Also the parts with the social workers are slightly overdone,but maybe it's the truth.If it is,then I'm afraid to say that these folks are absolutely cold hearted.LADYBIRD LADYBIRD is the most intense film I've ever seen.It's very hard to watch but even harder not to.  9/10 "},{"Title":"A Hard Character To Feel Sorry For","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen this film twice now,and although it can be argued that the character of Maggie is as much a victim of the system as her children,it's just really difficult to feel sorry for her.We have here a woman who has 5 children by 5 different fathers,continually makes bad choices in men and continues her cycle of abuse,has one son almost die in a tragic accident that is a direct result of her leaving them alone,and then can't understand why Social Services can't just stay out of her life and let her raise the rest of her children.The performances are top-notch here,but Maggie is more to be pitied for her lack of responsible behavior than anything else. "}{"Title":"Chrissy is amazing","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Chrissy Rock is amazing in this movie.  It is almost impossible to watch at times because it is so intense.  You will feel like you are living through the ordeals the characters experience. I can't think of many actresses who would have been able to deliver such a performance.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, as heart wrenching  as thought provoking","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Even though the scenario does simplify the mishaps of child protection system, even though I like to think the (French) child protection system in which I work strives to avoid such tragedies, I cannot help but feel a deep unease, and even a pang of guilt each time I watch this gem of a movie.The strength of this movie is, in my opinion, to explore the limits of social welfare in such a deep and balanced way.Yes, some families generate toxic environment for children, regardless of the individual qualities of their members. Yes, when in doubt, social workers do sometimes choose to suggest foster care to the court as the lesser of two potential evils (even though alternative solutions do exist in France, and no doubt in the UK too). Yes, motherly love is not enough in itself to insure child wellbeing. Yes, misunderstanding and fear of social workers can lead to disastrous results. Yes, social workers and courts wield the power to shatter families and lives and do make mistakes, out of lack of empathy, excessive workload, burn-out or plain incompetence.All this and more is shown and put to the test in this movie, and no definite answers are given. That is the mark of an outstanding writer and director. Besides, I can only join in the general praise for the superb performance of the two main actors and Loach's artful camera-work.Certainly the example shown here is extreme, but it echoes the very real pain I face in my daily work as a witness to family disorders and participant in inevitable (but hopefully only occasional) social services catastrophic blunders.My thanks go to Ken Loach for this hearth wrenching and thought provoking movie. A movie every social worker should care to think of from time to time. I see Ladybird, Ladybird as a kind of personal safeguard. To resist the temptation to call it a day and send a quick and dirty court report to the judges. To take the time to think twice before adding this sweeping little comment that could cast a child away. And for that I am deeply grateful to you, Mister Loach. "},{"Title":"A depressing working class docudrama","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a realistic situation. While Ken Loach partially takes Maggie's side, the film presents almost all aspects of such occurrences. Should an incompetent mother be allowed to have their children just because she loves them? A difficult question to pose. So, it's a courageous film, but a film is judged mainly on how and not on what and the obvious examples are some American fluff about similar subjects. Without using impressive camera and directing tricks, Loach manages to make us sympathize the main characters and get into the core of the problem. Impressive through its simplicity and a very good social study. "},{"Title":"Heart-shaped and unwaveringly gripping...","Date":"4 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" English television and film director Ken Loach's eleventh feature film which was written by Scottish author and screenwriter Rona Munro, is inspired by real events and was originally made for British television. It premiered In competition at the 44th Berlin International Film Festival in 1994, was shot on location in Acton, West London in England and is a UK production which was produced by English producer Sally Hibbin. It tells the story about a single mother in her mid-30s of four children who all have different fathers named Maggie Conlon, who due to an incident where she left her children with a child-minder and something went very wrong, all her children has been taken by child services and placed in foster homes. When Maggie falls in love with a Latin-American immigrant named Jorge her life lights up, but her conflicted personality turns out to be quite a challenge for Jorge who has to give her all his love.Distinctly and compassionately directed by English filmmaker Ken Loach, this finely paced and somewhat fictional tale which is narrated mostly from the protagonist's point of view, draws an utterly heartrending and evocative portrayal of a citizen's dispute with social services and her struggle to create a family and regain custody of her children. While notable for its naturalistic milieu depictions, fine cinematography by English cinematographer Barry Ackroyd, production design by English production designer and art director Martin Johnson (1939-2003) and distinct realism, this character-driven, narrative-driven and social and psychological documentary drama which title derives from the 18th century English language nursery rhyme Ladybird, ladybird fly away home, your house is on fire and your children are gone&#x85; and where a person whom has gone through a childhood of trauma and several oppressive relationships is faced with consistent adversity from state authorities who regard her as unfit, depicts an in-depth and heartfelt study of character and contains a great score by British composer George Fenton.This accomplished narrative feature from the early 1990s which is set in England in the late 20th century and where a woman for the first time in her life meets a man who unlike her previous boyfriends who always put her down, is more engaged in lifting her spirit and showing her that she is as worthy of love as anyone else, is impelled and reinforced by its cogent narrative structure, substantial character development, efficient continuity, the wholehearted and powerful acting performance by English actress and comedian Crissy Rock in her debut feature film role and the fine acting performance by Chilean actor and composer Vladimir Vega in his debut feature film role. A heart-shaped and unwaveringly gripping love-story which leaves an unforgettable impression and a virtuous statement which gained, among other awards, the Prize of the Ecumenical Jury Ken Loach and the Silver Bear for Best Actress Crissy Rock at the 44th Berlin Film Festival in 1994. "},{"Title":"Brilliant and disturbing performance by Crissy Rock.","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is not a movie to entertain! It is a movie one should watch if they want to see a brilliant performance by an actor performing one of the most difficult performances to be seen on screen. Crissy Rock portrays a welfare mother who loves her children but cannot keep them primarily because she can't shut up when confronted by the welfare system. If ever someone deserved an Acadmy Award, this performance deserved it.  "}]