[{"Title":"Excellent '50s tale of reality TV that wasn't","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"56 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I was growing up during the Charles Van Doren scandal, and I remember his face on the front page of the paper and my mother crying. When I asked her what happened, she said, He told a lie. He told a whole bunch of them, in fact, and was part of the quiz show scandal of the '50s, which Quiz Show so beautifully dramatizes. Robert Redford does a fantastic job of recreating the atmosphere in perfect detail, as well as the fascinating story of the '50s version of reality TV, the quiz shows, going awry.Paul Scofield is absolutely mind-boggling as Van Doren Sr., and Ralph Fiennes is wonderful, handsome, and charismatic as Charles Van Doren. The rest of the cast is marvelous - John Turturro, David Paymer, Hank Azaria, and Rob Morrow.Van Doren was a dream contestant - good-looking, educated, with a beautiful speaking voice - and captivated the country with his intelligence. Unfortunately, it wasn't reality at all, just fantasy. But, as Van Doren says while verbally sparring with his dad, It was mine own. It sure was, and he went into oblivion because of it. "},{"Title":"A colorful, well-written portrayal of a forgotten event in the history of television","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"50 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show is the type of movie that invites viewers to ask themselves how they would act under similar circumstances. If you were a contestant on a TV game show and the producers offered you a load of money to do a fixed show where you're given the answers in advance, would you do it? Or would you turn your back on the producers and walk away? In this film, Charles Van Doren does not walk away, but he does hesitate. As played by Ralph Fiennes, he's a bright, likable fellow who seems like a good man despite his willing participation in a fraud.The film is smartly written, tightly plotted, and populated by interesting characters. It is also entertaining. It unfolds like a great detective story, except that no murder has taken place. There isn't even any crime. As shocking as it may seem, there were no laws against rigging a quiz show back in the 1950s, because no lawmaker had considered that such a thing would ever happen. When the scandal came to light, those working behind the scenes who engineered the fraud managed to survive with their careers intact, and the people who suffered the harshest consequences were the contestants, who were simply pawns. That says something about the distortions of television culture, but this theme, among others, is nicely understated in the film.Director Robert Redford has a gift for finding the drama in seemingly mundane topics, but not in a contrived or manipulative fashion. The '50s quiz show scandal is the sort of topic that could easily have made for a preachy and artificial TV movie. It's a great credit to Redford's film that it doesn't contain any long moralizing speeches. Though the movie has many great quotes, the characters talk like real people, and the situations grow out of their personalities. We end up rooting for several characters at once. We want Richard Goodwin (Rob Morrow), the lawyer sent to investigate the show, to succeed in uncovering the scandal. But we also feel for Van Doren, who almost comes off as a tragic hero. We even feel a little for the pathetic and unlikable Herb Stemple (John Turturro), the whistle-blower who's been bamboozled and humiliated by the producers.The movie works on the most basic level as simple drama, the high points being those scenes where Goodwin uncovers each new layer to the case. The first time I saw the film, I was put in mind of a detective story like Colombo. There's no mystery, of course, since we know from the start who the perpetrators are, what they did and how they did it. But the labyrinth of corruption that Goodwin must probe is fascinating to behold.Goodwin naively assumes he's practically taking down the network (the movie hints that the scandal goes to the very top) even though no laws were broken. The situation has the feel of a conspiracy, the people talking in euphemisms like they were mob bosses or something (For seventy grand you can afford to be humiliated). The contestants themselves are no dummies they are smart, knowledgeable people who could very well have been used honestly on a trivia show. The producers simply wanted to control the responses to make the show more dramatic. What made this unethical was the amount of deception it required. It's one thing to have entertainment that everyone knows is fake (e.g., pro-wrestling), it's quite another to pass off something phony as something real. Of course now I'm getting preachy, something I praised the movie for not doing. But that's exactly my point. In a lesser movie, there would have been characters explaining the distinction. Here, it's left to us to assess the situation. That's the best kind of movie, the kind that invites further discussion.Above all, the movie is about integrity and what defines it. Goodwin (in a classic reversal of our culture's typical view of lawyers) is the boy scout in the story, who says at one point that he would never have participated in the fraud if he were in Van Doren's shoes, and we believe him. But a large part of the film involves his relationship with Van Doren, a man he likes and doesn't want to hurt. His desire to protect Van Doren (but not Stemple) from ruin while bringing down the true perpetrators of the scandal leads to one of the movie's most memorable lines, when Goodwin's wife calls Goodwin the Uncle Tom of the Jews, because he's sticking up for a corrupt Gentile. We respect Goodwin and admire his reluctance to hurt Van Doren, but we, too, wonder whether he's handling the case with the proper objectivity.The movie has some interesting subtexts dealing with the anti-Semitism coming from Jewish producers themselves. In one scene, producers Dan Enright and Albert Freedman basically explain to Van Doren, in so many words, that Stemple is too Jewish for the show. This is a phenomenon I've rarely seen dealt with in the movies, possibly because there aren't too many films depicting the history of television.The film is often criticized for departing significantly from the facts of the case. For example, the real Goodwin actually played a minimal role in exposing the scandal. I can understand why those involved in the case may have resented these inaccuracies. But filmmakers do have dramatic license. Probably this film should have changed the names of the characters from their real-life counterparts, to reinforce the fact that it's not an exact account of what happened. The purpose of movies isn't to duplicate real life, but to reflect on real life, to gain fresh insight, and Quiz Show achieves that purpose with dignity and style. "},{"Title":"The End of Innocence","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"36 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  As a twelve year old growing up in Brooklyn, I did not even know the name of the show I was watching every week; to me it was just a vehicle to see if hero Charles Van Doren could hang in.  He was handsome, articulate, witty, and all the girls thought him incredibly attractive (although their pre-teen minds did not yet understand sexuality).  Growing up in a Jewish neighborhood as I did, Herb Stempel did not come off so nerdy as he looks now in retrospect.  When it came out that everyone had cheated, us kids felt not only betrayed, but sleazily cheated personally.  The girls felt somehow violated!Here Redford turns in an understated masterpiece.  He sets the stage and the standard, and gets fantastic performances from his actorsJohn Turturro as Stempel is excellent, but a fine job by Johann Carlo as his principled wife, which may be overlooked in such company, is the rock upon which his family can really rely.Ralph Fiennes, as the hapless Charles Van Doren, manages to get across his character's dilemma a mere achiever in a family of ultra-achievers.  In any other family he'd have been prime, as a Van Doren he would always be an also-ran.  Many have pointed out the great job of Paul Scofield as Mark Van Doren, Charles' father.  He is the epitome of the WASP-intellectual padrone.  And he has our sympathy when his son so sorely disappoints him and disgraces the family.David Paymer is excellent and believable as Enright, the unsavory producer.  He makes it almost seem disloyal not to cheat!Bit parts are all little plums Martin Scorsese as Martin Rittenhouse, the Geritol exec, smugly contemptuous of the public and the government.  George Martin as the network president, clearly Jewish, and just as clearly a Teflon Don in his own world.The scenes at the Van Doren estate are designed to convey investigator Goodwin's (Rob Morrow) culture shock and outsider status, and they represent the academic WASP world of the time accurately and wonderfully.All in all, a great movie.    "},{"Title":"A wonderful film","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"47 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I watched this film for about the fifth time last night. I first saw it a couple of years ago when my mum brought it home, she'd picked it out of the bargain bin at the supermarket, and what a bargain!It is a superb tale, I notice some have said 'who cares it was just a dumb quiz show', well that is hardly the point, many films are made where, what was seemingly the subject is actually just a background for the real story to be told.Quiz Show is a brilliantly told morality tale, but that is not to say it preaches. It can get away with not preaching because the consequences of their actions didn't harm anyone. It doesn't say, 'if you do something wrong you will be punished'. It says 'If you do something wrong, can you live with yourself'. It's the getting away with it I couldn't stand Charlie says at one point.A classical tragedy of a man with the world at his fingertips who throws it all away at his own volition. As a classical Shakespearean actor Fiennes is perfect for the role.A wonderful intelligent and literate script, the pieces between Charlie and his father in the Athanaeum and at the picnic are wonderful.Subtle music and stylish presentation are the icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"A study in ethics","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"47 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Although `Quiz Show' is entirely concerned with morality and the nature of moral choices, I can't think of a single moment when it isn't obvious whether or not a character is doing the right thing.  There are no moral dilemmas whatever.  And a good thing too - thorny ethical issues would only turn it into an episode of `Star Trek'.  If you think a film needs to be confused about right and wrong in order to be interesting, watch `Quiz Show' and realise your error.Here's most of the ethics in a nutshell the star contestants of a popular quiz show are cheating, with the connivance of the producers, the sponsor, and the network.  That they shouldn't be cheating is never in dispute.  The interesting questions are  Why are they cheating?  and, What is it like for them, and how do they maintain dignity, when they're found out?  Of course, in an intelligent character study like this there are plenty of other questions.  I won't ruin your pleasure by giving away any of the answers.  The best scenes, probably, are the ones in which a character must admit to someone or some group of people that he has cheated.  All these scenes are very good and each is handled in a different way.  But they're just cherries in a rich fruitcake.  `Quiz Show' is one of my personal favourites.  It was nominated for Best Picture of 1994 - an unusually fertile year - although the award went instead to some big dumb propaganda piece. "},{"Title":"Fantastic film, phenomenal performances","Date":"20 November 2003","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  It would be pretty surprising if Quiz Show, Robert Redford's film about the 1950's quiz show scandals was anything short of excellent.  The principal actors give phenomenal performances  Fiennes' Van Doren is usually unflappable and cold, but manages to allow vulnerability to surface at times, and Turturro's Stempel is a study in almost sociopathic and manic behavior.  What allows both actors to transcend mere greatness is their ability to make the viewer both admire and detest their characters with something as subtle as a glance or body language.  Morrow's character of the `whistle-blower' is there as the moral fiber; the outsider who looks upon the situation both with objectivity and as the devil's advocate. Redford's direction is rich and well-paced.  There were not any slow moments in the film, and he did not have to adhere to rapid-fire editing to achieve the momentum of the film.  Perhaps the subject matter is a factor, but I have found that with the exception of `Ordinary People', the films I have seen under Redford's direction have been good in a technical respect but lean toward the maudlin.  With Quiz Show, he does what should be done when telling a true story &#150; he does not resort to preaching, rather he directs with an objectivity that allows the viewer to come to their own conclusions.  Quiz Show is an excellent film that I highly recommend, especially to see the razor-sharp performances of Fiennes and Turturro. --Shelly  "},{"Title":"What can I say? That's show business!","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The other day when I was renting movies I passed this one called Quiz Show, never heard of it, wasn't too sure if it would be good or not, so I figured I would just wait and check it out on IMDb. When I saw the rating I was very impressed, not to mention how this was nominated for best picture of '94, considering it was up against Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, and Shawshank Redemption, it didn't really stand a chance. But I rented this movie and I'm convinced that 1994 had to be one of the best years for films. Quiz Show is an incredibly impressive film by Robert Redford, which I didn't even realize that this guy could direct! The story is just a perfect one for any type of a debate conversation on what is right and what is wrong.21 is a popular TV quiz show in the 50's where they ask very hard questions and the guests win lots of money, Herb Stempel has been the reigning champion for weeks. But he's not exactly what you would call the TV hunk, he's got the radio face. Charles Van Doren is a huge fan of quiz shows, so he auditions, and when the executives see him, they go crazy over him, he's handsome, he's smart, he's charismatic, and his family is famous. They tell Herb to dive down and get a wrong answer so that Charles can take over as the champion. Everything seems to go smoothly, that is until Harvard grad government agent Dick Goodwin is convinced that there's something wrong. He is determined to prove that the show is rigged and that 21 is ripping of America's intellects.Quiz Show is a great film, the acting, the picture, the editing, everything about this film is pretty much flawless. I couldn't believe that this film is not anywhere near the top 250, I don't see any problems with the film. But I know every film has a hater or two. But for me the film, acting wise, the film went to Ralph Fiennes, he did an incredible performance and was so touching during his statement to the jury. I just would highly recommend this film to anyone, this is a great film and Robert Redford did a terrific job.10/10 "},{"Title":"Polished and professional drama","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"42 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The ratings of 1950's quiz show `21' are in freefall due to the dominance of dorky Jew Herbie Stempel.  The sponsors and network owners put pressure o the producers to replace him.  When WASP Charles Van Doren comes to audition for another show they offer to ask him the questions that he already answered at the practice.  Herbie is told to take a dive and Van Doren becomes an audience draw.  However when Herbie starts making noise about a fix, a congress employee, Dick Goodwin, decides to go after the network.This is a glossy, professional piece of work that sadly was never as huge as hit as it deserved to be (probably not enough explosions for the US audience).  The story is based on a true story that happened in the 50's and it's used here partly as a bit of history but also as a look at television in terms of it's most basic desire to sell and entertain at any costs &#150; if that means fixing shows or getting the `right' ethnic groups on screen then s be it.  It is effective on that level because it's hard to imagine anything has changed since 1950.  The actual human drama comes between Van Doren and Stempel &#150; the film makes them both real people, neither good nor bad but having a bit of both.Turturro is the best thing in this film.  His Herbie has so many levels which he must touch throughout and he does them all well &#150; whether it's humour, pride, anger or realisation.  Fiennes is good but at times I did find it hard to be sympathetic with a WASP born into a lofty family who gets more given to him.  That said Fiennes did him well.  Morrow was a strange choice &#150; famous at the time for Northern Exposure, he does a weird performance here &#150; almost doing an impression of what he thinks a tough Noo Yark investigator would be like.  The supporting cast is filled out with quality so deep that even the extras are famous now! (Calista Flockhart turns up briefly).  David Palmer and Hank Azaria are good as 21's producers, Christopher Mcdonald is good as the host &#150; people like Griffin Dunne, Mira Sorvino, Timothy Busefield and Barry Levinson come and go, and Martin Scorsese has a wicked role as the money behind the scandal.It works on many levels &#150; at it's most basic it is a true story of great interest, at best it lets you see how television works and how men with money can rarely be reached for any wrong doing.  Working on so many levels this is a polished professional drama that involves from start to finish. "},{"Title":"TV's age of innocence ended with Quiz Show scandal...","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Robert Redford's brilliant direction and a quartet of expert performances make QUIZ SHOW a highly interesting, thought-provoking experience. Unfortunately, the end of TV innocence in the '50s brought us other game shows in recent years and real life survivor series that are guilty of shortcomings just as egregious in other ways but not to be discussed here. Manners and morals began a fast decline in the late '50s and only got worse with each decade, in my opinion.The real-life story of Professor Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), son of a famous scholar, Mark Van Doren (Paul Scofield) is told in a lively and detailed way with many sights and sounds of the '50s making the atmosphere look very authentic. When the less than charming winner of a TV show, Herb Stempel (John Turturro) is dumped in favor of the more charismatic Charles Van Doren, the story goes swiftly through a series of expertly written scenes in which all of the behind-the-scenes goings on are revealed and characterizations are sharply defined. In truth, the ratings game between Van Doren and Herb Stempel went on for many weeks before a showdown was reached.An especially touching scene shows Charles wanting to reveal to his father the truth about his upcoming appearance before an investigative committee--relaxing as the two have an informal midnight snack in the kitchen, but unable to tell his father (played to perfection by Paul Scofield) who is a symbol of unwavering integrity. In fact, Scofield is so good in his supporting role that it's a pity the script didn't expand his role to give him more screen time.John Turturro as Herb Stempel has the unfortunate task of appearing to be an obnoxious nerd, whose only redeeming moment comes at the end of the film when he realizes how destroyed Charles Van Doren is by the revelations. He never tries to make the character anything less than the boorish, self-absorbed fool he is and does an excellent job. Rob Morrow is sometimes less than convincing as the tenacious investigator.Despite its lengthy running time, it all moves along at a brisk pace under Robert Redford's outstanding direction. Well worth your time, although I can't say television has raised the bar very much since its fall from grace, especially with regard to daytime talk or game shows. Are audiences any wiser today? Maybe only Regis Philbin knows... "},{"Title":"Quiz Show a remarkable film!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I felt like it was very well done, great camera angles, some fairly creative shots that spoke for the characters when they themselves were silent...just a well done, quality film, that never drys out or leaves you in a lurch. John Turturro is outstanding as a neurotic, slightly obsessed and racially-sensitive Stempel, Rob Morrow carries the role of Goodwin as if he were the man himself, and Ralph Fiennes as Charles Van Doren was a better choice than anyone else I could imagine, also as if the role fit his personality so closely as to blur the line between actor and role. Hank Azaria had a relatively small part, but is always a good fit regardless of the subject matter, a phenomenal character actor who has finally made quite a name for himself; quite overdue, I feel. Paul Scofield handles his role as Charles' father without so much as the slightest effort, it comes so easily. David Paymer is a man who seems to receive so few accolades one might hardly notice him, but he also is tremendously talented (see Mr. Saturday Night for a strong example of Paymer's abilities as supporting actor opposite Billy Crystal and Julie Warner).All in all, a wonderful film on a subject in which one might not normally find interest, but very well done and an outstanding yet understated collection of actors and actresses make this one4 out of 5 starsWell worth seeing! I would highly recommend it!  "}{"Title":"The Reality of Game Shows.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" A harsh look at a scandal that hit the TV industry while it was relatively still in its infancy, QUIZ SHOW tells the parallel stories of Herbie Stempel, Charles Van Doren, and Dick Goodwin, three people caught in a triangle of hypocrisy and appearances from opposite sides of the coin. The feeding of the right answers to both Stempel and Van Doren on the game show 21 did not bring the downfall to its paternal network, but made those who learned of this examine the prejudices concerning who should be on top and who should not and sadly did not exonerate those who were behind the scandal. That Stempel, one of 21's first victims, Jewish, should not be of what would be considered a man of privileged upbringing but Van Doren, handsome, WASP-ish, successful -- a university professor -- should just hits harder even today to the kind of people network television prefers. When we see that Ken Jennings, a milquetoast white man, is allowed to make so much money on Jeapoardy, we question the credibility of his win, and it extends even beyond game shows ethnic groups are still looking for their audience on a television mainly white in nature, and only a smattering of shows have included all racial groups in ensemble shows that have managed, through some shrewd writing and marketing, to survive. "},{"Title":"This movie almost has it all","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" That TV-stations always have played a dubious role in the selection of their candidates isn't anything new. Only a couple of years ago there was a game show over here where some people weren't allowed because they weren't 'fit for the screen', a nice euphemism for saying that they were just too ugly. So that I saw this in this movie didn't surprise me. But giving the questions and answers to the contestants, that was really something new. But apparently it really happened, because this movie was based on actual events.In the late 1950's, an idealistic young lawyer who works for a Congressional subcommittee discovers that game shows aren't always played honestly. He focuses on two contestants on the show 21 and finds evidence for the fact that NBC and the sponsor have been screwing with the system. He interrogates Herbert Stempel, an ordinary working-class Jew from Queens and Charles Van Doren, a member of one of America's leading literary families, although he doesn't want to blame them for what has happened. He wants to nail the TV-station, but when the official hearings are held, the big guns escape and the true victims are the two contestants...If you only want one reason why you shouldn't miss this movie than I would definitely say that you should watch it for the acting. John Turturro is excellent as the Jewish, seemingly media crazy Stempel. But Ralph Fiennes as Charles Van Doren, Rob Morrow as the lawyer,... all did a fine job as well. In fact, I find it very hard to say which actor did the best job, because I liked them all. Of course they would never have been able to give away such a performance if there hadn't been a well-written and very interesting script thanks to Paul Attanasio.Normally I don't say too much about the writer but this time I will make an exception to my own rule. The reason for that is because Paul Attanasio isn't just an ordinary screenwriter. He is also a movie critic and many of the critics always say that they know so much better what a script should look like, but this man actually proves it by writing a very good one himself. But a good script isn't of course all the work. Without the good direction of Robert Redford this wouldn't have worked either.All in all this is a very good movie that deserves to be seen for many different reasons. Some very good acting, a nice script, good direction... this movie has it all. The only problem that I had with it was that it was a bit of a slow starter. But don't let that be a reason not to watch it. It's a very fine movie and that's why I give it a score of at least 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Study Of TV Corruption, But Strangely Lacking In Intensity","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  In the late 1950's the TV game show Twenty-One was rigged. Popular contestants who could grab ratings were fed the questions and answers, and those who the network wanted off were told to take dives, all for the sake of keeping ratings up and selling Geritol. Quiz Show is the story of the scandal, and of the potential danger of the power of television. The movie focuses around two contestants in particular Herbert Stempel (John Turturro), the reigning champ at the start of the movie who the network decides it wants to dump in favour of someone more glamorous who can pull in higher ratings Charles Van Doran (Ralph Fiennes), a college literature professor. Stempel feels cheated of the glory that he feels was his due, while Van Doran is tormented by his desire to tell the truth, but also to cover up his involvement in the scandal.This is an interesting film that gives a fascinating look at the inside workings of the TV game show of that era. And it does paint a fascinating moral dilemma. As Dan Enright (David Paymer) - Twenty-One's producer - says to the Congressional committee that investigates the scandal, this was after all just a TV show; by definition a piece of entertainment. The sponsor sold its product, the network got ratings, the contestants made money and the public got entertained. Where was the victim? And yet it WAS dishonest. It's a fascinating issue, this whole concept of a victimless crime. And the ultimate irony was summed up by Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow), the head Congressional investigator the Committee got Van Doran, but what he wanted was to get television. In the end, as he says, television will probably end up getting them.All in all this was an interesting movie, although - strangely for a true story - I felt it lacked any sustained dramatic intensity. Remembering Jack Barry from the 1970's as host of the game show The Joker's Wild (he was also the host of Twenty-One), I was very impressed by Christopher McDonald's portrayal of him. Although the role wasn't really that central to the movie, McDonald had Barry down pat, and I felt as if it really were Jack Barry I was watching.All in all, this is a very good movie. I wouldn't run out and buy it, but it's certainly worth a rental.7/10 "},{"Title":"It got to the point where the most honest thing on Television was The Wresting Matches!....... Bob Hope (in a monologue.)","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" As much as I find myself to be the Political Antithesis of the 'Sundance Kid', Johnny Hooker, Waldo Pepper and Roy Hobbs; I do admire most of his work, both in front of and behind the Motion Picture Camera. Mr. Redford' talents match up to his 'Movie Star Good Looks' and as long his directorial jobs avoid heavy handed propaganda for the New American World Socialist Party (the Michael Moore/Jimmy Carter wing of the Democratic Party); such as that LIONS FOR LAMBS (2007) project of his.However, 'Sundance' has proved that he can really give us a top rate 'Film', as opposed to just another 'Movie'. Just one cursory glance up and down his list of Directorial Credits, we find ORDINARY PEOPLE (Directorial Debut, 1980), A RIVER RUNS THROUGH IT (1992), THE LEGEND OF BEGGAR VANCE (2000) and today's victim, QUIZ SHOW (1994).The story here, in this film with the most generic sounding of titles, is that of the Television's Quiz Shows' rigging scandal of the 1950's. Accusations of TV producers' providing contestants with answers to questions that would later be asked as a part of a tensely fought on-air contest. Though there had been some early rumblings about fix by disgruntled Ex-Champion on TWENTY ONE, Herb Stempl, no one seemed to give any credence to such talk until there was an angry contestant on the Daytime Quiz Show, DOTTO, got angered about being double crossed. This started small, but soon now-balled into an avalanche; engulfing not only DOTTO'S and its fellow daytime 'Minor League' programs, but it also reached its tentacles up to Primetime and to THE $64,000.00 QUESTION (CBS)*, THE $64,000.00 CHALLENGE (also CBS ), but also the Jack Barry-Dan Enright production of TWENTY ONE (NBC).Having been an eyewitness of 10 years of age, I can remember well how this series made its debut, doubling the number of Isolation Booths over THE $64,000.00 QUESTION'S one (1); they added the element of competition between two (2) contestants to the suspense of one contestant's sweating it out, racking his own brain in pursuit the answers. Its first few weeks on TWENTY ONE, we saw a parade of moustaches, scholarly looking spectacles and goatees; all decked out double-breasted and tweed suits. Locked in intellectual jousting, fighting to the ultimate gray matter finish, no one seemed to catch-on with the public, personality-wise . With none of these Albert Einstein and Dr. Zarkov look-alikes getting any sort of substantial advantage toward holding that coveted 21 Championship Belt, Emcee Jack Barry abruptly stopped and removed the 2 competitors; promising to bring them back at a future date. (A surefire Kiss of Death, if you've ever heard one!) Enter the self-taught, super nerd, Herb Stempel (John Turturro).Herb racked up an impressive string of victories over the period of several weeks, managing to eek out wins over whoever came his way. The show was gaining a following, but the seemingly colorless Mr. Stemple was just not getting over with the public. His knowledge was admirable, of course; but lacking the charisma needed in the TV Business. TWENTY ONE needed a little tweaking to get it up to the level of a Star of the First Magnitude.Bring on Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes).Hailing from NYC, as was reigning Champion Stempel, he and Professor Charles were nothing alike otherwise. Herb was a Jew, educated in NYC's Schools and at the City College of New York, employed as some sort of clerical job. On the other hand, the WASP, Van Doren, was the son of a long tenured Literary Professor at the Ivy League, Columbia University. Charles qualified as an aristocrat, a blue blooded upper crust socialite. The Van Dorens no doubt, did not cross the Atlantic on board the Mayflower, but they surely were there when the trinkets were traded for Manhattan Island.Furthermore, the youthful, handsome and very eligible Charles proved to have a wide appeal to men and even wider sex appeal to the lovely, young ladies. Either way, Van Doren's entry into the fray created a super charged interest in all things academic. His face appeared everywhere, even on the cover of Time Magazine. ** So the nation was now witness a series of long, and drawn-out matches, all of which led them to ties, no decisions and great serialized TV fun and excitement. The Nervous Nerd Stempel vs. Prof Van Doren was truly a 15 Round Bout, winner take all.And finally the day, or rather, the evening came along when, at last the Van Doren-Stempel feud would be decided with Herb's answering ON THE WATERFRONT, instead of the correct MARTY. *** Mr. Van Doren began a long run in the King's Chair; one in which he lost a lot of weight and began looking frail and worn; until he also lost to whoever. Then it became readily apparent that a real problem existed and a Congressional Sub-Committee had convened with the purpose of getting to the bottom of things, PDQ.Yes, Mr. Redford, we heartily concur that this was a great production of a story that had to be told. Thanks Bob and by the way, who was this Mamie? (Mamie Van Doren, not Mamie Eisenhower, Schultz!)NOTE * On the Radio, during its Golden Era, there had been a program titled THE $64 QUESTION; hence&#133;&#133;.NOTE ** Perhaps in an indirect way, this infatuation with book learnin' was responsible for CBS TV's COLLEGE BOWL and the Local Market Franchised IT'S ACADEMIC.NOTE *** The Question that Herb Stempel was forced to blow was What was the Movie that won the 1955 Oscar for Best Picture? "},{"Title":"Time's Up","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Why do networks take a decent movie like this and lop off parts to fit it into a Procrustean bed? So they can include more commercials and make money. Why do contestants cheat on TV quiz shows? Well, yes, to make money too -- but more than that. They want adulation as well as new Caddies. At least Herb Stempel and Charles van Doren do -- brothers under two highly unsimilar-looking skins. This movie, at any rate, was chopped up by WGN, and a shame too. I thought networks had gotten pretty much out of the habit. What was lopped off consisted of small but highly revealing character touches, as is usually the case. What's missing from the print here, at least what came to my notice, are two relatively short scenes, whose importance as revealers of character I leave to you to judge. (1) Van Doren has been on the show and become a celebrity and has gotten used to being surrounded by envious and gushing young idolators. He arrives a bit early, before one of the campus buildings discharges its horde of students. And instead of alighting immediately from the cab, he pauses, leans down, and begins fiddling with his shoelace -- until the building opens and disgorges its young people, and then he gets out and is quickly engulfed as a bit of nutrient might be engulfed by a brainless amoeba. (2) Dick Goodwin visits the van Dorens and their guests (Bunny Wilson, etc.)at their Connecticut home, where everyone sits around the picnic table playing a kind of Shakespeare trivia contest. Dad starts a quote and challenges Charles to finish it and identify its source, that sort of thing. The erudite byplay of all concerned is enough to convince Goodwin that nobody from a community like this could be guilty of cheating on a stupid quiz show. The film rolls along with a lot of dash. Redford has a real facility in the use and placement of the camera. After several important exchanges he tends to linger on the face of one of the speakers, usually the one who has just learned something and whose mouth is left slightly open. The score is mostly of contemporary songs and intrudes a bit, seems loud. Charles van Doren may have envied and perhaps resented his father's fame (the movie hints that it was his desire to become as well-known as Mark that prompted him to cheat) but he's lucky to have had the father he did. Otherwise, master's in astrophysics and doctorate in literature or no, it's unlikely he would have been teaching at Columbia, even as an Instructor. (Talk about unfair advantage!) What is the movie's point of view? It's not completely spelled out, but it seems to be that it was okay for a nobody like Herb Stempel to cheat but not for someone with Charles van Doren's status. There's a certain reasonableness about this judgment. It's one thing for schmucks like you and me to steal towels from a fancy motel like the Tiki Waterbed Palace in Kansas City, but it means something entirely different if a celebrity does it. It's not part of our job descriptions to be models of rectitude, whereas we feel that famous professors and politicians ought to be. It seems an especially apt observation since in the case of quiz shows nobody gets hurt or deprived of anything. It's not a zero sum game. Under different circumstances, though, that's exactly what it is, and that's when cheating becomes not simply unethical but criminal. An armed robber is depriving another of something of value. Yet, our attitudes towards cheating must be very mixed indeed, to judge from the users' comments under The Cheaters. If you cheat in an academic decathlon, you're depriving someone else of something of value, although it isn't a material good, but rather a reward whose value is symbolic. At the end of this story, no one has profited. Stempel, the loudmouth who has been gunning for the blond Aryan, finally brings him down, only to discover that he feels not satisfaction but pity for the poor guy. Goodwin, who was after television, has torpedoed a comrade instead. The public loses its innocence. One or two network small fry are barbecued. And van Doren of course is ruined. The only winner is television itself, which will go on to bigger and better things like World's Wildest Police Videos. Why bother watching someone on TV exercise their brains when you can watch people smash up their cars on a freeway? It's difficult to believe that there was actually a time in our history when people would crowd around their TV sets and watch a contestant struggle to answer a question about the King of Belgium. Maybe Ray Bradbury put it best The television, that insidious beast, that Medusa which freezes a billion people to stone every night, staring fixedly, that Siren which called and sang and promised so much and gave, after all, so little. Gimme Survivor any day, and pass the sugar frosted flakes. "},{"Title":"TV tends to make the worst out of people","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This film was not so much an indictment of TV. It is instead a commentary of how TV tends to make the worst out of people. TV is not the problem itself-but those who run the networks, producers and sponsors. They bought into the philosophy that The ends justifies the means Just get the ratings-it doesn't matter how you do it-just do it. So, Enright and company decide to Just Do it and they did. And the result was the scandal that that this film documents.I always liked Robert Redford as an actor and director-even if I disagree with his politics-but here he made a masterful film about the unfortunate true story of game show scandals of the late 50's. It documents Richard Goodwin's(Rob Morrow in a somewhat odd casting)investigation into allegations that shows were rigged. When he dug deeper and deeper he found that it was true.Once Goodwin appears on the scene, Enright and NBC executives go in I got to protect myself mode. By attempting to blame everyone else and pointing fingers at others. Truth is, the blame for this scandal can not be pinned on one person or another. The blame is extended to lots of people.Herb Stempel and Charles Van Doren are not exactly guys in white hats. They both agreed to accept answers to questions in advance-and when Stempel was asked to take a dive-he did what he was told. I agree they were victims-but only because they agreed to be a part of the scandal and they were later dumped when the fraud was discovered. Van Doren could have been firm and refused to get on the show by dishonest means. Herb Stempel should have done the same thing. He also should have screwed the producers and give the correct answer to the question What picture won the academy award for best picture in 1955? MARTY That is what his wife wanted him to do but in the end he chickened out.The question towards the end of the film Who gets hurt Redford does not answer the question-but leaves it up to viewers to decide. I think it hurts every one involved in the scandal. Though no one went to jail, they were punished by society itself. I think Van Doren had a lot more to lose because of his family's reputation. He lost his job at Columbia Unisverity and never taught again-he was disgraced for life. He went to work for the encyclopedia Britannica-but he remains in seclusion to this very day. Stempel was hurt too-but he didn't have a reputation to protect. He went to work for the New york city transit department. I come to the conclusion that whatever damage that was done was brought on by themselves.Has TV learned it's lesson? Not really. I do think the TV audience has learned. I think People now know that not everything in TV Land is what it appears to be. People also know just how corrupt TV can make people-even those with the best of intentions can become corrupt.Maybe it was a scandal that had to happen to wake people up to the realities of TV-and without proper discipline and checks and balances-just how corrupt TV can become.Great Film by a great actor and Director-Rent or buy it today! "},{"Title":"Entertainment 1, Corruption 0","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" About 20 minutes into the movie, I noticed the Rob Morrow character had a Boston accent. I hadn't caught his name, so I thought Bobby Kennedy? Dick Goodwin & wife Doris Kearns Goodwin are probably more familiar as professional PBS talking heads on those Ken Burns dynamos. But apparently around 1958 or so Goodwin was fresh out of Harvard Law, buried in a decidedly unfresh Capitol Hill library (Must've been an oversight. We're an oversight committee.) & working for a Senate committee.Assigned to investigate wacky game show contestant Herbert Stempel's (John Tuturro, in bravura performance) complaints about network failures to deliver on promises (to put him on another show), Morrow's Goodwin is portrayed as a knight wanting to bring down networks & sponsors; he finds that his fellows merely want to bring down people Stempel & his Twenty One successor Chas. van Doren. (The names are the same only the degree of sincerity's been changed to protect the guilty.) Officials & their constituency thought TV was an entertainment medium & were determined to find it @all costs.Turturro's desperate madness & Morrow's cool methodology make for some great exchanges Quiz Show's best feature is its highly literate script (see memorable quotes @this site). With Martin Scorcese as the Geritol rep. & Barry Levinson as orig. Today Show host Dave Peace Garroway. Paul Scofield is riveting as literary brahman Mark van Doren. "},{"Title":"An above average movie made great by incredible performances.","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  There isn't much to the plot of Quiz Show.  A government agent goes on a quest to prove that executives of the TV quiz show Twenty-One fed their contestants the answers (which, of course, they did).  Thus chaos insues as this affects the lives of many people.This otherwise average movie is made great by unforgettable performances by John Turturro as the nerdy quiz show contestant Herbie Stempel and by Rob Morrow as the congressional oversight commitee worker Dick Goodwinn.  David Paymer ads his character acting expertise as the man behind the scandal, while Ralph Fiennes does a fine job as Charles Van Doren, a respected educator who also cheats on the quiz show.This movie is very slow-paced, and may leave those who didn't live during the time period wondering what the big deal is; but if you want to see some great performances and a terrific script, see Quiz Show.  "},{"Title":"What won the Academy Award for 1955?","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Herb Stempel saw Marty three times but is forced to give an incorrect answer on 21, thereby allowing whiz-kid-in-the-making Charles Van Doren to take over as the champion of the show.  Herb's time in the sun is over but naturally he is trying to hang on to the fame, respect and money as long as he can.  Van Doren is then tempted by the same things but due to the behind-the-scenes mechanics of the show, is at odds with his conscience. This movie is about several things and they all meld into a great period piece which should be seen by anyone interested in a bit of a history lesson combined with magnificient acting and clear, crisp cinematography.Redford hired fellow directors Martin Scorsese and Barry Levinson for small parts, and got a great performance from everyone in the ensemble.  Of special mention is a scene when Charles Van Doren and his father share a piece of chocolate cake. Paul Scofield and Ralph Fiennes are especially memorable as father and son.  I can understand why actors are in awe of Scofield, he really has an amazing screen presence and deserved his Supporting nomination, though in all honesty it could have gone to at least four of five other men in the cast.  "},{"Title":"Will you answer this quiz?","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The film is very good, easy and funny to watch. Besides, it looks so much like the real television quiz shows that you and I have seen on TV these last ten, twenty years. Boy! Aren't some of those people REAL clever, and owners of a tremendous memory? You and I have been so envious of them, and of the fat cheques they have won in front of our eyes, live, and under the supervision of the proper game authorities. Now, what has that got to do with George Orwell's Big Brother, brain manipulation, and con artists at national level, including the farmaceutical industry, major television studios, and top politicians? The first twenty to give the right answer will pass into next week's phase of this quiz show... Direction and acting are good, but they pass second in a story very well told! "}{"Title":"Gripping fact-based drama,which is to the point but engaging nonetheless.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Often underrated, Quiz Show is a brilliantly detailed and well executed biopic of the infamously rigged quiz show 21. The costumes, set designs and atmosphere echo that of the late 50's and the storyline is strong enough to keep you engrossed for the 2 hour running time. The acting is often overlooked, which is a shame because it is indeed brilliant. Perhaps John Turturro is overly nerdish as Herbert Stempel ( very nerdy name) but so was the character in real life. Rob Morrow is very convincing as the lawyer hunting for the truth, Mira Sorvino equally impressive as his wife. Impeccably English Ralph Fiennes is seen here in one of his breakthrough roles and is excellent as Charles Van Doren.Periodic without being nostalgic, engaging without being over-long, thought provoking without being manipulative. Quiz Show works equally well at being a satire, a biopic and a courtroom drama. I give it 7.8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I think this is one of the best movies I've ever seen.I also think the conflict within Charles van Doren is perfectly showed along the film. And his motivation. You can feel his disappoint whenever he is introduced to someone new, as he's told are you related to Mark van Doren, the Pulitzer prize winner?The challenge, just for giving it a name, between Charlie and Dick Goodwin is very well described. Two elevated minds, vis-a-vis, in an equal struggle of geniuses.And Charlies father reaction when he learns the truth... and Charlies remorse and how he can't tell the truth to his father.As Charlie says at the end I've gone too high on borrowed wings. The thing is he had wings on his own, but pretty hidden. "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I love this movie it is one of my favorites.  I know all of the words. Watch for subtle things that show characters.  Like Charlie at first correcting them when they call him professor then latter not anymore.  It is about integrity and how there is often a very fine line between what is right and what is wrong.  Very smart! "},{"Title":"Simply excellent","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This film belongs up there with the best. Redford impressed me, creating a fantastic 50s atmosphere and giving an expert touch to each scene. All the actors excelled, but especially Ralph Fiennes, who once again proves himself to be pure gold. And what a job the casting team did! The story flows smoothly and the writer respects its initial material. In the end, the main message is passed just the way it had to. This is good cinema! "},{"Title":"Interesting, Slick Story But Didn't Need Cheap Shots","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The more I watch this movie, the more I see Robert Redford's (it's his movie) stamp on it for anything Liberal. It's unbelievable how much Left Wing propaganda is in this film.....yet I still like it and always find it very interesting. Perhaps because I vaguely remember this show on TV when I was a small kid and I vaguely remember the scandal attached to it. I certainly remember the name Charles Van Doren.Ralph Fiennes plays the handsome, wealthy Van Doren, a man TV executives preferred to feature weekly on their quiz show rather than a nerd like Herbie Stempel, played wonderfully by John Turturro. Every actor is superb in here, from crooked NBC executives to the Stempel and Van Doren families. Veteran actor Paul Scofield plays Van Doren's father Mark and is a standout in that role.The sad story, if this movie is true, is that the crooks basically got away with it, at least if you read the ending credits right after the movie ends. What injustice!By the way, some of the Liberal cheap shots were shots against Eisenhower, Nixon and even Jesus! Well, that's Hollywood, but those political digs weren't necessary. "},{"Title":"Existential Compensation Downfall","Date":"18 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Spoilers AheadWhy should you watch this movie? It answers why an Ivy League professor from a respected family threw it all away and obliterated both himself and his family's name. Redford does a great job especially with the Scofield and Fiennes scenes. This is the existential core of the movie; this dynamic, father and son, that will reveal to you why Van Doren made the tragic mistake. Watch at the birthday party how peripheral Charles is to the family, how dismissive his father is of him, indeed, all through the movie most of Charlie's attempts to even capture his father's attention, which is the fatal flaw, are ignored by Scofield. He treats Charlie with a courteous lack of interest which really unnerves Charlie. This is the answer to the attacks of Charlie and Goodwin's relationship being phony; to the contrary, the man is starved for affection from his larger than life poet father. When he discovers that Goodwin has a Harvard education, he becomes a surrogate for his father. Redford's answer to the conundrum is that Charlie destroys himself and his family trying, desperately, to impress his father. If this were all there was, it would be your typical family conflict film, it isn't.From the opening, with the radio announcer ominously intoning that Sputnik was flying above their heads, Redford wishes us to see that the ridiculously complex questions were tacitly known as phony by the audience but due to the panic, within this Zeitgiest, people desperately needed a Herb Stempel or a Charles Van Doren. When you hear the painfully esoteric questions, honestly, Redford is implying that the charade worked for so long because there was this wonderful cultural symbiosis between the corrupt network, its stooge contestants and the frantic audience who needed to believe that, despite Sputnik, our nation was full of rustic and urban geniuses just waiting to be discovered. For me, the movie works because besides the tragedy of Van Doren, Redford makes all the people of the audience accomplices. This is the point of the constant references to how we are losing space to the Russians. The core is this poor man's need to be noticed, existentially, by his father, who may be there physically but treats Charlie like a none too fond of pet.My favorite scene is the final mutual bitter look between Charlie and Goodwin. As the note at the end points out, everyone came out of it wonderfully; all Goodwin accomplished was to obliterate Van Doren and his family. When their eyes meet, you can see the bitterness in Charlie's and guilt in Goodwin's. My other is where the producer is asked by Charlie what Kant would think of him cheating and the idiot says I'm sure he'd be fine with it. Charlie never realizes the canyon, ethically and intellectually, between himself and these ratings lusting cretins. You should watch the movie because it teaches you a great lesson taught by Freud's apprentice Alfred Adler. If you do not get love as a child, sadly, often the rest of your life is a quest to obtain that which you existentially were deprived of this is the tragedy of Charles Van Doren. A wonderfully complex interwoven narrative with great acting full of pathos. We all can learn from his fall; This was worthy of all the awards. A Great, Sad Film. "},{"Title":"The Movie in a Little Historical  Context","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Wow, I sat glued to the screen for two hours without a break. That doesn't happen often, but the movie was that good, even with a one-note plot, and no action or romance. Yes, it did bring back 60-year old memories, sometimes fond, sometimes not. First a few words on historical context.In the summer of 1955, Revlon cosmetics experimented with a big money quiz show, not sure how it would work in prime network time. It was called the $64,000 Question. Up to that point, quiz shows, whether radio or new-fangled TV, offered only small amounts of prize money. So this was an unimaginable amount to offer. Not surprisingly, the show was an immediate hit, earning a permanent place on the CBS network. Viewers were clearly enthralled, especially when a delicate little Dr. Joyce Brothers showed off her expert knowledge of Boxing, of all things. Thus, it was possible for contestants to win not only big money, but become minor celebrities in the process, that is, if they caught the public's fancy.Of course, network programming being a commercial enterprise, imitators soon followed, the most successful (I think) being Twenty-One. Unlike $64,000, it had the distinction of two contestants competing against one another from inside the famous isolation booths. There viewers could watch them sweat as they pondered their answers. The format was also a come-on since most everyone had played the simple card game of being the first to reach 21 in point count. I think this format had the most built-in drama of any other TV quiz show, which by 1956, were at least several.The movie, of course, exposes the biggest scandal in quiz show history, which occurred in 1956-57 on Twenty-One. I was in high school at the time and never missed these shows. I think it's fair to say that practically all viewers believed the shows were honest&#x97;I know my family did. And that's even when quiz-whiz Herb Stemple missed probably the easiest question asked him, namely, who won Best Picture Oscar from just 2-years earlier. We all shouted Marty at the screen while he appeared terminally stumped, and we felt suddenly superior to this know-it-all. Likely, more discerning viewers suspected something fishy from that point on. But remember, this was the 1950's when, coming off a triumphal big war, most everyone still believed unquestioningly in authority. My friends and family certainly did. So when the rigged nature of Twenty-One was exposed in 1959, the public was generally shocked, especially as fair-haired boy Charles Van Doren was implicated. In fact, the big money quiz format was so discredited, it didn't revive for many decades.The movie itself amounts to a narrative triumph. Skillfully scripted, acted, and produced. The contrast between the nerdy-looking Stemple and the aristocratic Van Doren is striking. So, in retrospect, it's not surprising that producers Barry and Enright would see real ratings potential in a good-looking guy with a well-known family name. Fiennes's smirking Van Doren comes across as a rather slimy character once he's been compromised. Still, that scene of him amid the outdoor intellectual gathering is one a commoner like me can only imagine. As a result, I can understand how he could be seduced into establishing a reputation separate from his illustrious father (Scofield). Then there's the blue-collar Stemple harrumphing around his cold-water flat, having trusted the producers to come through for him after he took the humiliating dive. At times he's almost a comedic figure in his thrashing about.I guess my only reservation is with Morrow's casting as the bulldog investigator Jim Goodwin. To me, he doesn't project the kind of force necessary for untangling the shenanigans or tangling with stone walling network bigshots. But then, maybe he's intended to be a Peter Falk type Columbo with his disheveled appearance and mild manner. Be that as it may, the network honcho's are well cast and appropriately slippery as they seduce Stemple and Van Doren with prize money and promises of network jobs. Viewers can almost see their numbers-crunching brains in action. Tellingly, no woman is featured in the two hour runtime; and as an odd moment of curiosity, there's no indication whether Van Doren's successor Vivian Nearing was fed her answers or not.Anyway, the movie's fascinating in what it shows about the corruptive potency of TV ratings and commercial sponsors, a risky marriage that nevertheless endures. Thanks Robert Redford for reviving this sorry episode for generations later than mine. "},{"Title":"A historical essay about truth...","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is a classy, intelligent and hugely entertaining drama about a seemingly forgotten part of television history. It's one of the smartest and most sophisticated films I've ever seen about the meaning of truth in a socially practical sense.Redford tells the (true) story about a fixed quiz show very thoughtfully. He passionately sympathizes with the side of truth, but he's also smart enough to not get out of his role as an observer either. He trusts the viewers to meditate about the subject themselves and to each individually draw conclusions about how meaningful and valuable truth really is in our current system.I've always been interested and fascinated about the illusion of truth and the practical side of lying. Everyone knows that being truthful and honest is the right thing to do as a human being, but paradoxically it also seems that, in our practical society, making your own truths can make you much more successful. It goes even further. When you're able to keep up a specific strong illusion of truth, you can even fabricate a situation where everyone involved seems to get an advantage out of it! It's only when the bubble actually bursts that most people start to realize that they prefer the truth over fabrications, even though it's sometimes hard to rationally explain why.I guess people are so angry when they are confronted with other people's lies, because lies can also produce very terrible consequences. It's impossible to truly draw a fine line between when it is acceptable and when it is not. A society would implode if there wasn't any certainty of truth anymore, because there would be no trust. A whole society can lose its credibility just as much as one individual can.You, yourself, can choose what kind of person you want to be. 1) You can be one of the many people who tries to make a profit from that inevitable, immoral loophole in our society. The immorality of lying can be compensated by the generally good (personal) consequences those lies might carry with them.2) You can be a person who believes in the values of honesty and trust and who believes that those values are an inherent part of the moral foundations of a free society. Bending the truth to gain profits can have horrible, sometimes unforeseeable side effects, even if it's only in the long term.The most valuable thing this film may actually show, is that it is especially important to be aware of what both sides of the argument imply and ultimately may have in store. It's a very interesting film overall. It's well acted (the cast is fantastic), it's very solidly directed (I wonder if Redford got any tips from Scorsese, who played a small role in the film) and it has a very strong script about themes that will always be endlessly fascinating to me. Quiz Show managed to keep me entertained both dramatically and intellectually. I'm very much impressed and I strongly recommend seeing this film! "},{"Title":" If I already know the Question, is knowing the answer, really cheating? ","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" From exceptional Actor/Director, Robert Redford, comes this insightful but true story called  Quiz Show.  Based on the book written by Richard N. Goodwin, it entails the revealing truth concerning the quiz shows of Early Television. Taken from the pages of Goodwin's book it relates how a weekly prize winner but, later disgruntle loser, like Herbie Stempel (John Turturro) a Jewish contestant became an overnight success, winning a great deal of fame and fortune on a weekly T.V. show called '21.' Loosing ratings, he is selected by network corporate sponsors and studio heads to be replaced by a youthful handsome, more personable and attractive contestant named Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes). Reluctant to know the inner secrets of the game, Van Doren, is surprised to learn he is to be given the answer to the hidden questions before they are asked, he initially refuses. However due to the flux of fame and money, he succumbs to pressures and plays the rigged game. However, when government oversight official Dick Goodwin, (Rob Morrow) begins to investigate suspected fraud, everyone involved feigns ignorance of possible cheating. Through diligence and persistent questioning, Goodwin eventually discovers multiple layers of deception and clumsy attempts of corruptions and makes a good attempt to bring down N.B.C.'s executives. The movie is superbly directed and the cast is equally superior in their quest to excel. As it result this movie becomes a Classic and the cast which includes Paul Scofield, David Paymer and Martin Scorcese makes it what it is, a winner. Easily recommended. **** "},{"Title":"Another gem of the 1990s","Date":"18 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Silence of the Lambs, American Beauty, Saving Private Ryan, American History X, The Insider, Scent of Woman, Shawshank Redemption, Forrest Gump, The Big Lebowski ,Pulp Fiction ....1990s - In my opinion the best time for Hollywood. Having said that I admit I haven't watched many 80's , 70's , black n white movies. This is one of the good 90s movies. Based on true events , Quiz show tells the story of a rigged quiz show called 21 aired in 1958. I think Ralph Fienns is the stand out actor out of the talented cast . His part is more than just the charming young professor. Robert Redford has done superb directing job. Rob Morrow's accent bothered me a bit but his I know you are lying scene is a classic . Good story , good acting , good direction - very good movie. "}{"Title":"'Quiz Show' reveals quite a few truths","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" In the era of reality TV, we're used to the blurred line between fiction and non, but in the early days of television, the public was easily suckered in by the grandeur of that magical living room box. Quiz Show examines the public's right to the truth and perfectly captures an America bobbing in the wake of McCarthyism.Robert Redford brings his filmmaking pedigree to this adaptation of the Richard N. Goodwin book documenting Goodwin's (played by Robert Morrow) investigation that ignited the quiz show scandal of the late '50s. Paul Attanasio's screenplay weaves a story of TV bigwigs and little everyday men blinded by tastes of fame and money, along with the public deception they engaged in for their various reasons.The film begins predominantly with Herbie Stempel (John Turturro), a contestant on the popular NBC primetime game show Twenty One. Herbie's long run on the show is about to come to a halt as the producers have seen their ratings plateau and want to bring in a new face to liven things up. Producer Dan Enright (David Paymer) tells Herbie he must throw the next show (in Herb's words, take a dive) by flubbing an answer to a question as simple as who won the 1955 Oscar for Best Picture.Herbie is replaced with Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), the unremarkable son of a wealthy Pulitzer winner with a mind for trivia. Enright and co-producer Albert Freedman (Hank Azaria) propose an agreement in which they'll feed Charles answers to questions he already knows. He's rich, the public is enthralled and the ratings go up &#x97; everyone wins.The film builds this story for awhile until Richard Goodwin comes into the picture as a member of the legislative oversight committee for the House of Representatives. Goodwin senses something is awry with these quiz shows and slowly uncovers the truth.Quiz Show isn't suspenseful from start to finish given it's clear the fraudulent quiz show operation will be exposed at some point, but what's fascinating to watch is how these otherwise small men in Stempel and Van Doren deal with the situation as it unfolds. How warped their egos have become after they agree to commit the slight transgression becomes a factor in the film. Are they good guys or bad guys, or more appropriately, how black and white is this situation, really?Equally intriguing is how Goodwin goes about interrogating all the parties involved as if private eye solving a murder. He demands the truth and it becomes apparent as hearings begin to be held that the public does too. Quiz Show paints an honest portrait of the business back in the '50s, the way that the TV people in that age were so dedicated to the dollar and justified everything as it's what the people want. Things haven't changed so much, however. We now willfully indulge in contrived situations, believing that what the TV shows us is in fact the reality. Quiz Show, even today, reveals to us that while we demand truth and honesty as consumers, we also long to believe and prefer it to skepticism because it's so much easier. In that sense, how much of a scandal was this really?~StevenThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com for more! "},{"Title":"Enthralling and ultimately quite depressing","Date":"7 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The line between reality and fiction in television has always been a blur. Before every household had their furniture pointed at the TV, news reels in cinemas were a medium in which governments filled people's heads with propaganda, quite easily manipulating viewers into believing that what they were seeing was fact - after all, back then, it was the only way to see what was happening outside of your own country, without actually leaving it yourself. As soon as studio heads realised how gullible audiences were, they seized the opportunity to rake in the cash. With the explosion of the Internet making the world relatively tiny, you would think people would be more aware of the dangers of believing what they see. Yet reality TV, a sickening creation that quite obviously plays out scripted scenes in natural environments, still has people duped. It seemed a fitting time to re-visit Robert Redford's thoroughly underrated Quiz Show, a meditation on the unrivalled power of television, and the hold it can have over a nation.In 1950's America, Twenty One contestant Herb Stempel (John Turturro) wows audiences every week with his encyclopaedic general knowledge. With his approval ratings wavering, the big studio heads decide America is tired of cheering for the underdog, and order Herb to be removed from the show. Producers Dan Enright (David Paymer) and Albert Freedman (Hank Azaria) seek out a poster-boy, a figurehead that would give American someone to look up to, and ultimately aspire to be. Freedman spots Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes) auditioning for another show, and immediately snaps him up, offering the chance to win big money with relative ease - he will be given the answers. Van Doren is handsome, well-spoken, highly intellectual - the complete opposite to the mentally unstable Herb, who is paid off to lose to Van Doren. With Van Doren becoming a national treasure, Herb is appalled and takes his claims to the Grand Jury, catching the eye of young Congressional lawyer Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow), who takes a special interest in the case.Artistic license was obviously taken with Quiz Show, but Redford uses his directorial skill to create a crime story with no crime and no criminals, and no mystery given that the audience are in on the rigging from the start. So, the film is left as a damning portrayal of naivety, and a disturbing insight into the machinations of the most powerful corporation in the world - television itself. Goodwin, the Uncle Tom of the Jews is an outcast Harvard graduate, a small man in stature and societal hierarchy, believing that exposing this manipulation with cripple television and ultimately cause it to re-evaluate itself. Of course, it is Stempel and Van Doren - the pawns (albeit guilty pawns) - that suffer the most, being humiliated and having their reputations rocked, while studio head Robert Knitner (Allan Rich) and the executive of show sponsor Geritol, Mark Rittenhome (Martin Scorsese), emerging unscathed. Hanging Enright and Freedman out to dry, Rittenhome explains to an appalled Goodwin that audiences forget, corporations don't. The footnotes at the end of the film explain that Enright and Freedman returned from their exile a few years later, becoming millionaires in the process.Quiz Show is also a fine character piece, and while Rob Morrow grabs the majority of the screen time, it is Ralph Fiennes who truly impresses. Van Doren could be viewed as a rather despicable character; a man who sells his soul for money he doesn't really need, and for fame it brings him. Yet in Fiennes' hands, Van Doren becomes undeniably human, causing you to truly evaluate your own ethics, and what you would do if placed in a similar situation. This feeling is shared by Goodwin, who befriends Van Doren despite investigating him. He sees Van Doren as a victim who has been swept up in a tide of money and fame, manipulated in the same way as the people watching him, and it is the friendship between the two that is the beating heart of the film.What makes Quiz Show so enjoyable and enthralling is the fact that it never lets its weighty issues get in the way of the emotional drama, and is a quite fascinating story to boot. Redford depicts Goodwin's struggle through legal bureaucracy, juxtaposing it with his refreshingly stable home life with wife Sandra (Mira Sorvino), a factor that can often be intrusive in movies about real events. We also witness Van Doren's guilt-ridden relationship with his famous father Mark (an excellent Paul Scofield), and Herb's strained marriage to Toby (Johann Carlo). But it is Goodwin's reaction to the events that ultimately linger in the mind, with his resigned realisation that television is simply to powerful to fight proving a rather depressing sentiment. Perhaps more people need to see this film before they completely succumb to escapism, and we become a nation of red-eyed zombies.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Quiz Show","Date":"30 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" QUIZ SHOW is a BEST PICTURE nominee of Oscar Race of 1994, the fourth film with Robert Redford at the helm, and earned him a second Oscar nomination for BEST DIRECTOR, but overtly its popularity has waned compared with its more esteemed fellow nominees (FORREST GUMP 9/10; THE SHAWNSHANK REDEMPTION 8/10; PULP FICTION 9/10 and even FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL 7/10).The authentic case of a young lawyer takes on a lawsuit case against the television chicanery has its general appeal together with its well-crafted characterization of the disparaging facets of the people who are implicated, the film runs smoothly to warrant a step-by-step incitement of moral inclination (either towards the contestants or the industry upper-echelon's entertainment-is-the-golden-rule motto and cheekiness). But eventually the sense-and-sensibility tug-of-war leans towards one sole individual, Charles Van Doren, a posh, demure young professor from a prestigious family, which certainly is not a false-move but Redford has it overkilled by his fatal deadening of the court procedures and simplifies the case to a degree of somewhat insultingly paying no heed to audience's I.Q., even though one would prefigure the superior stratum could get away with the charge, the story behind a producer swallowing all the liabilities and knowingly accepting to be the scapegoat should never be as concise as the film suggests, pitifully (but smartly) to the core of entertainment, Redford opts to a more crowd-pleasing route and Ralph Fiennes' personal charisma is the kill. Performance-wise, Fiennes, Turturro, Scofield are the three pillars, Morrow is the weakest link and bombed in displaying his top-student wisdom to tackle with the issue (particularly in a practical way).Due to the media difference, motion pictures somehow are allowed utilizing the poetic license when putting the real-life complex cases onto the big screen, so Redford shouldn't bear all the blame and anyhow the film is an above-average product out of Hollywood assembly line, what's more important its sarcastic and caustic depiction of the reality show business and the social standard of how media could manipulate its faithful audience has still been relevant hitherto. "},{"Title":"Redford's best","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Robert Redford masterfully directs this tale of rigged games show 21. John Turturro is perfectly cast as the know-all Jew who is beaten by Ralph Fiennes. What happens after words and the investigation of the television show form the core of the movie. The story is very involving and the lines are witty. The acting is pretty competent and the movie never drags even though it is more than two hours long. This was nominated for the Best Picture along with Forrest Gump, Shawshank Redemption and though not in the same class as those it holds its own prett nicely even after nearly twenty years. 4 out of 5 for this intriguing and interesting tale of fixed game shows and quirky contestants. Take a bow Mr. Redford. "},{"Title":"The glory of Television","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" During the Golden age,Stemple(Turturro)and Van Doren(Fiennes),are characters that have a match in a widely popular game show;It seems that Stemple is jealous and needs money.He charges that the officials had promised him great riches by giving answers.When Van Doren takes the throne,he goes along with the fun and lives high on the hog;It seems that this lack of intelligence would not befit a college professor,as his father acknowledges.With a vast array of sponsorships,the station seems a bit nonchalant in their practice.Van Doren carries a heavy weight and in the end,a confession lifts the burden from his heart. "},{"Title":"Pride comes before the fall.","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall. Based on real events, Quiz Show is the tale of what happens when a beloved American past time turns out to be rigged. Young lawyer Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow) stumbles upon a conspiracy behind the scenes of the popular game show Twenty-One, that is used in order to keep the winners that get the best ratings to remain the ones on the stage.The film, directed by Robert Redford and written by Paul Attanasio off of Richard N. Goodwin's book, is elaborately staged, focusing on several different characters from Goodwin to ousted and unstable former Twenty-One champion Herbie Stempel (John Turturro) to the new reigning champ, the prim and well-educated Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes). It's set up like a Shakespearean work of true drama, and Redford constructs it in such a detailed and extensive way that it all feels so resounding. There's not a lot to stick with you after it's over, but the way he plays it is so grand and alive, with Attanasio's script so seamlessly weaving together the rises and falls of these men.The whole thing boils down to the male ego in a fascinating way, with each character letting their pride get the best of them at various stages of their careers. There's a lot of talk about their wounded spirits, about what it means to be a man, about showing the world their worth and the drama that ensues as a result is wonderfully entertaining. The performances are marvelous all around, with the standouts being Fiennes and especially the manic Turturro. They breathe such life into these intriguing characters. Redford orchestrates it all with a swift pace that never gets dull for a moment and always left me entertained and wondering what was going to happen next. A very fine picture. "},{"Title":"American cynicism regarding its institutions is born","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This has always been one of my favorite movies. I generally have to be in the mood for a particular film, but I will always sit down and watch this one. It seems strange today in this post-Watergate era to believe it could have been considered scandalous at one time for quiz shows to be rigged. For that matter, today, I doubt many people would be surprised if you told them the Congressional hearings on the quiz shows were rigged. That is the level to which our cynicism has progressed. At any rate, this film excels on many levels. To begin with, the cast and performances are just excellent. Turturro excels as the completely unlikeable walking encyclopedia, Herb Stempel. He so badly wants to be admired and successful, but he is just SO unlikeable he doesn't realize that he IS unlikeable. His long-suffering wife played by Johann Carlo sees Herb's every flaw yet loves him anyway. In this he is truly lucky, but he just doesn't see it. Besides his Jewish heritage, Stempel seems to have cluelessness in common with Robert Morrow's Richard Goodwin. Goodwin's character is center stage throughout this movie, and he is played as an exceedingly complex character. First in his class at Harvard, he has brains but lacks the worldliness to see from the beginning that corporate America's Goliath will never be taken down by his version of David and his sling shot of a subpoena. Long before Big Pharma got so big, the fix was already in.In this sense, Goodwin is the personification of the wide-eyed idealist. He still believes if you just present the truth to the public the correct outcome is inevitable. Finally you have Ralph Fiennes as Charles Van Dorn, possibly the most tragic figure in all of this. He goes in to try out for one of NBC's quiz shows with the best of intentions, and ultimately trades his integrity for fame and fortune, although reluctantly at first. Van Dorn at first enjoys the attention and the money, but when Goodwin shows up at his door with a host of questions about the honesty of the quiz shows he seems to reawaken Van Dorn's conscience, and he slowly disintegrates into a pile of nerves who even goes out of his way to avoid the host of admirers he once welcomed. He seems relieved to indict himself before Congress and the nation, but pays a heavy price for his confession. Rounding out the cast is the excellent Paul Scofield as Mark Van Dorn, Charles' father. He is another wide-eyed idealist, and a tall shadow in which Charles has had to dwell until 21 comes along. The master stroke in this film is the cameo by Martin Scorsese as Martin Rittenhome, an executive with Geritol, the sponsor of 21. His short conversation with Richard Goodwin pretty much lays out the ugly truth of the situation - People do tune in to watch the money, and the same end could be accomplished by merely making the questions easier. He also mentions that the public has a short memory but corporations do not, and is thus confident that the NBC employees who rigged the show will never implicate anyone higher than themselves at any hearing. This fictional composite character is right at every turn, and the dishonored NBC employees even return to TV in the 60's with an even bigger hit - The Joker's Wild - something that would have never happened if they hadn't been willing to be the fall guys. "},{"Title":"The fake discovered by true (Quiz Show)","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz ShowQuiz Show is a movie based on real history in the recent past, where the beginning of the TV was marked by an entertainment scandal, where the founders built a profit program with Herbert Stempel and Charles Van Doren as game show contestants.In that time of the history, the new TV opened the eyes of millions of people in the world, where they was trying to see pictures or programs live, because before that they just heard shows on the radio.The marketing began to work in this time, because big industry of different things got the feeling if they put they products on TV maybe they will sell more. In other size the entertainment started to appear, making people fell in love, and participate together with the TV Show; because of that millions of people started to buy things, study hard and get some social behavior. The TV show discovered a big business, and they didn't care about honesty, truth, or rules. The TV show made its own rules, an advantage in that moment because the Federal Government didn't have a regulation.The people who were born to God worship, forgot God and started to worship the man who got all the answers on the Quiz Show , putting in the first time Hebert Stempel and after that Van Doren, with a better appearance and important family name. The war was started between Stempel and Van Doren, they were fighting for the power, where after several rounds, Stempel delivered the answer to investigator Mr. Richard Goodwin, the participants were getting the correct answer.Mr. Goodwin was trying to discover something wrong in that kind of Show, because for every body was impossible to answer all the questions, including big names of the Education. After that Mr. Goodwin got all the evidence and carried it to the investigative Committee of the U.S Congress.The Society after the big scandal was hurt, sad, because they put all attention on the ''hero'' Van Doren and they discovered he was a fake hero. Julio Freitas Brazil "},{"Title":"How Quiz Show play with people feelings.","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is the movie from which we can learn many things and prepare our self to be smarter in life, because there will be many people coming across our life who will be like the characters which we have seen in the movie. I analyzed from this movie is how the studio producers of the quiz show, Dan Enright and Albert Freedman, take advantage of the people to make more money and get their quiz show a top rating in television and fool people.The thought, which came to me when I was watching the movie, is quiz shows were not popular at that time. Just to make them popular and make more money from the shows how people trap the people, who are in need of money or a job, and then try to take advantage of them. In this way, they are cheating people, breaking their trust and spoiling the meaning of QUIZ SHOW. We need to give respect of one idea and encourage people to participate. It is a saying that beauty is greater than brains. We have to give importance to both these things and have to respect for every human being on the earth.In this movie, I felt that how they were trying to play with people's feelings. When they were in trouble they did not even bothered about that person from whom they made so much of money and fame. They were so mean. Rather than helping, they ditched them, which is very bad and hypocritical. The thing I learned from this movie is never ever try people to take advantage of your weakness. Rather learn to fight against it to be more successful in life. "},{"Title":"Fraud People In The Great Film Quiz Show","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" One of the biggest show scandals of 1950's of America, turned into a great film, Quiz Show, directed by Robert Redford in 1994. There are three main characters in the film Charles Van Doren, Herbert Stempel and the lawyer Dick Goodwin. The film tells the story of the two contestants who win money unfairly in the quiz show Twenty One. First, Stempel plays in the show, answers all the questions and gets to be Twenty One champion. He wins a lot of games in the show. After that, the producers and the sponsor of the show, Geritol, want a new contestant against Stempel. They finally find a contestant, Charles Van Doren, who is an instructor at Columbia University. The producer of the show offers to Van Doren to rig the show for him and Enright, the producer of the show, treats Stempel to lose the game to Van Doren and Stempel will be offered a spot on a panel show after his loss. Although Stempel knows very well the answer of the movie questions in the show, he gives a wrong answer and Van Doren becomes the champion of the show. Van Doren is the new champion and rises to national stardom very quickly. After all of that, the lawyer Goodwin suspects about many things and investigates them deeply.When Stempel goes very well in the quiz show, the producer and sponsor of the show does not want him in the show anymore. Because their flagging ratings are getting worse because of Stempel's bad-looks. They want a handsome and good-looking contestant to be watched more. Because of this reason they find Van Doren who is handsome, coming from a rich family of America, good-looking and an instructor in a university. They treat Stempel to give a wrong answer in the show. Also they promise him he will be a new star of the coming another show. Stempel admits their offers and even if he knows the correct answer, he gives the wrong answer of the movie question. They make Van Doren a new champion unfairly and offer him to rig the show. They offer to him to give all of the correct answers of the show. He accepts all of their proposals and wins a lot of games show by show and becomes a big star in the country. Also he earns a lot of money unfairly from the show. Although he does not deserve this, he buys a lot of expensive things that change his life suddenly. After all of that, the lawyer Dick Goodwin investigates the producers and sponsor of the Quiz Show deeply. He wants to find their fraud to Stempel and to the people of America. Finally, he proves their fraud by videos and some letters that were given to the contestants, having the answers of the questions. Their crimes are proved and they go to a committee of Congress. Van Doren, the producers and the sponsor of the Quiz Show admit their fraud in front of the people. Their reliabilities got lost from all the people, and they lost their career because of their fraud. "}{"Title":"A review about corporate power and justice","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Scandals are always loved by people who are not involved, especially when it is a wide-range one. Intrigue to win, losers, winners, pursuit of justice... These are all common things in life. They also happened as a scandal years ago.We will talk about such a thing. The movie, Quiz Show, would be an example of great productions, indeed it is a must-see. Being based on a true story, Quiz Show may be more interesting than similar examples. It shows us '50s popular culture, how TV affects people and their lifestyles. It also shows us how things work on TV society. You may be able to notice every single detail, which this movie touches on, at a time. Or the more you watch it you can find out more about it. It is a very enjoyable movie I think. I do not know why, maybe it is because of the familiar actors who did great jobs on their performances. Ralph Fiennes, you may recall from Schindler's List and Red Dragon, and John Turturro, who you may know from the new Transformers series, did great jobs playing their characters. Giving the feeling of a person in these characters' situations is done perfectly by all actors. As you watch, you will see about it; but we are not going to talk about scenes and things which happened in the film.Rather than starting to talk about my ideas, we should analyze '50s American culture, daily life and other common things about people's life first. After the end of World War II, people in the USA started to return to their normal, stress free life. There was no war anymore. According to historical resources, consumerism had gained speed. People started to buy themselves new dwellings, designed for single families. Again according to resources, The U.S. Dept. of Commerce and The Bureau of the Census, about 3,288,000 out of 151,684,000 people were unemployed and average salary was $2,992. Then, entertainment gained importance. Television was the greatest entertainment in that era, as it is now. TV networks of that era - ABC (American Broadcasting Company), CBS (Columbia Broadcasting System), and NBC (National Broadcasting Company) - were in a race to lead the competition. Every single thing could be done under those circumstances. This movie shows us that people were watching TV and taking it too seriously. TV was the main relaxation of people, it was really a great thing to them. In the film, you can hear Herbert Stempel saying, That box is the biggest thing since Gutenberg invented the printing press, and I'm the biggest thing on it. After that point, owning a network company, being producer of a well known TV show would make these persons important or make them feel important, act like untouchable so they would proceed as however they want. A quote, said by Albert Freedman, who is one of the shows producers, and you can hear almost at the end of film, shows us that fact It's not like we're hardened criminals here. We're in show business. From that opinion, I would also had said that you do whatever you want in a TV show. Then you can say,  What the ? It's show business! What an audience wants, an audience gets. It was what they wanted!  Well, that might work... People trust justice, but sometimes it would not work as it was seen from outside. The thing is money. It was the main deal, it is and it will be. With great amounts of money, justice can be manipulated. If you have watched the show, you must have seen that the judge, who leads the hearing of fraud assertions about Twenty-One, cooperates with Dan Enright, the producer which is planing and applying the frauds. Good thing is, there are always honest people that show up on the right time, like Dick Goodwin.Great jobs always bring people great money. With more money, you can extend your business and make more money. This chain contiunes if you take advantages wisely. Great money would give you the power to open every single door. In movie, you can hear Dan Enright(E) and Herbert Stempel(S) speak SDon't do this to me, it's humiliating. E For seventy grand, Herb, you can afford to be humiliated That shows us the situation and manipulation power of money. At least, even an intelligent person, like a university lecturer, can be dragged into traps like this. As a result, unless big corporates are loyal to ethical values, happenings of things like these are more than possible. As Ben, uncle of Peter Parker, said in Spider Man, With great power comes great responsibility. "},{"Title":"Will grip you and fascinate you easily","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Redford's fourth film as director once again shows his prodigious talent for turning the ordinary into excellent entertainment. Following on from Ordinary People, The Milagro Beanfield War and A River Runs Through It is Quiz Show, which uncovers the startling corruption that was apparently rife in 50's and 60's television when game show producers would rig their programs by supplying the answers to the contestant they felt the audience wanted to win.Redford demonstrates amazing control and really knows how to tell a fascinating story. He imbues the entire movie with powerful dramatic scenes that blend to make a marked impact. Quiz Show may not present an outrageously shocking topic, yet Mr. Redford is able to turn it into an amazing and engrossing tale which demands your full attention.A truly superlative cast is headed up by Rob Morrow, who makes a strong impression as Richard Goodwin, the Congressional committee investigator upon whose book the film is based. John Turturro (Miller's Crossing) is again outstanding as Herb Stempel, the average Joe who rockets to international fame via 21, and Ralph Fiennes backs up his incredible performance as Amon Goeth in Schindler's List with another all round showing as the troubled new 21 champ Charles Van Doren. Veteran British actor Paul Scofield is also quite impressive as Van Doren's father in an Oscar nominated supporting role.Art Directors, Set Decorators and Costume Designers have all recreated the 1950's splendidly while writer Paul Attanasio takes us right back to the emotion and feeling of New York in that period.Redford establishes his grip early and never releases it, ensuring the viewer is fully entertained for the duration by what is a marvellous film which notably gained four Oscar nominations, including best film, director and adapted screenplay.Sunday, March 12, 1995 - Qantas Airways FlightQuiz Show thoroughly deserved the Oscar nominations it garnered for 1994, if only for pure class. Top direction from Robert Redford, who turns an otherwise uninteresting topic into a riveting film, concerning the conspiracy that ruined the Quiz Show known as '21'. Redford shows real expertise as he controls every scene whilst adding a touch of style to the whole production. What a shame this is only his fourth film in some fourteen years.Technical credits are also outstanding, including Mark Isham's score, production design, costumes, sets and art. Every aspect recreates the late fifties with unerring excellence. Editing is astute and cinematography elaborate.Paul Attanasio does a top job with the script, giving it dramatic power, importance and some biting humour. Cast is fantastic, including Rob Morrow, who gobbles up the lead role as the investigator from the Committee for Legislative Oversight who first smells a rat in the game show's proceedings. Ralph Fiennes follows his knockout showing in Schindler's List with another fine turn as Charles Van Doren, the new '21' champ who compromises his beliefs for fame and fortune. In support of these two is a strong back up cast including Paul Scofield, notable as Van Doren's respected professor father, and John Turturro, who is incredible as the disgruntled Jewish man Herb Stempel who has blown his '21' winnings on a bookie.Saturday, March 16, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"A 1950's Scandal","Date":"4 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Hats off to director Robert Redford who produced this film about a true story which occurred in the 1950's and involved a game show where questions where answered and to one person the answers where given. Game shows were a great thing to early Television and over fifty million people watch this show and saw Herbie Stempel, (John Turturo) and Ralph Fiennes, (Charles Van Doren) compete in a quiz contest and this went on for quite a long time and when it ended Charles Van Doren was the winner. There was an investigation into this show because rumors were starting to circulate and Van Doren was even going to tell his father, Mark Van Doren, (Paul Scofield) that he was fed the answers to questions but he just was not able to tell the complete truth. Of course there is a big investigation and the public eventually finds out the complete truth. Great acting by Ralph Fiennes and Paul Scofield. Entertaining film. "},{"Title":"I LIKE this movie !!!","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I can't explain exactly why, but I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I've just watched it about 3 times on Comcast OnDemand.First of all, the song 'Mack the Knife' sung over the closing credits is worth the price of admission. The slow tempo of the rendition over the slow-motion scan of the studio audience is compelling.Did anyone notice that two of the card players have played defense attorneys on TV's 'Law & Order'? For some reason, I really, really enjoyed Rob Morrow's portrayal of Dick Goodwin. Morrow had kind of a flinty look in his eyes; his accent (presumably Brookline, Massachusetts) was kind of gritty through the entire movie as was the cigar chompin'. Were those his real eyebrows? IMHO, a very appealing performance.I also liked the development of the Charles van Doren character. 'Charlie' started out kind of bemused and innocent, turned increasingly cynical as the deception progressed, and then had another brief moment of child-like joy as he left the game show.Also, I don't think the Mark van Doren character was nearly as stiff as some folks have commented. "},{"Title":"Ethics For Sale","Date":"10 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show, directed by Robert Redford, is a story of the quiz show scandal of the 50s, an era now seen as nostalgic and a more innocent time. Gullible would be the better description. As television came into more middle class homes of suburban tract house dwellers, the family hour centered around game shows and trivia buffs who wanted to guess my line, play 21, and name that tune. What viewers didn't know was the extensive corporate monies that manipulated who accessed the growing nation's airwaves. Geritol, Encyclopedia Britannica, and cigarette advertisers virtually controlled television and awareness of the public. Advertisers poured millions into television programs like 21, a quiz show that pitted contestants, many with extensive educational backgrounds, against the Joe Schmo underdog, Herbert Stemple. John Turturro plays the irritating, celebrity-obsessed Stemple to a T. When investigated by D.C. congressional snoop, Dick Godwin (Rob Morrow) for questionable practices, the corporate door is slammed. However, when the golden boy Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), from a family of academic elites, is outed by the envious Stemple, the quiz show hoax becomes a televised national event of disgrace.Redford's expose is a morality play within a film about television that is a superior story of ethics and capitalism run amok. How the American public was snowed by the medium and corporate manipulation of geek Stemple, a man with a face for radio versus the upper-class Van Doren, and Godwin, an ambitious Harvard man who believed in the American justice system is the triangle and grand story.Redford does not over look the numerous details of an era when Ike and Mamie were chic, the GI-Bill was a means to making a better life for the millions of returned veterans, and Geritol guaranteed freedom from tired blood. It is a tale of the past as corrupt as today, but without the internet, cell phone camera shot, and bloggers to give us an instant condemnation of celebrities with feet of clay. Redford's warning is as valid today as then. "},{"Title":"Redford's Best!  A Masterpiece of Modern Cinema","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show details the infamous examination of the TV game show scandals of the 1950's. The film focuses on the most famous scandal, the rigged quiz show Twenty One. This is a film that makes the viewer question the morals and ethics of the time period. It also examines how far people will go to violate those ethics and morals for big money.In the 1950's, game shows were a big business. The pilot episode of Twenty-One was not rigged. However, the questions were so hard that games often ended in 0-0 ties. NBC higher-ups were desperate to try to get the show the needed ratings boost. Show producers Al Freedman and Dan Enright came up with the idea of screening for Good looking, often stereotyped, WASP contestants. To insure the show's success, popular contestants were given questions and answers that were to be used on the show in advance to keep them on the show longer.The movie analyzes in depth how many played along with the charade. Contestants were scripted not only with the questions and answers they would be asked on the show, but were also coached on how to answer. (i.e amount of time pausing, how to stammer when unsure about a question. How to show just the right amount of emotion when responding.)Herb Stempel was a geeky Jewish kid from Queens New York who was sharp and smart, but rapidly losing popularity with the Twenty-One audience because he had a dull personality. In contrast, Charles Van Doren was an aspiring English professor out of Columbia University. He was brash, charismatic, good looking, and was talked by Freedman and Enright to appear on Twenty-One as Stempel's most famous challenger.Van Doren had wanted to play legitimately, but Freedman and Enright were convinced that Herb was unbeatable and demanded that Stempel take a dive on a Movie Category question. What Motion Picture Won The Academy Award for Best Picture in 1955. Herb Stempel had seen Marty, the correct answer, many times. However, he was forced to pause, pretend that he didn't know the answer, and demanded to answer On The Waterfront.The movie traces Herb's outrage at being manipulated and exploited by the producers in being forced to throw his tenure at Twenty-One on such an easy question. Herbie decides to bring about Richard Goodman, who heads a Senate Subcommittee, to expose Van Doren, Freedman, and Enright for their fraudulent, unethical, practices. It is later discovered that Stempel himself was also given questions/answers in advance. Therefore, he was himself a player in a rigged game.Many of you will experience outrage over how Freedman and Enright manipulated and deceived the public in this historic film. The actors do a brilliant job in recreating their famous roles. Even supporting actors play their small roles to perfection.A few differences between the movie Quiz Show, and the actual Twenty-One Show1.) Charles Van Doren and Herb Stempel played a series of scripted tie breaker games before the famous Marty movie question.2.) The question about Marty was worth 5 points, not 3.3.) Questions in the movie that recreate the famous Van Doren-Stempel final match were not the same as in the actual show. They were a composite of similar questions asked throughout the run of the show.4.) Van Doren won and became new champion when he elected to stop the game in the second round .5.) According to Game Show historians, only the first showing of Twenty-One was not rigged (but the questions were too hard, resulting in several 0-0 tie games.) The last show was also not rigged because Freedman and Enright had been exposed and tried to make the game legit at the last minute, but it was too late because the scandal had long been established.Quiz Show is a brilliant portrait of director genius! It's so good, it feels more like a documentary than a movie! "},{"Title":"Can a rigged show still be entertaining?","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This thought provoking film poses the question of whether a rigged outcome can still produce an entertaining show. Along the way, it looks at who we route for, and why. And the answers are most surprising.Quiz Show is set in the 1950's, and revolves around the popular game show 21, where contestants who answered questions correctly won big jackpots. At the start of the movie the big champion of 21 is Herbie Stempel (John Turturro), a very intelligent man, who also happens to be brash, abrasive, and Jewish. Unfortunately, this is not a combination that resonates well with the public. Consequently, when Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), the son of respected college professor, Mark Van Doren (Paul Scofield), and himself a very intelligent college professor, auditions for the show. He seems like a godsend. He's young, handsome, charming, and Christian. While it's very likely that he would beat Stempel in head to head competition, the producers decide to make sure that the more likable contestant wins by asking Herbie to take a dive. Herbie does, but when his popularity disappears once he is no longer on the show, he seeks revenge by cooperating with Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow), the agent investigating the quiz show. Meanwhile, the producers of the show have decided to keep Van Doren winning no matter what, so over his protests, they give him the answers ahead of time. Goodwin investigates Van Doren, and is charmed by him, not wanting to believe that Van Doren is involved in fixing the outcome of the show. However, the more Goodwin delves, the more things point to an answer that he wishes weren't true. The resulting scandal shocked the nation.It's an interesting premise, in that, you can rig the outcome of a show, but still give the audience a suspenseful and entertaining program. And also, the most capable or knowledgeable is not always the one the public wants to see win. This dilemma is presented very well. The characterizations are wonderful, in that all characters have both their good and bad points, and no one really emerges as totally hero or villain. All of which makes us take a hard look at ourselves.The acting was superb. Morrow portrays Goodwin's tenacious well, and contrasts it with a surprisingly down to earth person. Turturro does an excellent job of playing a man who is book smart, but people stupid. Fiennes is charming as Van Doren, so much so that you don't want to see him fall, but his weakness is too well defined to allow him not to. Scofield's portrayal of the loving and yet disappointed father is touching and heartbreaking.The movie really has the feel of the fifties, which is a good touch.All in all, a thoughtful and though provoking film, well worth viewing. "},{"Title":"An acting masterpiece","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" There have been only a handful of movies in the last 15 years where I've thought about the performance for days after and thought, how did that actor nail down that character so well? But John Tutorro's Herb Stempel is an acting masterpiece. It's significantly better if you've seen at least eight other roles by Mr. Tutorro, including must-sees Knish in Rounders, Jesus in Big Lebowski, and Julian in The Color of Money...But those roles merely show Tutorro's range...they don't hammer home his acting skill. This performance turns Tutorro into the character of Stempel. He is the highlight of this very good movie and turns Quiz Show into an absolute must-see. "},{"Title":"A great film with a great story, a truly deserving Oscar movie from Redford","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I thought this film was absolutely wonderful, thought most of redford films were boring actually, don't think I have seen one before this, but that's what I heard. But Quiz Show was fantastic, it told the story great, had great acting and directing and awesome vintage feel. I liked Redford's direction, he kept it interesting throughout the whole movie. Turturro gave best performance, although Azaria and Fiennes were very solid as well. Rob Morrow was also good in his role, have not seen this guy in much films but he was good here. The film does a great job covering corruption of a late 50s game show. This is an instant favorite of mine. 10/10 #54 on my list of all time favorite films "},{"Title":"An Excellent Movie!","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Are game shows really rigged? I remember watching this week that Jeopardy! ace Ken Jennings who won $2 Million last year from seventy-four games, lost to another opponent in which throughout the final games, Ken wasn't the same as he would answer quickly in previous games, but would make goofy faces as he loses. In Robert Redford's film, we discover how the producers of NBC's Twenty-One rigged every contestant on the show where eventually somebody would find out.The name of the game is Twenty-One and like Jeopardy! itself, the game show has various categories from history, science, math, movies, etc., and the champion is Herb Stempel (gifted actor John Turturro) a Jew living in Brooklyn who has won over various tournaments with a winning streak of over $100,000 where he knows all of the commercials by heart, and is being bribed by producer Dan Enright (David Paymer) so that way the show can get a new contestant who is better looking and not that hideous to TV viewers.During interviews for contestants, a pretty boy WASP teacher name Charles Van Doran (Ralph Finnees) tries out for the quiz show Tic-Tac-Dough were Enright tries to get Van Doran into the show Twenty-One to beat Stempel, and decides to go through with it, just because Enright B.S'd the cause of education to him.Now after Van Doran has beaten Stempel, Redford shows the audiences the ups and down of a successful individual having fame, getting the answers from the producers, and losing the persona he once had.Attorney Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow, another gifted actor) reads Stempel's article about Twenty-One being rigged, so now Goodwin is investigating whether the incident is true or not and if Van Doran is being fed the answers from Enright instead of looking the answers by himself.Quiz Show is not just a movie, but a document on what goes on the inside of a game show where the next time you watch a game show, you ask yourself Are these people actually smart, or are they just being fed answers like everybody else? Are game shows discriminative towards people of genders and races? Or for the matter, is Ken Jennings really smart, or did Alex and the gang from Jeopardy! feed him the answers and later played him a fool? "}{"Title":"This is an example of an excellent film","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is one of my favorite films. I can't even begin to put it into words. I can't remember when I first saw this, I know it wasn't in the theatre, maybe on cable or maybe I rented it although I wouldn't normally rent this type of film. I sure am glad I was able to see it. It has to be one of the best films with regard to storyline, the acting is brilliant without a doubt. Robert Redford knows his stuff, no doubt about that. This is so well made. I bet there are thousands of folks out there who have never had the pleasure and I pity them because this movie deserves the highest honors and comes very highly recommended certainly by me. "},{"Title":"We're in show business.","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I once had a college professor who spent an entire semester trying to convince us, the naive students, that everything on television was fake. The news, the weather, the traffic, it was all a show, for our entertainment, to make money for the TV stations. Perhaps his cynicism was rooted in the game show scandals of the late 1950s, most notably the ones involving the NBC show 21, Presented by Geritol, and is the subject of the Robert Redford directed movie, Quiz Show. It's too bad this movie came out in 1994 and not 1999 when TV game shows were hot (Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ring a bell?), but still a good movie on its own, well worth a look. It is especially interesting if you have any fancy for the world of television, as the behind the scenes play that occurs is fascinating. John Turturro immerses himself in the role of Herb Stempel, a book-smart Queens native who is first supplied the answers to stay on the show 21, but is then asked to leave the show by incorrectly answering an easy question. After losing to Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), a well-to-do intellectual in a family of intellectuals, Stempel begins to talk to the government about his life on the show, and that peeks the interest of a low level congressional subcommittee investigator, Dick Goodwood, played by Northern Exposure's Rob Morrow with a great Boston accent. The internal strife of a Columbia teacher, first appearing on TV, which is still looked down upon by some smart people, and this was before Fear Factor, then having to face the fact that cheating was involved. This movie looks good, has some great music from the time period, maybe it goes on a little too long in one scene where the Van Dorens are trying to prove how smart they are, and the ending was just there, I'm not really sure if we got anywhere by the end, but I still think it's a worthwhile movie, and you can see how decisions are made in show business, both in TV and the movies, and how we, the public, do not really know what is real, and what isn't. The reality TV explosion of the past few years comes under greater focus after watching Quiz Show. Are we still being duped? And what did Geritol really do? "},{"Title":"Old Time Film Making from Mr. Redford","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This film really does look like it was shot and made during the 1950s. Be it the sets, the dress, the attitudes, etc.. Moreover, this film also shows us where America start to go wrong. Right at that moment when the Beast that was television was starting to grow up. Based on the actual scandal involving the hit game show of the day 21, this film shows when producers made the decision to forsake integrity for ratings. However, what is really special about this film, are the performances, primarily from Fienes, Turturro and the real-life Charles Van Doren. They are so moving and powerful, especially Turturro. This is a classic film that asks the audience to take a hard and educated look at when TV went wrong. "},{"Title":"4 Stars!","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Quiz Show is a really thought-provoking and engaging period piece about a TV show scandal from the 50s. Rob Morrow plays Dick Godwin, an investigator for a congressional subcommittee, that reads an article in the paper that grabs his attention about a closed-door judicial hearing about a show he enjoys watching. Looking for a good challenge, Godwin decides to investigate the case and see if he can take the famous quiz show 21 down.Morrow is aided by a show's former contestant Herbie Stemple, played by John Turturo, a blue-collar Jew trying to make ends meet and is enraged, both by the fact that his 15 minutes of fame are up, and also by the fact that the producers of the show made him take a dive when his ratings were up. Godwin is eager to go along with Stemple until the ex-contestant claims that the show's current reigning champion, Ivy League college professor Charles Van Doren is cheating. Morrow, a Harvard graduate himself, has befriended Van Doren in his investigation and starts to ask himself what's really going on? The beauty of the movie is that we're asking ourselves that question as well too, as the script cleverly keeps some of the secrets from us until a little later in the movie.The movie's moral frame interestingly rests on Morrow's character Godwin, who clearly has a better sense of right and wrong than anyone else in the movie, yet isn't quite sure what to do with them. When someone asks him, `If someone offered you thousands of dollars to appear on TV and cheat on some questions, and no one would ever know, would you do it?' Godwin unflinchingly says he wouldn't without a second of hesitation. The movie's suspense comes from Godwin's search for clues, but there's an anticlimax here because he solves the puzzle but when it's all over, he finds himself looking back and wondering if his efforts really changed anything within the system. Herbie Stemple has a similar anticlimactic moment as well.This film is one of my favorites just because of the overall attention to detail. A lot of the suspense and drama is cleverly drawn out and the sets have an authentic 50s feel. More than anything else, I think the characters are really just engaging and that just helps keep us gripped on the drama. For example, Charles Van Doren seemed to me a creation that goes against so many Hollywood stereotypes. Most good looking guys in movies have girls with them, but Charles Van Doren never really had a love interest in this movie, except for a couple fractions of scenes where he's taking out a girl, most of the time he talks about how too many girls crowd around him. He also seems to like and admire his dad more than most adult sons do, at least as seen on screen. Those characteristics of Charles Van Doren struck out at me, especially because of his eagerness to befriend Godwin more than he really need to if he was doing it entirely for ulterior motives. "},{"Title":"Don't know how it could be any better","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I like action movies. This is not an action movie. This is a GREAT movie.If you like parachuting yourself into another point in time and learning about events in history then this is a must see. No, it won't blow you out of your seat with thrills and chills but the acting is top notch and it never lost my attention for a moment. Actually, I've seen this 5 times or more and I never tire of watching it or introducing it to a friend.If you want to go back in time to see the quiz show scandal of the late 1950's, then this is a perfect 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"Game of Cards","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Possible spoilers within.Notice the card game scene, it's one of the more exciting. The lightning and the smoke or something makes it intimate. The ulterior conversation which culminate in a concealed accusation. Provoking indeed. Also the card game at two levels. The actual card game and the intellectual game, if you will, between the two of them. Exhilarating moment. Without a doubt. "},{"Title":"Now THIS is a movie","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I won't go into boring tactics of film dissection and/or criticism. I will say this If you are in any way associated with the world of cinema, art or literature then you will love this film. It is, without a doubt, one of those rare gems that occasionally sprout out of Hollywood----a near perfect film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"A men's movie.. though not in the regular way","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I didn't think beforehand that this movie would touch me the way that it did, because of the quite moralistic and clear subject.However, it did. Especially the contribution of John Torturro was worthwhile to watch. 'Quiz show' can easily make you cynic (especially the behaviour of the studio-bosses), but it can also make you milder and understanding human behaviour. The disillusionment on the face of Torturro, the restrained shame on the face of Ralph Fiennes.. I think I will never forget it.When I walked away from the cinema, I thought again a men's movie. I hardly saw a woman in it. This is, like we all know, the case a lot of times in movies. 'Quiz show' however doesn't focus on macho-clichs, physical strength and violence. Quite refreshing, to see a story that is told from some other resources. The construction with the investigator (I forgot his name) and how he is getting along with Van Doren I sometimes found to much constructed and cinematographic I didn't found it unforgettable, so.. **** (out of 5). "},{"Title":"Something Special","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This is one of my favorite films of the 1990s.  The movie as a whole is not perfect, but there are certain scenes which are nearly perfect.  I'm a fairly pessimistic moviegoer, but in those near perfect scenes, the acting, dialogue, character interaction, and cinematography are all very impressive. It is apparent that this movie was made by skilled, intelligent people. This is a movie that requires a brain to watch.  If you want effects, look elsewhere.  If you enjoy excellent use of language and character development, this movie is for you.  The power in this movie is that it portrays real people dealing with real issues of personal integrity.  The tension that is created in some scenes over such issues is very powerfully and masterfully done.  I RARELY give movies a 10, but this one is something special.   "},{"Title":"Dead Poets Society Cast Cameo","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I dont see any mention of it on the site yet, but there is a very clever cameo Redford uses during a scene where Charlie is visiting his father in his classroom.  Ethan Hawke and other Dead Poets Society actors, dressed for DPS roles, walk out of the classrom discussing an academic issue. I thought it was a great moment. "}{"Title":"quick comments","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Loved this movie.Tuturro was sweet, but Rob Morrow was GREAT!  Quiz show only made me want to see Rob Morrow again and again.Buy it or rent it, but see this piece. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Great movie, great script, great characterisation. Loved the womenwho played Mrs van Doren and Mrs Stempel. Rob Morrow has anunfortunate resemblance to the British finance minister, GordonBrown, and shares the same habit of leaving his mouth hangingopen. Morrow did this a few times too often. I've never swoonedover Fiennes, but this movie shows he can act. Another thing that'soverused is the director's trick of shining a light into the mainspeaker's eyes so that they glitter. Fiennes spends a lot of timewith his face filling the screen and that light bouncing off hiseyeballs. Perhaps it emphasizes his waspiness as it doesn't workon dark eyes. xxxxxx "},{"Title":"Good Flick - but Rob Morrow should never act again!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Very good movie - pretty well written - very well acted by ALL with the glaring exception of Rob Morrow!  His fake accent was on again, off again trying to be from Brookline, Massachusetts was sooooo bad, we all cringed everytime he spoke.  We even started a game to see who could guess right whether he'd be using the awful accent or not the next time he spoke.  Ralph Fiennes and John Turturro stole the show and helped to hide the horror that was Morrow!  Please someone, make sure Rob is never in a film again!Otherwise, this film is highly recommended for its drama and acting. "},{"Title":"Fifty Million People Watched?","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Fifty Million People Watched and No One Saw a Thing. . .proclaimed the film's tagline.  In the case of this movie, fifty million people didn't watch and of those who did, it seems very few saw anything at all.That this movie -- surely one of the best of the decade -- did not prove profitable is one of the reasons more good movies are not made.  Just think -- there's no violence, no invented love interest, just a lot of good writing, acting, and direction.It's also beautifully shot and has nifty music.Definitely 10/10. "},{"Title":"This movie was simply fantastic.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I am always impressed when a movie can be made where you already know what happens, but it still keeps you interested (i.e. Apollo 13).  This movie does just that. The acting was truly remarkable.  John Turturro puts together another outstanding performance as Herb Stempel.  His character is what initially grabs you in this movie.  Rob Morrow, who prior to this movie I was no fan of, was also terrific.  Although his accent my grate on you, his delivery and timing is perfect as Dick Goodwin. Many people that I've spoken to about this movie have been afraid to watch it thinking they would be bored.  I begged them to do so and they were rewarded. I put this on my list of top ten dramas of all time.  "},{"Title":"A superb film the best I've seen in recent years.","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Paul Attanasio's screenplay is taut, intelligent, subtle, beautifully paced.  This is a morality play, the offenders being not only the contestants and their producers, but also the sponsor, the network and ultimately the quiz show audience.  And it's not over until the scene that accompanies the final credits.  The acting at every level, from principals through other important characters to bit parts, is outstanding.   Ralph Fiennes conveys the charm, intelligence, poise and moral weakness of the Van Doren character.  John Turturro and Rob Morrow are excellent foils, playing roles that are not quite as difficult with great skill.  The two producers are a smoothly choreographed duo, like a veteran pair of used-car salesmen.  Paul Scofield is deft and authoritative as Van Doren's father.  All in all, a delight to watch, again and again.  "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Most ethical decisions, unlike most of those seen in film, are not life and death, though they are important....that is the beauty of this impressively acted and written film. Most people probably consider this film boring because the action is quite cerebral.....it deals with motivations, human weakness, the problem of living in the shadow of greatness, as well as the beginnings of the staging of what the public wants (WASP vs. Jew), instead of what is right, that continues to this day in the media.I am not a fan of Robert Redford, and like very few of his films because they are usually politically motivated.  However, this film was great, and highly underrated.  This was one of Ralph Fiennes first films after Schindler's List.....he has played two very different characters...one that never realizes his immorality, one that does.....they were both great performances by a gifted actor. "},{"Title":"Paul Attanasio's masterpiece","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Paul Attanasio may be the best screenwriter alive. This movie's script challenges every actor, and each actor rises to it - particularly Paul Scofield. His story captures the corruption of the creative class by capitalism, or more precisely the damage done to the imagination by the artists of capitalism, the admakers, better than anything ever put on screen. The story takes place at the zenith of the power of the packaged goods marketers as they wrestle the networks into submission. You don't see the ads being made or any overt presentation of the marketers at work. But they're there, behind the scenes; you can feel the pressure on the programmers. I'd love to see how Attanasio and Redford would look at what they're now doing/trying to do with the internet. "},{"Title":"1994-film's best year from 1980--1926","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Along with Shawshank, Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, and Ed Wood, Quiz Show makes 1994 an unprecedented year of film. In the film industry the Academy Awards are the ultimate pinnacle. This is a shame, considering that the Academy is no different than a bunch of religious zealots who name God for their reason for killing, raping, and stealing. At least Turturro or Fiennes should have gotten a supporting actor nod, yet for some reason Samuel Jackson got one. Pulp Fiction was a great movie, but the acting was no where near to comparable of Shawshank or Quiz Show. Yet, the IMDb users usually get it right (Shawshank #2 film of all time). But, in this case they have failed miserably, as Quiz Show has a meager 7.4 rating. Rotten tomatoes however has it at a 9.5. Although I can become very irritable when reading film critic's reviews, I would much rather consult them than the Academy or IMDb, as the general public seems to be quite ignorant to the obviousness of a quality film. "},{"Title":"Sensitive issues, brilliant acting","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is without a doubt one of the best films I've ever seen. Addressing an issue that is rarely discussed in popular culture, Quiz Show brings to light the rampant anti-Semitism that plagued America during the 1950s. Brilliant acting by Rob Morrow, John Turturro, and Ralph Fiennes makes this excellent script even better. Morrow's Richard Goodwin faces an inner struggle that in the end will tell him something about what kind of man he wants to be. This movie is not about sex and car chases, but if you are looking for a carefully crafted, riveting drama that will spark intelligent conversation, then this is the one for you. "}{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I'm not sure why I'm so surprised that Redford made such a great film; ORDINARY PEOPLE is compelling, and certainly a showcase for great acting. But QUIZ SHOW is superlative.Much of the thanks can go to the screenwriters, who have fashioned a script which is fascinating, full of great scenes, rigorous, and propulsive.  The opening scene sets up the conundrum we are a people who often smirk at what we're being sold (either in media or by other salesmen); still, we buy it, knowing full well it just ain't so.Paul Scofield is astonishing; Ralph Fiennes is outstanding.  Rob Morrow's accent is unstable, but otherwise he's not bad.  Redford's direction -- in spots, influenced by Scorsese (who has a good cameo) -- is nice and tight. Very good production design, as well.A very wise decision was made to move the father/son confrontation (the son's confession) from a restaurant to the father's classroom.  The Shakespeare-toned verbal sparring is wonderful, and when Scofield protests your name is my name! the impact is formidable.  Later, when the parents are standing by their son after his testimony, a reporter notes that the academics are meeting to discuss whether or not to let Charlie go; Scofield's brave face crumbles in such a way that we see the father hadn't even really considered this possibility, and a new nightmare is beginning to unfold.QUIZ SHOW is a movie with fierce intelligence.  It succeeds wildly because it isn't some bland, filmed thesis; it's a fast, smart piece of real entertainment.  One of the best films I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Lively, enormously entertaining period piece","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The mere fact that the discovery of a TV quiz show as being rigged caused such a nationwide scandal in 1950s America is enough to speak volumes about the lost innocence of an era (a similar event today would barely raise an eyebrow). Robert Redford understands that, so he makes his points without hammering them across. Quiz Show is, above all, great entertainment handsome production, terrific recreation of the period, attention to detail, pacey and unstuffy direction, and quite a bit of humor. Redford's handling of his subject is remarkably even-handed (with no clear-cut good guys and bad guys), and the acting is exceptional in every role, big or small (it's hard to choose a favorite performance). My biggest objection would have to be Ron Morrow's sometimes overdone accent - which is hardly a major complaint! *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"By all means, do not leave this line alone","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Herb Stemple (played by John Tutoro--damn near perfectly) is confronted by a reporter shortly after pretty guy Charles Van Doren pours his heart out to some bullshit gov't committee The reporter asks Stempel to take a photo with Ralph Fiennes (Van Doren) Stempel then says to the reporter, right outside the hearing You know what the problem with you bums is? You never leave a guy alone unless you're leaving him alone.  It's a clever Yogi-ism. I saw, along with less than 5% of the moviegoers, director Robert Redford, leaving the viewer practically zero latitude as to the important statement the movie made. Like Elia Kazan's Gemtleman's Agreement Redford howls of man's inability to not only do the right thing, but man's ability to cherry pic when his brief irruption of acute imbeclitis renders him unable to even see what clearly is the right thing or glaringly moral path. So then, my new favorite quote for now is, YOU NEVER LEAVE A GUY ALONE, UNLESS YOU'RE LEAVING HIM ALONE. Ain't it da truth? "},{"Title":"Two great performances","Date":"21 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" It's 1958. Twenty-one is one of the most popular TV quiz shows. Producers Dan Enright (David Paymer) and Albert Freedman (Hank Azaria) run the show. Herb Stempel (John Turturro) from Queens is the reigning champ. However the sponsor doesn't feel that Stempel is a good TV personality. Columbia University instructor Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes) is fascinated with the show and tries out. Unscrupulous Enright and Freedman forces Stempel to lose on an easy question. Van Doren's TV success soon brings him out of the shadows of his renowned intellectual father. Stempel is frozen out and he goes to a grand jury. Richard Goodwin (Rob Morrow) is a congressional investigator who starts to investigate the game show.This movie is anchored by two amazing performances. John Turturro is at his jittery sweaty best. He provides the nervous energy while Ralph Fiennes gives the human fragility. It's a great character study of two fascinating personalities. "},{"Title":"review","Date":"11 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" More often than providing solutions, Quiz show uncovers questions not usually thought of. A work from a mainstream milieu and for a mainstream public, featuring renowned stars in the cast along with a celebrity as its director and producer, obeying to the most part of hollywoodian formal stereotypes, Quiz Show manages to be elegant in its aesthetics and narration, while taking the hardest of duties to suggest truth. The truth this film suggests is that very little, if anything, of what TV shows (and, implicitly, the entire mass media system) present is as it appears; the only rule being the maximization of audience shares and money gains, while manipulating credulous masses by giving them what they like to believe; the only reality being market, the sole truth being untruth.While watching, I was touched by the suspicion that Redford is better a director than a performer. The course of the film is strewn with thought- inducing fine particulars. It is a film on a specific circumstance yet of general scope, that will be relevant as long as both shows and mass media system, and masses' short-sightedness, will be there&#x85; "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever about American Jews","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show portrays various Jews of the 1950's with great brilliance (1) John Turturro is a schlimazel -- Yiddish for someone inept and unlucky. Turturro plays an intelligent man, a striver, but also a failure. He is very cynical. He is dishonest, but not really such a bad guy. He will never be fully integrated into American society. He will always wear a sign around his neck reading Jew. Jew because he makes no effort to hide his Jewishness and because he fits antisemitic stereotypes clever, dishonest, hook-nosed and ugly.(2) Rob Morrow is Turturro's opposite -- well-educated, good-looking, and highly successful as a hotshot young government lawyer. Morrow thinks highly of himself. He is super-ethical and is offended by other people's dishonesty. He greatly admires the Van Doren family -- the ultimate academic WASPs with a WASP house and WASP speech and WASP attitudes -- in principle above the dirty game of making money, their minds set on higher things. Morrow can integrate if he wishes -- but at the price of giving up much of his Jewishness. His wife sees this clearly and objects.(3) The producers of the rigged quiz show are Jews, as is the owner of the TV network. These characters are dishonest, indifferent to morality, and highly successful -- especially the owner, played with spine-tingling accuracy by Alan Rich.In contrast to these Jews is Charles Van Doren, played by Ralph Fiennes. He is tall, handsome, and American (i.e., a Gentile). He is like Morrow in being well-educated. He is like Turturro in being dishonest. He is even more dishonest than Turturro, since he is also a hypocrite.I have known all these characters. They are highly familiar to me. I can attest to how close to reality they are. The movie nails them. It gets them exactly right. A triumph. "},{"Title":"Cheating Scandal On Twenty-One","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Robert Redford directed this intelligent account of the real-life cheating scandal that rocked television quiz shows in the 1950's, with the show Twenty-One in particular being targeted by young lawyer Goodwin(played by Rob Morrow) who works for a congressional subcommittee that suspects something is wrong when long-time contestant Herbie Stempel(played by John Turturro) loses to popular and rich Charles Van Doren(played by Ralph Fiennes) and he cries foul, though his motivations are based on pride and money, rather than ideals. Paul Scofield plays Mark Van Doren, Charles' father, who can't understand what the fuss is all about... Most interesting and authentic recreation of that time makes potent observations about class, beauty, and favoritism, and doesn't let the audience off the hook either, making their culpability in the scandal quite clear in a clever fashion. Superb direction and performances in underrated film. "},{"Title":"Your name is mine!","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" That is the crux of it. Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes) not only risked dragging his own name through the mud, but that of his father (Paul Scofield) and grandfather.It was easy to take the money under false pretenses, but the truth will always out. When it does, it is always messy and painful. The harm is sometimes irreparable. Charles was torn from the start, but he still gave in.Fiennes, Scofield, and John Turturro were magnificent in this Robert Redford directed film. It had the unfortunate luck to compete against Forrest Gump. "},{"Title":"Very Intelligent Film!","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Robert Redford's Quiz Show is a pretty decent film that has some social, economic, and political morals to share. This drama is mostly riveting and it has an interesting story to tell. It's well-directed film by Redford who turned out to be a good director. The acting is great by everybody. My only problem is this film runs a little too long and it seems stale at some points.Redford's film is based off a true story. In 1958, NBC started a game show craze especially with their hit show 21. When champion Herb Stampel is kicked out and replaced by the popular Charles Van Doren, NBC comes under fire as it's revealed that the champions may have been given the answers to the questions.As mentioned before, the acting is phenomenal. John Turturro and Ralph Fiennes are great in their respective roles as the champions. David Paymer certainly makes a slimy guy. I was very surprised to see Martin Scorcese in an acting role, but I was very pleased.Overall, this is a decent film that goes on about corruption. Despite some staleness, I rather liked this film. It's not the best film of 1994, but it's easily entertaining. As for the subject matter, it's very hard to make a good mainstream film with it. But, somehow Robert Redford did it. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made","Date":"11 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This film makes you question what you see and hear, especially via the television. In the grander scheme it seems to highlight corporate power and big business propaganda delivered through the newest and most popular medium. The photography and costume design are virtually perfect for a time period piece and allows you to see, despite the clothing and material things, how corrupt so many of our institutions are, at the expense of a very trusting public. Ralph Fiennes and John Turturro are outstanding, but the casting and acting are so excellent in this film that anyone involved in this film should be proud of. There is no better film that shows the world what America is very much like. "}{"Title":"Great film of Redford's","Date":"28 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I watched this film for about the fifth time last night. I first saw it a couple of years ago when my mum brought it home, she'd picked it out of the bargain bin at the supermarket, and what a bargain! It is a superb tale, I notice some have said 'who cares it was just a dumb quiz show', well that is hardly the point, many films are made where, what was seemingly the subject is actually just a background for the real story to be told.Quiz Show is a brilliantly told morality tale, but that is not to say it preaches. It can get away with not preaching because the consequences of their actions didn't harm anyone. It doesn't say, 'if you do something wrong you will be punished'. It says 'If you do something wrong, can you live with yourself'. It's the getting away with it I couldn't stand Charlie says at one point.A classical tragedy of a man with the world at his fingertips who throws it all away at his own volition. As a classical Shakespearean actor Fiennes is perfect for the role.A wonderful intelligent and literate script, the pieces between Charlie and his father in the Athanaeum and at the picnic are wonderful.Subtle music and stylish presentation are the icing on the cake. "},{"Title":"Review Of Quiz Show","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show is a 1994 Best Picture Nominated film directed by Robert Redford. The film tells the true story of a Congressional investigator (Rob Morrow) who is soon wrapped up in a web of conspiracy surrounding a popular game show called Twenty One. Now, the plot of the movie has always been something of interest to me because I always love a good quiz show now and then. The thought of a quiz show being rigged has entered my mind on occasion, and this film properly explores that subject in depth. One of the greatest aspects of this film is its performances from Ralph Fiennes and John Turturro. Turturro's character is the man who is told to take a dive because he is not as aesthetically pleasing as Fiennes' character, and their performances really help draw a line of contrast between the two of them. Rob Morrow also did a very good job in the film's leading role. The Academy-Award Nominated script is also something I found to be very well executed as well. There's some fairly memorable, compelling, and even at times amusing dialogue all throughout this screenplay and I truly enjoyed watching this story unfold on screen. Robert Redford's Directorial work really shines in his fourth film - he's proved himself to be a jack-of-all-trades. The movie also does an astounding job of exploring just how pivotal TV was to the American population during the 1950s. Overall, I felt that Quiz Show was a riveting period drama that presented a very fascinating look into the Game Show Scandal of the 1950s. "},{"Title":"Robert Redford Excels In Quiz Show","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show is a historical drama film produced and directed by Robert Redford.It was adapted by Paul Attanasio from Richard Goodwin's memoir Remembering America, the film is based upon the Twenty One quiz show scandal of the 1950s. It stars John Turturro as the reigning quiz show champion,Herbert Stempel and Ralph Fiennes as the controversial contestant,Charles Van Doren.The story starts when the producers of the quiz show 21 have a problem. Their current champ, Herbert Stempel,who has a phenomenal memory and a broad range of knowledge but who also is a loudmouth with an uncharismatic personality.Then the producers asked Herbert to lose on purpose and allow Charles Van Doren,a handsome and charming college professor,to become the show's new champion. Audiences like Van Doren, and he's certainly not averse to the money he's winning, but the ethics of the situation begin to trouble him, especially when the show's producers begin to give him the questions in advance. The movie paints a telling portrait about the effects of advertising on producers of TV shows and networks.Aside from that a poignant examination of pop culture, greed, and race relations in American society in the 1950s.It relates changes in the American character and culture as it exposes how men make moral choices.In summary,the movie is an outstanding narrative of corruption of a person's character.Quiz Show delivers in all these things mentioned.Aside from that,it also worth mentioning the Turturro and Fiennes deliver great performances as Stempel and Van Doren respectively.In summary,Redford excels in Quiz Show. "},{"Title":"Much Ado About ... Something","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show is a great movie. It is part morality tale and part character study, but most importantly, it is a showcase of outstanding performances by a top-notch cast.It is based on a true story, as told in a book written by Richard Goodwin, a congressional committee investigator who looked into allegations that a television quiz show, 21, was rigged. Rob Morrow plays Goodwin and delivers his best performance ever. He is not a leading man. But he is thoroughly believable as a gadfly with subpoena power.John Turturro and Ralph Fiennes are equally good as Herb Stempel and Charles Van Doren, respectively. Stempel is a long-running 21 champ who is booted off the show because viewer ratings are sagging. Van Doren, the heir apparent of one of America's preeminent intellectual families, is picked as his replacement. Herb is bitter and goes public with his allegations that the show is fixed. Enter Goodwin and his subpoenas.The supporting cast is excellent as well. David Paymer and Hank Azaria are the show's producers, Dan Enright and Albert Freedman, who first lie and try to cover up the scam. But they are finally forced to tell the truth. Which leads to an interesting question. Why does anyone care if a TV game show is fixed? It's just entertainment, and there is apparently no law forbidding television from making fools out of the American public.Really.We're not exactly hardened criminals here, Freedman says. We're in show business.All I can say is Quiz Show makes me care, and that I want the lie to be exposed. But I suspect a viewer's position on that question says more about the viewer than the movie. Also very good in much smaller roles are Johann Carlo and Mira Sorvino as the wives of Stempel and Goodwin, and represent just as much a contrast. Tobey Stempel is a grating nag who seldom has a kind word to say to her husband. In contrast, Sandra Goodwin is clearly a full partner with her husband who provides intellectual and moral support. It may be a little-sharp-edged at times. But it is support nonetheless.Robert Redford as an actor has always been something of an enigma to me. There always seems to be a distance between him and the audience. But somehow it works, and I am a fan of many of his movies - some of which I think are truly great, like Three Days of the Condor and Jeremiah Johnson.But as a director, Redford is much easier to understand. There is no distance between viewers and the movie. Viewers are right there with the characters on the screen. And he consistently finds top performances from his actors.Who knows? Maybe Redford is a genius.Either way, Quiz Show is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Rotten apple-pie","Date":"7 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" It is not just that we have been lied to, the film suggests; that the average schmuck plucked off the street, or even the photogenic all-American pillar of ethos that followed him, did not grasp the Dream with hard work or quick wits, but were rather the corporate stooges fashioned to con viewers. This is fine, Hollywood actors were groomed after all in the stardom that was meant, in one of many ways, to represent the plausibility of that Dream.But these people, so the story goes, conned viewers out of the reality of the frame; this is where it begins to really hurt. It is not that people expected television to be reality, a show was understood to be a product of fancy. But more, that people implicitly trusted their eyes to tell them what's what. Remember, all this was back in '57, and for the most part there wasn't even a New Wave to challenge erudite film-goers at Cannes or Venice about the artifice of the filmed image, much less the broad American audience sitting down at nights to watch a quiz show.So, it was all thought to be true as far as the eye considered. Into this staged reality about ephemeral glories and vain fixations comes the Redford film; by recasting the staged image inside another staged image - the TV show inside a detective film murking for truth against artificial realities propped up by an immaculate surface -, it re-appropriates what is essentially scathing about the actual events.Oh, the final vision is a user-friendly cynicism, such as has infused everyday life since the days when we discovered just how powerless, pointless we could be in the face of the grand schemes. It is very fittingly staged as a court-room trial; where, once again, there seems to be a script, audience participation, and actors performing, seducing with treacly soliloquy or stentorian morals. The important battles being fought are swept aside into the spectacle, the purely superficial, as in TV.So, eventually the unimportant fall-guy assumes all the blame, and the powerful higher-ups at the network and sponsor get away scott-free. And this is why it's all so scathing in both directions, up and down; they get away, but we know - and can, with hindsight, make the films about it. The cost has been our disillusionment with the media landscape. They're all meddling with the truth, of course, or are in cahoots with who serves their interest. This has been our revenge; even the slightest hint of rumor can damage public opinion, the network owner explains. So, the apple-pie has been rotten to the core.It is a fine film, story-heavy, the era minutely recreated, with some little imagination that moves. When the quiz show whiz scheduled to lose looks out from his box, about to answer wrong, we see the promise of TV lights reflected on his glasses.And there is some marvelous stuff about a son who has lived life with borrowed images from the father and now has to re-assert his own - by investing himself into a TV fantasy where every image is a fake. His deliberately wrong answer that would extricate him from the self-indulgent fantasy is about Belgian kings; he answers King Leopold who is the father, when the true answer - which he knows - is the son. "},{"Title":"A Well-Directed & Well-Acted Film!","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" 'Quiz Show' is A Well-Directed & Well-Acted Film, that brings a true story on celluloid, convincingly. The film works, as it holds your attention at most times. However, the second-hour, is lengthy and could've been better. 'Quiz Show' takes place in the 1950's and chronicles the rise and fall of the popular contestant Charles Van Doren after the rigged loss of Herb Stempel and Congressional investigator Richard Goodwin's probe of Twenty One's game-fixing. Robert Redford brings a true-story, on celluloid, convincingly, thanks to his terrific direction, the superb performances & it's mostly engrossing Screenplay, written by Paul Attanasio. But, the second-hour loses pace & needed to be trimmed. The film is slightly lengthier, than it should have been. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are perfect.Performance-Wise John Turturro is excellent. The actor truly sinks his teeth into the part, and performs flawlessly. Ralph Fiennes is fabulous, especially in the second-hour. David Paymer is impeccable. Martin Scorsese leaves a strong impact. Hank Azaria is effective. Rob Morrow is another topper. Paul Scofield & Mira Sorvino are decent. Others lend good support. On the whole, An Engaging Film, that holds your attention at most times. "},{"Title":"Bread, Wine and Circuses ... Sandwiches, Geritol and TV Quiz Shows ...","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The 50's had A Face in the Crowd, the 70's Network, and the 90's Quiz Show, and as usual, TV-themed films carry the same premise of entertainment as their inspiration, with the same degree of cynicism. We never know as a viewer if we're accomplices or victims, it's up to us to take positions and to decide if the big TV star is one to root for or not. More than a plot device, this helps to engage us into the diabolical mechanisms that sometimes govern the modern Pandora box we -for the majority of us- grew up with.Antoine de Saint-Exupery said that Love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction. This sentence almost defines the very essence of TV. There's just something so fascinating in this little box, that converges the sights of millions of people from all the country, there's an odd equation between being on TV and being loved, as if the magnetic waves emitted by the screen filled the people's heart with a curious desire to be inside, this envy is translated into love, from the pride to know or to be close to the TV star. The producers got it right, audience wanted ordinary people to become stars, and when you have no talent in sports, or arts, the only weapon left for the schmuck is the intellect.Revenge of the Nerds can be a fitting subtitle for TV Quiz Shows, and the movie opens with the unlikeliest TV star, John Turturro as a man with a face for radio, the champion of the Twenty One, Herbert Stempel, a Jewish New Yorker at the pinnacle of his winning streak. But the lowering ratings aren't enough to compensate the awkwardness of Stempel and the feeling that the audience wants something new gets more and more palpable. So basically the idea consists on changing the nerdie as to change a light-bulb. And in the case of Charles Van Doren, the crooked producers, Freedman and Enright, Hank Azaria and David Paymer found the mother lode. The casting of Ralph Fiennes is perfect, his juvenile smile, rosy cheeks; exude a perfume of innocence while his voice maintain a serious dignity. Fiennes as Van Doren is so appealing that it makes his decision to sell his soul even more tragic for him, and difficult for us to accept.What would you do for TV, for fame, for money, for love? The film asks many questions in which silence can be the only non hypocritical answer. I won't extend the analysis to actual TV programs when any means justified to keep up the ratings, where at least the 50's had the decency to promote some intellectuality while today, muscles and tits replaced the brains. It could fill a whole thesis, and we already know that the majors and the sponsors always win. To make it short, let's say that the majors's cynical purpose is to sell some available brain time for the sponsors, and so-called entertainment is the hypnotic eye to let the viewer know that Geritol, is the best tonic in the world, to believe whatever they want, and the worst stuff doesn't necessarily concern the advertising department. TV got away with the scandal and this is precisely why I prefer to analyze the human aspect of the film.Quiz Show is a powerful drama about the consequences of adults behaving like children, it's about dilemmas and responsibilities. Behaving like children is having everything you dreamed of, without earning it, and living in the illusion that it will last, as in the denial of the existence of justice. But justice is here, and it's incarnated by the young Congressman lawyer from Harvard, Dick Goodwyn, played by Rob Morrow, the one who smelled something fishy at the first place. I thought in the beginning that the fact that he was Jewish was irrelevant, but actually, it helped him to have more affinity with Stempel who kind of convinced him that the WASP pretty boy winning over the geeky Jewish boy is not a legend, and with Van Doren on which he developed a real fondness and a profound admiration, falling himself in the trap of a childish attitude, in the sense of unprofessional.The characterization in Quiz Show is tactfully handled by Robert Redford's masterful direction. Stempel is more than a comic relief, he plays the victim with the tender flamboyance of the schmuck who still got his pride. Goodwyn is also weakened by his own affection to Van Doren, a corrupted soul whose only redeeming quality is to have inspired this friendship and more than anything, the love of his father, Mark Van Doren, the poet and the intellectual. Paul Scofield steals the movie with a nuanced but remarkable performance, as a man so convinced of the inner integrity of his son, we can't help but feel angry toward the son who broke such a noble heart. The Van Doren's tragedy is incarnated by two consecutive moments, the avalanche of applauds addressing the Committee member who wasn't fooled by Van Doren's eloquent speech, and the part that almost brought a tear to my eye, the devastation of the parents who learned that their son won't be a professor and that the name of the Van Dorens was tarnished or in the best case, would be forever associated to a sordid affair.Truth triumphed, Stempel convinced that he knew the answers he pretended to ignore, the scheme was revealed, but TV got away with it, that's the show business &#x85; even Stempel felt some empathy to Van Doren, as both ultimate victims of the media, a cruel arena condemning you to be eaten by the lions, the journalists and the movie ends with smiling faces representing the audiences as the Romans who cheered for the gladiators before condemning them &#x85; "},{"Title":"a compelling and excellent movie. loved it.","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" It's 1958, and the producers of the quiz show 21 have a problem. Their current champ, Herbert Stempel (John Turturro), has a phenomenal memory and a broad range of knowledge. He's also a pudgy loudmouth with a grating personality, so Herbert is encouraged to take a dive and allow Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), a handsome and charming college professor, to become the show's new champion. Audiences like Van Doren, and he's certainly not averse to the money he's winning, but the ethics of the situation begin to trouble him, especially when the show's producers begin to give him the questions in advance. Director Robert Redford and writer Paul Attanasio paint a telling portrait of how the network heads and advertising men who manipulated the quiz shows were also able to manipulate the responsibility for the scandal away from themselves. While on the surface a story about the scandal itself, Quiz Show is just as importantly about a turning point in the 1950s when TV and advertising began to change American character and culture. what a great compelling movie it was to be honest. i loved the experience. its a compelling watch and the best movie indeed by Robert Redford. i loved the whole basic idea of this movie about a quiz show a well known one where the producers, organizers and the sponsors sort of controlled a contestant asking him to Take a Dive and let the other one win. he is provided answers but before that he is being asked the questions he knew and they knew about them. this movie is about honesty, truth and dignity.this movie was nominated for 4 Oscars but not winning any of them. Best Picture, Director, Actor In A Supporting Role Paul Scofield and Adapted Screenplay. 1994 was great year for movies, such good movies were nominated as Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, and Four weddings And a Funeral along with it. this movie to be honest on the surface might not look new to you, keeping the main plot aside, you might have seen movies on the Network and Broadcasting topics but this movie in a bit of mainstream way and this compelling really will surprise you as it did me.Robert Redford is a good director, didn't worked a lot and to be honest this movie and Ordinary People were the only one that i liked or remember. he did a great job with this movie. superb direction. Good Art Direction and Cinematography. really good showing that time period. the best thing is the Screenplay, what an outstanding screenplay it was absolutely flawless. awesome. plot and story is very good will make you glued to this movie and you won't loose your attention. it might get a bit shaky in few places but overall a superb work.really good performances by John Turturro, he was so good and perfect in his character. Ralph Fiennes as always looked really good, stunning and charming. i like him and he did a nice job. other actors were good too like Rob Morrow, Paul Scofield, David Paymer , Hank Azaria , Christopher McDonald , Johann Carlo , Elizabeth Wilson , Allan Rich , Mira Sorvino , George Martin , Paul Guilfoyle , Griffin Dunne , Martin Scorsese , Barry Levinson. nice performances.this movie is very likable, a witty entertainment indeed. movie is very intelligent, smart and thought provoking. a terrific excellent movie. a Must Watch. "},{"Title":"Exciting story of a scandal","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The year is 1957, and everyone, it seems, is watching the popular TV game show, Twenty-One. Contestants can stay on the show for weeks, earning then-astronomical sums of money and becoming household names. Such was the case for Herbert Stemple (John Turturro), a buck-toothed, blue-collar guy who raked in the money. Little did the public know that the show was entirely scripted and that Herb was told the answers in advance. When Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes) a bright, attractive college instructor came on the show, the producers decided it was time for Herb to lose; he did and Van Doren became the biggest thing on television, even making the cover of Time Magazine. But he and the show were no match for Congressional watchdog Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow) who exposed the show for the fraud that it was.I was really surprised at how exciting this movie was. It's got humor and drama and is filled with tension. Fiennes portrays Van Doren as a witty, charming Connecticut Yankee from an influential family. We care about him and suffer with him as he prepares to confess his part in the fraud not only to Congress, but to his trusting father. Turturro's Herbie is a fascinating, naive, greedy man whose life was ruined by the show. Morrow is excellent as the whistle-blower.The movie is a wonderful look back at a time when we as a people were so much more trusting and innocent. This scandal rocked the nation and changed us forever. This is a great movie. "},{"Title":"It's All About Money And Vanity In One Of The Best Movies Of 1994","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Robert Redford's Quiz Show is a great drama about what happened behind the scenes of a very popular quiz show. Based on true events happened in 1958 we see two contestants of a quiz show and their contribution to one the greatest scandals of the 1950's. The first contestant of the show is Herb Stempel (John Turturro), a poor working-class Jew with a fantastic memory on several subjects. He's winning a lot of money on NBC's show 21 and people love him because he's a success on the show, answering correctly all the answers. But the show sponsors doesn't like him, thinking that he's ugly and boring and they ask to the show producer Dan Enright (David Paymer)to find someone different to beat Stempel and get more high ratings to the show. The answer to his problems is Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes) a College teacher, born on a very influent and rich family. Now he's gonna compete with Herb on 21 but things are not what they appear to be.Enright asks Stempel to dive for a good sum of money and lose the game. He offers to Stempel the question and the answer that's gonna make him lose everything and worse he knows the correct answer and don't wanna be a part of it. Enright says that Stempel might have an future on TV, but he must lose. Stempel follows what Enright says and loses but nothing of what was promised to him happens and he gets mad. He starts to denounce the show and the producers saying that the show is a fraud, that everything is set up, and most shocking than this the contestants got the questions and answers before the show be on the air.Richard Goodwin is the responsible for investigating any quiz show problems. On his search he discovers that something is wrong with the show but he wants more. He approaches Charles Van Doren, the very popular contestant that's making the ratings of the network fly high. Van Doren's is starting to get upset with the investigation, after all he's a man of principles, he doesn't believe in fake acknowledge, he doesn't want to receive the answers before the show starts, and last but not least he's the son of the acclaimed writer Mark Van Doren (Paul Scofield) a man who taught everything from Literature until moral values. Here comes our questions, the viewers questions Why Stempel gave in? Why Van Doren wanted to be part of this show? Why an educated man, with a good life needs to change his values to participate in a game show? Why Goodwin thinks that people would be interested in knowing that what happens behind quiz shows is a scam? And most important Why the producers of the show couldn't make something real and opted for making an fraud?It's all about money. Stempel wanted money, he obtained the money in the show, lost and wanted more, something that Enright promised. Van Doren's rich, teaches at Columbia and gets a great paycheck but he knows that he can get more. The 21 producers and the sponsor proved that with an interesting and charming contestant on the show they get more ratings and they get more money. In a particular scene after Van Doren's lose (in a question showed to him but that wasn't part of the scheme) the producers send Dave Garroway (Barry Levinson) to make an offer to Van Doren, NBC's offering a millionaire contract to him so that he could stay on TV. It's all about vanity. Stempel and Van Doren's look was a decisive factor on why NBC and the sponsor preferred the richer guy over the Jewish guy. When a NBC's accountant (Griffin Dunne) tells the sponsor (Martin Scorsese) that Stempel's a very popular guy in Queens, the representing replies Queens is not New York (meaning that he wanted Stempel out of the show. Van Doren is an more charismatic figure, Stempel's has a problem with his teeth and talks too much.But this is also a movie about ethic, moral values, dignity or the lack of all these items. Probably many people will condemn Stempel's attitude after his loss on the program, claiming that he had a choice, and in the end his denounce was thrown back at him, making him a desperate person seeking revenge. In the case of Van Doren his name speaks loudly than everything. When a Commission is formed to investigate the 21 scandal, and Van Doren testifies in front of all Americans, all the judges of the Commission replies that what he did by telling the truth was courageous. There's differences between the same issue. The most absurd of the reasons of why the show has to be made of that unethical way is that the producers and the sponsors were working for the cause of education.And with all of that, Robert Redford created a thrilling film, with a fast rhythm in the first hour and a slower and full of thoughts in the second hour. Paul Attanasio delivered one the best screenplays of all time, here you can find humor, drama, curiosity and really learn many things. Quiz Show has a great ensemble cast, with all actors giving their best. It's really difficult to say who's best. Certainly one of the Top movies of 1994. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Inside the booth","Date":"24 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is real event from the 1950's.Audiences at home are glued to their seats as Twenty One, their favorite quiz show on NBC starts.What they don't know that the show is fixed.The producers arrange the outcome of the competition.Herbert Stempel, a long time contestant, has to step aside since they want a new contestant, the non-Jewish Charles Van Doren.Later Stempel speaks out what happened behind the scenes.Richard Dick Goodwin, a congressional lawyer starts investigating the case.Quiz Show (1994) is a very wise movie directed by Robert Redford.It's based on Richard Goodwin's novel Remembering America A Voice from the Sixties (1988) and it was adapted by Paul Attanasio.Its producers include Redford, Goodwin, Michael D. Jacobs and Richard Dreyfuss.There's a very nice cast in this movie.John Turturro does a very convincing job as Herbie Stempel.Johann Carlo is very good as his wife Toby.Rob Morrow does a very fine job as Dick Goodwin.Same thing with Mira Sorvino, who plays Sandra Goodwin.Ralph Fiennes is terrific as Charles Van Doren.And so is Paul Scofield as as the poet Mark Van Doren.Great job by Elizabet Wilson, who plays Dorothy Van Doren.David Paymer is fantastic as Dan Enright.Same thing with Hank Azaria, who plays Albert Freedman.Christopher McDonald does a great job as the show's host Jack Barry.Allan Rich is marvelous as Robert Kintner.Director Martin Scorsese is magnificent as Martin Rittenhome.Director Barry Levinson plays Dave Garroway.Griffin Dunne plays the part of Account Guy.Timothy Busfield is Fred.Ileana Douglas is seen as Woman at book party.Calista Flockhart is seen as a Barnard girl.Ethan Hawke is Don Quixote Student.I got myself the DVD two days ago, on Monday.The movie really keeps you glued to your seat.The most intense moments happen inside the booth.Herb is being asked which picture won the Oscar in 1955, and he has to answer On the Waterfront instead of Marty, which is the right answer.He knows it's Marty, it's his favorite movie, and the audience is holding its breath as he struggles with himself whether to give the right or the wrong answer.And it's very intriguing to watch the detective work of Goodwin.When he notices one contestant giving the right answer when he was supposed to give the wrong one...Some heavy stuff.Quiz Show is an intelligent movie that will not disappoint you. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"19 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Based on a non-fiction book by one Richard Goodwin, a former US Congress investigator who played a key role in unraveling the American TV quiz show scandals of the late 1950s. An exquisite and beautiful film.The time is the fifties, the place America  the Soviets have just launched their Sputnik, the first man-made object to enter space, heralding the US-Soviet space race and heightening Cold War tensions ; Dwight Eisenhower is in his second term as US President ; and two in every three households has a TV set. To ensure greater viewership, the producers of certain TV quiz shows secretly provided the quiz contestants with questions and answers beforehand. This virtually guaranteed the shows' popularity, because the viewers just wanted to see the money, as one character says.Ralph Fiennes as Charles Van Doren plays another of his idealistic yet morally ambiguous characters, who is sucked into the morass against his will by the producers' guile, and also by his own need for fame and attention. And so Van Doren comes to make his own little Faustian pact with the Devil. Fiennes is one of those rare actors, like Al Pacino or Michael Douglas, who simply exude charisma, and whom it is always a delight to watch no matter what they're doing. And yet it is John Turturro who steals the thunder right from under Fiennes' nose. If you really want to understand the phrase disappear into a character, just watch Turturro in this film. In his voice, his walk, his physiognomy and right down to the movement of his eyes, he becomes Herb Stempel, the geeky and disgruntled contestant whose antics lead to the whole controversy. Every scene he's in, no matter how serious, threatens to become uproariously funny.Robert Redford as director proves to be a consummate storyteller, fully self-possessed and in control of the medium. The story is told as part drama, part history lesson and part comedy. The script is so interesting that even though one knows the outcome, its a lot of fun watching it happen. Every line of dialog is perfect, every scene is necessary no more no less. The whole film is peppered with literary and scholastic references, from Shakespeare and Keats to more obscure figures like Proudhon. The Shakespearean motifs are especially pronounced, from the verse game played by Charles' family, to the comparison of Charles Van Doren to Hamlet.This is yet another film that enough people haven't seen, or have simply forgotten. One of the very best films I've seen in some time. "},{"Title":"Redford's Fiendishly Entertaining Movie About Entertainment","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Robert Redford reminded everyone what a good director he could be with this slick and supremely entertaining film about the quiz show scandals in the early days of television.The subject seems at first glance like rather feeble material for good drama -- after all, it all happened so long ago and it was just a silly T.V. game show we're talking about here. But Redford digs into something deeper, namely the power television (or any medium, for that matter) has over its audience and the responsibility of that audience to play an active role in processing the information that medium is feeding to it.With stellar performances from Ralph Fiennes, Rob Morrow, Paul Scofield and, yes, even John Turturro, an actor I generally resist.Grade A "},{"Title":"Engrossing and very well acted drama","Date":"3 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is an engrossing and very well acted drama chronicling corruption in a popular quiz show in the fifties. John Turturro is magnificent as Herbie Stempel, a Jew who claims that the aristocratic Charles Van Doren (excellent Ralph Fiennes) has been fed the right answers during the show. Robert Redford's motive is to suggest the loss of innocence in America with the end of the fifties and the impending arrival of the culture wars and civil strife. Whether an American audience in the fifties was that gullible is open to question however. The film is a trifle overlong but never boring. Recommended.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"How intriguing could a story about a botched Game Show really be?  Very...in the right hands.","Date":"21 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Robert Redford is a great actor and he has had a lot of success with direction too and it wasn't until I actually started watching Quiz Show which I had wanted to see for a long time that I realized Redford wasn't in the movie but rather directed it so that kind of disappointed me. Although I wanted to see the movie because I liked Redford I truly had no idea what it was about, and I also didn't realize how based in truth it actually was until the movie prompted me to look into the fact behind it which was a lot and very interesting. It's even interesting and pertinent now seeing as how Game Shows have once again become so popular and makes you think a lot about that sort of thing. This is the key to Quiz Show, there are some really terrific, powerful performances and the direction and writing is simple and yet brilliant. The film is intellectually well done and still very entertaining to watch mostly because of the terrific cast and characters. It doesn't necessarily point fingers or tell you who was wrong and who was right but really takes this scandal and draws it out for you piece by piece and shows you everyones side and how it effects them. Anyone who enjoys a good strong movie could sit down and watch Quiz Show and be entertained by it, or thought provoked by it, and can get a variety of reactions out of it which is one of the things that makes it so intelligent. It's not action packed but character driven and the cast is so well picked that they make the characters come to life and seem completely intriguing to carry this story.John Turturro, who is a first rate terrific actor plays Herbert Stempel, an every day blue collar guy who finds great success on the famous game show 21. Unfortunately his revenge antics gets the better of him when he is set up to take a dive and replaced by an intellectual ratings grabber. Turturro is brilliant in the role, case closed. You hate him and yet feel sorry for him all at once. Ralph Fiennes is absolutely amazing as new intellectual champ Charles Van Doren who literally as Eye of The Tiger says trades his passion for glory. His character is very conflicted, and a true anti hero in every sense of the word. He is amazing in this role and I've never seen him in anything much that impressed me like this. Rob Morrow is just amazing as the investigator in the Oversights committee Dick Goodwin who becomes attached to Fienne's character as a friend and tries to protect him while still doing his job to the very end. These three actors make this film everything that it is. While there are some impressive and strong supporting characters including the terrific and multi talented Hank Azaria and the subtle but well played performance by David Paymer, Morrow, Fiennes, and Turturro steal the show...no pun intended. Clearly they found a niche in each other because they have great chemistry together and tell a story that leaves you enthralled in such a simple scandal.So far I have only seen two of Redford's direction projects...the other being last years panned Lions for Lambs which on the contrary I thought was downright brilliant (see my review.) Redford seems to want to tell a story regardless of what anyone else thinks because he is passionate about the content. Sounds silly in reference to a story about a rigged game show but somehow the passion for the content comes through loud and clear and while I wasn't quite blown away by the whole film, the performances, and the delicate re-creation of the time period and the entire world behind the scenes of the game show was brilliant. As I said earlier anyone can watch this and take something away from it even if it's as simple as saying...well that a good movie. But there is some very intellectual properties underlying and the three main cast members make the film really terrific. A great watch and I encourage anyone to check it out!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"A Great Dramatic Telling of a Classic American Scandal","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Herb Stempel (John Turturro) is America's everyman, with the exception that he knows everything. The star of Twenty One, he is asked to take a dive in exchange for a new contestant -- a more handsome Gentile with a notable family. He does take the dive, but soon regrets it and calls the local district attorney to investigate. Next, Congress gets involved and things snowball from there.Based on a true story, this was well before my time (1957-1959). But the idea is timeless... a heroic Congressional staffer who stands up to power to keep things honest for the American people. America needs more idealists like Dick Goodwin. And the story, which sells itself, is made even better with this stellar cast John Turturro, a grossly under-rated actor playing Herb. Ralph Fiennes as Charles VanDoren. Dick Goodwin played by Rob Morrow (Joel Fleischman on Northern Exposure), whose name is unfortunately not well known in film -- he really grabs the reins of this picture. Hank Azaria also appears, and Robert Redford directs. Martin Scorsese, Calista Flockhart and Ethan Hawke cameo.I've seen some complaints that the historical accuracy is a bit off on this one, but as near and I can tell it's about 95% right. And, folks, it's a movie. Entertainment. As Redford observes, if it was to be 100% accurate, he'd make a documentary and not a drama. Certainly there's some irony to all this -- a film accused of distorting the truth for entertainment being about a game show distorting the truth for entertainment. But, you know, I never felt deceived -- anyone who enters a movie based on a true story who expects perfection is grossly naive.I could go on and say how well-done the sets and costumes were for making this appear appropriate to the time, or how much I enjoyed the portrayal of VanDoren's father. But the important part is this the film was nominated for multiple Oscars, and this is one case where it deserved to win the ones it was nominated for. A powerful film -- engaging, dramatic and suspenseful. Like The Insider or Thank You For Smoking for the entertainment industry, a far less obvious sinister force than Big Tobacco. "},{"Title":"Overlong but engrossing","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Based on the 1950s TV quiz show scandal. Unbalanced Herbert Stempel (John Turturro) is winning on TV quiz show 21. However he is told to answer questions wrong so he can lose and all-American boy type Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes) can win. Richard Goodwin (Rob Morrow) investigates for the government.I have no idea how factual this movie is (I heard not very) but it plays very well. The 1950s era is captured perfectly (especially the obsession with TV), the script is sharp and direction by Robert Redford is assured. Acting all across the board is great--especially by Turturro, Fiennes and David Paymer as an evil TV executive. Morrow is also good--but he tries to imitate a Boston accent and fails miserably (I should know--I have it!). It's a big distraction in the movie. The biggest problem though is this is far too long--130 minutes. There are many scenes that could have been shortened or excised completely.Still, it's extremely compelling and worth catching. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Quizically enough, I liked this movie","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Strangely enough, I liked this movie. Now, I say strangely because I am definitely not a fan of quiz shows, especially those similar to Jeopardy in which you have to be of genius status to be in the game, let alone win. But alas, I am intrigued by conspiracies and the uncovering of conspiracies, no matter how trivial. This movie held my interest just because there was the air of foul play throughout and I wanted to see if and when the cover would be blown, and also whose head would be on the chopping block for it all. I found myself even more interested knowing that the movie was based upon a true story. Bravo to Robert Redford for his role as a director. I had no idea he directed this movie at the time, but I'd say he hit a ground rule double with this production (not quite a home run, but long enough to hit the ground and bounce over the wall). "},{"Title":"gets even better with time!","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This is a wonderful film, with a great script and direction. It perfectly illustrates how easy it is to be sucked into deceit. At first it seems harmless, but as events gather momentum, it becomes ever more difficult to opt out. The most impressive part of the film is the quality of dialogue. It is most unusual to have realistic intellectuals - I am particularly mindful of this after just seeing Five Easy Pieces, where the family of musicians have the most mundane conversations - with never a hint that they are (apparently) famous virtuosos. I have seen this film about 5 times and it gets better every time. John Turturo is great, and it must be one of Ralph Fiennes'best performances; of course Paul Scofield is, as usual, perfect! "},{"Title":"Solid character based drama focuses on ethical problems","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I found this film very interesting -- it concerns the collapse of the game show bubble in the 1950s, when a famous professor's son became a quiz show champion only to be disgraced when it was made public that he had been given answers in advance.None of the characters did anything really all that wrong in terms of morality.... they lied, they cheated, but nobody was killed, and arguably other than fooling some people no one was really hurt. So this film really is an examination of ethics, of the ultimate importance (or lack thereof) of truth and integrity in the academic and governmental worlds.The 3 actors playing the principle roles are impeccable. John Turturro, always a convincing and riveting character actor, puts in one of his better and more substantial performances as the original quiz show champ, Herbie Stemple, who is deposed by the academic hot-shot Van Doren. Van Doren is essayed by Ralph Fiennes, who really steals the film in a lot of ways with his performance. He's tragic, you want to like him, but at the same time you know that his honesty and his integriy only go so far. He too has been corrupted by the money, and by the urge to distinguish himself from his father's fame and stand on his own. So ultimately you do feel sorry for him. Rob Morrow does a fine job as the government's man, Goodwin, who exposes the scam. He brings to the fore the real ethical problem that the film wants to expose -- the fact that the machinations of Congress and the anger of the American people were focused on Van Doren and the other quiz show cheaters, and not on the studio network heads and the corporate sponsors (a memorably low-key performance by director Martin Scorsese) who are just as responsible for the deception.One weakness -- I thought the character of Sandra Goodwin, played by Mira Sorvino, was either under-written or edited out of the film too heavily. At one point she and her husband have a really grisly argument about why he is not going to call Van Doren to the stand, and it really feels like her criticism (the intensity of it especially) is coming out of nowhere. I suspect a scene may have been deleted, or I would have to blame poor writing, but it really felt disjointed to me and my girlfriend commented to me about the same thing.All around a solid effort, one of Redford's best films. "}{"Title":"Thank you...a great commentary on TV's golden era....","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Thank you, Robert Redford. This scandal occurred before my time, and at first when my friend told me the plot of the movie, I thought... so what?; that was in the early 90's before we were inundated with the reality trash we now see today; and this film is worth watching more than a few times to catch the innuendo and commentary, which is brilliant.For example, Marty Scorcese, when grilled by the senate ethics committee (well portrayed by Rob Morrow), as the slick CEO of Geritol. Young man, I tripled those profits, that's the kind of salesman I am, making people want Geritol!. He smiles smugly.Rob Morrow is the ethical lawyer, attempting to unveil the conspiracy of commercialism and public spin; a crime now permeated on the American public daily, and not only with game shows, but also politics, news commentary and talking heads.There are a few obstacles. Rob Morrow's Boston accent still sounds more like Brooklyn; Ralph Fiennes as the too-perfect Charles Van Doren, a young man duped into promoting the scandal, and representing the public demand for class differences and competition.John Turturro is excellent. After this film I have followed his performances more closely; he BECOMES Herbie Stempel, the man exploited by TV executives for his common looks and appeal to the mass audiences. Johann Carlo as his wife Toby is also noteworthy; proud of her husband she did not believe he was bribed to win the game show 21.David Paymer and Hank Azaria are right on the mark as sleazy TV executives. We can imagine the likes of these two producing The Apprentice, even today.Paul Scofield is also excellent, as Van Doren's father, a noted author and professor, who was disappointed in his son's sell out to the TV game show; representing the old school, when values meant more than money. The end of the film is reflective, and will make one sad we cannot return to the days when every form of TV entertainment was not controlled and manipulated by corporate interests. 9/10. "},{"Title":"This movie has many different connections","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I I feel that this movie was one of the best movies that I've seen yet. I never thought that it would be so interesting the way it was. This movie is good one if you're in the same situation. This movie is a turner for those who view movies that deals with money and knowledge differently. When I first heard about this movie I thought that it would be a boring one but after wards I thought differently and especially how this movie ties to how Americans can act when it comes to money and popularity. It was kind of cool to see how Redford was able to tie this film with On the Water Front. Both of the movies have a character that had to make choices to fix their guilty consciences. If no one has read the document by Matthew Warshauer called Who Wants to Be a Millionaire Changing Concepts of the American Dream and see how some of the quotes are similar and connects to Van Doren, Goodwin, and Stempel. I think that Redford did an excellent job on this film because this movie was awesome. "},{"Title":"Mr Redford may be warning us about lieing.","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I assume that you have already read the synopses' presented by other commentators, therefore you know the gist of the story. I have to say that I like Robert Redford a lot better than I did before. After thinking about what he may have been trying to say with this movie, I think he may have been telling us that it is wrong to tell a lie. And that sometimes there are consequences for breaking one of the key rules that all societies hinge upon. He might be saying that sometimes the consequences are not so obvious and forthcoming, but, sooner or later, all lies are discovered and known and varying degrees of consequence will follow. I feel confident from viewing Mr. Redford's body of work that he is a moral man and his choices for making movies are based on a set of moral values. Bravo! Ten commandment morality will keep our civilization vibrant and growing. Deviance from it will set in motion an inevitable decreptitude and freedom's destruction. Rosebud. "},{"Title":"An Intellectual Movie about an Intellectual","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I understand that a few liberties were taken with the facts in this film. They always are. The fundamentals of the quiz scandal of the fifties, however, did come through. This is a movie about men and their integrity. From Herbert Stempel to Charles Van Doren we have a range. These men were both geniuses, but Van Doren was the son of one of or great poets and critics and Stempel was just, well, Stempel. We idolize our pretty people (nothing new). Van Doren, of course, had to eventually face the music or face jail time. There were two golden ages of television. The first was when Milton Berle and his ilk caused people to put away everything early and watch each week. Jackie Gleason was also a part of this. The second began when TV began to exert its power. These big buck quiz shows were all over the place and the advertising revenue became phenomenal. How could one not begin to see the orchestration going on behind the scenes when such money began to speak loudly? Like the internet today, the media had moved beyond the legal system. One had to almost ask Did anyone do anything illegal beyond the basic limits of fraud. And if they did, who was harmed by it?The performances are wonderful here. Rob Morrow, who should be doing a lot more, is excellent as the bulldog investigator. Ralph Fiennes comes across so well as Van Doren. He has that little snobby accent down cold. We want to hate him, but he is part of a great family and so automatically demands respect. John Turturro as Stempel is a juggernaut. He knows what they have done to him and he is really offended. He is crash and boorish and smart. Not what TV really wanted. The scandal plays itself out in a believable, realistic way that is so nice to see. If you want a movie that requires you to see the entire issue and make your own decision, see Quiz Show. "},{"Title":"Great story. Great performances by all.","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" MAY CONTAIN SPOILERSWhen I walked away from the cinema, I thought again a men's movie. I hardly saw a woman in it. This is, like we all know, the case a lot of times in movies.Although the movie did feature men of power, the men's movie comment above struck me as funny because Dick Goodwin's WIFE tried in vain to convince him that a congressional investigation hearing without Van Doren would be like Hamlet without Hamlet. Also, Herb Stempel's wife was an essential character and had a great line about her disgust at the cheating revelation and the feeling that she was just another one of the TV-audience saps that Herb lied to. Another female character was the woman who beat Van Doren; a highly- degreed, brilliant attorney -- perhaps somewhat of a rarity in those days.The Van Doren confession to dad is classic.Also, director Martin Scorcese played the part of the Geritol president perfectly! "},{"Title":"Great film, just a little too long","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show is a true story about a scandal that took place while TV quiz shows were at their peak in popularity. (Spoiler) It is a great story, the actual quiz show its self is just a little bit of support for the movie. The story is about how a quiz show called 21 was the most popular show during the late 1950's. There was an undefeated champion on the show named Herb Stempel. He was receiving the answers from the show executives so he could stay on and boost their ratings. However, their ratings were starting to go down. They payed Stempel to take a dive so that a younger, better looking college professor could be the new champion on the show, in order to get more viewers and receive higher ratings. There is a good message about your own morals and choices in this movie, as the college professor has the choice of cheating and becoming an undefeated champion on the show, or do what's right and not receive that honor. The direction is great, thanks to Robert Redford, and the music and style add much more to the movie. Unfortunately, the running time is a bit long, but it is vigorously entertaining and still a great viewing experience. "},{"Title":"Quiz Show a remarkable film!","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I felt like it was very well done, great camera angles, some fairly creative shots that spoke for the characters when they themselves were silent...just a well done, quality film, that never drys out or leaves you in a lurch. John Turturro is outstanding as a neurotic, slightly obsessed and racially-sensitive Stempel, Rob Morrow carries the role of Goodwin as if he were the man himself, and Ralph Fiennes as Charles Van Doren was a better choice than anyone else I could imagine, also as if the role fit his personality so closely as to blur the line between actor and role. Hank Azaria had a relatively small part, but is always a good fit regardless of the subject matter, a phenomenal character actor who has finally made quite a name for himself; quite overdue, I feel. Paul Scofield handles his role as Charles' father without so much as the slightest effort, it comes so easily. David Paymer is a man who seems to receive so few accolades one might hardly notice him, but he also is tremendously talented (see Mr. Saturday Night for a strong example of Paymer's abilities as supporting actor opposite Billy Crystal and Julie Warner).All in all, a wonderful film on a subject in which one might not normally find interest, but very well done and an outstanding yet understated collection of actors and actresses make this one4 out of 5 starsWell worth seeing! I would highly recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Camp look at quiz show corruption.","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Based on a book by the Dick character (played by Rob Morrow, the lead of TV's Northern Exposure), Robert Redford's 1994 film evokes the quiz show world of the first years of television, done in the camp style of 50's movies and television. Thus, the bright colours, the superlative performances (which don't go so over the top we forget they represent real people), all the classic/cliche voices of 50's entertainment - the wise old man (Charles van Doren), the brooklyn investigator (Dick), the nerd (Stempel), the nagging wife (Toby Stempel), the con men (Dan Enright, Albert). John Turturro gives another unique character, and i can't think who his character reminds me of, but Herbie Stempel is a funny highlight of the movie.An absorbing, fun, immensely watchable movie, which rests on a very simple but captivating premise. "},{"Title":"Relevent even in this time","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I know this takes place in the late 50's, when the boomers were younger, but it is so relevent even with this generation.  Time may have passed but the game is still the same.  Every damn show is rigged to get big ratings.  I give this a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but not quite history-","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Anyone interested in the events portrayed here ought to read the book Prime Time and Misdemeanors by Joseph Stone and Tim Yohn (Mr. Stone was the Assistant D.A. for Manhattan at the time his office investigated this affair.) One point he makes is that the Quiz Show scandal was far from harmless- many of the principals involved were tainted by it and took years to rehabilitate their reputations (such as professor VanDoren himself.) On the larger scale, acceptance of such dishonesty damages our whole society.Before the scandal broke, parents held-up the contestants as examples to their children of what they ought to aspire to intellectually. Afterwards, no one wanted their kids to pattern themselves after people so corrupted in moral ambiguity.Interestingly, there was nothing illegal about giving the quiz contestants the answers, so long as the shows' sponsors knew about it beforehand (otherwise this would have constituted fraud.) But when the shows' staffs and contestants lied under oath about the quiz rigging, they became guilty of perjury, a Federal offense given the circumstances. The deception was bad enough. Lying about it afterwards only made the situation that much worse.The story of the quiz scandals should serve as a wake-up call to people who nostalgically yearn for the era and tend to think of the 1950s as the time of shark-finned cars, suburban tracts and Happy Days icons and music. "}{"Title":"Television in the Fifties","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This outstanding movie shows us a bygone era when things were so much more simple - in the good old days when the world was just half as crowded as it is now... But some things never change even then, ratings were the name of the game - and the studio executives will do anything to keep the viewers tuned-in. This behind-the-scenes look at the production of a hit TV show shows us just a glimpse of some of the moral decisions faced by the key players. A great period piece with fine acting all around.  I'm sure I'm not the only one who who had to look up egregious in the dictionary after watching this fine film. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast in solid movie","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Good movies tell a plausible story with all its shadings, and leave it to us to decide who are the real heroes and villains.  Who would have thought that a movie about the quiz show scandals of early TV would appear to be accurate and also be riveting?  Not me, who turned away from it twice on a cable showing before I got sucked in.  Great performances from the three leads Turturro, Morrow and Fiennes as well as the supporting cast (including Scorsese!).  Many of the issues raised by the movie remain relevant today, including the degree to which TV can fix its programs.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The network power","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I think this film shows us how much powerful the tv can be, and how we depend of it. In Quiz show we can see a great interpretation of John Turturro and Ralph Fiennes, and if we add to this point a great direction of Robert Redford we will have fun with this movie. "},{"Title":"I loved it.","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Robert Redford's direction was great, John Turturro's performance was superb (as usual), Ralph Fiennes looked handsome as ever (as usual) as Charles Van Doren and did an excellent job (as usual) and everything else was very pleasant to watch.  It really changes your perspective on game shows... Watch it if you have the time...it's worth it.Cheers. "},{"Title":"Answers raise questions","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This movie provides a look at the Quiz Show scandal of the late '50s.  It is good entertainment and raises questions about human nature--how people can be driven by greed to cheat, whether a situation of sort of entrapment cheating is more morally justifiable than without, whether anybody would have done it, and more specifically, whether you or I would have acted in the same manner in the situations depicted.Still, there is another issue  whether trivia is so great as a thing in itself.  This question must be borne in mind, and was addressed well in a letter to the editor of a newspaper I was reading a few weeks after Quiz Show was released.  It pointed out that we must be careful not to glorify trivia, and that in fact those who dwell on it too much are losers.  I consider myself a trivia expert in many categories, and I and many people enjoy trivia a lot, but we are reminded to look elsewhere (like writing movie reviews, I guess).  The high water marks of Quiz Show project an apotheosis of trivia, trivia for trivia's sake, needing nothing else.  Obviously, this raises questions of values, and substance.  Remember that other accomplishments in life, life's basics, are more important.  "},{"Title":"Television Was On Trial!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I watched this movie in my Video Lit. class, when we where watching 1950's Television and watched Quiz Show because it was about 1950's Television Quiz Shows.  Well we had to do an essay on the movie and i thought wouldn't it be cool to put it on IMDB.com, so here i go    In the 1950's television was new and the shows where good but you never saw it really effect people in anyway.  That was true untill games shows from radio came like Twenty-One and 64,000 Question.  In these shows you can see real people winning money and it's effecting their lives.  When watching the show you see people like yourself answer questions that they might not know, and you never knew who was gonna win.  That is why quiz shows where popular in the 1950's.    Then in the 1950's the people found-out of a scandal.  When a show like Twenty-One was giving the answer to contestants on their shows so they could have reoccurring contestants.  The people's vision of real people of the street was ask questions to see what THEY know, and not just to see reoccurring contestants.  They were lied to, and they did not want that.  In the outcome, game shows weren't watched.    One big argument of the show is that some people think that NBC who showed Twenty-One and Gertiol who sponsor the show should've got punished.  Since the manager of the show said that he never told either NBC and Gertiol of the answer giving, they weren't.  Personally i don't know what to think, Gertiol i don't care about, but NBC i do.  They bring us great shows like Saturday Night Live, Friends, Just Shoot Me, etc.. and they might not be if it wasn't for NBC.  But then on the other hand NBC was running this show and should know of everything that was going on, so in which I can't decide!    Now, after awhile that game shows where still going on, but not a real popular hours, they made a come back to primetime.  Shows like Who Wants to Be A Millionaire?, Survior, and Greed became hits, because now shows know not to lie to the public, or at less we hope they do.  Even the show Twenty-One made a come back, but i never left the ground.    It depends on your viewing public for trust.  Now there are shows that we know aren't real, but they are still hits.  Shows like The Jerry Springer Show (talk show) and WWF (wrestling) we know are fake and staged because they told us, and people still watch it because it's what they like.  The there are shows like Who Wants To Be A Millionaire and The Rickie Lake Show are shows that the viewing public wants and believes are real. "},{"Title":"Prediction","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Quote from Quiz ShowWhy fix them? Why not just make the questions easier? The audience doesn't want to see the contestants - they want to see the money.Ladies and gentlemen, meet Regis Philbin.Ugh. "},{"Title":"A Personal Favorite","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This film gained some critical and popular attention when it was released, but nearly  not enough, in my opinion. It is preachy, to be sure -- but pedantry isn't necessarily  a bad thing, provided the filmmaker has something worthwhile to preach about, and  carries it off with commitment and insight.Robert Redford did have something to bring to our attention in this film, and it was  not as many have suggested, the corruption of TV executives. It was also not fundamentally about dishonesty or fraud. The film's real purpose was to mark that  place in time in American culture when TV became more important then reality, when  it began to stand in for many of our higher values.Watch the film with this idea in mind, and it will take on a great deal more depth.  Observe the relationship between Charlie Van Doren and his father -- the two standing ultimately on different sides of the cultural divide that was opening in  American at that time. The side onto which Charlie Van Doren stepped, seduced by  money and easy fame, is the one on which we live on today. Our culture was not  always thus, is Redford's subtle message -- and here is when it changed. Bravo.Redford is also to be commended for the performances he drew from his cast. The  stand-outs are obvious, but what's important overall is Redford's attention to  character development and realism. This is something the current crop of hot-shot  directors (Soderburg, Cameron, Spielberg, Scott, to name but a few) cannot seem to  manage, so instead they give us visual spectacle, shallow characters and few ideas.  Perhaps it takes a senior member of the acting community rescue us from these  vapid directors.Quiz Show is one of the few movies of recent years to be a film about something  important, and it was executed with an unusual degree of wit, style and attention to  detail. This film will always reside near the top of my personal favorites list. I rate it  nine out of ten. "},{"Title":"The sore loser is a winner","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  * * *  (3 out of 5)The sore loser is a winner>Concise, sober and interesting depiction of the famous NBC game show fraud (21) in the 50s. Based on a true story and firmly directed by Robert Redford.The backbone is entertainment in a historic perspective. Luckily, Redford and the superb cast allow for realistic tinges of despair and downright meanness to surface among some of the unfortunate Hollywood parading that somewhat bogs the movie.David Paymer and Hank Azaria - as media piranhas Dan Enright and Albert Freedman - are particularly annoying in their hysteric characters. Redford goes for a touch of the Coen brothers here - Paymer and Azaria do a truly smashing job - it just doesn't work in this context.There are exceptional and formidable performances all the way round. Most of them work. Lead by two major performances Ralph Fiennes and John Turturro.Fiennes seems to find the same venom deep in himself that made his performance the year before - as the sadistic German commandant in Steven Spielberg's Schindler's List (1993) - a tentative stand out. He was both compelling, original and darkly seductive. This time he seems to turn that very same venom upon himself as he carefully embodies college professor Charles Van Doren. An educated man who is tempted and ultimately lured by the promise of money and fame on the game shows made for the revolutionary television.Fiennes' Van Doren is intelligent and wise, but nervous and disillusioned when among his peers - those are namely his father and other intellectuals - and he has even adapted a slight stutter that plays ingeniously well with his facial expressions and quirkiness. His performance is scintillating brilliant.Opposite him is John Turturro in what may be his finest performance to date. Turturro is Herb Stempel - the former game show winner who is found to be too geeky and greedy (and Jewish) for the network and therefore scheduled to take a fall - and he has never been better.He gives the term sore loser a whole new meaning.Turturro is always intriguing but has also become somewhat predictable. He is mainly used in eccentric and frenzied roles simply because of his onscreen magnetism (as in The Big Lebowski). Only Barton Fink (1991) hinted at the more shaded and jaded side of Turturro; one that showed us glimpses of emotional understanding from underneath that charismatic and provocative shield. That is visible here although Stempel basically whimpers and whines throughout the movie Why must he take a step aside for Van Doren? Why? Why? It is hilarious all the same.Yet it is with his wife and child at home that we glimpse the sensitive side of Herb Stempel as portrayed by John Turturro. A man who is to be respected for his intelligence, sure, but also for his commitment to family and honesty. After all.Furthermore both Paul Scofield as the elder Van Doren (Your name is my name!, he protests after learning that his son was aware of the scam the father-and-son scene is simply mesmerizing) and Rob Morrow as investigator Dick Goodwin deliver high caliber performances.Where do all these powerful performances leave the movie itself? On solid ground actually. The movie is taut and tight in form - interesting not only because of the morals at stake here - but because Redford treats the material like a murder mystery with Van Doren at center, caught in an emotional tight rope (to tell or not to tell?).Redford peels layer after layer off of Van Doren and his slow psychological disintegration has you pinned to your seat.The moral seems to be that amidst lost idealism we must rise again. Simple awareness of the gradual and ever-changing assessment of moral justification that resides in society today can help us make the many temptations - in what was already then considered a consumer-land - go away. Or can it?Along the way we are treated to some unfortunate candy-coated moments though. When Van Doren caves in and issues an amendment at a hearing he is at first applauded. Only to be sucker-punched by sheer Hollywoodism. A senator adds An adult should simply not be commended for telling the truth.As if the senator was expecting the audience - not at the hearing, but you dear viewer - to applaud him. These self-conscious John Wayne values do not fit the movie. Not when so bombastically dropped.All in all Redford delivers no answers - this is entertainment based on reality - but he is knowledgeable about human nature. When he brings that out in the open - by way of Paul Attanasio`s razor sharp screenplay and the amazing cast with Fiennes and Turturro in front  - Quiz Show is intelligent and alluring cinema. "},{"Title":"Simply Brilliant","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  There's not much to say about Quiz Show except that this is a wonderful, brilliant product of film making. The acting, writing, direction, and cinematography are all superb. In general, only movies from the '40s are this tightly constructed. And the subject matter is as relevant as it ever was. Go out and rent this movie-you will not be disappointed. "}{"Title":"A timeless film which transcends the subject of tainted quiz shows","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  The other comments for this film have described what a wonderfully written, acted, and directed film this is. I will not add to those, except to say that years from now, when the box-office hits which overshadowed this film will be looked at as dated curiosities, this film will almost certainly seem as fresh and vital then as it does now.What is so very refreshing is to see a film that honestly shows us what a complicated thing morality is. There are a few clear instances of right and wrong, but only in the details, never in the big picture. After all, this was just television. Is it wrong for a game show to be produced in the same way as professional wrestling? Who were the victims? Can you describe them in a way which makes it clear the the quiz show was the perpetrator and not just an innocent bystander?What these questions show us is that the true subject of this movie is not just the tainted quiz shows, but all of the changes happening in society at that time. This involves the very structures of society, and goes beyond obvious allegories like television vs. the movies or the loss of innocence in the media. To make matters more interesting, the ways in which class, culture, and ethnicity all play a factor in how one reacts to these changes are an important part of the story. What the movie is depicting is the inevitable and permanent passing of the lifestyle which we associate with the 1950s and, like the morality of the characters in the movie, it is left to the viewer to decide whether or not this is a good or bad thing, or maybe a little of both.  "},{"Title":"A good looking man in an equally good film?","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Quiz Show is amazing. Robert Redford's assured direction and a fine performance from a now established ( and gorgeous) Ralph Fiennes makes it a pleasure to watch. Without preaching too much and becoming to moralistic, it manages to convey an important message about the media which is often overlooked. You feel every emotion the film wants you to feel, and that's when you know the cast and crew have done their job. Excellent. "},{"Title":"Ralph a blonde?","Date":"13 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Even though it's based on a true story (which usually includes the so-called  'unusable reality') I thought this film was fun to watch, despite Ralph's  blonde hair (how COULD he?) which made him look like an escaped maniac, and  also despite the righteousness of Charles van Doren, at first refusing to  get the questions beforehand & then deliberately failing at the end (this  is what I mean by unusable reality - if this indeed happened then it should 've been cut from the story & changed into something else).I forget the names of the rest of the cast, but Herb Stempel was  great, but the guy who investigated the thing/wrote the book (what WAS his  name?)... another case of unusable reality. I would have preferred to see  everybody being the bad guy, and all of them after money, not Fox Mulder-esque 'truth' or any such nonsense.Still, despite these shortcomings the film managed to entertain me simply  because it has a story which follows from A to C via B, something which in  many (especially recent) films has been totally ignored. That alone makes  it deserve a '7', add to that the cast of Charles & Herb and you've got one  of the 250 best films of this half of the 20th century. "},{"Title":"lying in the front of consequences","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" The movie surrounds the quiz show scandals of the 1950s. There are three main characters Charles Van Doren who is a professor at Colombia University, unpolished ex- GI Herbert Stempel, and the idealist Congressional lawyer assigned to investigate Twenty One, Dick Goodwin.In the recent past, the show Twenty One was one of the famous shows produced by Dan Enright and Albert Freedman. The show earned a huge profit. Millions of peoples were attracted to this show. Whenever the show was used to start people used to keep all their work aside. The TV show discovered a big business, and they got blind. They didn't care about honesty, truthfulness and rules. They made their own rules, an advantage in that moment because the Federal Government didn't have a regulation.Herbert Stempel was the evening's main attraction, who despite his less than flattering looks, was the reigning Twenty One champion. But the sponsors wanted a new contestant. Finally, they found a Charles Van Doren, with a better appearance and the important family name. "},{"Title":"Quiz Show","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Quiz Show shows how people are blinded by greed. It was made by Robert Redford. This movie is a 1994 film based on the late 1950's scandal of the popular show, and it based on a true story. People like watching quiz shows, because they like the challenge to contestants and the chance to test them. People also like learning something new in an easy way and without having to study. And, they like ordinary people winning big prizes in a short time. If you want to win for a quiz show, you need talent. Also all quiz shows include a bit of good luck. In this movie, Quiz Show producers made a winner for entertainment. They seem to prefer entertainment more than conscience.Herbert Stempel is the winner of a quiz show, Twenty-One. He has talent, but he doesn't win with honesty. One day, Twenty-One producers gave Herbert Stempel the air by reason of people wanting a new face on TV. They hire Charles Van Doren who is looking well and is charming. Plus his family is famous. The first time Charles Van Doren has a mental conflict, but he is blinded by greed later. People realized the truth by Herbert Stempel's greed and Dick Goodwin's search for the truth. Quiz Show's last scene is Charles Van Doren telling the truth, and he lost honor. How much one can earn is important, of course, but there are other equally important considerations, neglect of which may produce frustration in later years. While I was watching the Quiz Show, I had a big moral thought. That is nobody can deceive oneself. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This film is about a university professor from a prominent academic family being caught up in a quiz show fraud.Right from the beginning, the audience was told that the quiz show was a fraud by the TV executives discussing how the quiz show winner was not the 'right guy' the sell the product that the show was endorsing. Then by chance, a university professor (Ralph Fiennes) came along and became the replacement. Ralph Fiennes did a good job as a calm, all rounded intellect. He was convincing and charming, confident without being cocky. The supporting cast was also good, especially the way John Turturro played the emotional ex winner who wanted to get back at the TV executives for fixing his defeat.This film was intense despite not having an obvious climax. It kept me being interested in how the story would unfold. I did not feel that the film was too long despite it being two hours in length. "},{"Title":"Might Jeopardy be rigged?","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I was rooting for Quiz Show to win Best Picture for 1994 (although I've since sided with The Shawshank Redemption). Portraying the real-life story of a rigged 1950s game show, the movie captures 1950s TV the same way that Good Night, and Good Luck. does. We also see how after they get tired of letting one person win, they switch to another person. It makes one wonder whether such things might happen on Jeopardy.As it was, this movie came out right after I had first heard of Robert Redford (I had just seen Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid). This one certainly affirmed what a great presence he is one the screen, whether in front of the camera or behind it. Ralph Fiennes, Rob Morrow, John Turturro, Paul Scofield, David Paymer, Hank Azaria and Mira Sorvino are all splendid in their roles (Martin Scorsese and Barry Levinson also make guest appearances). "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This movie is an amazing movie. It is brilliant. It contains a wonderful all-star cast. The first time I saw this film, I couldn't believe the art of it. Robert Redford is a genius. This movie should get a 10 from everyone on this website. This movie is simply the best! It is also an amazing true tale about Charles Van Doren. This movie reminds the viewer that this plot was not made up. This plot is taken directly from reality. John Turturro truly leads a great cast. Now, just watch the movie, and you will agree with me. I love this movie for another reason. The reason is is for the way the actors played this film out. Christopher McDonald is wonderful in this film. He should have received an Academy Award for this.Now, just watch it! "},{"Title":"Wake Up Folks - Movies Are Not Real","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  An extremely well made and enjoyable film, its a hat tipper to director Robert Redford. The cast is a wonderful ensemble, a dream troupe really of veterans and current stars, who all seem so perfectly natural, that again you have to marvel at Redford's expertise. But, my endorsement for this picture comes with a footnote. I have a real problem with historical movies trying to pass off their stories, well told and entertaining as they may be, as the gospel truth. Any person viewing this movie will no doubt believe that this scandal went down exactly as it is portrayed here. But look more carefully, and you can separate the facts, from the Hollywood fiction. The facts are what we know can be proven, the Senate testimonies of Van Doren, and the admissions of Stempfel that prompted the investigation. But what of the rest? What of the oh so incriminating and slanderous conversations between the network executives, the allegations of cover up, is this all really true? Perhaps, but more than likely, the movie uses its share of license with reality. And it has to, movies usually go all the way and present a complete one sided view, that is so throughly convincing because of the medium, you are left with the misbegotten feeling of having received an education. Each and every word that was scripted for all i know may have actually been said, and each person painted as a villain may have truly deserved the treatment received in this film. Somehow though, I doubt it. The fact that it is presented as a tell all expose, about a notorious cover up, but in itself is a fabrication of the facts, just strikes me as completely ironic. But thats Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A Gem of a Movie","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Small dramas, when well made, comprise some my favorite cinematic gems. Large spectaculars, flashy adventures, and spine-tingling thrillers are a major fare of movies, that's what film making technology does best. But the small dramas, well scripted, well acted, that focus on characters and dialogue, these are rare and worthwhile finds. Quiz Show is such a movie. Robert Redford deftly tells the story of the 1950s TV quiz show scandal, in a way that lifts it well above simple docu-drama. Supported by tremendous acting this is one of the best movies of 1994, and is highly recommended.  "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I believe this to be Robert Redford's best directorial job (and one of the only movies of his to not have a stupid title).  Well cast, including the great underrated Chris McDonald, the film moves from scene to scene effortlessly, a good example of how a film should be directed.  Sometimes period pieces don't look authentic, but this film does.  TV has come a long ways and this is a good movie to see its beginnings. See it if you get a chance. "},{"Title":"I'm going to quiz you about the movie","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Based on a true story, Robert Redford's 1994 film Quiz Show deals with the socio-political and moral issues of cheating, rigging, and lying. The movie begins in 1958; the show '21' is on the top of its ratings. Their current champ, Herbert Stempel (John Turturro) seems to have great memory and a broad range of knowledge on many topics. John Turturro has always been an underrated actor, and his role as Stempbel is one of his best roles. He's able to make the audience sweat it out and think that he is really playing the game straight. He's also a pudgy loudmouth with a grating aspergery weirdness personality. We, the audience will never know who he is. The show's producers created the image of a nebbishy, awkward square in order to first make home audiences sympathize with him, and then root against him. So John Turturro is able to make him look like a quiet nerd, while also a loudmouth. The producers got tired of him, and wanted somebody more cleared cut, handsome, and somebody the audience can appeal to. What the audience doesn't know is that the show is rigged and the winners are fed the answers. Herbert is encouraged to take a dive and allow Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes), a handsome and charming college professor, to become the show's new champion. Ralph gives the character, the American aristocrat feel to him. Like Stempel, we don't know truly how Charles Van Doren acted. Ralph is able to show Charles Van Doren bad acting with furrowed brow agonizing, while also showing what could have been Van Doren real self. Congressional investigator Richard Goodwin (Rob Morrow) can see through the lies and began to snoop to takes him to Stempel, who claims the show's producers ordered him to lose to Doren. Morrow is emotionally drawn to Van Doren, as he invites Morrow to many of his social circle of Ivy League WASPs. He still wants to bring the TV industry and its corporate sponsors to its knees, but Doren is in danger of getting expose. He's torn between his newfound friendship with Doran and his quest for the truth. Director Robert Redford and writer Paul Attanasio paint a telling portrait of how the network heads and advertising men who manipulated the quiz shows were also able to manipulate the responsibility for the scandal away from themselves. It has a 'All the President's Men' to it with Morrow as the intrepid investigator, is a detective story full of familiar Watergate patterns the late-night poring over lists of potential sources, the confrontations with tight-lipped witnesses at their front doors, the publicly inaccessible authority that needs toppling. However, the movie doesn't end with a clear answer. There is a sympathetic Hollywood spin on the real counterpart. In a film that takes exception to deception (or dramatic manipulation) in the name of entertainment, it's more than a little ironic that Quiz Show&#x97;as enjoyable as it is&#x97;pulls the same kind of wool over your eyes. The irony is that the producers were trying to create as much drama as possible for the audience. It mirrors the real life show. You never know what truly happen. Depending who you are, this might leave you with sour grapes in your mouth or a wonderful taste of perfect wine. "},{"Title":"Might Be Redford's Best Film As a Director","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Quiz Show is an interesting commentary by director Robert Redford which tells the story of the game show scandal in the late-1950s.  The popular game show 21 is rigged.  The big wigs behind the scenes are supplying certain contestants with the answers in the hopes of keeping the ratings high.  When one contestant (John Turturro) is ousted by another (Ralph Fiennes), the first whistle-blows on what really goes on behind the scenes.  It is not pleasant.  It turns out that there is corruption through and through the show from its producers all the way down to the host himself.  Rob Morrow begins the investigation and learns that this feel-good game show is not as fun and innocent as it leads you to believe.  His attempt to change the system hardly affects the quiz show business at all as they are still rampant today.  What is the point of Redford's film?  It is complicated in one sense but very simple in another.  In one area it shows that the most innocent looking things in life can be altered to create profits for those in charge.  However, it also shows that the dirtiest of things can still survive due to their popularity (regardless of their poor elements).  Quiz Show is one of those films that has more questions than answers.  In fact some of the questions may never be answered.  It's a thinking person's film that makes you think twice before watching Jeopardy! or Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.  4.5 out of 5 stars.       "},{"Title":"detailed look at a scandal","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" In 'Quiz Show,' one gets the feeling that Robert Redford has made a movie that is more interesting than the subject it covers. In the annals of great events of the twentieth century, the quiz show scandals of the late fifties would rank pretty low even then, and less so today. Why? I'm not sure. Perhaps because so many entertainments today are blatantly phony, it's hard to get very worked up about a rigged TV program from fifty years ago. Pro wrestling is the obvious example, but there is the whole phenomenon of 'reality' television that, while perhaps not technically 'rigged,' is so overblown in its self-importance as to feel unnervingly fake to most discerning people. But then, that shouldn't really matter, should it? Movies don't have to be about big subjects. Certainly some of the very best have been about small or intimate themes. And 'Quiz Show' does a good job of telling its story, large, small or in-between. It has a nice feel of time and place, though it doesn't portray the fifties as convincingly as some other films have. I think this has more to do with the dialogue than set decorations or any other visual element. It seems a bit too knowing, too obviously written from a current perspective, especially from the show-in-question's two producers, which seem right out of present day. Maybe Redford is making a point some things never change. Part of the fun of 'Quiz Show' is identifying the various actors. None are megastars but a lot of them are familiar and I found myself saying, there's Griffin Dunne, there's the guy from 'Ed Wood' and there's the chief of staff from 'Air Force One', etc. I suppose that is not unusual except that there are so many of them in 'Quiz Show;' it seems a mini who's who of working actors. Oh, and Ralph Fiennes as Charles Van Doren. He's certainly photogenic and is meant to project the shy, somewhat self-deprecating intelligence of the real Van Doren as well as his tortured conscience. The self-deprecation though is largely a pose as the character is really quite full of himself. Fiennes' performance is adequate, but he smiles too much. You begin to wonder if he has any other expression than smiling winsomely at whomever he's speaking to. The story, as well as the truth behind it, is simple enough. A Jeopardy-type program in the late 50's, 'Twenty-One,' supplies Van Doren with answers for some of the questions (as it had for the preceding champion, whose popularity had 'plateaued'), thus ensuring Van Doren wins every time and remains on the air. A federal investigator learns the truth and eventually Van Doren confesses in a hearing. It was a big deal at the time, giving impetus to the quiz shows being 'cleaned up.' (How 1950's is that? First horror comic books, then quiz shows.) Looking at it today though, it's strictly gossip column fodder, right up there with did the Monkees play their own instruments? Charles Van Doren's father, who was a rather famous professor and intellectual in his own right, considers the programs hardly worthy of contempt, and that cheating on them was roughly equivalent to plagiarizing comic books. Then at the end, Twenty-One's producers further make the argument that the hearings are a big to-do over nothing. According to one, the sponsor makes money, the network makes money, the contestants make money, and the public is entertained. So, he asks, who is hurt? I find it hard to argue his point. There is a charm in the naivet' of past decades, yet at times one is inclined to shake one's head and think, those people had WAY too much time on their hands. For all its well-informed nostalgia, 'Quiz Show' seems a perfect example of that. "},{"Title":"The Black Sox Scandal of Early Television Outstanding Snap-Shot of the 1950's","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Millions of television viewers thought they were watching legitimate knowledge competitions, such as the $64,000 Question and 21, in which the contestants were being asked difficult questions supposedly sealed in a vault. What the public didn't know was the producers did not perceive they were broadcasting competitions but rather entertainments. And since the television ratings were the real score, not the scores of the contestants, it made sense to everyone involved to rig the show with preordained outcomes. Not even the eight men of the Chicago White Sox who threw a threw a few games of the World Series in 1919 could literally pre-ordain the precise outcomes of the competitions. Quiz Show, directed by Robert Redford and starring John Tuturro, Ralph Fiennes, and Rob Morrow, begins with a salesmen showing a prospective buyer a new Cadillac. The salesmen expounds upon the design, interior, even the radio. He allows the potential buyer to start the engine. The salesman comes off as both confident and yet trustworthy. Even though once the opening title sequence begins, we never revisit the salesman or the Cadillac, we understand that this is a film having to do with selling something. Then strands of the Threepenny Opera song Mack the Knife intones Oh the shark has pretty teeth dear, And he shows them pearly white Just a jack-knife has Macheath dear And he keeps it out of sight. Television and entertainment is a bit like Mack the Knife, pearly white teeth but very sharp and biting. The television quiz shows in the 1950's were at the mercy of one of their biggest sponsors, Geritol. When the ratings for the quiz show 21 begin to stagnate during reigning champion Herbert Stempel's tenure, the sponsors decide they want a new contestant. But Stempel appears to be unbeatable. Then the producers meet little known literary professor Charles Van Doren. Doren appears to exude an uncommon combination of intelligence, knowledge, and amiability. And he's of gentile extraction, probably Dutch-New England, unlike the Jewish Stempel who probably grew up in Brooklyn. However, it's not enough they want to match Van Doren against Stempel. They want to make sure Stempel loses, so they compel him to flub an easy question, the Best Picture of 1955, Marty. Only problem is, Marty is one of Stempel's favorite movies, and he knows very well it won Best Picture. The producer, Daniel Enright, replies that that's the beauty of it. It was such an easy question that his faltering will be just that much more dramatic.In the mean time, Richard Goodwin, fresh out of law school, is working for a US congressman on the Legislative Oversight Subcommittee. He is wondering if the television quiz shows are legitimate, or fudging their own supposed rules. He begins asking questions. He is led to Herbert Stempel and eventually to Charles Van Doren, the recent 21 champion. Then he discovers an unexpected piece of the puzzle which verifies, once and for all, whether these shows are rigged.An incredible film with a first-rate cast. Quiz Show presents not just the scandal itself, but a slice of American culture in the late 1950's. Although World War II was now over 10 years behind, new challenges were facing America. And the legitimacy of television as the new entertainment medium was becoming the choice for many Americans. The public believed everything they saw, but not everything they saw was real. "},{"Title":"A few points","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Although Stempel did follow orders and miss the question about Marty, the question that eliminated him was a three-parter about a famous editorial. He was told to answer the first two parts the paper was the Emporia (Kansas) Gazette, the editor was William Allen White; then he would blank on the name of the editorial What's The Matter With Kansas? Ironically, his history class at CCNY had talked about the editorial just a few days earlier.Rob Morrow is actually, as far as I'm concerned, the worst actor in the movie. He can't make up his mind if he should adopt a Kennedyesque accent or sound like Peter Falk as Columbo.Finally, although Charles Van Doren wrote an article about Twenty-One in 2008, the first he'd said publicly about it since the hearings in 1959, he added nothing new. On the other hand, this movie brought Herb Stempel back into the spotlight and, despite what he did, I think the public now looks on him as the good guy in his encounters with Van Doren. And by the way, he doesn't look nearly as nerdy as he looked when he appeared on the show or as John Turturro played him; Dan Enright was trying to create the image of a nerd and Robert Redford obviously followed suit for authenticity's sake. "},{"Title":"Very engaging","Date":"24 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Many people have summarised the plot well so I'll avoid doing that save to precis it as a piece about the rise of the power of television in the 1950's and its commitment to entertainment first and honesty second, all to sell product.Superb photography, atmospheric scenes with dense, rich and intelligent writing allowed a very solid cast the energy and space to work their magic. The birthday scene at the Van Doren home was exquisitely warm and cosy in cinematography, dialogue and portrayal. Perhaps better even than being there.I was spellbound and still am. Though I've seen this film many times its warmth, humanity and charm are always a tonic.Better even than Geritol.Not to be missed. "},{"Title":"So tasteful it becomes mummified...","Date":"2 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Dramatization of the real-life television quiz show scandal which erupted in the late-1950s, wherein the popular program Twenty-One was found to be fixed. Based on the book by Richard N. Goodwin, Paul Attanasio's screenplay takes great liberties with the facts, but is still exceptionally entertaining for the first hour. After that, director Robert Redford's innate taste as a filmmaker tends to slow the pacing down, so that nothing which takes place seems very exciting. Redford (whose apparent love for this era is rather surprising) makes excellent casting choices and his conception of the story, a flashback-in-time, is stylish and serious-minded (no overt nostalgia). However, the picture's second-half gets bogged down in legalities which are far less intriguing than the behind-the-scenes drama. Very good performances by Ralph Fiennes and John Turturro nonetheless, with colorful cameos by Martin Scorsese, Illeana Douglas and Calista Flockhart. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Scandal in the 1950's by Robert Redford","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" In the 1950's the law didn't protect as a good as it does today. Quiz Show movie was shown to the public in 1994. It dramatizes about the scandals in the show Twenty One because there was discrimination with Herbert Stemple who was a humble and smart person (nerd). In the Twenty One game, Herbert was playing with an opponent. In that game the host was Jack Barry who asked the questions to the contestants. They played for points, so the person who scored highest won the game. In that game Herbert won $64,000 dollars and after that he was still winning various games.The producers, who were Dan Enright and Albert Freedman, were seeing that the program didn't show the ratings that they wanted, so they expected that was for the nerdy guy who had a poor appearance. So Dan Enright and Albert Freedman contacted Van Doren, who was handsome with a good appearance, and was a college professor in the Columbia University. The producers met with him before the show to tell him that they were going to give him the answers because they wanted him to be the protagonist for all the shows. At the same time they talked to Herbert to tell him that if he lost the game they are going to put him in another show. So they played. When Barry asked him the last question and Herbert knew it, but he missed the answer and obviously Van Doren won.Van Doren was winning a lot of shows and making a lot of money in the easy way called FRAUD. Then appeared Dick Goodwin, who was an idealistic Congressional lawyer, and he got access to Van Doren. He was visiting him for several times and Goodwin started to suspect about why Van Doren was wining all the quiz shows. After that Barry was investigated in anywhere to try the proof that the Twenty One show was a fraud. Then Van Doren was tired about that he was doing and in the next show he told the producers that he didn't want to win with their help because it was to be a scandal for him and his family. So he lost the next game. Van Doren went to talk with his father and he was disappointment because his son was embarrassed his family with that fraud. So, Van Doren was embarrassed and he decided to say the truth in the committee meeting in Washington because he thought that is better for the people felt that he had deceived them. Yet he felt peace inside himself, and the producers were fired for the fraud. The Twenty One show was canceled.In my opinion, I didn't like the end of the movie because the law didn't work well because nobody went to the jail. If the people do a fraud they have to go to jail because they were wrong. In the movie Van Doren just said, I made a mistake and that's all. And he walked way like he didn't do anything.In conclusion, sometimes the people don't make the money, the money makes the people "},{"Title":"Good But Overrated","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I remember seeing this many moons ago. I enjoyed it. But found it to be a bit overrated.Rob Redford is a talented director. And I wish he had acted in this in El Sucko Supremo's Rob Morrow's role. Morrow's character was named Dick Goodwin. A fitting first name.But this movie did not deserve the raves to the proverbial grave it got when it was first released. Granted, I was a number of years younger when I saw it. So maybe seeing it from an older perspective would allow one to appreciate it more.It tells the story of a famous American TV quiz show scandal and it's another in the long line of America's Loss Of Innocence films. I love America with an unbridled passion (unlike some types) but She, nor any other country past or present or future on Earth, was ever that innocent.I'd rather see Quiz Show's John Turturro (looking very homely with skanky ass choppers in this role) in a much better film from this era, the Coen Brothers' Barton Fink. And the annoying, talentless douche Rob He Majorly Sucks Morrow befouls this movie with his presence. Thank Heaven Morrow's star has crashed and burned in recent years. Let him go to the dustbin of entertainment where he belongs. His acting is worse than X-rated goat fisting porno. Okay, it's not that he is all bad. He's just one of those actors that annoys the Hell outta you. We've all got performers who rub us the wrong way. He's this reviewer's Carrot Top. And I kinda like old Top's comedy. Hell, he plays at the Luxor, my fave Vegas hotel. I like the room service there and the buffet that resembles an ancient Egyptian archaeological dig. And Chivas whiskey they sell in the lobby gift shop. Good for boozin' the night away while in the City O' Sin.Where was I? Oh, yeah.Quiz Show? Overall? Yes, worth seeing. For Ralph Fiennes and Redford's direction. And El Kickass Actor Supreme Turturro. But not one that you'd (okay, me) wanna see over and over and over again, kiddo. "}{"Title":"We Want A Guy Who Looks Like He Can Order A Table At 21.","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I remember back in the day when the scandal of the rigged quiz shows came to public attention, in one of his monologues Bob Hope said that with all the investigations uncovering all the crooked doings on television the most honest thing on there was professional wrestling.It was quite the scandal back in the day, the producing team of Barry and Enright were far from the only ones rigging their shows. In one fell swoop nearly all the television quiz shows went off the air. For a long time the only ones you saw on television were Concentration, Password, and The Price is Right and none of them were for the big money that 21 and others were giving out.Poor Charles Van Doren he was just ahead of his time without knowing it. Today a guy like Herbert Stempel would never make it through the screening process. But he did back in the day and therein lies the tale.I remember it well from my childhood. Herbert Stempel, nerdy ex-GI who probably was a Democrat who voted for Ike just ain't cutting it on the Nielsen ratings. They need someone with glamor and when Charles Van Doren, scion of one of America's most glittering family of intellectuals and folks who were definitely madly for Adlai tries out for one of the Barry-Enright Quiz Shows, they think they've found their star. Stempel gets promised all kinds of stuff to throw the show, but his promises are welshed on. That does not sit too well with Stempel who starts protesting loud and long to the Grand Jury in New York County and finally to the Halls of Congress. Van Doren and his family are disgraced.I remember the attention given to the real Charles Van Doren. A matine idol professor, he looked to have a golden future. I could have easily seen him running for public office at some point had the scandal never occurred.John Turturro as Stempel and Ralph Fiennes as Van Doren ring true to their characters, especially Fiennes as I remember Van Doren. There was an Oscar nomination for Paul Scofield who played Charles's father Mark Van Doren and Rob Morrow does very well as Richard Goodwin the Congressional investigator who reluctantly brings down a great liberal hero to be.Robert Redford did a great job recreating a forgotten piece of Americana and the times that accompanied it. After all, it's only show business. "},{"Title":"The Medium Is The Message","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Media critic Marshall McLuhan coined the famous adage the medium is the message nearly half a century ago. The idea is that powerful people can use technology selfishly to manipulate mass human behavior. And so, Redford's Quiz Show gives us a real life example of McLuhan's insight by showing how, in the 1950s, corporate TV sponsors sought to increase the number of viewers by rigging game shows. The boob tube was the medium used to transmit bogus entertainment that camouflaged the real message, namely that TV sponsors used deception to attract a larger audience, thereby increasing product sales potential. McLuhan's insight was, and still is ... potent.In no uncertain terms, Redford's film renders a scathing indictment of television entertainment in the 1950s. What shocked me was the extent of viewer gullibility in those days. But the film's story is relevant now because it shows that today's unethical TV programming has a historic precedent. Current game shows may not be rigged. But, the lack of ethics has invaded shows that are more important, like news and current events, with gullible viewers assuming that what they see and hear represents the absolute truth with no hidden agenda.While the film's theme is potent, its cinematic package is less so. For one thing, the film is too long. Some scenes could have been edited out, especially home life of the main characters, and the film's first three minutes.Casting and performances are generally good. I especially liked Paul Scofield as the erudite professor. And Allan Rich was perfect as executive Robert Kintner. But Rob Morrow's Boston accent seemed unnatural and forced. And some of the main characters were annoying, like Herb Stempel, Dan Enright, and Al Freedman. The film's production design was impressively lavish, almost to the point of looking too slick. Cinematography was acceptable, but for such a big budget film I could have wished for more photographic pizazz.Quiz Show is best considered as a cinematic study of a culturally significant set of historic events. One should remember, however, that film is a medium, too. If the viewer keeps in mind that this film is an interpretation of history, not history itself, then he or she will be more discerning, and be less prone to gullibility. "},{"Title":"honesty for its own sake","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  This may be Bill Clinton's least favorite movie, because it argues that honesty is essential even if there isn't much at stake.  The central question of the film - are quiz shows dishonest, and if so, is that really a problem? - may seem like small potatoes by Hollywood's standards, but this modest scale is actually what makes Quiz Show work so well.  Lies - even little ones - should not be tolerated, right...?The peripheral issues are interesting as well.  The movie has a lot to say about image perception and prejudice; poor John Turturro, who plays a homely Jewish character, is bumped off the quiz program and replaced by handsome Protestant boy Ralph Fiennes.  The nature of intellectualism and entertainment is another area of focus - do we watch quiz programs because we like smart people, or because we like suspense and high money stakes?Despite these great concepts, and wonderful performances from all concerned (especially Paul Scofield), Quiz Show is missing a little something - dare I call it pep?  The film is oh-so-slightly slow.  And it tends to raise more questions than it answers, which is of course perfectly legitimate, but it can leave viewers frustrated.  Quiz Show makes American society look pretty damn shallow and obnoxious - advertisers and showmen are in complete control here.  And that's rather depressing.  The movie doesn't go very far beyond pointing out such harsh realities, but then again, maybe there's nowhere left for it to go. "},{"Title":"Very Well Made, But I Don't Care Much For The Movie's Message","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Quiz Show is a pleasure to watch, a very accomplished and engaging movie which I have seen repeatedly in the cinema and on TV.  What I cant get over, though, is the movies finger - wagging moralism;  I mean, it was only a daft 1950`ies TV quiz show that had been rigged, and not a presidential election.  The NBC president is portrayed as a less reputable character than Jabba The Hut, whereas Charles Van Doren comes out as the poor victim for loosing his $80+ / week lecturing job while grossing over $100,000 in quiz show revenues.  The movie's finale comes across as a fairly ridiculous attempt by Hollywood to smear dirt on a competitor.Just as an aside  quiz shows arent educational and Geritol does not really make you feel stronger fast.  Maybe this is material for a sequel to Quiz Show?  "},{"Title":"Lies about Lies","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Redford is not a man with imagination. And he has a tendency toward preachiness. He tries here to be preachy (the public's biases for Redford-like waspishness), misses and accidentally creates a very good film.That's because the writer used a solid idea a film about lying in film (here TeeVee), a story about panderings which itself panders.And also because there are some great performances. These are not great in the actor sense, but great in the cinematic sense. And Redford gets credit for motivating and focusing these folks to project into the visual narrative. Scofield and Turturro have Fiennes always done this. Scorsese sure knows what this is all about. Fiennes is not natural at this -- he tends to project into the audience -- but is carried along by the others. Morrow is supposed to stand out as one of us, so no problem there. "},{"Title":"Much Ado About Nothing","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Do you ever watch a movie wishing all the main players could just take a cold shower and get over themselves? That's the way I feel watching Quiz Show.As a depiction of the famous 1950s scandal that revealed contestants of the NBC quiz show 21 were being fed answers, Quiz Show brims with pretentious portentousness, from the opening scene where a car radio is switched on just as a report about the new Sputnik satellite is broadcast (an excuse for someone to actually say All is not well with America) to the end credits where we hear a way overwrought performance of Mack The Knife.Many of the acting performances are very good, especially Ralph Fiennes as Charles Van Doren, the golden boy of 21 whose erudition is enhanced by pre-show prepping; Paul Scofield as his proud father Mark, who travels the lofty circles of intellectual society with admirable rectitude and the privilege of not having to worry about how to earn a living; and David Paymer as Dan Enright, the producer of 21 who justifies his shell game by talking about how his program advances the cause of education.There are some terrific scenes in Quiz Show, most involving two of the three actors mentioned above, like when Enright first broaches the idea of feeding a shocked Charles the answers to the questions, and a gorgeously shot picnic at the Van Doren home in Cornwall, Connecticut, where the extended Van Doren clan throws obscure Shakespeare quotations at one another, basking in the beauty of their Updike lifestyle. Director Robert Redford displays an engaging subtlety in these and some other moments that reminds you why people were so impressed when he made Ordinary People.But there's a reason why Redford made that instead of The Chosen, which becomes clear with his depiction of the film's Jewish characters. They are actually caricatures, and central to the story as the script puts a lot of weight on their distance from the aristocratic Van Dorens. One caricature, the jealous low-class Herbie Stempel played by John Turturro, rails about his intellectual prowess and the fact he was forced to take a dive as 21's top contestant for Van Moron. More obnoxious still is the assimilated caricature of Richard Goodwin, a congressional investigator of quiz-show corruption as played by Rob Morrow, so pushy he feels the need to tell even the guy selling him a car that he was first in his class in Harvard.When Goodwin hesitates to put Charles on the stand, his wife, an obnoxious caricature herself played by Mira Sorvino, accuses him of being an Uncle Tom of the Jews. Actually, it seems an odd moment of understandable mercy from Goodwin, who otherwise ruins lives to improve his own in such a way its no surprise he wound up working for Bobby Kennedy.The Jewish issue keeps coming up, in the most heavy-handed contexts. When Goodwin tells Van Doren about being first in his class, Van Doren says he's surprised Goodwin doesn't wear it as a tattoo. Shuttered in a glass booth, Stempel wonders when they will drop the cyanide in. I almost wonder what kept 21 host Jack Berry (Christopher McDonald does a nice job with the role) from pressing Stempel with Is that your final solution?It's just a quiz show, folks. Like Enright's assistant (Hank Azaria) tells the committee in the last lines of the film We're not exactly hardened criminals here. We're in show business. That Van Doren and others played fast and loose with the public trust is a matter for their own consciences, and hardly merited government interference. Because they were the only victims of their own crimes, the movie seems to implicate NBC and sponsor Geritol of the ultimate crime; frankly I see Goodwin as more blameworthy.Maybe Redford did, too, which is why Morrow comes off so obnoxiously in his film. But such divided loyalties do not help bring off a complicated story that is already overlong, nor explain why it is we are supposed to feel so sorry at the end for Van Doren and not Stempel. Is it simply because Stempel has bad teeth and a sidewall haircut? Or because Van Doren's ancestors came off the Mayflower rather than Ellis Island?Even when Quiz Show questions such elitism, it doesn't really puncture it, nor does the film explain why I should be so up in arms about what went on here. I just see a group of people on different power trips colliding into each other, and while it makes for some nice fireworks, it doesn't leave much to chew on. "},{"Title":"Could have been so much more.","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I almost want to give this movie a 6 out of 10 but whatever, I'm never going to watch it again. If someone holds a gun to my head and tells me to watch it, I'll beg that they fast forward to the last 20 minutes or so. This film is based on a true story but whoever wrote the script for the film added so much in and turned this movie away from an interesting singular story into an abomination with multiple little subplots which bore you out of your viewing experience. It is a shame because Ralph Fiennes gives an excellent performance. Fiennes is the only reason you should watch this film. The scenes Fiennes has with whoever the actor is playing the father of his character, makes the film interesting. Why couldn't it just be a film about the Quiz Show and the relationship between a father and son? This movie could have been a memorable drama but I'm sure I'll forget it by next week. John Turturro literally stinks up the screen. His performance is just too cheesy and doesn't fit. The only other good thing I can say about this movie is that the end credits are the best part of the movie. If you're about to watch this on TV, do yourself a favor and change the channel. "},{"Title":"fine acting but clunky direction","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" Redford seems to think every plot point has to be hammered home like a tent peg. At Mark van Doren's birthday picnic, his son Charles cuts to the center of a cake inscribed Happy Birthday Father. A few scenes later he comes come in the middle of the night and eats the last slice while his dad, who thinks the quiz show is on the level and son Charlie is an upright man like him, rattles on about the trials of authorship. A scene in the HQ of a big corporation is introduced with a low-angle shot towards the top of a skyscraper. The four anonymous nuns, shown near the beginning to illustrate the universal popularity of 21, are back once more near the end, watching the Congressional hearings into the rigging of21. I give the movie six stars, mostly for the acting--Johann Carlo as Toby Stempel is close to perfection--but Redford's direction drags it down from eight. "},{"Title":"Not quite my cup of tea.","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" A well made drama yet somewhat aloof and restrained. Robert Redford's fourth film as a director has been widely praised but it is not quite as wonderful in my opinion. Some characters are well defined yet others are very broad or stereotypically portrayed. John Turturro is over the top, Rob Morrow is especially weak and Ralph Fiennes gives a somewhat mannered performance. Paul Scofield is tremendous however as Charles Van Doren's father. The era is vividly recreated with a keen eye for detail,The film should have been more powerful yet it is distinguished and intelligent. The major problem seems to be that is not terribly compelling despite the good intentions of its creators. "},{"Title":" I will never look at a quiz show with the same eyes I had before I saw this movie.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Directed by  Robert Redford who was nominated for an Oscar. Redford in my opinion is great director. He has the eye for it! Brilliant writing by Paul Attanasio, who was nominated for Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium. This is a true story, which makes this movie even more interesting.John Turturro (The Big Lebowski) is just outstanding in the part of Herbie Stempel, who has been winning the Geritol Quiz Show, and really gets addicted to the attention. The favored contestants had the answers before hand, but Herbie is asked to lose to a successor Ralph Fiennes (The English Patient, Schindler's List) Charles Van Doren. Van Doren is a lovable, well bred, educated, nice looking young man who teaches literature at Columbia University, and that infuriates Herbie, who hates him.Rob Morrow (Northern Exposure, Last Dance) plays Dick Goodwin who is an attorney with the Federal Government working for a Congressional subcommittee investigating the scheme in the late 1950s. Morrow and Van Doren are of Jewish background, and Goodwin likes Charles Van Doren and wants to protect him.  His wife Sandra Goodwin, Mira Sorvino (Jake's Women, Mighty Aphrodite), even tells him about over protecting Van Doren. After many lies and cover ups, there is a congressional hearing and everything is brought to light. All this with Redford master touch directing.Look who is acting in the role of one of the sponsors of the quiz show! It is the talented director and N.Y.U. Professor, Mr. Martin Scorcese. Scorcese was one of Oliver Stone's (Any Given Sunday) teachers at N.Y.U. He is also excellent at that as well.Favorite Quotes Charles Van Doren I flown too high on borrowed wings. A Senator An adult should simply not be commended for telling the truth. Favorite Scenes The Van Doren family picnic with everybody quoting poetry, Van Doren father and son,  sharing a piece of chocolate cake and a glass of milk and their dialogue, Van Doren Jr. purposefully losing the contest.The music is great as well.  All in all,  this is a great movie. I highly recommend it. I will never look at a quiz show with the same eyes I had before saw this movie. It changed my perspective.  "}{"Title":"propaganda","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I watched this again recently, and I was struck by the movie's dislike for John Torturro's character. Watching this ten years ago, I thought the characterization was pat but not subversive, but based on this viewing I've changed my mind. What I find loathsome is how far the filmmakers would go to contrast the Jewish Stempel with the WASPy van Doren, to the point of completely dehumanizing the former. It may be true that the real Stempel possessed all those physical and verbal tics that the director burdens him with, but Torturro does not (or is not allowed to) imbue the character with an ounce of quiet dignity in the way Fiennes so obviously does, and that upset me. In the eyes of Goodwin, the protagonist, and therefore in our eyes, Stempel's sole character trait is his jewishness. As stereotypes go, this may be the worst kind, a well-meaning one that seeks to illustrate a big truth at the expense of small truth. Overall the acting was just OK, and Ray Fiennes' crucial performance leaves one cold, although Hank Azaria and Paul Scofield were very good in smaller roles. What this film exposes, yet again, is the toxicity of a certain kind of liberalism, dutifully espoused by Redford. In his heart, he wants nothing more than to be a van Doren, nothing less than to be a Stempel. In his wide-eyed buildup to the scene at the van Doren estate in Connecticut, where all those liberal lions gather, Redford is like a southern belle pining for the good old days; he likes things the way they were, and sees past (or rather embraces) the aloof ruthlessness with which they dismiss everything but their little games. Love for fellow man has been bred out of them along with all but the blue pigment out of their irises. Redford would do anything to be part of the clique up on that Olympus, and if mocking Stempel is what it takes, he'll do it. "},{"Title":"How the mighty are fallen","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" This super flick from Robert Redford cleverly makes a morality fable out of a game - it's all a bit Brothers Grimm. However the brilliant idea is that the game should be primetime 60's telly - a beautiful modern surfer on the great white breaker of early 60s TV culture, but also that sort of show which brooks no nuance. Answers are right or wrong, you win or you lose and in their turn the proles glued to it all bay for pantomime blood. Turn the wrong in character into wrong in fact might turn the derisive viewer into a lyncher, ready to protect his matchstick of the American ideal to which the TV show is sold.This is the nightmarish climate with which Fiennes' naive college lecturer tangles and loses terribly. I missed only a really comprehensive accent throughout and a little more of the commitment to melodrama that Turturro essays brilliantly opposite. A bit downbeat but worth the effort 6/10 "},{"Title":"It doesn't hold up.","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I watched this recently for the first time since I originally saw it during its theatrical release. Now, in the light of day, far removed from the white noise of vacant critical praise, it isn't really all that great. In fact, on a writing level I think it's kind of silly.I was distracted by the contrivance that Dick Goodwin (Rob Morrow) and Van Doren (Feinnes) would bond so rapidly, particularly while Goodwin is investigating possible corruption behind the scenes of 21 (you would think that would put a damper on their relationship). One minute Goodwin is introducing himself to Van Doren as an investigator, the next minute Goodwin is playing Name-That-Shakespeare-Line at a Van Doren family birthday party, and sharing a late night game of poker with Van Doren and his pals. That poker scene, by the way, was another writer's contrivance a forced opportunity for Goodwin to literally call Van Doren's bluff, while he's also figuratively calling his bluff in the story at large. It's way on the nose.In any event, did Goodwin and Van Doren really have to become fast friends in order to tell this story? I don't think so. The script is also so desperate to prove how literate it is. I already mentioned the Shakespeare game played at the birthday party -- a good two minutes of the film consumed by preppy New Englanders quoting the Bard randomly, if you get off on that sort of thing. Also, for some reason, at the conclusion of his first meeting with Van Doren, Goodwin (Morrow) stands up, smiles, and exits the office while quoting Ode to a Grecian Urn. For a second I thought I dreamed that part, but it was really there. I'm still trying to figure out what Ode to a Grecian Urn had to do with the scene that preceded it, or the movie in general.Finally, Rob Morrow's accent just awful.Most of the acting in this one is actually pretty good, and the movie LOOKED great. But really, on a script level, I think it's way, way overrated. "},{"Title":"Quiz Show","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I saw this film once before when I was in college, but for some reason I didn't finish it, so I watched it a second time all the way through, not remembering anything, from Oscar and Golden Globe nominated director Robert Redford (The Horse Whisperer, The Legend of Bagger Vance). Based on the true story, set in 1958, television game shows were a big draw for audiences in America, and popular prime time show Twenty One was one of them, it involved contestants answering adjudicated questions concealed in a sealed envelope for host Jack Barry (Christopher McDonald) to read, and the first to correctly answer gaining twenty one points wins the game. The reigning champion, undefeated and a large cash prize remaining, is Herbert 'Herbie' Stempel (Transformers' Golden Globe nominated John Turturro), but the creators of the show see audience numbers slightly dwindling, so they think a new talent should be found. Producers Dan Enright (Mighty Joe Young's David Paymer) and Albert Freedman (Hank Azaria) find their new contestant at Columbia University, instructor Charles Van Doren (Ralph Fiennes) who has a very good knowledge of many things, and is the son of respected intellectual and renowned poet Mark Van Doren (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Paul Scofield). Stempel is told by the Twenty One creators that he will answer the question what film won the 1955 Oscar for Best Picture (correct answer Marty, chosen incorrect answer On the Waterfront) incorrectly on purpose, he agrees as long as he is allowed to stay on television. So when it comes to the broadcast, where Stempel faces Van Doren, he hesitates on giving the correct answer, but he goes with the wrong answer, allowing his opponent to become the new champion. Of course his success continues week after week on the show, and with his charming good nature, great knowledge and everyman qualities he grows into a national celebrity, going on the covers of Time and Life magazines. Stempel meanwhile has lost all his prize winnings to a dodgy bookie and needs help, and he threatens to reveal the truth that both he and Van Doren, and many contestants in the past, have been given the correct answers deliberately by the NBC network, this is of course true, they did rig the show to increase ratings. Young Dick Goodwin (The Bucket List's Rob Morrow), Congressional lawyer from Harvard Law, has come to New York to investigate the rumours and accusations of the quiz shows, visiting many of the contestants who appeared on Twenty One, including of course Van Doren, who denies anything and is liked by Goodwin, and Stempel, who opens up and confirms everything, and indeed fixing comes to light. With evidence mounting and the show trying to continue unaffected, Van Doren decides to get a question wrong on purpose, but he is given an NBC contract to appear on the Today show, while Goodwin starts the ball rolling for a court case. After Van Doren gives his statement that the show he appeared is honest, Stempel testifies and confesses to his part in the conspiracy, and so eventually does Van Doren, and in the end the scandal is confirmed, the sponsors are removed, and the networks do get some form of punishment. Also starring Johann Carlo as Toby Stempel, Elizabeth Wilson as Dorothy Van Doren, Allan Rich as Robert Kintner, Romy and Michele's High School Reunion's Mira Sorvino as Sandra Goodwin, GoodFellas director Martin Scorsese as sponsor Martin Rittenhome, Rain Man director Barry Levinson as Dave Garroway, Ally McBeal's Calista Flockhart as Barnard Girls, William Fichtner as Stage Manager and Ethan Hawke as Don Quixote Student. I always thought that this was a satirical film not based on fact, but it is good to know that a scam like this was real, I also thought Fiennes was the star, and indeed he makes a good impression, but he is equally matched by the slightly nerdy but likable Turturro character, and director Redford makes this story very intriguing, a likable true story drama. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, it won the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay, and it was nominated for Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. Ralph Fiennes was number 83 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 28 on The 50 Greatest British Actors. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Quiz Show where only the audience wins.","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  Quiz Show is a dramatic dissection of the 50's NBC quiz show scandal. An excellent production in general with the feel of a theatrical docudrama, the film does a good job of showing the nebulous nature of corruption; the blurring of good and evil, the compromising of moral precepts, the whistle blowing, the covering up, the rationalizations, and the rest of the dialectic which all such scandals seem to follow. (eg Watergate, The Insider, Erin Brocovich, etc.) Quiz Show has no clear winners with the exception of the audience. Its slightly obvious presentation makes it an enjoyable watch for all. "},{"Title":"A fictional account that I cannot abide","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" What is the problem with Redford? Is he trying to ruin the lives of people or sully their memories at the expense of their surviving family memories families. Like JFK before it, I can only hope that those who watch this movie will seek the truth. It is not in this movie. Charles Van Doren was not getting back at his father. His father was a wonderful, not boring, professor at Columbia. The Geritol marketing director played by Scorsesee (sp?) was not aware of the fraud. And neither Van Doren nor Stemple lived the lives stated at the end of the movie--apparently to give it a dour ending. Redford commits the atrocities of money and capitalism that he said he was targeting. Redford, the fake mountain man, grew up in Santa Monica and is just another Hollywood virtue monger who should examine his own virtues before speaking about (er, fabricating) the lives and virtues of others.I will admit that when I first saw this movie, I thought it very good, but after seeking the truth, I cannot in good faith give it more than one star. I will not recommend movies that criminalize innocent men and besmirch admired professionals without evidence.If you are interested, there is a Hollywood history of such Constitutionally protected atrocities. You should also search out the truth about the wife of William Randolph Hearst portrayed as a worthless woman in Citizen Kane. She was a worthless woman and she was living and crushed by the movie. Hollywood blames Hearst for killing this great movie, but if he did it to protect this woman, he is to be admired. Just because it is protected by the constitution doesn't make it right. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":" I must admit it's not a fantastic story.....quite tame for today's issues. The plot could have been a little more intriguing, meaning the core of the plot was divulged to the viewer earlier on in the film. I would have liked to have had some suspense, or surprises interwoven into the plot.Redford in my opinion has proved himself as an accomplished director in his own right over the years. I have no problem with his ability to direct, though I thought the screenplay could have been better, something Redford could have worked with to make it memorable. The actors were all capable and some were very impressive with their characterisations, though this doesn't save the film (for me anyway).The underlying aspects were dealt with extremely well. I was trying to imagine myself as a contestant and wonder how I would cope with the situation placed upon me like it was with the character; Charles Van Doren. I suppose there comes a time in everyone's life where the struggle between right and wrong is a constant battle to a certain degree, given the situation. The final overview I have is it is so difficult to question one's own judgment and integrity while being tempted by either money, fame or acceptance.Truly, I have to be honest.....I watched it (or should I say, I came back to it 3 times) I literally forced myself to finish watching it. I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Solid and Slow","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I hired this movie, watched it, and was neither impressed nor distraught with the result. I did expect a more enjoyable movie as I struggled to get into it. I'm a big fan of the cast who were good, and movies that are true stories when told accurately. It just moved a little too slowly. I think I'll watch it again. "},{"Title":"Blech! People LIKED this movie?","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I can't believe people liked this over-boring, over long movie!  I use the word movie loosely, as it is nothing more than another I'm-from-Hollywood-therefore-I-know-more-than-you ego trip.Avoid this movie like the plague, and rent a good movie like Apollo 13, or The Apostle. "},{"Title":"intense?","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History","Review":"  I was extremely dissapointed in this movie...  I kept waiting for tension to build, but the movie was more concerned with talking about actions than showing them.  The movie was predictable, had flat characters, and was not involving to the viewer.On the plus side, we see Hank Azaria in a different kind of role than his regular selections.5/10 "}]