[{"Title":"Silly but fun","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger gets pregnant.  That's about it.  The premise is ridiculous, the twists and turns in the plot are mind-bogglingly stupid and every joke is predictable and hammered at you--but I still like this film!  The script does have it's moments, but the performances really carry this one.Arnie is suprisingly very funny when he becomes pregnant (when asks DeVito in all seriousness Does my body disgust you? I broke up); DeVito is just along for the ride but is good--he's the straight man to Arnie;  Emma Thompson is just gorgeous, very funny and full of life as a clumsy scientist.  Also Judy Collins (yes, the singer) pops up looking radiant as the head of a center for pregnant women.  Everything looks wonderful and the film is slickly made to cater the the audience.  I usually hate films like that, but this worked.  The only bad part is Pamela Reed--she's a wonderful actress and comediene but she's shamefully underused--she doesn't get any good funny scenes till the end.  Also, where else will you see Arnie in a dress?It's a one joke film.  Is it a good film?  No.  Do I like it?  Very much.  Call it a guilty favorite.One complaint--at 2 hours it's too long.  Couldn't it have been trimmed a little?   "},{"Title":"Funnier than you might think, worth the rental!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger as a scientist who makes himself pregnant? The premise is pretty funny, even if the idea of Ah-nold in a comedy makes one suspicious. I thought Twins was awful, and Conan a comedy by accident. Kindergarten Cop was better because Schwarzenegger was mostly a straight man. Here he is called on to act the part of a pregnant man opposite Danny DeVito and Emma Thompson. While it is not an Oscar calibre performance, he gets the job done.The story is reasonably simple. DeVito (a fertility specialist) and Schwarzenegger (a scientist) are partners working on a new miracle fertility drug. Their project gets canceled by the University and replaced by an ovarian study under the direction of Emma Thompson. They decide to implant an embryo in Schwarzenegger and continue the study illegally. They steal an egg from Thompson's ovarian study and the stage is set. Of course, the egg is Thompson's and she and Schwarzenegger are attracted to each other.Ivan Reitman does a very good job with the story, keeping it simple and staying focused on the characters. Had he spent a lot of time focusing on the physical comedy, the film would have failed. Instead we get to watch the ultimate macho figure take on the ultimate female experience. The contrast keeps the comedy rolling, while the characters carry the film.It is hardly a profound film, although it is intelligently written. The issues raised rely on simple male vs. female differences and the contrast of Schwarzenegger's image with this role is used to full effect. It's an enjoyable film with strong performances by Thompson and DeVito. "},{"Title":"Gotta love Shwartzie da Mom!","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"22 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wonderfully light comedy based on a fantastic fiction about a researcher who gets himself pregnant for the sake of Science and Glory, but goes through the nine months for the sake of Motherhood and Baby. There are plenty of plot boo-boos, but the movie is tongue-in-the-cheek throughout, so maybe the boo-boos are meant that way... Anyway, if you don't mind the occasional sexist cliche, and if you want to see Mister (Hollywood) Universe in the charming role of a peaceable pregnant researcher, this movie packs two hours of hearty laughter. In the whole movie, Arnold sends flying only one man, once - the only bad guy in the movie. "},{"Title":"Arnold Schwarzenegger Has Battled Every Monster and Machine Known to Man. But is He Man Enough to Be Pregnant?","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Alex Hesse works at Leland University with his colleague, Dr. Larry Arbogast. They are developing a new, experimental drug, Expectane, that will ensure pregnancies. So far they've been testing on chimps, but now they want to test it on humans. They meet with the FDA, who turns them down. Alex decided it was time to leave the university, so he packed up his things and left, just as his replacement, Dr. Diana Reddin, arrived. She was smart and beautiful, but very clumsy. Alex wanted to go back home to Europe, but Larry Arbogast wanted to continue experimentation with Expectane.He wanted to try it on, not a female specimen, but a male! He had Alex in mind. Alex declined, but Larry continued to plead with him, so finally he gave in. Larry borrowed a frozen egg from Dr. Reddin's cryogenics freezer, mixed in some Expectane and injected them into Alex. Then they perform a test and...Alex was pregnant! Alex stayed with Larry and continued to take Expectane daily. He even went back to work at the university. Right away Diana could tell something was up by the way Alex began throwing up and experiencing cramps. He even had a nightmare about what his baby would look like.One week later, Larry and Alex go out to dinner, and while Larry strikes a deal with Lyndon Pharmacuticals about marketing Expectane, Alex met Diana, and they dance. On the way home, Alex was seriously wondering what his baby would be like. This rush of hormones began to annoy Larry so he demanded that Alex stop taking Expectane and the embryo inside him would just absorb into his body. Alex didn't want to stop because he really wanted to see his baby, whom he called Junior. So he continued to take Expectane regularly. Ten weeks later, Alex's birthday, he was beginning to show. Larry found out and was not pleased, but he let Alex stay with him again. All the while, the head science professor, Noah Banes, grew suspicious because even though he had the Expectane project shut down, it was still being experimented with; One afternoon while Larry went to the lab, Alex stayed home. Diana suddenly dropped by because she wanted to see him, but acted like she was dropping off a file. Alex, with his rushing hormones tried moving in on Diana, until Larry's ex-wife, Angela, who was also pregnant stopped by. She wanted Larry to treat her, even though he was reluctant to do so. Alex begins living like any other pregnant man and scarfs down a monstrous dinner with Angela. Unfortunately, Larry was not the father of Angela's unborn baby, it was a member of Aerosmith. Boy was Larry Hurt; Noah Banes decided to pay Alex and Larry a visit one afternoon and while snooping around the house, he found their stockpile of Expectane so he thought they had used it to impregnate a woman. Boy was he wrong!Alex soon finds out that the egg he was injected with had actually been Diana's. She had named it Junior too! When Alex went to the university to tell Diana what has been happening, Banes got a good look at Alex, who was really showing now, and realized it hadn't been a woman they were experimenting on after all. Well, Alex told Diana that the baby inside him was actually THEIRS and, well, she didn't take it too well. That's when Banes burst in and threatened to exploit Alex and his pregnancy. He responded by tossing Banes into a rack of beakers and ran. Larry takes Alex somewhere to hide out for a while. They go to Casitas Madres, a health resort for pregnant women, then Larry leaves for Canada to negotiate with the Lyndon people. Alex tried fitting in among the other pregnant women ala Mrs. Doubtfire. But then, one fateful day, Alex, who has now been pregnant seven months, began to feel...Contractions! Larry called to check in and was told what was up so he dashed home. Diana, who had finally forgiven Alex, also raced over to help. Larry, Alex and Diana race to the hospital where Banes had set up a media circus. There was Paparazzi everywhere. Larry had a plan, so while Alex and Diana sneaked around back, Larry entered the hospital with Angela. With no pregnant man to see, Banes became a laughing stock. He also became unemployed; In the operating room, Dr. Snellin, Louise, and Larry all performed a C-section on Alex and...Before long, the blessed event took place and Alex was a father! Angela also gave birth that night and she proclaimed Larry the honorary father. Well, from then on, our new fathers and new mothers all lived happily ever after.What can I say about Junior? It was a good movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger was good. He is reunited with his co-star from Twins, Danny DeVito and his co-star from Kindergarten Cop, Pamela Reed. Also here is Emma Thompson. Everybody was good in their parts. Sure the movie may be absurd and bizarre at times, I mean when you hear about a pregnant man, you're bound to expect craziness. I wonder if something like that could ever be attempted in real life. But then men having babies would be a lot more trouble than with women. It's the natural order of things I guess, but anyway, if you like Arnold Schwarzenegger (the governor of my state) and Danny DeVito then I recommend Junior, and Twins. See them both! If you've ever wondered what it would be like to see Schwarzenegger pregnant, this is the movie to see it in! I recommend Junior!- "},{"Title":"Very strange, but funny","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is one of the strangest films I've ever seen, and I've seen some pretty strange movies (Attack of the Killer Banana anyone?).  Although extremely strange, it's funny, in only a way the director of Ghostbusters could make it.  Arnold's explanation of why he's so ugly in drag is hilarious.  Emma Thompson gives a particuarly good role by Danny DeVito. Worth a rental, if not a buy. "},{"Title":"Medically conceivable comedy about male pregnancy","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Delighful piece of fluff concerning male pregnancy and the effect of hormones on one's personality and entire outlook on life. Arnold is a dedicated research scientist who volunteers his own body for scientific research at the urging of a more money-motivated physician (Danny DeVito). His evolution into a  typical maternal figure under large doses of hormones and an experimental medication provides lots of opportunity for comedy and some real poignant vignettes. Frank Langella's character as dean of the university sponsoring the research is a bit over-done and becomes annoying. Emma Thompson plays lonely research scientist attracted to Arnold who becomes much more involved than she originally intended. "},{"Title":"Great fun movie","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" My daughters love this movie and I've watched it with them over 100 times. OK, that is excessive and probably unwarranted. But I've really grown to appreciate it. The acting from DeVito, Frank Langella, Pamella Reed and Emma Thompson is great. No scene or action is unnecessary. The scene where Arnold and Pamella are pigging out, cocktail weenies, struedelhounds, DeVito's reaction to feel how soft my skin is many more, are hilarious. Arnold is stiff as usual, but he's able to show a convincing transformation. They almost make the premise believable. Bono's rendition of Got You Under My Skin at the closing credits is my only fault with the movie. "},{"Title":"Actually a pretty funny Arnie movie!","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first time I saw this I was like ok, that is kinda strange, but this movie gets better every time you see it. There are some funny parts in this movie especially where arnie is in the dress! I wanted to see this, because I really liked Twins and Junior also stars Danny De Vito so it was like a reunion. If you liked Twins I think you will like this too. Ivan Reitman is a pretty good director. i don't think he has made a movie that I haven't liked. If you want a good laugh then go out and rent this arnie movie today. It is not as bad as you have heard from others. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Weird how people react to this movie and apple pie","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When reading the comments I saw lots of pro's and lots of contras. But the comments are quite strong so it is worth reading them carefully.Then again, what does it mean, some people like apple pies, some don't.I watched this movie on TV, there was nothing better to watch, and at first I thought this is crazy I have ten 4-starred videos that I can watch tonight, but I stayed on.It's just a bit of fun. I also wanted to see the combination Schwarzenegger - Thompson, which really works. Add De Vito and you're in for 3/4ths of an apple pie. Add Reitman and you have a complete apple pie.The cream on top is not provided, mainly because the antagonist, the evil guy at the University does not work. I don't think it's worth a rental, certainly not a buy, but better than Prozac.  "},{"Title":"better than Maltin says.....","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Junior, is a thoroughly entertaining, yet insightful movie that manages in the end to be touching. The story line (man gets pregnant) is sufficiently well-known from the publicity that it need not be outlined here. I have always admired Arnie's refreshing unpretentiousness about his lack of acting ability, but he has indeed come far from the grunting days of Conan and in this movie attains some very good moments. He really does make you believe he's carrying to term.Good work all around - Emma Thompson (this great actress can't think too badly of Arnie to agree to make a movie with him; then again, is it the dough???) is a delightfully klutzy research scientist, and Danny DeVito plays a sympathetic role but with the inevitable undertones of sleazoid tackiness that he does so well. A good subplot is the relationship between DeVito and his divorced wife, also pregnant.The commenter who said the premise was 'medically conceivable' sic didn't know much about amniotic sacs, placentas, and umbilical cords. That's ok; suspend disbelief and enjoy the humor.The 'messages' here about gender roles and expectations are delivered with such a sense of humor that they are never preachy (I think of the classic Tootsie as a comparable example). An intelligently funny script, good comic pacing, and a hefty dose of outright slapstick make this a winner.  "}{"Title":"weird","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very Clinton-era movie. Which is to say, if many conservatives believe that homosexuality is destroying the family unit or whatever I don't know what they'd think about this.As many people have said, overall this movie is just kind of creepy. I was expecting a stupid comedy where Arnold accidentally gets knocked-up and wacky hi-jinx ensue. Instead, I got a very touchy-feely movie about the ultimate way for a man to embrace his feminine side. With a smarter script and different casting, this could have actually worked, but instead the filmmakers try to make this subject standard box-office fare, which it's not. The result is the most unintentionally creepy romantic comedy ever. The scene where Arnold dreams of a baby with his face stands out in my mind as spectacularly nightmare-inducing. If that all sounds appealing to you, have fun! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly clever and heart-warming family comedy.","Date":"9 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Hey here's something interesting. If you type Junior in to Google, the first hit is this movie, but if you type it in to the IMDb, the first hit is George W. Bush. I just thought that was funny.So by 1994, Schwarzenegger had just done a series of pretty hardcore action movies &#150; Terminator 2, Last Action Hero (shut up, that movie rocked), and True Lies &#150; so I'm really curious to know who came up with the idea of making a movie in which he gets pregnant and carries a baby to term. Yeah, Last Action Hero and especially Kindergarten Cop showed the world that Arnold was a big action movie star that was not above having a little fun with himself, but a pregnancy??Amazingly enough, however, the movie is much better than you might think. He stars as Dr. Alex Hesse, a scientist working on a new formula that will help create successful pregnancies for women having trouble conceiving. But the problem is that they are unable to get authorization to perform necessary tests so, desperate to prove that their formula works, Hesse and his partner Dr. Larry Arbogast decide to create a pregnancy in Hesse &#150; the world's first pregnant man!They do not, however have any intention of allowing the pregnancy to go on for more than a month or a month and a half, they just need to prove that their formula works. I am reminded of that scene in Terminator 2 when they are all at Miles Dyson's house and Sarah is telling Dyson that men like him through of the hydrogen bomb and they only know how to create destruction, they have no idea what it's like to feel a life growing inside you. In Junior, Hesse learns what it's like to have a life growing inside him, and tat life becomes more important to him than the science experiment that he and Arbogast were carrying out. There is a cleverly designed side story about Arbogast's ex-wife carrying a baby that resulted in a one-night stand after an Aerosmith concert, but the majority of the comedy in the movie is derived from Schwarzenegger literally not only turning into a woman, but poking fun at his real life self. When he goes to a pregnancy retreat dressed as a woman, he explains his manly performance by stating that back in her native Germany, she was a body-builder and excessive steroid use was considered perfectly common and acceptable. He experiences all of the ups and downs of being pregnant, but no matter how outlandish the premise is, there is no denying that the movie is definitely pretty charming. It was great to see Schwarzeneggger and Danny DeVito together again after their classic work together in Twins several years earlier. Once again, they have come together and brought us a great piece of family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Men now.....what next?","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr.Alex Hesse(Arnold Schwarzenegger)and his friend and assistant, Dr. Larry Arbogast(Danny Devito) have a plan to fertilize an egg. But the only thing is that they must pick the 'mother' to place the egg in. But when they can't find one they decide to place the egg in Alex. Nine months later Alex gives birth to a perfectly able daughter named Junior. Thus the title for the movie. Junior depicts the nature of motherhood and parenthood for we not only follow in Alex's footsteps during his pregnancy but we also follow in Dr. Larry Arbogast and his wife who is also pregnant.Starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, Danny Devito and Emma Thompson, they make this movie funny yet entertaining to watch. A good watch for the kids and you. "},{"Title":"Never watch","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" 9 reason to avoid this move1.It is deeply disturbing. 2.It will give you nightmares for the rest of your life. 3.You'll never look at Arnold the same way again. 4.Your face may become permanently locked in a look of shocked disgust. 5.You may find yourself standing over your broken TV, wielding an ax you did not know you even owned. 6.You will need to see a psychiatrist at least once a week. 7.Your psychiatric bills will eventually make you poor.8.When you psychiatrist realizes you are hopeless you will be admitted to a mental facility where you will spend your remaining days. 9.You will eventually kill yourself.I know this, because it all happened to me. "},{"Title":"Finally, A Man Gets it!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have never laughed & cried so hard at the same time. Finally, a man pregnant. And having it Arnold playing this part was wonderful. He ran the emotional and physical gammet and he did it beautifully. As a woman who had a horribly difficult pregnancy and constantly wanted to smack men up the side of the head when they make comments about how easy we have it, I finally felt that someone got it.Danny DeVito and Arnold Schwarzenegger pair up as a Doctor (OBGYN) and a Research Scientist who are trying to come up with a formula to help women with difficult pregnancies to have a better chance of carrying through. (A worthy effort in itself) They are turned down by the FDA for a human testing and the University revokes their funding. (TYPICAL) In a totally bold, crazy and plot driving move, Devito talks Arnold into trying the formula on himself. But where to get the donor egg. (Enter Emily Thompson as a fellow Dr/Researcher who has cryogenically frozen eggs). And the humor just gets funnier from here.Arnold suddenly is going through the mood swings, the nausea, the nipples itching and everything else that goes with a WOMAN being pregnant. And he doesn't pander or downplay any of it. He was down right beautiful in the part.I highly recommend this to any woman who is, will be or has been pregnant. You will laugh and cry and totally enjoy this movie.  And guys, if you don't get it, well, you never have when we were the pregnant ones, so why should you get this portrayal???  Give it a shot, you may learn what real strengths women have. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, But Still Fun","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" A relatively amusing story starring Arnold Schwarzenegger as Dr. Alex Hesse, who - teaming up with Danny DeVito in his typical curmudgeonly style (this time as a gynecologist) - subjects himself to an experimental drug which allows him to become the world's first pregnant man. The basic plot has been done before (Rabbit Test starring Billy Crystal), but this one is still worth watching.Schwarzenegger demonstrates his flair for light comedic roles once again, playing his part perfectly and DeVito is DeVito. Emma Thompson puts on a decent performance as well as Schwarzenneger's somewhat clumsy love interest.There's no real side-splitting laughs to be had here, but it's good fun and if there are no side-splitting laughs there's still a few good old-fashioned chuckles.7/10 "},{"Title":"delightful funny and pleasant movie","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I enjoyed this movie a lot and i enjoyed it so much that i want to buy it on DVD, it is a very funny pleasant and enjoyable family movie which is squeaky clean and it was good to be able to watch this kind of movie for a change which is a lot different to the usual violent sleazy foul mouthed movies that i usually watch, not that there is anything wrong with that of course but it was great to be able to watch some clean fun entertainment for a change.All the actors are brilliant and the characters in the movie are all very lovable and are funny and Arnold Schwarzanegger was tops and was very funny and it was good to see him play a different role which is very different to his usual macho action man role, and in this movie you get to see Arnies soft gentle side, Danny Devito is always a treat to watch and he is one of my favourite actors and Pamela Reed and Emma Thompson the two main female actors also added charm to the movie.A movie which is very worthwhile watching and a movie i would enjoy watching over and over again. "},{"Title":"Good for some, not fun for most","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rating-3/10Junior is a film by Ivan Reitman that not only doesn't play out so well, but also breathes absurdity. The film stars hulking Hollywood star Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito where Arnie gets pregnant, it's the kind of plot made from hell, oh and also Ivan Reitman. It just doesn't work for me and comes off messy at best, it isn't the worst movie of all time and definitely not within comedy, but here are my thoughts below.The plot is just confused and I mean in a way where the story just rides along not really knowing where it is going, can be fun and will be for some, but still not memorable. It isn't funny and for me that is it's greatest sin, the jokes don't come and the direction from Reitman doesn't add anything whatsoever to the writing that strips this of all respect.Schwarzenegger deserves a bit of respect for giving it a go, not in a kind of good way but he tries his hardest and he acts in the only way he knows how. Emma Thompson comes in as the new Doctor on the scene Diana, she is OK here but she doesn't do anything to help, this is the kind of movie that can truly ruin careers, thank god this didn't contain the very very best(at least at the time). I think to really enjoy this you have to not only laugh at a lot, but also be won over by the sweetness of the plot, not by the depth, this is one movie truly lacking in true depth. If you want a serious plot, well this tries to be one but turns out one massive joke, that also isn't funny. Kevin Wade and Chris Conrad don't write this well enough to entertain most, those easily won over then yes, but this just doesn't work right.As the great Roger Ebert once said about Junior I know this sounds odd, but Schwarzenegger is perfect for the role. Observe his acting carefully in Junior, and you'll see skills that many serious actors could only envy. Now I don't agree with this quote but I see where he is coming from, Arnie seems to as I mentioned before, match the role and he makes the character seem more real(to say he is a huge pregnant man). Danny DeVito doesn't supply him with enough for me though, now DeVito for some is great but I have never loved him, and here he further proves me right.I think finding positives here is as hard as it can get, this isn't the worst film ever but it is hard to find lots and lots of positives. I liked the sets if that is even a real reason, well OK it isn't but It really is hard, The plot I guess is fun(at times) and can as I have also said before, be sweet and Arnie gives his all in making his character more human. Overall a pretty bad movie but one that even today is still remembered fairly well. Reitman directs DeVito and Schwarzenegger again after they came together in Twins(1988), but he doesn't succeed in making these two classic although I will say he does make this classic as that movie where Arnold Schwarzenegger gets pregnant, and I'll use my consensus one more time, good for some, not fun for most. "},{"Title":"Misconceived","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" JUNIOR is a contender for Arnold Schwarzenegger's worst film, a spectacularly ill-conceived comedy in which the action star plays a research scientist who falls pregnant thanks to some pioneering treatment. It's the third teaming for the star and director Ivan Reitman, following on from TWINS and KINDERGARTEN COP, and it's a stuttering misfire from the start.First off, I have to say that the subject matter doesn't really lend itself to comedy. There are some jokes here, many of them obvious, but for a lot of the running time the film adopts a mawkish and sentimental tone which doesn't make for a very enjoyable viewing experience. There are also HUGE plot holes surrounding the male pregnancy, such as the film not explaining how the baby grows in Schwarzenegger's stomach without an umbilical cord.The worst thing about the story is the script, which is threadbare in the extreme. Characters like the shoe-horned in villain played by Frank Langella are lame and just a way to clutter up the running time. The acting is pretty bad, particularly in the case of the excruciating Emma Thompson, whose attempts at 'slapstick' humour fall flat time and time again. I could hardly bear to watch her in this. Schwarzenegger himself is wooden, playing an unlikeable character, and the only decent performance comes from Danny DeVito. Sadly his presence alone isn't enough to make this anywhere near a good movie. "},{"Title":"It's just a continuously strange viewing experience","Date":"5 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Movies can be categorized into several different groups (and not just by genre). This can be based on the kind of viewing experience it gives its audience. As for this movie, it is difficult to classify where this male version of a chick flick should be placed. It is quite honestly one of the most oddest oddballs anyone could watch. This is mostly due to the case because the concept overall was new (for its time) and sounded good on paper. Nonetheless, that doesn't mean it would look good in real life. So in order to make this happen without it having coming across as a freak show, director Ivan Reitman turned it into a comedy. Yet somehow, this did not make it any less bewildering of a production. The entire running time is just weird.Dr. Larry Arbogast (Danny DeVito) convinces his cohort Dr. Alex Hesse (Arnold Schwarzenegger) to test himself as a human lab rat for a pregnancy test after the two are fired from the University they work for by Noah Banes (Frank Langella). Replacing the two doctors is the young and beautiful Dr. Diana Reddin (Emma Thompson) who soon joins the confusion and nonsense that erupts. For its writing, credit must be given for being ambitious. It also brings up a couple of good points about what it's like to be a mom and the side effects of being pregnant. These kinds of notions are demonstrated through Arnold who goes through all these definitive moments (that's next to be contended to). Along with that is Emma Thompson's character who at least sheds some light on the struggles that women go through that men would certainly not understand (even in Arnold's case). Setting this to the side, the rest of the story is just DeVito and Schwarzenegger telling lies in order to hold over the experiment. A very silly pot-boiler plot and it shows because the two writers behind this, Kevin Wade and Chris Conrad did not really have enough experience to produce a screenplay with decent quality.As a comedy, it's not strong. DeVito, the funnyman, only has a few quips that are noteworthy. The best is when he's discovered of lying. Arnold only had one funny moment and that's when he yells like a man instead of acting like a woman and its only funny because of the doofy face he has at the time. In fact, this film actually makes the female actors like Emma Thompson and Pamela Reed (Dr. Arbogast's ex) funnier than the male actors. This is because they are actual females and don't need to act like a woman. I don't know, it's just outlandish seeing action man Arnold Schwarzenegger acting like a woman in drag. It doesn't feel right and it's more of a put-off than anything else. But who knew, in 2007 Thomas Beattie the first man (who was originally a woman) would actually become pregnant. And that was no comedy. Even Christopher Meloni from Law & Order SVU has a more natural role in this story. But I digress.The rest of the components to the film aren't that great either. Cinematography provided by Adam Greenberg who shot for other megahit movies like The Terminator (1984) and Terminator 2 Judgement Day (1991) goes all out wishy-washy this time. There's nothing really interesting to look at here other than the occasional bright and feminine colors that appear in the usual maternity rooms. The practical effects are OK but are immediately ruined when the special effects kick in and it is very noticeable. As clear as day, and looking back on it, it looks underdeveloped. As for music, arranged by James Newton Howard, the tracks do work with the softer more emotional moments but for the comedic moments it doesn't. Howard's music is somewhat of the reversal of the contemporary styles of Christopher Lennertz's music, where he can maintain the comedic notes but not much of any emotional ones.This feature is an irregular mix of comedy, drama and romance it only works in a few places. The female actresses are funnier than the male actors are and watching Arnold Schwarzenegger become a mom is not the most enlightening experience or the most realistic one. "}{"Title":"How to Impregnate Arnold Schwarzenegger","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In an incredibly stupid opening, body-building gynecologist Arnold Schwarzenegger (as Alexander Alex Hess) caries a urinating baby around the library. Thankfully, this is only a wet dream and the film gets better; it helps to lower expectations... When their fertility drug Expectane is rejected by the FDA (the US regulatory Food and Drug Administration), Mr. Schwarzenegger and doctoral pal Danny DeVito (as Lawrence Larry Arbogast) decide to continue testing. This becomes difficult as Schwarzenegger is replaced at work by klutzy doctor Emma Thompson (as Diana Reddin). She's single and attractive, though. Due to the loss of laboratory chimps, Schwarzenegger is selected to become pregnant. The muscularly masculine doctor is implanted with a fertilized egg, which both Schwarzenegger and Mr. DeVito expect will be temporary. However, Schwarzenegger starts to develop motherly feelings for his baby...In a somewhat parallel plot, Mr. DeVito's ex-wife Pamela Reed (as Angela) has just been impregnated by an Aerosmith band member or associate...Junior cleverly skirts scientific implausibility. It throws out medical terms here and there, without really explaining anything. Although a test tube would be preferable, they plot to plant a fertilized human egg into a man's body. Unexplained is how this experiment will help a female pregnancy &#x96; but, perhaps a rising tide lifts all boats. The drug may even be able to prevent the fetus from killing its male host body. Even without a womb, Schwarzenegger is a tough guy. By being vague, this script works. The situation comedy is carried mostly by Schwarzenegger's predicament, with producer-director Ivan Reitman and his crew delivering the goods. However, the story always only goes for the most obvious humor; when it approaches any sort of depth, Junior stops short. It's skillfully produced, but steadfastly refuses to take any real chances with the material. In featured roles, Frank Langella and Judy Collins are employed well.****** Junior (11/23/94) Ivan Reitman ~ Arnold Schwarzenegger, Danny DeVito, Emma Thompson, Pamela Reed "},{"Title":"Utter nonsense but not that bad","Date":"2 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Built on a bedrock of hard science and a sound what if? premise, Ivan Reitman's thoughtful film is... Oh, all right, 'Junior' is high concept nonsense, but it's somehow better than I expected it to be. A surprisingly decent (honest) Arnold Schwarzenegger is a scientist (stay with me here) who, along with partner Danny DeVito (it's only a film) has developed a drug to prevent miscarriages. With you so far, movie. But their funding is cut and Arnie has no choice but to test the drug on himself - by getting pregnant. So that's the premise, then. Nothing truly unexpected happens and Emma Thompson is annoying but it's all fairly enjoyable for some reason. I can't quite figure it out. "},{"Title":"Who the hell thought THAT up???","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Errr...OK where to start with this one? Arnold Schwartzenegger is a scientist who wants to test a pregnancy drug for women but doesn't get permission to do it. Instead, he and Danny DeVito come up with the utterly deranged idea to decide to test it on a man, that being Schwartzenegger obviously. After starting the experiment somehow, Arnold eventually abandons the testing in exchange for keeping the baby, acting like a sensitive woman, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.This film is terrible. It's your basic 1990s big-tough-guy-tapping-into-his-feminine-side awful comedy like 'Mr Nanny' I suppose (lessons which have NOT been beneficial to men OR women, but that's another story). There is some cheesy feminist rhetoric as to 'my body my choice' and 'you should try being a woman, it's a nightmare' (which in and of itself makes no logical sense), and none of it is remotely funny. I suppose the problem is that now that male sensitivity is mainstream to a somewhat crippling level, this film fails to be funny anymore. It just looks dated. The science which propels this horrifying idea forward is broken - how the hell does Arnold even grow a baby, having no womb? For me, I'd rather commit seppuku than watch this god-awful pile of horse manure again. "},{"Title":"Arnolds a mother","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Junior is a weird comedy about a man named Dr. Hesse who injects an amniotic egg into his stomach with the help of his friend Dr. Abrogast to test a new baby drug so he can become pregnant. What Hesse doesn't know is that Abrogast stole the egg that was ejected from and stored away by a new doctor named Diana Reddin. But when Hesse goes into labor, an evil Professor is going to try to make the biggest news story ever about a pregnant man so he can get rich! My first impression on Junior really sappy! Arnold makes one of his worst performances as Dr. Hesse who first seems like a baby hater but turns out to be a drug maker for baby eggs. The danger prone Dr. Reddin is a lame love interest and the slime ball villain Dr. Banes is a total pussycat. The only real good performance is brought to us by Danny DeVito as Larry Arbogast, he gave a good social comical performance as a baby doctor who cares for his work and does anything on his own terms. Now the story is crazy and the sequences just keep skipping possible moments that can make the movie interesting! It goes from Hesse finding out the egg is planted and he is pregnant to two weeks later, then ten week, then three months! And the jokes are not funny! Arnold dressing up as a woman to be safe from Dr. Banes is not funny, Larry's ex-wife getting pregnant from a person part of Aerosmith is not funny, the danger prone Dr. Reddin is not funny. This film is so sappy and it's loaded with pregnancy jokes that involves Arnold being a glut eating, saying he got cramps, getting a big stomach, buying larger clothes, being radiant and happy...Arnold you fool! Junior gets the 4, a sappy film that is just to low to enjoy. Good for people who like to listen about pregnancy or if you just want to catch a few winks of sleep. "},{"Title":"Basically, when it all comes down to it, there is nothing particularly special about `Junior.' Sadly, we've seen it all before. And I LIKE Arnie, so it's got to be true coming from me!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger had already stretched his funny bone when `Junior' came out in 1994. He had made a little film with Danny DeVito named `Twins,' and a sweet-natured comedy called `Kindergarten Cop.' And let's not forget his very first film, `Hercules in New York,' a.k.a. `Hercules Goes Bananas,' which would have fit the title much better.But `Junior' is, by far, the worst comedy Schwarzenegger has starred in. Well, it's a close tie between `Jingle All the Way.'Schwarzenegger plays a doctor who takes some top-secret medication, which makes him pregnant. Arnie pregnant. I wouldn't want to be there when the contractions kick in. DeVito plays the doctor who helps keep it under wraps. Basically, the whole comedy blunders around doing nothing slowly. It had a lot of potential even with its ridiculous plot, but they just couldn't pull it off. They spend too much time doing nothing, including a scene with DeVito and Schwarzenegger talking about how DeVito's girlfriend ran off and had a child with an Aerosmith band member. So we really need specifics? But that doesn't keep the mandatory one-liners from coming. I was waiting for Arnie to be in the throes of labor. I can see him being pulled back on top of a medical cot. And then he turns to Danny DeVito and says, `I'll be back!' Too bad they didn't use that one. It would have been good.The funniest line in the film? `This is my body! I'll do whatever I want!' Classic Arnie.Basically, when it all comes down to it, there is nothing particularly special about `Junior.' Sadly, we've seen it all before. Well, actually, I really haven't seen a movie about a pregnant man before, but `Junior' still isn't as good as it could have been. And should have been.Good actors. Decent premise. Bad movie.  "},{"Title":"Tough Call !!!","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Its weird but at the same time funny. So its hard to say whether this movie stinks or its good. So its a tough call. Its got a good set of actors, its got an okay story line, but its just plain WEIRD ! I think it depends on the person who is watching it. If their idea of fun was watching Arnold Schwarzenegger go through morning sickness then they would love the film but otherwise people might just hate it to bits. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie I've ever seen","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the movie, it's one of my favorite out of the other Arnold Schwarzenegger movies I've seen. I think that Junior is a hilarious movie, and a good one too! Arnold is a great actor, I mean all on his other movies, he played like a macho role, but in Junior, he played kind of like a feminine role. This movie is so funny that I watch it over and over, because it's a GREAT movie!! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love the movie, it's one of my favorite out of the other Arnold Schwarzenegger movies I've seen. I think that Junior is a hilarious movie, and a great one too! Arnold is a great actor, I mean all on his other movies, he played like a macho role, but in Junior, he played kind of like a feminine role. This movie is so funny that I watch it over and over, because it's a GREAT movie!! "},{"Title":"ARNOLD'S WORST MOVIE","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am watching one of the worst films ever made.  I don't think I can stay to the end.  This is excruciating.I can see why Arnold would take this role on.  The premise is just right for him to spoof his image.  And the cast is one of guaranteed winners.  But, ohhhhh, the execution!  It's awful!  The acting is fine, the great chemistry between Arnold and DeVito is there, but nothing works.  There are even some jokes that would be pretty funny in another context, but they flop.Too bad, but this is a sorry, sorry movie. "},{"Title":"expectane a good time!","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  a cleverly though out script with believable terminology like expactane. This was arnie's funniest movie ever. The scene where arnold poses as a women why was overdosed on steriods by the german olympic team was hillarous. a must see film. "}{"Title":"Very enjoyable.","Date":"3 May 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Junior is an entertaining, enjoyable film that is suitable for the entire family.  All the actors do a fine job and the storyline (you must suspend disbelief) is actually very funny.  A rating of 7 out of 10 was given for this movie.  "},{"Title":"Politics disguised as comedy -- and a lame comedy at that.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought Junior would be stupid. I was right. The only reason I watched it was because I was stuck in a hotel in Korea, and couldn't sleep.Aside from beating a single lame joke to death, Junior threw in way too many gratuitous bones to the proabortion lobby. (I guess the idea being that Hollywood just has to underscore their theory that if men could get pregnant, abortion would be a sacrament.) Arnie and DeVito intended to abort the fetus after a brief test pregnancy -- repeating again and again that the whole experiment will be completed by the end of the first trimester. Yup -- killing fetuses less than one trimester old is so morally neutral that it's okay to create the embryo with the express intention of killing it off quick, before it becomes human!At the end of the first trimester, Arnie is supposed to stop taking the drug cocktail that sustains the pregnancy. He looks at the vial of blue fluid at the time he's supposed to deliberately miss his first dose, then talks to the fetus, telling it he doesn't know if it's a boy or a girl so he'll call it Junior. And he downs the drug, hence converting the pregnancy into my baby. The whole thing is absurd, since DeVito plays an obstetrician and he'd been doing routine ultrasounds so they'd have known already if the baby was male or female.Later, when the big bad guy from the oppressive patriarchal university learns that Arnie is pregnant, he gets guards and tries to take Arnie into custody. Arnie tosses the guards, telling the big bad guy, My body, my choice! One of the women in the lab yells, Amen! Since the bad guy wasn't even trying to abort Arnie's baby, this was clearly a gratuitious attempt to get across the bizarre idea that the only reason Arnie was able to get pregnant and have his baby was because abortion was legal. As if that had squat to do with it.If you're a rabid abortion supporter, you'll probably love Junior for all the propaganda moments. I can't see anybody else much caring for it. "},{"Title":"Mother Arnie ...","Date":"14 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" By reuniting the incongruous Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny de Vito duo again, the exploit of Ivan Reitman's Junior is to make an even more touching and funny comedy than his previous Twins, once again, based on the same premise of an improbable scientific situation.Improbable is quite an understatement. It's crazy enough to have a man facing pregnancy but out of all the actors who could pull it with more or less believability, hiring the ultimate tough guy, the one with the most masculine height and bone structure was quite a risky move. Risky but not absurd, there are times when you're entitled to a certain level of absurdity when making a comedy movie, but you can tell that Junior ambition reached higher than simple laughs, it wanted to tell a heart-warming story, a comedy with a heart, as I like to say.This is why the casting was a masterstroke. This isn't Twins where Schwarzenegger's perfection was the illustration of a successful genetic manipulation and De Vito, all the opposite, here, Arnie's casting isn't crucial to the part, neither is Danny De Vito, but at the end, you realize that the movie couldn't have worked with better actors. De Vito has this 'streetwise businessman with sharp teeth' thing justifying such a gutsy idea, and Arnie is the cold European scientist so dedicated to his profession that we believe he can be lured into that crazy project.Yet the film could have sinned by cynicism, showing that there's a mad scientist or sorcerer apprentice hiding behind every doctor, and that laboratories would trade ethics for the financial success of a revolutionary medicine, in the film's case, one to increase women's fertility and estrogen production. But they're not allowed to test the medicine on women. Never mind, the bounds of science are unlimited. And after all, didn't Jenner inoculated himself the smallpox virus to check if the vaccination worked, there comes a time where every scientist must question his vocation and push it to the extreme, for science's sake.This left me a little perplexed but by an extraordinary coincidence, the same day I saw junior, I found a documentary about the history of medicine and viruses, and not only I found out that Jenner actually tested the smallpox vaccination on a little boy, which was even more debatable and could've earned him a radiation had it failed? But that it took almost two decades for penicillin to really get its worldwide attention because Fleming was a good researcher but not much of a marketer and couldn't even get the implications his discovery would make.So, in a way, there's a little mad scientist here, a businessmen there, but it's always for people's own good, and this is where Junior really takes you, it's not a movie about lobbying or genetic manipulation. It's the story of a man who discovers his maternal side by the simple process of feeling a baby inside him, and Arnold Schwarzenegger makes it not only believable but also touching, he doesn't overplay, within his own (not so limited) range, he finds the perfect note to draw a touched smile in your face, and there's one wonderful moment where he De Vito's character touch the belly and smiles, so moving you forget the implausibility of the situation.But there can't be a film about pregnancy without women, and both Pamela Reed and Emma Thompson plays respectively De Vito's ex-wife and the scientist who took Arnie's laboratory. Thompson is such a gifted actress that she knows how to make you laugh from rather predictable situations, and her involuntary involvement in the pregnancy gives a film a nice little twist. To close the gallery, there's also Frank Langella who plays the obligatory antagonist to the story but the essential is in the pregnancy.Indeed, they are the reason to be of the film, and everything is handled in such a way that you never feel it over the top. Take when Arnie is disguised as a woman, anyone would laugh at the immediate sight and while it's it's not Dustin Hoffman in Tootsie, Arnie gives a wonderful explanation about the reason his looks don't necessarily match his gender, and we buy it because within the film own zaniness, there's something touching and involving and leading us to a wonderful climax.Now, does the film reflects some gender views that in each man, there's a woman inside, I think it's much more conservative than that. Indeed, by becoming more feminine through pregnancy, there's something that might imply that the main identifying aspect of women is the capability to give life, to carry life, and maybe this is why women are generally, the most protective, the least destructive and the most caring of both sexes. But if this sounds misogynistic to say it, well, that's how sad today's world has become. "},{"Title":"Funny gimmick but unfunny movie","Date":"7 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alex Hesse (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is an University professor working with Dr. Larry Arbogast (Danny DeVito) on a new drug to reduce miscarriages. However the FDA rejects human trials and Noah Banes (Frank Langella) shuts down Hesse. Bumbling Dr. Diana Reddin (Emma Thompson) moves into Hesse's lab space. Arbogast's ex-wife Angela (Pamela Reed) finds out that she's pregnant from another man. Arbogast is down $300k and convinces Hesse to test the drug on himself. Arbogast steals an egg from Reddin's stash.This isn't funny no matter how much talent director Ivan Reitman puts up on the screen. It's an odd gimmick and a quirky movie poster. It takes forever to get to any jokes and Emma Thompson doing slapstick is not funny. Arnold has a lot of lame pregnancy jokes with him playing the emotional girl. That is cute for awhile but no big laughs. They could have gone the more inappropriate route. At least, that would be something interesting. Cross dressing is fun but it feels more like a last minute attempt to pump some jokes into this movie. "},{"Title":"Has its Moments,but Needed to be Less Dramatic,","Date":"27 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Junior is a mediocre movie with a mediocre storyline and a great comedic cast.This had more potential that what it delivered,it being a reunion for Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito following Twins and also directed by the legendary Ivan Reitman,it's story also had some good potential but it needed to be a lot more goofy and self aware of its ridiculous subject matter in order to be a good comedy.I felt like the movie treated itself too seriously,because I was expecting a story where Schwarzenegger is the worlds first pregnant man to be a really stupid comedy,but instead it was quite dramatic at times and focused on a love story,that was my main problem,it just needed to be more of a comedy.There is great chemistry between Arnold and DeVito and also Emma Thompson,who seemed to get along with both of them and they all seemed to enjoy working together.It has some good moments,but Junior takes itself too seriously and just isn't funny enough to be a comedy I would recommend. A research scientist becomes the worlds first pregnant man in order to test his new drug for expectant women.Best Perfornance Danny DeVito Worst Performance Pamela Reed "},{"Title":"A silly comedy.","Date":"20 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Twins actors Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito team up again, this time as Doctors Alex Hesse and Larry Arbogast, who are working on a new drug which will reduce the chances of a woman having a miscarriage. When their research funding and human experimentation are declined, they decide to test the drug on Hesse, which unintentionally causes him to become pregnant.This is really a silly movie with some light-hearted and slapstick humor that one might find amusing. Arnold is fun to watch on screen as always, with his thick Austrian accent, his one-liners and his good chemistry with the female leads (Emma Thompson and Pamela Reed). Danny DeVito, on the other hand, was a little annoying to watch and was too overzealous in his role.Ivan Reitman kept the plot simple and focused on the character development. It was funny seeing Arnold's character hide his pregnancy from the people around him, and the lengths he goes through to disguise himself as a woman.It's not one of the better Arnold films, as I would like to see a little more intrigue and suspense, but it's OK overall.Grade B- "},{"Title":"One of Arnies worst, but not terrible.","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" JUNIORI am a big Arnold Schwarzenegger fan, but this is one of his worst movies... but not as bad as Raw Deal!The movie is about 2 scientists who decide, after their funding has been declined, to impregnate a male.It is a comedy that Arnie made in the 90s, but the problem is, it just doesn't work as well as Twins.I did like it... I just didn't love it.The acting is not that good. Arnold at the beginning of the movie is so stiff and terrible that I thought that this was even worst acting than Mr. Freeze in Batman and Robin.The movie stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, Danny DeVito and Emma Thompson. Danny does a good job. I like Danny a lot. He has made a lot of great films. This is one of Emmas worst performances that I can remember though. Arnie was not bad all the way through though. His acting did improve and he was even really funny in places. It has a lot of classic quotes that I use regularly.The comedy was quite weak most of the movie. There were some funny moments and some even made me laugh out loud, but a lot of the time I didn't find it very funny.The story was entertaining and I didn't hate this movie... I just thought it could have been a lot better.I will give this movie 6 out of 10.My nipples are very sensitive.For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Arnold, DeVito and Emma at their Funniest","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" As 'ridiculous' as the concept is, ignoring all the scientific inaccuracies, 'Junior' is a lot of fun. What would happen if men could carry babies in their 'womb'? Well you might want to try 'Junior'. Obviously the film wasn't meant to be taken seriously and that's how director Ivan Reitman treats this. Hats off to Schwarzenneger, who had established himself as the action hero, for taking up the challenge. He does a great job. His abilities in comedy have been underrated and 'Junior' just gave him that right kind of boost. And when you have people like Danny Devito, Emma Thompson and Pamela Reed then you can certainly expect to laugh. Thompson's comic flair also remains underrated and she is hilarious here without having to resort to the formulaic comedic tactics. In terms of writing, there are many funny dialogues that allow the scenes tickle. Even the more 'intense' sequences are loaded with funny dialogue (for example the sequence where Alex confronts Diana about Junior). 'Junior' is a movie that once can easily enjoy with the family. It was fun to revisit after years. "},{"Title":"Has its problems, but I enjoyed it....","Date":"22 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In summing up, this movie is good but it isn't great. It does have its faults, but I found it surprisingly enjoyable. Starting with its problems, the film is a little too long, Pamela Reed is very underused which is a shame as I like her a lot as an actress and comedienne and there are one or two predictable parts. On the plus side, it is very well made with great cinematography and scenery, and the music is very nice. The pacing and direction are both very slick, and while Junior is basically very one-joke, there were some funny moments and the script does well to convey this. The acting is what drove Junior though, as well as the great if rather ridiculous concept. Arnold Schwarznegger is surprisingly entertaining here in one of his more lighter roles, while Danny DeVito is even better and Emma Thompson is absolutely gorgeous as the clumsy scientist and love interest(though I will say as a fan of hers she has given better performances). Overall, I liked it, it wasn't great but it wasn't awful either. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"This Movie is Hilarious","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" In case you have not seen the movie, the story line of Junior (1994)is about a pregnant man. Of all of the men to select, Schwartenegger is the last actor I would have imagined in the role, which makes the movie all the more funny to watch. I always like the pairing of Schwartenegger and Devito. However, I found Schwartenegger and Thompson an unlikely pairing. Their humorous romance had hints of screwball comedy. This movie had me chuckling and laughing out loud. The premise is highly unlikely (at least at the time) but the movie makers made it seem almost plausible. This movie has some genuinely tender moments in the midst of the zaniness. "}{"Title":"A Marsupilani has just been sicked on San Francisco","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a strange silly film. 1994 was not a great year I guess for Hollywood and for Schwarzenegger. Apart from being absurd, the humor there may have been between some of the frames and shots has disappeared. The film still survives as some kind of entertaining slow motion mental disposal animated and agitated void and empty discourse on the taste of the cosmic wind on the other side of the moon. But if you want to taste the slightly nostalgic vision of San Francisco and its cable cars be my guest and enjoy the trip.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"Briliiant cast pull Junior up  by his little booties.....","Date":"13 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Miss Emma Thompson is sweet,naive and a bit dotty doing post-doctoral research at a California University.Mr Arnold S and Mr Danny de - V are pretty damned funny as two more experienced colleagues involved in I.V. fertilisation whose machinations end up getting Mr S. pregnant.Having trouble with the premise? - well,it's still very funny,believe me. This movie is the gentler sex's revenge on males.Too frequently only present at the conception,with Junior they are made to feel every gripe,pain and downright agony of pregnancy as acted out by one of their heroes,the great Arnie,archetypal testosterone - fuelled superbloke.No one else would have done.Anyone less likely to have a feminine side is hard to imagine.Brilliant casting. It could be his best ever movie performance. Miss Cassandra Wilson gets to sing I've got you under my skin at a Pharmaceutics Convention,Arnie and Emma,neophyte dancers both,trip the light hilarious rather than fantastic,and the whole movie is so very much better than it had any right to be solely because of the performances of the cast who are clearly having a lot of fun. Junior may be very silly,but by golly it's also very funny. "},{"Title":"An OK movie","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito play two scientists who are experimenting with a new fertility drug, when their project gets shut down. However, they decide to carry on experimenting, so Alex (played by Arnold Schwarzenegger) implants a fertilised embryo (which belongs to a scientist who falls for Alex) into his own body, and then carries the baby to term.I saw this movie advertised on TV, and when I heard that it was about a man who becomes pregnant, I had to watch it, just to see how a man would cope.It may not be the funniest movie I've ever seen (the funniest thing in the entire movie is seeing Arnold Schwarzenegger in a dress, looking and acting like a cross between Mrs Doubtfire and Camilla Fritton - played by Rupert Everett in St. Trinians), but the plot is very original.Well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Life mirrors fiction!!!!","Date":"27 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't suppose anyone's seen this story about a man (who used to be a woman)is pregnant as he kept his female organs when he switched - it's reported on any number of news websites.OK, so it's not QUITE the same as the film but still makes for interesting reading and discussion - especially whether it's true, though, it is still a little early for April Fools.But they do say that science fact has its basis in science fiction ... so maybe we should not be too surprised but reading some of the comments posted on the Times and other news websites its the moral aspect we're struggling with. "},{"Title":"Hollywood should have stopped gender-bending comedies right after Mrs. Doubtfire","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Why is it that every big star in Hollywood has to do a comedy where they change their gender at the time of their popularity? Of course their were two successes Dustin Hoffman in Tootsie which is my favorite movie of all time, and then a decade later there was Robin Williams in Mrs. Doubtfire which was not a masterpiece like Tootsie but still was an entertaining and fun film. Of course since Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire did wonders for Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams turning into women they had to do it with Schwarzenegger and I can tell you it did not do much for him like the other two actors. This is not a bad movie but the whole plot is one joke. Danny De Vito manipulates Schwarzenegger into putting sperm into his body for an experiment because no scientist will believe De Vito's experiment and De Vito wants to abort Arnold's baby but he wants to keep it. And Schwarzenegger becomes feminine, gets fat, and becomes a mommy. Then Schwarzenegger has a relationship with De Vito's rival at his lab (Emma Thomson) and she gets pregnant and Arnold becomes both mommy and daddy. And the finale of Junior (I felt I have already given enough away so I won't mention the finale) is very predictable and not very funny. This is an average film. It really could have done wonders for Schwarzenegger and De Vito's career if the writing was more unpredictable, more fresh, and more witty. Instead we get a recycling of Tootsie and Mrs. Doubtfire that is mediocre. I can also see why Schwarzenegger did not do much comedies after this one. He had his moment with Twins and Kindergarten Cop but he was not very funny anymore after Junior. Another annoyance was De Vito's ex-wife (Pamela Reed) and how De Vito was supposed to be her baby's father but she was dating another man. I got really tired of that after a while. Gender-bending comedies were funny up until Mrs. Doubtfire but Junior was one perfect example of that humor draining away. They just can't make them like in the good old days of Dustin Hoffman and Robin Williams. "},{"Title":"Bun in Arnie's Oven!","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" It would seem that the trio that brought us Twins decided to put the long awaited and much talked about sequel to that 1988 comedy hit on the back burner (perhaps for all time) in preference to this nineties tale about scientist Schwarzy who becomes a S.N.A.G. (sensitive new age gal) when De Vito puts a bun in his oven.Not an original concept (see Rabbit Test 1978), yet director Reitman has managed to produce another likable comedy (for which he's becoming renowned- Dave and Kindergarten Cop) which takes a refreshing, if somewhat predictable, look at how a man would cope with pregnancy. And who better to try this on than muscle-bound man's man Arnie.Schwarzenegger's come a long way from his Conan days and is most enjoyable as the emotional and radiantly glowing 'mom', Dr. Alex Hesse. De Vito fits the bill as companion Dr. Larry Arbogast, the gynaecologist who comes up with the idea of impregnating a man in order to test their pregnancy control drug, Expectane. And as the hapless, clumsy cryogenicist Dr. Diana Reddin, Emma Thompson shows a talent for humour. Frank Langella and Pamela Reed, two other Reitman faves, also add to the fun.The narrative does attempt to deliver some serious messages about relationships and shared experiences, but Kevin Wade and Chris Conrad's script works best in comic mode, though it's never outrageously funny. Reitman has done well with the somewhat limited theme, spreading the entertainment evenly throughout.Monday, December 26, 1994 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"it's a girl!","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" the premise is simple.a doctor(Danny Devito)convinces his colleague(Arnold Schwarzenegger)to inject himself with a pregnancy drug.he then becomes pregnant.this is actually quite a funny movie.there are some good lines here.Schwarzenegger is very credible in the role.Emma Thomson is a riot as a clumsy doctor and love interest for Arnold.she has a definite gift for physical comedy.i had a very good time watching this movie.it's a very different role for Arnold,but it works.it turns the traditional notion of women as child bearers on its head,and succeeds admirably.although from what others have commented,it's not the first movie to do this.anyway,i picked this movie up as part of the comedy favourites collection,which also contains Twins and Kindergarten Cop.of the three,this is the only one i would classify as a comedy.for me,Junior is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Arnold has a baby","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Junior is a very funny 1994 comedy directed by Ivan Reitman and starring Danny de Vito, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Pamela Reed, Emma Thompson and Frank Langella. DeVito is Larry, a doctor and Ahnold is Alex, a scientist - the two are working on a pregnancy drug for women. When the FDA refuses to accept it, Alex loses his lab to Diana (Thompson) who feels terrible about it and offers to let him share the lab with her. Stuck as to how to get the drug pushed forward and gain the attention of a pharmaceutical company who will invest in it, Larry comes up with the idea of impregnating Alex in order to get data, but only for the first trimester. Alex, however, bonds with the fetus and wants to continue to term.Obviously the plot makes for some very funny moments. My favorite is Alex dressing like a huge woman and going to stay in a sanitarium for pregnant women, explaining his appearance by saying that while doing sports in Germany, he took steroids. The cast is great, and the direction is fast-paced.Junior is a funny gender bender about a man feeling a woman's emotions. It's very character-driven, and the actors play it straight, making it all the funnier. Seeing Arnold pregnant is a sight to behold and not one easily forgotten. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Very good movie","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I am not sure why all the bad reviews by the critics. I liked the movie very much.The story is about Arnie self-experimenting to prove his scientific breakthrough. He gets pregnant as a result, and the rest of the movie is about how he delivers his baby. I thought it would be really horrible to see Arnold act soft. But I gotta say&#133; he nailed it. You can't call it the greatest performance, but it will really shatter all expectations from Arnie. He can act too.Danny DeVito is hilarious. He is really a great selection. He has perfect chemistry with Arnie. Indeed a very credible performance from him.Very good acting by all others too.The story moves quiet well. It does not feel slack it any point. Kudos to the director. It is a fresh theme and well written movie.Very good watch on a Sunday afternoon. You wont regret renting it. "},{"Title":"Slight perhaps, but Junior has its amusements","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever since Ivan Reitman directed Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito in Twins, I always hoped there would be a sequel. Unfortunately, one never emerged. But that didn't stop the three of them reuniting for another project, Junior, the rather tall tale of the world's first pregnant man.To say Junior was disliked at the time of its release is an understatement. The film was savaged, mauled, drawn and quartered. And it was a colossal flop. Most people attribute Junior and Last Action Hero to the beginning of the end of Arnie's career.So the question is...is Junior as bad as its made out to be? My answer is...not quite.Most people hated it because they couldn't get they're heads around the idea of action man tough guy Arnie as a pregnant man. To bring us back to Twins, it strikes me as unusual that people would buy into the rather ludicrous idea of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito as twin brothers. But they did. So it seems a little hypocritical that people refused to do the same for Junior.I will admit its not without a few flaws. It doesn't always flow as smoothly as Twins. Junior sometimes strains to squeeze enough jokes out of its slight concept. And of course the simple fact that this could never happen kept nagging in the back of my mind. But Junior has its pleasures. You just have to look hard enough.Arnold Schwarzenegger is surprisingly a good choice for the role. I get the impression there are not many male actors in the world who could have pulled this off as successfully. Because the temptation to overact would have been too great. Ivan Reitman was wise to cast Arnie, because he knows of Arnie's love of deflating his own image. And that Schwarzenegger's often wooden style of acting could work to his advantage here.Arnie and DeVito play scientists Dr Alexander Hesse and Dr Larry Arbogast. Alex is a man with no social skills. He has neither the use for them, nor the time. Larry is an ambitious scientist hoping to patent a new fertility drug. Alex tolerates Larry, but they're working relationship is cut short when the University terminates Alex's research funds.Just as Alex is on his way back to Europe, Larry convinces him that his wonder drug could make millions if they document its effects on a live test subject. And Alex is the unwilling guinea pig. A couple of sperm samples and a few oestrogen injections later, Alex is actually pregnant! But how long can they keep it under wraps before the University gets suspicious?Junior basically goes through the motions of a standard pregnancy. Morning sickness. Cravings. Joint pains. Low self-esteem. But the novelty to it all is that its happening to a man. And it has to be said, Arnie does wonders with the role.Arnie shows a very astute intuition of the role. His decision not to go too over the top proves to be the film's saving grace. He's aware of all the changes taking place inside his body, but he greets them all with an admirably straight face. And when his hormones force him to get more emotional, he downplays them without getting too dour. Arnold Schwarzenegger is sometimes a better actor than we give him credit for. And Junior holds a very subtle, carefully judged performance on his part.There is of course a lot of amusement to be had from the idea of a pregnant man, but somehow, when the man in question is Arnie, that idea becomes positively sidesplitting. The more pregnant Arnie gets, the funnier the film becomes. And watching his straight face melt into maternal warmth is not only joyous but rather touching too.Where in Twins, the heart of the film was the odd-couple pairing of Schwarzenegger and DeVito, that doesn't seem quite as important this time. The two actors have a fine rapport, and we get a few of the expected amusements, like when they're mistaken for a gay couple, but Reitman is far more interested in Arnie's delicate condition than expanding upon the characters he's surrounded him with.DeVito just falls into his usual likable huckster persona that he's honed to perfection. But there's not much more to Larry beyond that. We do get a very funny supporting turn from Emma Thompson as a klutzy, scatterbrained scientist who accidentally 'contributes' to Larry's experiment. Thompson's talents as a comedienne have always been undervalued. The different facial expressions she pulls at Arnie's condition are priceless. But again she is underdeveloped too.I do feel Junior sometimes goes too far in its search for laughs. Alex disguised as a woman at a pregnant mothers retreat probably sounded funnier on paper. But Alex's explanation for his appearance is priceless.Nevertheless, it all ends quite satisfyingly. The actual birth is surprisingly touching considering the circumstances. Especially when the concept is so difficult to swallow. Junior has faults it never completely surmounts, but its got laughs aplenty, thanks in no small part to the surprisingly radiant Arnie! "}{"Title":"Appalling drivel","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film really scrapes the barrel and even then fails to provide anything of remote substance. The premise is absolutely ridiculous. Fine, you might say, but the film is just not funny, at any stage. Arnie is a screen legend, his action films generally hitting the spot and providing plenty of laughs. This so-called comedy falls terribly flat. The story sees Arnie become pregnant in the name of science. Cue some gender swapping traits etc and the sight of Arnie in a dress. But as I said, it just isn't funny. There are some nauseating scenes in this, with endless morals and moaning. Arnie by 1994 was worth trillions. He didn't need the cash, so I can only assume that his greed was at its peak when he signed the contract to star in this sorry mess. Junior should be deleted from memory. "},{"Title":"The greatest film of all time? Very possibly...","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Artist Sandy Smith has declared Junior to be the greatest film of all time, and even commissioned a 3000 word essay to prove this point. I will quote from the conclusion of this In conclusion, this brief would argue that the film is indeed a pioneering work, but has not been termed as such for the simple reason that the piece has not been viewed in the correct context. Instead, the brief argues that Junior is not a one joke movie, but is instead a film that, at the time of release, was pioneering new film-making ideals by addressing elements of non-places and banality, without falling into the trap of making the film itself a banal non-entity. This, coupled with the social commentary the film provides on a subject that applies significantly to almost every viewer in some manner or another, makes Junior not only a monumental work, but one which could be termed as one of the greatest films of all time.  If you have not already seen the film, you should read this full essay first and then watch it. If you have, then read the essay and watch it again anyway. This film is a classic piece of mid 90's family film making, and if you read the essay on the film you will never look at it in the same way again.The full essay can be downloaded from www.juniorbestfilmever.com, You can also win 600 ($1200) there if you can write a better essay than the one he commissioned. "},{"Title":"Amusing.....","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though this is a far-fetched comedy, it still manages to amuse. I'm not big on comedies, but this one was witty and lovable. Favorite scenes are when Arnold is pretending to be a female German Olympic swimmer transformed by high doses of steroids. This is an endearing movie and the fact that Arnold is big, muscular and abundantly masculine is all the more funny when he becomes pregnant and starts exhibiting symptoms associated with typical female pregnancies. Ending scenes delivering in the doctor's office are not as humorous, but up to that point, the film is consistently funny. Arnold carries the film and what a joy to see him outside of his typecast, Terminator roles. "},{"Title":"Kind of dumb but yet... funny.","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen this movie about 4 times in the last two days, and i have to say i loved it. It has hilarious dialogue, and the fact that it's Arnold who's the one who gets pregnant makes it even more funny! But the overall story of this movie is pretty stupid. The whole man gets pregnant and goes through what women go through, has been around forever. it's really the way they set it up and go through with it that makes it good or not. Junior, had it's really funny moments like when Alix says, My nipples are very sensitive. or Does my body disgust you? but a lot of the movie was pretty bad. And i still feel bad for that poor little girl who got named Junior. P "},{"Title":"Arnold can bear my children any day!","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is full of funny switches -- it not only switched Hollywood's most macho man into a perfect pregnant mom, it also switched one of the most serious actresses into a great and silly comedienne! I don't think there is another actor in Hollywood who could carry off the role of a pregnant man with more panache than Arnold Schwartzenegger. I give him so much credit for taking this role, but he has always taken roles in which he makes fun of his own macho image -- that's what I like best about him. In fact, movies like this one and Twins and Jingle All the Way and Kindergarden Cop (It's nod a tumah!) demonstrate that Arnold has been wasted on silly action films -- his true genius is for silly comedy! And who would have thought that classically-trained Emma Thompson, serious heroine of Jane Austen stories, could be such a fantastic slap-stick klutz comedienne! When her shoe flies across the room with the toilet paper stuck to it, I couldn't stop laughing. She definitely does not stand on her dignity in this movie! I really give her credit too for taking this role. And Danny DeVito is, of course, always great. He and Arnold are my favorite opposite buddies in movies, with the possible exception of Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker in the Rush Hour movies -- and, of course, Alan Arkin and Peter Falk in the original 1979 version of The In-Laws! "},{"Title":"Just when you thought it was safe to head into the delivery room","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know, I can imagine Reitman looking at Twins, and thinking Hey, that worked out pretty well... the two of them are good together... I'll try that again. So he did. Only this time, while Danny is sleazy as ever(don't get me wrong, I've liked him in several roles, but it is kinda his shtick), and Arnie is, well, that physique doesn't just get put away for a movie or two, obviously, they're both playing competent doctors, and that's not where the high requirements for suspension of disbelief end with this thing(frankly, it's barely where they begin). Minimal effort is made to address the immediately obvious issues that there are with the concept of this, so it ends up being little else than a two-hour pregnant woman behaviour joke, mostly with Schwarzenegger acting that out, which is automatically hilarious, you know, because... he's a man! Get it? Don't worry about it. Oh, and there is humor from Thompson being clumsy, and occasionally frazzled, because she's a female nerd. Isn't it funny how, in Hollywood, all geeks of the fairer sex are either perfectly beautiful, or, you know, television ugly, meaning, basically a pretty girl, just with unflattering clothes, glasses and/or bad hair? It's not a poorly done flick. It's shot, edited and scored just fine. Pacing is reasonable. The plot develops nicely, though it is entirely predictable. The romance and the attempts at getting emotional responses from the audience are largely unconvincing. I recommend this to those who wish to watch all the work of one or more of the people who made this. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not that amuzing","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" The tagline is not good.Who wants to see a guy pregnant?This is a quietly not so amusing film which I enjoyed more than I expected.While Schwarzenegger is the star of the movie, this is really de Vito's film. He dominates every scene he is in, and maintains a manic character who actually shows some change as the film progresses without losing the basic energy of his persona.I'm not a big fan of pointless comedies.4 hours in a casino = 6 months of passive smoking. At least that's true.While the plot is a little tenuous at times and there are only one or two real belly laughs I enjoyed the film, even on the small screen. Worth watching, but probably not worth buying. "},{"Title":"Films like Predator and Last Action Hero are funnier than this and Twins put together","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, what an unfunny movie, you would think a film with Arnold Scwartzanegger being pregnant plus Danny DeVito would be funny, but its not. The concept was kind of a good idea, but it just doesnt seem to work in this film. Unless you are a huge fan of Arnold or DeVito , I would stay clear of this one. *1/2 out of 4 "},{"Title":"Would you want to watch if Arnold filmed a bout of stomach flu... ?","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... No? Then WHY gather round if he's up the duff????! There's nothing' in this idea besides the obvious novelty - and just because something is 'new', doesn't make it funny. Did you find Robin Williams in drag funny? If yes, you might improbably enjoy it; if not, stay away!! They did the best they could with a stupid idea. Making this a dramatic fantasy rather than a comedy would've been their best avenue if the idea HAD to be extrapolated at all; since if you ponder it closely you'll realise that there's only a limited amount of fun be had at the expense of the travails of childbirth before it ceases to be amusing and just becomes cruelly smug.As they often say where medical matters are concerned; the prevention of not being in a position to watch this film AT ALL would be more agreeable than the 'cure' of having to make excuses in defense, now that it's here for better or worse... On the same subject, if there was EVER an effective method of 'birth control', it's the deeply unsettling sight of Arnie 'with child'!! Perhaps the thought of 'Der Governator' going through all the 'joys' of morning sickness will help scores of young men from all over the world formulate a more effective plan when it comes to such crucial elements as keeping the wolf from the door... !! It'd certainly put ME off my stride, a bit, that's for sure!! "},{"Title":"Twins wasn't brilliant but this is worse","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dr Alex Hesse and Dr Larry Arbogast are working on researching a drug that will reduce the symptoms of pregnancy and reduce the chances of sickness and miscarriages.  But when the FAA reject their project the programme is cancelled.  However Dr Arbogast convinces Hesse that the research can go ahead if a willing subject can be found &#150; step forward Dr Hesse!Hey &#150; lets try and redo the success of Twins.  Twins was an one-joke movie so lets do that again!  Etc!  Here the plot can be kindly described as stupid and it's sheer daftness is difficult to get past.  The film deals with any moral issues that may spoil the laughs by, well, completely ignoring them.  Babies for the sake of science is a touchy point &#150; yet this happily just ploughs in!  It does have a few amusing moments &#150; mostly seeing Arnie play totally against type by being pregnant and emotional etc.Schwarzenegger is good and plays well against his action hero personae but this one joke is difficult to stretch to the whole film and the laughs don't come as frequently as you'd hope.  DeVito is underused and his motormouth routine that served him well in Twins is not really brought into play apart from a few early scenes.  The biggest let down is to see Emma Thompson playing a dipsy blonde who falls over etc.  Outside of this the only interest is a non- speaking role for Meloni (Oz) and a Sopranos regular.Overall this is an one-joke film and it's not that funny a joke.  It's amusing to see Arnie out of his usual action role but really it needed more to make it funnier. "}{"Title":"Junior","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the film that reunited director Ivan Reitman (Ghostbusters, Evolution) and also Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny Devito who all worked on Twins. Basically best friend doctors Dr. Alex Hesse (Golden Globe nominated Schwarzenegger) and Dr. Larry Arbogast (DeVito) have ideas to implant a baby into a man, this man is obviously Arnie. Unfortunately they take a private tube, called Junior, that would have been used by Dr. Diana Reddin (Golden Globe nominated Emma Thompson). Arnie is now struggling with the pain of having a baby inside his stomach and feeling like a woman. Also, Reddin is complaining to him that it should have been her baby. Also starring Frank Langella as Noah Banes and Pamela Reed as Angela. Personally, Twins was a much better film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Look What Love Has Done (also nominated the Golden Globe). Okay! "},{"Title":"This movie is terrible","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Honestly. Arnold is having a baby. I am supposed to write a paper analyzing the dream sequences of this film. As if this were a real movie! Why do people think that everything is art? Arnold + DeVito = $$$. This is a bad movie about Arnold having a baby. There is nothing good about it save the names of the doctors. Even those aren't very good. Avoid this movie at all costs and never take a class which requires you to write a paper on it. Ugh. This is the worst movie ever. Let me say it once more. Terrible movie. How else can I put it? In Spanish? Junior es una pelicula terrible. In English again... BAD MOVIE. If you want to see an Arnold/DeVito buddy film go watch Twins. "},{"Title":"Funny to see Schwarzenegger behave like a sensitive woman","Date":"28 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm sure that any physician who has seen this movie is laughing at this movie, not because of the comedy but because of the medical part.The idea of this movie is fine but I dislike the fact that they 'just find' a got spot in a man's tummy to put a embryo, there's no medical explanation what so ever, like how does the baby gets the nourishment and so on. I laughed so much when I got to see Arnold behaving like a very sensitive and pregnant woman, this was probably the best thing about this movie.There are some fun scenes if you look away from the scientific part and this movie would be far worse if it didn't include these actors. "},{"Title":"hahaha christopher meloni is in this film for like 5 mins hahaha","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" hahaha christopher meloni is in this film for like 5 mins hahaha hes hilarious man. hes the crazy child doctor in scrubs and hes in law and order.for my seventh birthday my family and i went to the cinema. even though it was after Christmas i still wanted to go see tim burton's, nightmare before Christmas or even go to see miracle on 34th street (well the remake) but ma maw, whom i love to bits, made us all go see junior. i hated it. it wasn't until i was older and understood what was going on and fell in love with emma thompson did i manage to survive re-sitting through it. then seeing christopher meloni in it made my day. "},{"Title":"Really funny movie!","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" You know what, when I watched this movie, I was thinking, how the heck could anybody go through that. Well, I am currently experiencing pretty much what The Governator aka Arnold went through, and believe it or not, it kind of prepared me for what I was/am going through. Besides all the physical changes, there are lot's of emotional changes, and I think they showed that side of pregnancy really well.I thought Arnold did an amazing job, and he went through something that no man can experience. Also, Danny DeVito, always been a huge fan, was excellent as his doctor. I want somebody like him to be mine, but unfortunately, nobody has his distinct humor.Ivan Reitman, the guy who brought us Ghostbusters and Twins, did an amazing job again, it's always a pleasure watching one of his movies. Not to mention, Pamela Reed and Emma Thompson did an amazing job as well.This movie has to be one of my favourite movies with Arnold, he's incredible, and yes, somewhat believable, 2 thumbs up for the big guy! I gave this movie 8 out of 10, because it has a great script, great acting, but nobody's perfect. It still has a couple flaws, but needless to say, I overlooked most of them. "},{"Title":"I vant my Larry......","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alex Hesse and Larry Arbogast are working on a new drug which will reduce the chances of a woman's body rejecting an embryo and causing a miscarriage. When their funding is withdrawn, and human experimentation is denied to them, they decide to test the drug by briefly impregnating Hesse. Hesse however becomes attached to his unborn baby.A high concept idea 'Arnie gets pregnant', let's reunite him with Devito, and we have another Twins on our hands....But without a decent script and jokes, you don't and unfortunately the script is dire, and the novelty of Arnie being pregnant wears off, when you realise he does nothing but act camp for three quarters of the film.It was such a good idea though, and Reitman can do this sort of comedy in his sleep, but the magic just isn't there, and after the blow of Last Action Hero, Arnie must have thought he would be back as the king of the movies.How wrong everybody was.Thompson and Devito escape unscathed, but only just.A horrid waste of talent. "},{"Title":"Pleasant but a bit too silly and ridiculous for it's own good WARNING!!!! SPOILERS!!!!!","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pleasant but a bit too silly and ridiculous for it's own good and pretty uneven too. This had it's funny moments i just didn't find it to be all that impressive the actors liven this up a quite a bit and they are all quite funny. it's just it's not enough to keep this from being anywhere better then mediocre and the whole story in my opinion is somewhat absurd if you ask me. Arnie and Danny have great chemistry together but Frank Langella is sadly wasted in my opinion and isn't given much to do and does not have enough screen time. SPOILERS!!! there is one hilarious moment when Alex and Diana are about to make love Angela walks in i don't know why but i found that to be quite funny. Another funny moment is when Arnie asks Diana if his body disgusts him that cracked me up BIG time. The Acting is VERY good Arnold Schwarzenegger is a FUNNY man and entertains the heck out of me he cracked me up all the way through and plays it straight (my favorite actor) GOOD JOB!!!! Arnie! Danny Devito is also a FUNNY man and a terrific actor he also plays it straight he also cracked me up throughout the film i liked him a lot. Emma Thompson is cute and does well here but maybe it was just me it kinda looked like she felt a bit awkward to be in this film. still she did a GREAT job. Pamela Reid is an underrated actress in my opinion i think she is fantastic she is funny here and also played it straight how are they doing it!. Frank Langella does well with what he has to do i just wish they gave him more of a role and more screen time. Overall i suppose it's worth one watch but don't expect a whole lot ** Out of 5 "},{"Title":"pregnant for the last time","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Third collaboration from Arnold Schwarzenegger with Ivan Reitman after Twins (1988) and Kindergarten Cop (1990). Third attempt from Schwarzy to show that he can be at ease and convincing in a comedy as well as in an action movie and unfortunately, third consecutive disappointment.Here, the movie doesn't work for a few reasons. First, the actors are all poor Danny De Vito is vainly agitated, Emma Thompson goes over the top. As for Arnold Schwarzenegger, he achieves one feat he doesn't make the spectator smile during all the movie because he is so laughable and he reaches the peak of ridiculous. He had already acted in several bad movies but Junior constitutes his best load of rubbish.As I wrote on my comment about Kindergarten Cop, Ivan Reitman's comedies could have been great films thanks to an interesting and catchy topic. But Reitman doesn't go deeply enough into his movies and stays confined in honest and nice films. So, to sum up Junior, I will go straight to the point there is strictly nothing to save from this comedy that accumulates convenient situations and stereotyped characters.    "},{"Title":"Worst movie of 1994 since Dumb and Dumber.","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Sci-Fi","Review":"    I. hate. this. movie.  Danny DeVito as a fertility specialist and Arnold Schwarzenegger as a male scientist who gets pregnant?  Yeah, right.  Words just can't describe how this ill-conceived travesty of a movie is just a waste of time, money, and energy.  And what was Emma Thompson doing in a lame movie like this?  Danny DeVito and Arnold Schwarzenegger could've done better, as well.  Their previous movie Twins was better than this junk!  The worst part of the movie was when Arnold got sent to an unwed mothers home disguised as a woman and as any idiot can see that it was really Arnold wearing a wig, women's clothing, and a fat suit.  The target demographics of this movie may as well have been children aged 5-10.  Junior is another movie that's on my list of Worst Movies of all Time.  See Billy Crystal in Rabbit Test if you want to see a funny, witty, and original movie about a pregnant man.  Walk away from Junior and keep right on walking and don't look back.  I regret ever seeing it.  Junior is for children or people with low IQs under 75.  I give Junior no stars. "}]