[{"Title":"Most  Creative, and Inventive of the Series, a must see for Phantasm fans","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Most people note the humor in this picture as a downfall to the series... or the zombies which were never before seen. but what people don't know is that all the writing and strangeness has already been pre-thought out by series creator Don Coscarelli. If you want you could call this a fault on the series, but in my opinion as long as the original creator is coming up with the ideas it's alright, because he's the inventor of the franchise, he can do what ever he wants... he can't ruin the mythology of the Tall Man he can only expand it. the good things about this film are the magnificent return of the original Mike Pearson (A. Michael Baldwin). Plus Bill Thornbury Mikes brother Jody. All the action, Set Decoration, SETS IN GENERAL... THE CHARACTERS... THE STORY, and the surprises. i don't want to go into too much detail on the plot because i don't want to spoil it for you... but the reasons most people give this movie flak are stupid. when you watch this film compared to the others you will see a big difference, this movies is in a little way the epic phantasm movie... seeing the building of the 'warriors' with Reggie and his crew... and the final battle... they could have ended the series with this one, but Coscarelli has bigger finale plans for his phantasm fans and we just might see that sooner then you think. i hope this helps. "},{"Title":"Different Style, But Still Enjoyable.","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm III Lord of the Dead is a pretty inventive and fun sequel. Following Part II, this time Reggie (Reggie Bannister) is continuing his search for the Tall Man to stop him from his deadly work. Mike (Michael Baldwin) is captured by the Tall Man after falling into a coma, and now it's up to Reggie to save him. With the help of Jody (who is mainly in the form of a silver sphere now) and some others that he picks up along his journey, including a young boy named Tim (Kevin Connors) and a woman from the Army, Rocky (Gloria Lynne Henry), Reggie begins a relentless search for the Tall Man's current location, where he has Mike, and what he plans to do with him.A different but very entertaining entry, Phantasm III is a very fun film. It differs in style quite a bit from the previous movies, but it seems like that's a trend in this series. Phantasm had it's own kind of surreal style, Phantasm II had a similar surrealism but had much more action, and Phantasm III is more of a slamming, action-packed horror adventure, with a more mild dose of mysticism and a lot more gore. It's a different kind of film from the rest, and since the style is so much different from parts I and II, I think that is the primary reason that people didn't enjoy it. I personally do miss the surreal atmosphere, which I felt this film was distinctly lacking, but it still has enough strangeness and bizarre nature to keep me happy. There is some humor thrown into the mix as well, which seemed a little strange I suppose, but was likely there for some comic relief amidst the out-of-this-world premise. Anyhow, the comic scenes aren't blatantly funny, but do get a little snicker from the audience. The only problem I have with it is that it seems to draw away the seriousness of the story, thus making it less frightening, which wasn't good.The storyline gives more explanation about The Tall Man which is needed, but I did feel this movie had almost too many villains. Not only do we have The Tall Man plus his dwarve-creatures and army of spheres, but we also have a trio of thieves that Reggie stumbles upon, who end up as zombies that continue as antagonists throughout the film. I felt that was a little unnecessary, but I'm not going to nitpick too badly. I enjoyed the scenery in this movie and the sci-fi elements are brought through a bit more here, but I was very, very pleased with the final thirty-minute showdown in the huge, Gothic mausoleum. That really brought things home - it was a magnificent, extremely spooky set, and was the perfect place for some good scares and action scenes to unfold.This sequel has more gore, so that means more special effects, which were done very well, I must admit. Lots of sphere attacks and some really clever, unusual death scenes make for a good time, and a nice display of what the special effects creators have to offer. Acting-wise, we have Michael Baldwin returning as Mike (he was replaced by James LeGros in Part II), and Billy Thornbury returning as Jody, so having all the original cast members back was a major positive. Reggie Bannister is great as well as the quirky but likable Reggie. And while I thought the new character of Rocky almost seemed misplaced (kick ass Army chick with an attitude), I liked her a lot and I thought the actress portraying her did a great job.Overall, Phantasm III Lord of the Dead is a sequel that has it's share of problems, and differs a lot in style from the other movies. But, it is an energetic and fun continuation of the story that has enough positive points that make it well worth a watch, especially for all those phans. It's weirdly funny at times and creepy and dark at others, but I enjoyed it a lot despite it's flaws. Some may not like it because of the different style and path that it takes, but I thought it was a really fun sequel. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Nothing is ever as it seems.","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Why did it take me so long to get into the Phantasm films, as just in the last two months I got around to seeing the first two films and now the third entry. So far I've enjoyed every one. While I found the quality of this entry not match the previous two, still it's an entertainingly non-stop ride in the quest to stop the Tall Man. It pretty much follows on from the previous edition, capping off that had just transpired. The road trip continues through small rural towns, where an almost apocalyptic feel is crafted. Nonetheless the adventurous tone is there, but it's leaning more for comic humour and flat-out action (in a way similar to the second entry), over the tripped-out atmospheric spookiness.It's Reggie Banister's show and there's nothing wrong about that because he makes for a likable heroine that's easy to root for. A. Michael Baldwin isn't in it as much (which the chemistry between Mike and Reggie isn't as prominent) and Bill Thornbury reprises his role in rather an innovative manner. Two new ragtag characters find there way in to help out Reggie; played by Gloria Lynne Henry and Kevin Connors. These two bring biting persona's. Angus Scrimm in Tall Man mode is as menacing as ever - in appearance and the voice --- It's time now BOY. Director / writer Don Coscarelli keeps the unique vision alive, where his handling seems more focused (especially the writing) and complete, but competently staged with enough flair and panache in numerous sequences. After the last film was produced by a film studio, this entry would go back the low-budget independent roots. The unconventional story isn't as complicated, but this clip show is always on the move and is tension grabbing in its varied ideas. The lively special effects and make-up FX were effectively executed, where it becomes more and more a centre piece with the lethal flying spheres, dimension portals and the legion of dead serving under the Tall Man. "},{"Title":"Dairy Products Give Me Gas","Date":"15 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm III keeps its promise of continuing with the Phantasm story and the Phantasm characters. Mike and Reg are back - and so is Jody from the first Phantasm. And let's not forget one of the creepiest screen villains in the last 30 years - Angus Scrimm as the ubiquitous Tall Man. This time around Reg and Mike continue to battle the Tall Man from the last scene in Phantasm II - eventually Mike is kidnapped and Reg finds some new pals - an eleven year old that has holed himself up in his house whilst battling intruders and killing many of them as well as a martial arts using woman with that Grace Jones look and the sizzle of speech that a film like this needs sometimes. We get the spheres, the mausoleums, the suspenseful, frightening scenes you know are coming but still are ill-prepared for, and some imaginative script-telling and directing from Don Coscarelli. Phantsm III has all that one might look for in a sequel like this and keeps the Phantasm flame burning gloriously brightly. The acting is as always very solid. Reggie Bannister is particularly good in his reprising role, and let's face it when Angus Scrimm says, BOY! that he makes even the most lithe heart beat a bit faster. Some of the plot elements like the little eleven year old are somewhat far-fetched as the three thugs in living and non-living form became tiresome. The layout of the film with its vast empty towns and sense of decay in the American heartland as well as the hugely reverential-look given to the mausoleum showcase Coscarelli's skills as a director with a wonderful eye for detail. "},{"Title":"I Shouldn't Have To Defend This","Date":"29 September 1998","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Would people give this film a break? It is an exercise in fear, that has been realized quite fantastically (no pun intended). The humour is all laugh out loud stuff, and the effects seem to induce more wincing than any gore fest I can name (shame I've only seen the cut version). The locations are breath taking, the  characters somehow more life like than they should be. It's no masterpiece sure, but it's a really good film. And heck Angus Scrimm beats Robert Englund or Kane Hodder any day. "},{"Title":"More of the same, but a little better.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm III is very much like Phantasm II, but a little better if only because the original Michael is in it. But not for very much. Many of the other elements were in II and frankly, you could skip II and go right to this one and not have missed one thing.Not a big-budget series of films, this seems like one episode of a weekly TV series, where they are on a road trip looking for the Tall Man. Their mission to explore strange old mausoleums, to seek out new death and decimated civilizations, to oldly go where they have gone before.Each new entry apparently requires a new style of sphere (I'd like to see the action figure for those!) and new quirky characters. The Tall Man remains creepy but that may get diluted because of his indestructability. There is no real ending for this movie, obviously set up for yet another sequel. I'm hoping they are setting up Michael to be an eventual successor to The Tall Man. But the story has to end somewhere.That said, it is a decent waste of 90 minutes, not all that scary. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag, but still a lot of fun (or should that be phun)","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" When we last saw Mike and Reggie the Tall Man had cornered them on a lonely highway and seemed to have gained the upper hand. For some reason, he's interested in kidnapping Mike for his own evil purposes. Reg threatens to blow them all up unless the Tall Man backs offs. He agrees, but threatens to strike again in the near future.Badly concussed, Mike falls into a coma where he has a vision of his dead brother Jody telling him that he must choose to live in order for the cryptic game plan of the Tall Man's to work out. At that moment Mike wakes to find a demonic nurse about to drill a hole in his head and sentinel sphere buzzing around in the hospital. Reg intrudes on the scene saves him, but not without getting a mouthful of puss, and they hide out in his desert base where they can come up with a plan before the Tall Man's next strike.But before you can say 'boooooooooooy!!!' he's back and spirits Mike away to another dimension, leaving Reg knocked out on the floor. Not knowing where he is or what happened Reg takes off across country with the burned-out sphere from the hospital as his only clue. It appears that the Tall Man has harvested the dead from dozens of towns across the Pacific Northwest, leaving entire counties to crumble. He teams up with a resourceful kid and an ex-army chick to find Mike and continue his hunt for the Tall Man while dwarfs, sentinel spheres, gravediggers and zombies are all on their trail.The following hokum will seem very familiar as it's almost exactly what happened in Phantasm II, so while it's certainly not original in this respect I still found it to be loads of fun as the pace just doesn't let up and new characters and locations keep popping up to keep things interesting. Don Coscarelli answers some questions we've been literally dying to ask but there seems to be a conspiracy going on and the Tall Man is keeping his mouth shut. We know there's more story developing that what is obvious but good luck trying to figure it out.The mystical, foreboding nature of Phantasm is a bit stronger here than it was in the first sequel. Unfortunately, so is the humor. The distinct lack of anything funny is what gave the original film such a weird edge and the series' increasing tendency to be an Evil Dead gorefest isn't entirely appropriate. The gore is gruesome and plentiful but not exactly chilling. I don't feel that Don Coscarelli has found the perfect mix of action, sci-fi and horror with this film to best suit the series, but it is entertaining. It seems like he's pushing his luck just a little bit in trying to cram out another film without developing too many ideas. Unimaginative is certainly not a word you could use to describe the Phantasm franchise, but this film does seem like a lot of recycled scenarios from Phantasm II.On the plus side, A. Michael Baldwin (the original actor) returns as Mike as well as Jodie so we now have the entire original cast back. Reg is just plain brilliant and while he may not be up to the wacky standards of Ash he's still a hoot to watch and seems to balance the serious and the jokey very well. But, as always, Angus Scrimm scores the most points as the Tall Man. He's cool, he's evil and his mysterious nature makes him all the more scarier.Unforgiving horror fans may not like it very much as it does kind of follow the typical path of other horror franchises but there's still enough energy and weirdness to keep Phantasm fans happy and it does move very fast. All I'm going to say is that Don Coscarelli better come up with some new and shocking ideas to keep Phantasm IV fresh. "},{"Title":"Somewhat weak title in the series","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Gotta say I was definately a little disappointed in the third movie. I've seen enough horror, cheesy and well done to say this movie definately was missing some of the charm the first two movies had. Reggie and the tall man still rock, and the beginning and end of the movie are pretty cool. This movie really lacked the chills and tone that its predecessors had. Don't get me wrong a lot of my favorite horrors are humorous, and very cheesy (Dead Alive,Evil Dead 2, etc....)But I just couldn't find the zombies in this movie anything but annoying. It was like they are in the movie just to fill a little time. The home alone references were pretty funny but it just went to far as the trio of zombies keep resurfacing. Overall if you like the series, and go into this chapter with an open mind and expect to be a little let down you will probably enjoy this installment. I know the stupid humor hurt this flick for me just because I was expecting another chiller.  "},{"Title":"How did this have a cult few up?","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This movie gets a 6 and it not even scary. How could movie this bad have cult few up? This is overrated. Phantasm IV is a better movie and that was pretty bad. This movie has an awful story line. It also has an awful ending. I can not believe people got scared of this movie and did not get scared of Plan 9 from outer space. Plan 9 from outer space is a lot scary then this crap. I can under stand why Halloween is popular movie. The Halloween movie are a lot better then this. This is a wast of time. It is also wast of money. The Leprechaun movie are better. This movie is pooh pooh. This hole series is pooh pooh. Do not see any this awful movie. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Unlike many other reviewers, out of the Phantasm series, I liked this one the best. They really had fun with this one and didn't take themselves too seriously. And it was actually funny!The movie picks up where the second one ended, but I don't think you necessarily need to see the first two movies to enjoy this one. There are plenty of flashbacks and, frankly, it's a pretty crazy story to follow in any case. I think this one actually made more sense than the first two.The first Phantasm was an amateur pet project that was literally a bunch of friends working weekends putting together a horror movie for fun. It was and is a cult hit.The second movie had more money behind it but, in my opinion, tried to take itself a little too seriously for such ridiculous subject matter.For me, this movie had the perfect balance of horror and comedy. It was hilarious, horrific, and sometimes both at the same time. Good fun with decent make-up effects and an amazing car stunt with a hearse. I also really liked the way they introduced one of the main characters, the kid. I could see that idea being a great movie on its own Home Alone done as a horror movie.In the DVD commentary (yes, believe it or not, I even listened to the commentary) Baldwin asked Angus what the fan reaction to this movie was. He said that people either hated it for the comedy element or loved it because of it. I'm in the latter category.If you're looking for top-notch acting and dialogue or a story that makes sense, this is not your movie. But if you like b-horror movies on the humorous side, I definitely recommend you give this one a shot. "}{"Title":"I really wanted to like this one...","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the first two Phantasms and was looking forward to the third installment. But there was something missing here. A plot!! The movie just kinda meanders from one scene to the next as our reluctant hero, Reggie, goes from ghost town to ghost town to clean up the Tall Man's minions while searching for Mike who was kidnapped in the beginning. The tall man makes a mere cameo this time around, while a lot of padding is given to a precocious, gun-slinging kid and a trio of ghost town robbers who come back from the grave as wise-cracking demons. The Evil Dead series went down the crapper when they threw too much comedy into the mix, and the same can be said for this sequel. And Reggie is really set up to be the next Ash here, what with his 4-barrelled shotgun, penchant for sweet-talking the ladies, and a habit of having disembodies hands running up his pantlegs.But again, these are all just scenes strung together with no real storyline. It leaves itself set up for yet another sequel and I only hope it improves on this one. "},{"Title":"A Waste(spoilers)","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This was pathetic,it seemed promising at first,but just isn't good.That ending for part two where Reg threatend to blow themselves up with a grenade was dumb,I thought the Tall man wanted them dead?And when that kid killed those thugs,this made the Ice Cream man sound interesting.And the balls were just buzzing around like bees,and where did they get eyes?The ending was the best,beside that,avoid this! "},{"Title":"Oh my, this was bad . . .","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I loathed this film. The original Phantasm had such wonderful ambiance and mystery. Like many 70s horror flicks, it looked and felt like some creepy, unfinished documentary. Phantasm II, from the late 80s, pumped up the action, but maintained this nice attention to mood. Sadly, Phantasm III is just awful. It tediously explains all of the weird happenings in the previous films, which diminishes rather than expands their power. It shamelessly degrades imagery from the first Phantasm like a cheap reenactment of the original. There are so many flying spheres in this movie that they seem more like household pests than menacing death orbs. Hundreds hang from the ceiling like Christmas balls swaying in the draft. Didn't anyone-- the prop master, the DP, the editor, the director-- notice or care that they looked so crummy? Even worse, Phantasm III presents one corny, unfunny joke after another. How different from the intensity of the first film. The original Phantasm used humor to relieve its relentless focus on death. Phantasm III uses death to set up countless cheap jokes about Reggie's horniness several refer to the film's flying balls ha-ha, oh, I get it, balls. Maybe the crew got a kick out of these jokes, but they are on us. "},{"Title":"Probably the whackiest of the four Phantasm movies.","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like the other Phantasm movies, Phantasm III Lord of the Dead has a colorful--arguably a little TOO colorful--set of characters.  A kid with absolutely incredible marksmanship skills?  A man who can transform into a small flying sphere and back again?  Three zombies that look like rejects from a Quentin Tarantino movie?Adding to the whackiness is the plot itself.  The Tall Man kidnaps and hides Mike inside a wall for a while; Reggie and Jody (the transformer) rescue him, and then hide out in the largest mausoleum in the western U.S. Their hiding plan sounds crazy enough to work, but it doesn't work and Mike gets caught again.  Tall Man performs a little brain surgery and Mike can bleed yellow and make his eyes turn silver now.  Reggie finds out that the Tall Man has a lot of balls and gets nailed to the wall while some dwarves take that Tim kid away...Now try to explain all that with a straight face.Overall, it's a quirky, decent movie worthy of a 7 rating (10 being the highest).  If you like some insanity mixed with horror/gore in your movies, then Phantasm III should be right up your alley, as well as the insanely funny gore-fest Dead Alive.  "},{"Title":"weakest link","Date":"7 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i remember being pumped up about seeing the original cast of mike and jody returning to the phantasm series but being just as dissapointed with this 3rd installment.for one you have too many villains to deal with.it's not just the TALL MAN but these hoodlums which eventually turn into zombies working for the tall man.the TALL MAN  doesn't need any more people helping him other than those dwarfs and it just takes away from his character.the spheres are back and just as impressive but this film is just a liitle too campy and does not satisfy your loyal phanatics like myself.the little boy character was a nice addition so he could tag along with reggie and help our hero, but the rocky character should have been left out.it is somewhat humorous watching reggie trying to snag her throughout the flick.good special effects for a low-budget movie and somewhat entertaining but not containing any real suspense and that weirdness factor if you will that the first one had and the second one had as well.definately the weakest in the series but does get you ready for the fourth one OBLIVIONwhich is considerably better. by the way from the second to the third film i notice that reggie has been forking out some major cash without having any kind of job, i guess a retired ice cream vendor could have some kind of stash hidden away for retirement. "},{"Title":"This one just gets silly","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Picking up after the dreary and depressing Phantasm II ended; The Tall Man kidnaps Mike, while Reggie and new kid Tim spend most of the rest of the movie trying to get him back, and not end up as slaves on the Tall Man's Red Planet. This isn't as violent and gory and part II, it goes overboard with comedy, and ends up silly and inane the trio of thieves in the bright pink hearse were only there for comic relief, and the black karate chick (I can't even remember her name) was so irritating I couldn't wait to see if the Tall Man killed her character. One of the story's most clever bits is when it sets it up to almost look like it was going to be Tim's character, who comes in late and ultimately is the hero, but ... it doesn't quite work out that way. By the very end of this story, Liz is beheaded by the killer midgets, Mike gets a silver sphere implanted into his skull, the spheres get Reggie, and the dwarfs get Tim, and there's no one left to stop The Tall Man. The bad guy wins, and - It's never over How's that for a surprise twist at the end? Impressive set designs in the mortuary are an asset, but the film can't balance the humour and horror nearly as much as it wants to, and it ends up looking almost satirical. That ending was, at the time, final, and although it's disappointing and anticlimactic, it was also a fitting and appropriate ending for this weird little series. Filmed in 1993, unreleased for about a year and a half upon completion. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear this went VERY wrong","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Phantasm ....Class.  Phantasm II.....awesome.  Phantasm III.....erm.....terrible.Even though i would love to stick up for this film, i quite simply can't. The movie seems to have sold out. First bad signs come when the video has trailers for other films at the start (something the others did not). Also too many pointless characters, prime examples the kid (who is a crack shot, funny initially but soon you want him dead), the woman who uses karate to fight off the balls (erm not gonna work, or rather shouldn't) and the blooming zombies (what the hell are they doing there, there no link to them in the other Phatasms). Also there is a severe lack of midgets running about.The only good bits are the cracking start and, of course, Reggie B.(Possible SPOILER coming Up)To me this film seems like a filler between II and IV as extra characters just leave at the end so can continue with main 4 in IV.Overall very, VERY disappointing.     3 / 10 "},{"Title":"Have no sphere? The sequel's here.","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" With the removal of studio interference we get the return of A. Michael Baldwin to the lead role alongside series regulars Reggie Bannister and Angus Scrimm as our intrepid heroes continue to chase down (or, indeed, are actually taken away by) The Tall Man and try to figure out a way to stop him once and for all.We have a few new characters (and one character we thought we would never see again, played yet again by Bill Thornbury) thrown into the mix, including a young kid who appears in a bizarre, and gory, riff on Home Alone and some more of them pleasing womenfolk we like to see appearing in our genre outings.More characters and even more revelations does not stop Coscarelli filling every scene with the fruits of his unbelievably fertile imagination and fans of the series should not be worried; this features even more bizarre moments of horror, even more carnage from the killer spheres and even more blood and guts nastiness. As I said in reviewing the first movie, and as applies equally here, Phantasm is really a Ghost Train ride of a movie. They may lose their edge slightly as the heroes continue to escape ever-increasing perils and Coscarelli has to once again magic up some explanation for a character's survival but they remain top-notch entertainment and great fun for fans.See this if you like Phantasm, Phantasm II, Bubba Ho-tep. "},{"Title":"More of the Same, For Better or Worse","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mike and Reggie continue to hunt the mysterious Tall Man...According to Reggie Bannister, Universal Studios refused to theatrically distribute the film due to a conflict with Coscarelli. The film was released direct-to-video in 1994. In 1996, the Los Angeles Times reported that Phantasm III was one of the top 100 highest selling direct-to-video titles.Some say this is the weakest in the series. As I have not seen part four yet, I cannot comment with authority, but I will say it is not as great as the original or the sequel. I still enjoyed it, and it has some fun moments and good special effects, but little seems to happen overall. But I suppose any time you see Reggie with a flame thrower, that is a good thing. "},{"Title":"Nice to see Baldwin back, But a drop off","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Picking up where part II leaves off, Mike (Baldwin) and Reggie (Banister) barley escape the Tall Man (Scrimm) and go into hiding. A silver sphere catches up to them but it is somehow Jody (Thornbury) Mike's dead brother from the original. Jody warns them that the Tall Man is coming for them and they need to hide out. In a thrilling scene the Tall Man captures Mike and takes him away. Reggie, through urging from Jody, heads out to find Mike. Along the way he picks up a couple of side kicks including Timmy (Kevin Connors) and a tough chick named Rocky (Gloria Lynne Henry). Eventually the group meets up with Mike and helps him to escape. The Tall Man in this movie seems obsessed with keeping Mike. He seems to have other plans for him, but in the tradition of the Phantasm series we never find out why. It's nice to see Bill Thornbury as Jody being worked back into the series even in this bizarre way and A. Michael Baldwin returns as Mike after his absence in part II. Mike's character gets taken by the Tall Man so early on we lose him for half the movie. So instead of the preferred Reggie & Mike teaming of part II Reggie is teamed up with lesser characters. Still Phantasm III has some scary moments and others that are truly bizarre. The gore is up to par all though not quite as showy as the impressive Part II's set pieces. The cast is comfortable with their roles and once again Angus Scrimm as the Tall Man is impressive. Series Director and creator Don Coscerelli chooses to show the audience the Tall Man more in this one but never cheapens him. Fans of the series will roll right along with this not even trying to explain some of the weird mythology at work here. Part III is the most unbalanced of the series and newcomers will be thoroughly confused. The conclusion is pure cliffhanger with Mike possessed by a sphere the Tall Man has put into his brain and Reggie pinned to the wall by a dozen spheres. Coscarelli knows how to make a small budget look bigger than it is, and all though the scares are a little more spread out in this segment, Part III has some great moments fans of the series should enjoy. "}{"Title":"Third one is a turd","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This was one of the crappiest movies I've EVER watched. Well at least in the bottom five. I liked the first two from the installation were quite good and entertaining and also got some real horror too. That's why I watched this third one although I almost turned the TV off middle ways. Lord of the Dead is just too ludicrous and not even fun in a b-class horror movie way. This time we get to see Home Alone -kid that kills people with razor blade -Frisbee in cold blood, unattractive lesbian kun-fu afro lady, stupid zombies (no more just midgets) who survive massive explosion seemingly unharmed, baddies popping up around every corner, silver sentry balls that were supposed to be just guarding the premise all the sudden have brains inside and can transform to people, just very very bad acting from pretty much everybody in the cast,.. List can go on and on. What happened with this one? All the good qualities from the first two are pretty much absent and replaced with random crap. What is there left to say? Director seemed to make up the story while filming. I could make up a better script sitting on a can taking a dump. Just horrible...I'm speechless. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Somehow, funnier","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I Liked Phantasm and I didn't like Phantasm II and now I liked the third part. The story had lost all of its sense, but then again, maybe that made me like the movie, a sort of suspension of disbelief when no belief is possible. Reggie continues as the main character, trying to save Mike. He finds himself captured by a bunch of psychotic thieves, only to be saved by the evil version of the Home Alone kid, Tim, who kills the thieves and saves Reggie. They continue on this weird path only to find two kung-fu black chicks, who proceed on capturing Reggie. Tim saves him again and now one of the girls accompanies them to help them find The Tall Man. Man, that guy has balls!Anyway, this is the gist of the storyline, with some juicy parts left to watch. Somehow, it was a fun film to watch, but I couldn't tell you why exactly. Perhaps because it felt like all hell broke loose and nothing made any sense, so I could just enjoy it. Oh, and there is a fourth part! "},{"Title":"The best of the sequels...so far","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first 'Phantasm' was a great start for a series. The 1988 sequel 'Phantasm II' was a satisfying continuation of the universe of the original. But then, like after the first film, the series remained quiet for a few years. The box office returns for II were a bit of a disappointment and critics were merciless in their reviews. But fans don't care much about reviews and despite the first sequel's not making much money, in 1994 series creator Don Coscarelli added another installment to the series and thank goodness for that. I love the second one, but was even more pleased with this one.Pros The cast and their performances are strong. Some humor is added to the mix, a bit more than before, and for the most part it works. The best score since the original. Nice make-up and special effects. Though a bit lacking in the scare department, there are still a few things to give you the chills. Pace is quick. Some beautiful shots of the Midwestern landscape. We get to see more into the Tall Man's scheme. A few pretty exciting action sequences, like the car chase near the end. A return to the bizarre, almost dreamlike tone of the first film.Cons Still some unanswered questions. Again the final frame is a copy of the one in the first movie.Final thoughts I don't get all the hate for this movie, I think it's pretty darn cool, but hey to each his own. The first two are great and this one helps keep it being a great little series that hopefully will continue for at least another sequel. 'Phantasm Oblivion' is not terrible, but it's far from a satisfying conclusion. But more on that later.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"So-so sequel","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What can I say? Being in college, and having recently rented the first Phantasm, and somewhat liking it, and renting the second one, and liking it more, and becoming an overnight Reggie Bannister fan, I had to get this one to see more of the story.This movie answers a lot from the first two, which suck at story telling and excel in plot holes. This one, like the second has a lot of action in it, and a lot of laughable moments of camp and gore. This one was not quite as good as the second one, despite more action involved...it simply didn't have the suspense, nor HORROR that we come to expect. I was very very pleased to see the quad-barrel shotgun being used four or five times as opposed to the one blast from its legendary barrels in the second one (in that one, we were waiting the whole movie for that one scene, though it is a good scene). Not a bad follow-up, but I'm sorry, I'm sick of these crappy, cop-out endings that beg for a sequel. I hope that the forth installment and fifth one (coming out next year) will cease these stupid endings and give the audience a satisfaction of knowing that the heroes prevail at the end. 6/10 stars (mainly for the quad-barreled shotgun). "},{"Title":"Easily the weakest chapter of the Phantasm series but still pretty good","Date":"14 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like with every sequel in the series, Phantasm III Lord of the Dead begins immediately where the previous film leaves off (in this case Phantasm II). Reggie (Reggie Bannister), who was left for dead in part 2, is still alive and runs to help Mike and Liz. He finds Liz dead and Mike out cold. After a run in with The Tall Man (Angus Scrimm), he and Mike (A. Michael Baldwin after being replaced in part 2) get away, and run into Jody (Bill Thornbury), Mike's brother killed years earlier by The Tall Man and has become a servant of his. Soon after The Tall Man finds them and kidnaps Mike, leaving the ex-ice cream vendor hot on the trail of The Tall Man once again. During his search for Mike he runs into a sexy looter (Cindy Ambuehl) and her friends, a kid (Kevin Conners) who can shoot straight, a girl named Rocky (Gloria Lynne Henry), and more of The Tall Man's flying silver spheres. Together (minus the looter and her pals) they plan to save Mike and complete the task begun in Phantasm II destroy The Tall Man once and for all.Phantasm III many conceder to be the absolute worst of the Phantasm series. Yes, it is probably the worst but it's definitely not bad, I liked it (but then again I'm a big fan of the series). The biggest problem people have with Phantasm III is that it has a much bigger campy and comedic side to it in addition to a lot of action (think Commando sort of) while the first was focused on mainly chills with additional dark action in the second. This isn't really a negative in my opinion as the film was pretty funny and it didn't seem to hurt it in any way. Another point brought up by some is that it's a low budget film and effects look crappy. Umm....those guys must be high because I know the budget wasn't so high but the film looked great; special effects, make-up, and stunts were all great. There is an amazing car jump in the film that apparently was extremely frightening behind the scenes (see commentary) and the zombie make-up is realistic and sphere effects were really cool. The film is also very rich in color; the first two were very dark tone wise (which I liked) but this one has very vibrant colors which giver the film a fascinating look. Just watch the trailer for the film; it pretty much shows off a lot of the great effects as well as the color tones.That being said how exactly is this one the worst in the series? Well one part in the beginning pretty much ruined the movie for me practically. The character Liz (Paula Irvine), who starred with Mike and Reggie in Phantasm II, was made out to be an equal with Mike in the eyes of The Tall Man; meaning she was just as big a character as Mike plus she and Mike were deeply in love and they were played out to be soul mates. Phantasm III opens with the cliffhanger end of Phantasm II and shows Liz dead and Mike still alive. It wasn't even a believable death. Now your probably thinking of well she's just a character, your just obsessing your absolutely right; I loved Paula Irvine and Liz but it's not just that. As I said she and Mike were made out to be soul mates as well as equals and after the shot of her corpse there isn't even as much as a mention of her for the rest of the movie. Yeah, I know. What the hell? I've herd of poor story telling but this is just retarded. Now I would have felt a lot better had they just at least took her death into consideration and had Mike actually react I would have been a little happier. Seeing Bill Thornbury of the original Phantasm return Jody was cool, especially for die-hard fans, but aside from navigation it didn't seem like his character served much of a purpose. He has a bigger role in the next film in the series though. The character Mike, who was the main character in the first two films (and still has a big role), only appears in 10, 15, maybe 20 minutes of the 91-minute film. I found that kind of strange Also, The Tall Man's intention in Phantasm I and II was to kill Mike, but here (despite that it picks up where Phantasm II ends) he for whatever reason wants to capture Mike ALIVE. I don't get it either, but this continues onto the next film as well.The Breakdown PROS Very funny, awesome fantasy action, attractive women (Cindy Ambuehl and Gloria Lynne Henry), beautiful sets and color tones, a bald guy with a quad-barrel shotgun and a Hemicuda, great acting for the most part, and flying silver balls! Plus the Anchor Bay US DVD is great pretty good.CONS Killing/ignoring Liz, a few continuity errors annoyed me, Michael Baldwin's performance wasn't very good in comparison to the first and fourth films, seeing Bill Thornbury was nice was it wasn't really necessary, the thing with brains and extend able eyeballs in the silver spheres I wasn't really fond of, and of course, the whole thing with Liz.OVERALL Phantasm III Lord of the Dead is a very fun and humorous fantasy/action flick that is very enjoyable. Michael Baldwin's return didn't really thrill me like it did others since he appears very little and gives a below par acting job (he gives a great one in Phantasm IV Oblivion though) but Angus Scrimm and Reggie Bannister are great as usual. The film ignores a key plot point but the rest is pretty good. I highly recommend it as it is a very fun and entertaining film.Rated R Fantasy Violence/Gore, Language, and Some Sexuality; Runtime 91 minuets; Score 7/10 "},{"Title":"This is a good horror film!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just don't get it.Some people say this is the worst in the series and it's not.Phantasm 4 is,anyway Phantasm 3 picks up right where part 2 left off.Phantasm 3 has a great movie plot, in my opinion my favorite movie in the series.The characters are well played and seem life-like.The sets are stunning and give the movie more of an errie felling.I found the Boulton Masuleom the scariest and best set of them all.The zombies weren't that boring and there one liners are pretty funny.The music is great like always and the Tall Man returns will more deadly flying spheres, gore, and horror.I recently just bought the uncut version on Ebay and I must say it is better than the cut version.The cut version is good though.the movie is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Series gets more confusing as it goes along.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This entry is certainly interesting for series fans (like myself), but yet it is mostly incomprehensible.  The plot is confusing, as is the sequel continuity.  Some striking effects, to be sure, but we never find out what it all really means.Try to see the NC-17 workprint version which contains the gore that was cut to be re-rated R. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is pretty damn good.  The little kid's character was kinda odd though.  I really liked the scene showing Rocky nude.  Hey, I'm a guy. Anyways,  the movie was good.  I didn't really like the cover art on the box, but that's not really important.    "},{"Title":"Keeps getting better!","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" After the intense fight from the second movie, the third one keeps getting better by the minute. After the Tall Man(Angus Scrimm) killed Alchemy, Mike and Reggie continue the quest to destroy him. This time they team up with one of the two women warriors who attacked the spheres in a mausoleum that claimed one of them, and a young kid who was hungry for action. It was funny when he drives the 'Cuda. Seems like the Tall Man is relentless. After a replacement came from the portal, and threw the duplicate back into the wicked world. The tough girl was reluctant to work with the team but very willing to stop the Tall Man at any cost. After the Cuda was blown up in the second movie, the next one lost all four tires. Reggie(Reggie Bannister) remembers the Tall Man's weakness. Then he recalls a tuning fork-like object at the portal. When he touched them, everything evil was drawn back to the world where he came from. And that tough girl went off in his hearse, saying she had enough with the supernatural. At least she had a great adventure though. A very good follow up. I like it very much. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Waste of time and celluloid","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" So much is wrong with this abysmal little wet fart of a movie that it's hard to know where to begin.First of all, it's a remarkably un-scary scary movie, even by Amercian standards. The dialogue is cliché, the characters are two-dimensional, the writing is ho-hum, and what little story there is is neither coherent nor remotely interesting.We meet the following stereotypes in order Balding Loser Guy (probably divorced, but who knows? This movie doesn't tell us) with a brave heart, the Young Hero (who doesn't do anything heroic at all), Brave Little Kid (with a homicidal streak a mile wide) and Black Bad-Ass Bitch (with more brawn than brains). These guys take up an ongoing fight with the Tall Scary Reaper Man and his evil Ewoks.Oh, and the film is full of wicked little metal orbs whoosing around menacing people. Given a chance, they perform impromptu brain surgery on those who doen't have the mental acuity to duck when they come at them. Booh! Actually, one of them is haunted by a good ghost (but then again, it might be a deceitful spectre) who seems intent on helping our Brave Contagonists retrieve their young kidnapped friend.There is no character background or even an introduction to any of the characters. It starts with some kind of recap of the ending of the previous movie, but this doesn't explain a lot. If you've seen the first two movies, fine. Otherwise you don't know who these people are, how they are related, why they aren't in school or at work, or why you should care whether they live or die. Consequently, you don't. The only point of interest becomes any splatter effects. And there aren't enough of those to keep you awake.Of potenial interest/amusement are the three Raider Punks, as stupid as they are evil, who menace Our Heroes. But they don't get much screen time. They are offed almost immediately. Then they are buried (why anybody should take the time is beyond me), then they appear again as Evil Raider Punk Zombies. Only to be offed again, literally within a minute.The rest of the movie mainly seems to consist of Caspar the Friendly Ghost appearing and disappearing, driving around looking for places, and Balding Loser trying to score som Bad Black Bitch Booty, using pickup lines that would embarrass a mentally retarded teenager. No dice there; not even some gratuitous sex could have saved this movie, so good thing there never is any.The head baddie, called the Tall Man, doesn't manage to scare anyone older than 3 years; howling Booooy! every five minutes isn't enough. Why he, with his amazing telekinetic powers and uncanny upper-body strength, doesn't simply squash our heroes like bugs isn't explained. Instead, he delegates the job to his inept retarded little minions, who never manage to kill anyone before being shot to hell.Filmgoers who like masterpieces like Friday 13th part XXXXVIII Jason goes to college might find some entertainment. The rest of us, who have developed pubic hair, will be bored out of our skulls. "}{"Title":"Boooyy...i mean...maaannn","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original Michael's back, and so's Jody in this second sequel to Phantasm. To be honest, it's more of the same, but that doesn't mean it's no good. This time, Reggie's got two new sidekicks (a tough kid and an even tougher chick) and he's out to track down the Tall Man, who has kidnapped Michael for some reason. Once again, it's not too easy to describe the plot, as it's basically Reggie and Michael getting into scraps with the Tall Man, who says 'Boooooyyy' a lot. There's the usual fighting dwarfs and zombies, flying spheres, and unanswered questions. There's kind of some sort of plot regarding what happened to Jody, but the ending leaves things open for yet another sequel. Will we get our answers there? I suppose it doesn't really matter, as these films pretty enjoyable no matter what happens&#x85; "},{"Title":"Enjoyable third tongue-in-cheek entry in the series","Date":"15 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Reggie (a funny, spirited, and engaging portrayal by Reggie Bannister) and Mike (a solid and likable performance by A. Michael Baldwin) join forces with fiercely resourceful little boy Tim (well played by Kevin Connors) and tough black gal Rocky (winningly essayed with sassy panache by Gloria Lynne Henry) to take out the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm in splendidly sinister form). Writer/director Don Coscarelli gleefully plays up the giddy offbeat black humor to the outrageous ninth degree (Tim's introduction in which he takes out a trio of marauding thugs who invade his home is an absolute hoot), does a sturdy job of creating and sustaining a playfully spooky ooga-booga atmosphere, stages the exciting action set pieces with rip-roaring flair (it's a real treat watching Rocky use martial arts against the Tall Man's zombie minions), and delivers a pleasing smattering of goopy splatter. Moreover, the origins of both the silver spheres and the dwarf creatures are more clearly explained and it's always a riot to watch Reggie's tireless, yet fruitless attempts at trying to get in some hot chick's pants. This movie further benefits from the uproarious inclusion of the aforementioned three hoodlums who get transformed into seemingly indestructible ghoulish flunkies for the Tall Man Cindy Ambuehl as sexy whitetrash honey Edna, Brooks Gardner as brutish hulk Rufus, and John Davis Chandler as wormy squirt Henry all have a grand time blithely hamming it up in their roles. Chris Chomyn's lively and glossy cinematography gives the picture an impressive polished look while the energetic score by Fredric Myrow and Christopher L. Stone hits the stirring shuddery spot. A real nifty movie. "},{"Title":"Phantasm III Lord of the Dead","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The Phantasm franchise starts to take an unfortunate dip as the story between Mike, Jody, Reggie and The Tall Man progresses. I feel that that the Tall Man takes a back seat in this film and Reggie and the two new, over the top characters take the lead. There is some more action and horror taking place in this movie which is a plus but there is a lot of unnecessary scenes involving raw characters. The Tall Man's crew is extremely disappointing and his quotes aren't as entertaining. As for the conclusion of leaving cliff hangers and kids getting pulled through glass. Worthy of the franchise and something I have on my DVD shelf as a horror phan! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the 2 first","Date":"18 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The 3 film in the phantasm series was not that good I think. The special effects could have been better since it's not that old. The really good part that I really liked about this one and phantasm II, was the resume of what has happened and that the characters isn't changed that much BIG PLUS. And to you who doesn't liked it It's time for you boy Phantasm III lets us follow Reggie and Mike from the end of PII. It doesn't take long till we loose Mike to the Tall Man and this movie really takes it start. We also meets two new characters Tim and Rocky(woman) and this sequel is on. A little to many spheres I think for this one but at least I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Another cheesy but thrilling adventure!","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like most horror series, the more you use your trump card the less effective it is. In this case it's the Silver Sentinel Balls of Hunting Death (or whatever they're called), which by this instalment have lost a fair bit of their menace.The film does serve it's purpose as a sequel though by fleshing out the Tall Man's motivations and revealing a bit more of what's going on whilst still confusing you with it's surreal logic (or lack there-of).There's also plenty of laughs, as it's mining the same vein of slapstick horror as the 2nd movie, and while the new sidekicks couldn't be more ludicrous if they tried, we have to assume that they are trying and that Coscarelli is every bit as aware of the ridiculousness of a nunchuk wielding ex-military hottie as the audience is. It's also hilarious to watch Reggie continue to develop into a Bruce Campbell style horror hero, especially he's the least likely loverman you're likely to see in a movie.Like the 2nd film, you're not going to be scared but if the humour is on your wavelength then you should find it a very enjoyable fantasy adventure. "},{"Title":"I'am sorry, but I loved it","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is probably one of my all time favorite horror movies. I say that for many reasons. One thing that I like about this Phantasm compared to the other installments is the new charters. I mean there were other new charters in the other films, but not like the ones in this film. I mean Rocky(who looks the the female version of Blade) seems like a charter that you would find in a RPG ( ROLE PLAYING GAME) game. Plus there's the kid Tim who has all of these cool gadgets made for murder. Or to defend himself, but by the way he killed that man with the Frisbee with the blades on it, I'd say the gadgets were differently made for murder.You see everyone looks at movies differently. When I first started watching Lord of the dead. I couldn't help but view it as though it were an RPG, like Final Fantasy or Chrono Trigger. I mean lets do the com parsing here. In most RPG's you start off with one charter who's on a mission or a quest. Most of the time the charter is on mission for a person or a loved one. In Phantasm 4 our main charter is Reggie, who on a quest to get mike back. We can check that one off the list. Next, in the RPG's the main charter has on them a special gift or a weapon that there known for. In this case it's uncle Reggie's shotgun, which if I may add is sweet as hell. Upon the quest that the main character always runs into people looking to accomplish to same goals as our main character. In comes rocky and Tim our sidekicks. Rocky's gift is that she's a martial artist and Tim's gift is his gadgets which like I said are made for murder. Here we have all of our charters who are barking upon the same quest. I could go further into the RPG theory but it's late.This is a really good movie for anyone who's a fan of the Phantasm series. It's has a lot of funny sences like when Reggie is constantly tring to hit on Rocky. I mean I'm happy that Reggie has an open mind about sex. But I mean come on, this woman really does look like blade. There were a couple of sences were I was just sure that the Blood Pack were going to show up. Then there's this outrageous sex dream were Rocky and Reggie get it on. If the T.V. had been on mute and I just happened to walk in on this movie, I would swore that I just witnessed a gay sense.But all and all this movie is the s***. I give it a 10/10 "},{"Title":"A DECENT SEQUAL","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was sucked into the Phantasm series when I was 11 years old-where Phantasm 2 had just arrived into theatres-where my best friend's older brother got us in to see the film.  The flying spheres and the Tall Man scared me 1/2 to death and fascinated me all at the same time.  As now a father of my own child, this series still fascinates me-a low budget exploration into true movie making where Phantasm & Evil Dead triumphed with the ingenuity to succeed-Don Coscarelli & Sam Raimi did a lot of the same things with both series-though Raimi's gone on to bigger & better things.  Phantasm 3 failed in much the same way Army of Darkness did-the characters were cheesy and all suspense was removed from the film in favor of humor and campy one-liners.  However-where this sequal did succeed in much the same way Army of Darkness did was the action & special effects.....a must see for fan's of the series.  It's too bad this series never found the success that other horror series did that lacked the story & imagination  (Ash & Reggie)-keep on truckin' "},{"Title":"We tried to warn you. If you don't get it this time, we'll have to drill it into your head!","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Amazing. Simply... amazing. This is my favorite entry in one of my favorite series. It picks right up where Part II, another great entry for the Phans, left off. It's nice having the original Mike back, and I like seeing a bit of the Tall Mans homeworld.  This is not a boring entry, while not as surreal as the first, it makes up for that by giving us a more in-depth plot and is all around a darker movie. The Tall Man is far more menacing in this great entry, and this has the best ending in the series. It's scary scenes are very scary, and we are introduced to a few more good guys this time around. So, pack your four-barreled shotgun in the trunk, hop in your 'Cuda, and take a spin to your local rental place. I swear you won't be disappointed!5/5 "},{"Title":"A good movie and a decent sequel","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Starts where part 2 left off. I like this movie. I just think its a poor sequel that could have been better written. A. Michael Baldwin and Bill Thornberry return to the series in this film and both fall into there rolls nicely. My problems. The Ballbuster and the squirt. They really need to write better characters. You have a badass GI Jane and a little kid with a.45. The girl tries to destroy a sphere with nunchukas. and the kid is a better shot than a marine sharpshooter. Overall a decent film but not the best in the series. I give it a 6/10. Watch with an open mind and you might understand it. But I guarantee you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"The Tall Man won't stay down","Date":"25 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Phantasm III Lord of the Dead contuines it's horror legacy. It's one of the few horror film series to pick up where the previous one ends. Reggie and Mike are back to take on The Tall Man with ammo and other weapons and this time they have help. Gore, tits and yet another open ending make this fun. "}{"Title":"Short and Sweet","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love the movie. I think its great fun, suitably gory, and I get such  a kick out of watching Reg's awkward attempts at seduction. Will he ever actually succeed? Lol. I enjoy the movie everytime I watch it and thats all I need. "},{"Title":"Short and Sweet","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love the movie. I think its great fun, suitably gory, and I get such  a kick out of watching Reg's awkward attempts at seduction. Will he ever actually succeed? Lol. I enjoy the movie everytime I watch it and thats all I need. "},{"Title":"The weirdest and best one yet.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This much-maligned sequel has to be my favorite Phantasm so far, as there's just so much going on in it. Is it a zombie movie, a B sci-fi flick, or an existential road trip? Who cares, it's fun and thought-provoking, and that's all that matters.  Mike Baldwin does a great job with material that, in the hands of a lesser actor, would come off as ridiculous, the Tall Man is enigmatic as always, and Reggie is, well, Reggie. But it's the eclectic, dream-like quality of the film that makes it such a memorable experience.  "},{"Title":"Best of the 4, soon to be 5","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"   I never thought any of the sequels to the original could top it, which is something part 2 will never do, but that's not the case with this third and in my opinion the best installment of the franchise. First off we get an action packed opening where we pick up from the end of part 2 where Reggie and Mike escape the firey blaze of the crashing herse. Then Mike is taken to the world of the infamous TALLMAN and Reggie's journey begins. !!!SPOILERS AHEAD!!! On the way he meets that really cool kid with a gun, who of course tags along. Then he meets a RAMBO-style heroine with her trusty nun-chucks(I don't know how to spell that word.)to help her kick some Zombie ass. as she says in one scene. Of course they rescue Mike and are ready to leave when the TALLMAN takes Mike again and lets our heroes search for him...again! I also love that they explain the mystery behind the spheres, that was cool. Exciting, suspeseful, great story, acting, and effects. ***** out of *****. A word of advice If you love this movie as much as I do and haven't see PHANTASM OBLIVION yet, then I recommend you don't since it does no justice to the series. Can't wait for PHANTASM 2012. "},{"Title":"Oh, why not?","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This isn't too bad. I'm glad the orginal actor who played Mike is back, but I could've done without the little kid character. I hate horror movies with kids as protagonists. And by the way, why doesn't someone put Reggie Banister in a big budget Hollywood blockbuster? He'd be perfect as the bad luck, cynical sidekick to the hero of any action film.Anyway, Phantasm 3, while not perfect and non-sensical in places, is very good for a 'part 3'. In fact, I'm looking forward to part 4.  "},{"Title":"Terrific Sequel For the Series","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is a really good movie. For it to be the 3rd installment in a movie series that has been around for 20 years automatically gives it a good spot in my heart. The PHANTASM series has been able to expand and contrast for a while, and that is why the series seems so fresh. This, of all of the PHANTASM movies, holds a more gothical aspect of death and the afterlife. It also reprises the roles of the Original PHANTASM, as does the newest in the series, PHANTASM OBLIVION. This movie has also gotten a lot of bad reviews, because of its ability to expand its characters and settings, I do admit that the character of TIM was a little far-fetched, seeing as how he was a little Rambo 10-year-old that could kick a zombie, a sphere, and a dwarf's butt and still have energy for more. But, all in all this movie rocks.   "},{"Title":"Answers questions but forgets suspense.","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was a little disappointed in this the third in the series of Phantasm films.  It seems that director Don Coscarelli focuses more on action, humour and answering questions then he did on creating suspense and scares.  The first film has a lot of good suspense and the second combines suspense and action nicely but the third falls flat in that area.  Scaring you is what these films should do, after all the director's name is Don CoSCARElli!The movie does do a good job in answering questions and is never boring as Coscarelli keeps the movie going.  However I would have preferred him to concentrate more on scenes like the creepy house where Tim is found and other times like when Reg is alone in a deserted town these scenes had a really good chance of being both suspenseful and creepy but little is made of them.Overall the movie is good for fans of the series, it answers questions and asks new ones which leave you wanting more.  The final 10 minutes of the movie are enough to add this film to your collection as things really get going.  Phantasm III gets a 6 out of 10, great for fans but others should avoid it (mind you if you were confused by or didn't like the first two you probably won't watch the third anyway). "},{"Title":"Phantasm III is an excellent flick.","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Phantasm III is an excellent link in the five-film series.  Besides being a mopar enthusiast and a sci-fi horror guru,  I also enjoyed the special effects and how this addition to the series helped to thicken the plot for the next two and I'm excited to see Phantasm's End. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best horror movies there is. (Of course, you've got to see the first two, but this movie in particular is great!) If you have seen the uncut-version, it seems fairly obvious that Don Coscarelli did well this time, mixing up traditional horror-spooky things with some kick-ass action. Especially Reggie Bannister, who repeats his role as the ice-cream seller(!), is great and it's clear to see that the whole cast had a lot of fun doing this movie. A MUST SEE for any horror film fan.Mac   "},{"Title":"Good phor a sequel","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In retrospect, Phantasm Lord of the Dead is a really good movie. After seeing the first two, I still wasn't sold on the zombie creatures. The original film showed that the dead became evil after they were shrunk into dwarves and were awaiting appointment into the Red Planet. In the following two sequels, the dead became zombies in human form right on Earth. This transformation was unclear to me until I saw OblIVion. If you are a horror movie fanatic, Lord of the Dead will satisfy you from start to finish. There's a good amount of gore and violence and the film is action packed the whole way through. Many people viewed the character of Tim as unrealistic. I thought the same thing the first time I viewed the movie. In fact, it wasn't until I saw OblIVion that his character made sense. In a world where the Tall Man is taking over humanity, one better be equipped to handle all aspects of death as the Tim character was. Lord of the Dead shows the power and intent of the Tall Man. He is not just an alien looking for slaves. His goal is to conquer all aspects of time and space. This is one of the reasons that his minions are not all 3 feet tall and wearing robes. Michael Baldwin does wonders recreating his original character, and Bill Thornbury plays a pivotal role in reviving Jody. Overall, this film does an incredible job of leading into the best of all sequels; Phantasm OblIVion. If you like horror movies, Lord of the Dead is for you!  "}{"Title":"Spectacular Horror Movie!!!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Now this is a high quality horror movie, even though it was a straight to video release. I saw this one afternoon on USA network, and I didn't like it that much at first. Then a few weeks later I saw the 2nd in the Phantasm series and it was AWESOME! I saw this again and really liked it. Funny, realistic characters and good plot. "},{"Title":"Better Than Part One, Slightly worse than Part Two","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  After seeing Phantasm III about 5 or 7 Times i can only reach one conclusion...It is a Darn good movie, probably 2nd best in the Whole Series. The Tall Man is more Ruthless than Ever, and the Characters appear to think of Stopping the Tall Man as more of Game. Of Course, the original haunting music adds much needed spook to the Scary scenes.I also enjoyed the Fact that the Tall Man Appeared more confident, i hated the fact that Reggie meets that Awful witch. Nevertheless, I Enjoyed the Movie and if you are a True Horror fan then you will too. I Recommend this Movie to anyone.My Rating 9 1/2 out of 10People who liked this Movie might like Puppet Master, Night of the Living Dead, Race with the Devil, Dawn of the dead, White Zombie, Friday the 13th, A Nightmare on elm Street, Head of the family, Hideous!, Slumber Party Massacre, Arcade, Bad Channels, and Child's Play. For recommendations on other titles, please check the other movies I Have commented on by clicking on my name above this comment section.  "},{"Title":"Be careful of what you wish for.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The first installment of this series explained nothing, and was by far the most sinister and creepy. The second explained a bit more, but there were still enough mystery's to keep you guessing. This third installment, explains so much that it does not seem all that scary and seems more like science fiction than a dark evil supernatural force the first one seemed to be leaning toward. Still it was okay, just not the same as the first one or the second one, though it picks right up where the last one left off. Of course you must ignore the fact Reggie tossed that shotgun in the first one and now he has it and Jody is played by a different guy, other than that I can roll with it. A bit to much humor is used in this one too, as this also takes away from the movie's spookiness as well. Still the scene with the robbers going into the house and being hunted down by the kid is pretty cool and there are other scenes that make this movie enjoyable and not boring. It just explains to much and how many of those death globes do ya need in a flick and their origin is stupid as well. Like I said it seems what once was a horror movie is shifting to more of a science fiction movie. "},{"Title":"just like part 2 it is better than the original.","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  the second sequel is better than the original just like part 2 . not much else i can say about the movie   except that it is part of the best horror series ever. i love the humour in the movies it is placed in at  the right moments. which makes it even more special . "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel in the Phantasm series.","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm III (1994) was the third film in the Phantasm series. After the flat second film, the filmmakers made a low budget third chapter. Unlike the last film, this one was a fun film. Reggie has escaped the clutches of the Tall Man. Instead of cutting his losses, he follows him in his souped up hot rod. He finds help in a kid and a tough female soldier. Poor Reggie, he's been through a lot but it ain't over. Don Conscerelli reunites the principal cast members for this fun sequel. The actors seem to be enjoying themselves. Like the others, the movie was bothered by the tight restrictions of the M.P.A.A.I haven't seen the work print so I can't judge how much was changed. But if you loved the first film, then you're going to enjoy this one. If you haven't seen part two don't bother. You wern't missing much and it won't matter because it's all recapped in the beginning of the movie. Followed by one more sequel.Recommended for fans of the series.B+ "},{"Title":"Short Of New Ideas, BOOOY?","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm of 1979 was a highly atmospheric, creepy, scary and very original Horror flick, and, in one word, cult. The first sequel of 1988 was gory, witty, action-packed and highly entertaining. After the first sequel however, Phantasm creator Don Coscarelly apparently lacked new ideas. Phantasm III - Lord Of The Dead of 1994 is certainly not a complete failure, it even is quite entertaining, but there is no more originality, and the desperate attempts to bring in something new, are at times tiresome, which makes it quite disappointing in comparison to its predecessors. - SPOILERS - Quite in the beginning, we are introduced the secret behind the mysterious sentinel spheres (the brain-sucking flying silver balls) is unraveled. Thenceforward, a number of unnecessary and annoying new characters (such as Tim, a Home Alone-style little kid who happens to be great at shooting, an Rocky, a tough and super-cool nunchaku-swinging black chick with a crew cut) are introduced. The film also has its qualities - Reggie Bannister is again very cool as the pony-tailed, guitar playing Reggie. Angus Scrimm is still quite creepy as the Tall Man, but the fact that the Tall Man talks a lot more in this film, makes him loose some of his creepiness. The character of Mike is played by A. Michael Baldwin again (he had been replaced by James LeGros in Part 2), which, in my opinion, doesn't make much of a difference. The gore also keeps the film interesting enough to watch, but it is still a disappointment, especially because the attempts to make up for the lack of ideas get annoying quite quickly.All things considered, Phantasm III is an acceptable time-waster, but it is definitely disappointing compared to its predecessors. Fans of the first two Phantasm films can give it a try, but I recommend not to set your expectations too high. "},{"Title":"Low Grade.","Date":"5 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Angus Scrimm, is back again as the evil tall man, here joined by returning cast members A. Michael Baldwin as Mike, and Bill Thornbury as Jody, who returns from the dead(!) to warn his brother Mike that the tall man is more determined than ever to not only succeed in his plan of enslavement, but that he also wants Mike himself this time. Reggie Bannister returns as friend Reggie, former Ice Cream vendor turned hunter.Awful sequel is loaded with too many annoying characters who add nothing, while film lurches back and forth between heavy-handed humor to gruesome violence, all in an increasingly incoherent story that leads nowhere.A real mess, though not quite the end... "},{"Title":"The best sequel after the original.","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Like it's first sequel, PHANTASM III takes the series a much different route to keep the series feeling fresh. This time it's a comedy/horror approach, with a comic book like look & feel. What I liked best about PHANTASM III, is the fact that unlike PHANTASM II, Don Coscarelli had a more hands on approach to his own material with this one. Several of those people who worked on the first, returned for this one such as a blink & you'll miss her, cameo appearance by the actress who played the Lady In Lavender BILL THORNBURY as JODY. A. MICHAEL BALDWIN returned in the role of Mike & the gore that was almost completely excised from the previous sequel, has thankfully been returned to all of it's gory glory! The downside with PHANTASM III however, occurs after the brief recapping of the previous films & picks up immediately after II, with Reggie running towards a fiery car crash to try & save Mike & Liz, however this completely contradicts the ending of II. At the end of that film, Reggie was left lying dead on the side of the road. Here Reggie is alive & when Reggie stumbles upon an unconscious Mike. He picks up his four barrelled shotgun to blow away one of the Lurkers, the very same gun that he tossed away in the funeral home in II, while they kept the flame thrower, here the flame thrower is nowhere to be seen! When Reggie meets an orphaned boy at his home, the kid says he calls the dwarfs lurkers because they only come out at night, when in the first film, they were rummaging around the graveyard during the day & the sphere's don't appear to be heat seeking anymore & the fact that the Sphere's can leave the flesh of their victims & chase after others, when in II, it is revealed that they couldn't do that as long as they were embedded in flesh & a continuity error (goof?) where Mike has jumped out of an alternate dimension & Reggie is scared to touch the dimension forks to stop the Tall Man from coming through, Mike says Reggie did it before (a scene where Reggie touched the forks in PHANTASM I) the problem here is, the fact that Part I was proved to be a dream! So how would Reggie have remembered it if it never happened? also while Baldwin has returned to the role of Mike, he, along with Thornbury, are not given much to do during the films running time & appear to be somewhat less interesting characters, with Baldwin getting very little screen time. In fact Reggie is the one that takes centre stage here, as he has plenty to do here, going from town to town, trying to score with a rough & tough girl he picks up along the side of the road (who turns out to be gay) & dealing with a new side kick, a dangerous, but kind hearted, gun totting twelve year old kid! whom he encounters after the kid frees him from the back of his trunk, that he was stashed in by three petty criminals. His introduction is definitely one of PHANTASM III's highlights, as Coscarelli give us the horror genre's answer to HOME ALONE, as the kid brutally dispatches the three criminals who are trying to hurt him, in some rather gruesome ways, using booby trapped devices. As I stated in my summary above, I truly feel PHANTASM III LORD OF THE DEAD is the best film in the series, following the original. True it doesn't have the action sequences II has, but what's great about it, is the fact that it feels more like a true sequel, with all the original actors back. Wherein II only had Bannister & Scrimm. ANGUS SCRIMM is devilish perfection as the Tall Man, while Reggie was down right hilarious to watch! The comedy worked really well along with the horror. The special effects are great & the film has a few good stunts & some decent explosions, plus the film answers more questions about the Tall Man & we get a name for the dwarfs Lurkers & see the Tall Man making them & the flying silver sphere's sentinals & what is inside the spheres & how they work. They also yet again show a new device they also have inside them by shooting out on a latch, with an eye that is embedded inside. What's notable here, is simply the fact that Coscarelli has completely made away with the character of Liz, Mike's love interest in II, an angle that Universal put pressure on Coscarelli to make the film a bit more mainstream. Liz is killed off right in the opening minute of the movie, with her character never mentioned by Mike or Reggie afterwards, it's almost as if she never existed!. Coscarelli also touches upon cryogenics & comes up with an interesting device to stop the Tall Man, by freezing him up, since he hates the cold, an idea presented in I, but seemingly ignored in II. A great score, fine acting & fantastic direction, makes this a must see for horror fans. It's only let down by a downbeat ending, that again is just a rip-off of the first films ending. Followed by PHANTASM IV OBLIVION***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Sickeningly bad movie","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I despise horror movies, that is no secret. No plot, bad acting and gallons of blood are staples of these mistakes of cinema, and this movie is no exception. I cannot believe some cable stations actually run this garbage. (This particular garbage was released straight-to-video, as I recall.) As mentioning any other movie would be a great insult to that other movie, I say this All of the Phantasm movies, all of the Jason movies, Freddy movies, Chucky movies, and most of the Michael Myers movies can be summed up in one word TERRIBLE!!!Rating (Phantasm III) 0.5/10 "},{"Title":"Another fantastic sequel of the Phantasm epic!","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Continuing off Phantasm 2, Reggie (Reggie Bannister) just lost Mike (Michael Baldwin) to that evil being called Tall-Man (Angus Scrimm). That evil Mortician creates more sentinels such as his zombie-esquire dwarfs, the living dead and his famed flying brain-drilling spheres are sent to kill people in small towns as he invades them then possibly the world to take over. Reggie joins with orphaned 11 year old Tim (Kevin Conners) and feisty militant woman Rocky (Gloria Lyn Henry) to ward off the Tall-Man's minions and try find out his secret.Another exciting installment of the unique Sci-fi horror fantasy saga Phantasm from writer and director Don Coscrelli. This one gives us some decent performances with a dose of dark humor throughout, the surprises are also creative as well much like the first two and there's some gore in this installment that should please fans. This one is pure fun from beginning to end, a must see for fans of horror and the series. "}{"Title":"Highly impressive sequel effort","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm III Lord of the Dead isn't that bad, but it's got a few middling problems of it's own.**SPOILERS**Escaping from the cemetery, Mike, (A. Michael Baldwin) manages to convince Reggie, (Reggie Bannister) that his dead brother Jody, (Bill Thornbury) has come back to warn him about The Tall Man, (Angus Scrimm) and his nefarious plans for them before being kidnapped by The Tall Man. Traveling to a deserted town to find out, Reggie meets young Tim, (Kevin Connors) and the two decide to team up for a while. While checking a possible deserted town, they find Rocky, (Gloria Lynne Henry) also on the same mission and reluctantly decides to join them. Guided by Jody's spirit, they are able to reclaim Mike from The Tall Man's grasp, luring the group into a final showdown for the fate of mankind.The Good News A rather decent addition to an underrated series, this here has some really good moments. One of the film's best factors is that it does some much-needed exposition on the series. Finally giving the secret behind the Silver Spheres is a nice touch, and their revelation is quite spooky and really chilling. It also blends in with what had been giving so far and is nicely appreciated. The true story of The Tall Man is also given here, and is a really neat twist to the story. While not exactly clever, it does have an aura of being able to be convincing in the series, and that is the most important thing that can be done with it. With Reggie now at the forefront of the series, the comedy is now increased, and some classic one-liners are evident throughout. The physical stuff is subdued, leaving the mostly on-the-mark jokes to come out, and comes across nicely. There's also no shortage of gore here, including the still-messy head-drilling-silver-sphere sequence that still unleashes a gallon of blood, as well as some exploding body parts, a neat sliced throat, an ax in the head, a decapitation and a whole slew of gunshots cutting bodies up, not including the un-fatal wounds inflicted that are spread throughout. There's also no shortage of action in here, including the customary hearse chase that ends in a big crash and fireball, which is one of the greatest ones done, and a spectacular showdown in the mausoleum at the end. Taking place in an incredibly chilling Gothic mausoleum, with long, empty corridors, one-off rooms and plenty of equipment inside, this is a great showdown that pales slightly compared to the masterpiece one at the end of the second one but is still noteworthy on it's own. This here is the film's highlight sequence, and is no surprise to come at the end when everything that had been built up to it. Filled with inventive fight techniques, some really clever chases and a non-stop pace, this here is a really glorious ending that sends it out on an appropriate high-point. The Tall Man is at his most creepy here, finally being able to do something constructive to his evil personality and he even has a really creepy scene, being lit by a suddenly-changing light during a chase down a hallway that only shows his outline in the darkness. With a fun, workman-like pace and a couple of neat throwbacks to the other entries, this here is a pleasantly-entertaining entry.The Bad News Quite frankly, this film doesn't have a whole lot of problems, but they are pretty big ones. This one here doesn't make a lot of sense, despite answering several questions about the series. It's nice that it did, but there is still way too much happening here that doesn't seem to be explainable. The gateway sequence, which in the first one is shown sting the hands, now is able to lock it closed. There is still no explanation for what's the actual plan of The Tall Man's attack of where he came from, and these are perfect questions to answer this deep into the series. They prevent it from being a stand-alone film like the first two, which could be enjoyed despite not having seen the other, and this one needs the others to make sense. There's also a couple of unnecessary sequences in here, most noticeably the orphanage scene, that served nothing to the series and don't seem to have any reason to be there. These aside, this is a really good overall entry.The Final Verdict While not as clever or as scary as the first two, this is still a solid, enjoyable entry in a very under-appreciated series. It's problems mainly stem from it being unable to be a stand-alone entry like the others, and really needs to be seen in conjunction with the others to make the most sense, and is more-than-usually recommended for fans of the series.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity and a mild sex scene "},{"Title":"Not as good as the first sequel","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I didn't think was as good as Sequel, I did find some part of this movie just bit better then first.I really enjoyed how the movie started off, was really good, there a few good decent scare scenes at the start.I thought it was great to start this movie however the movies soon dies down and takes it's while for it's to get going again.There few scenes that enjoyed but it shame the scene before and after a little bit dull, I didn't really like that more people got involvedeven for few seconds I thought I was watch Home Alone Horror style, when added the new kid to the movie , I wasn't sure were the plot was going in this one, it all come together in the end.Near the end of the movie, I was only really half watching, So overallit's not were near as good as the second movie, i found some part of the movie better then first.The acting in this movie from some of the cast is really wooden at times,6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Another fun entry in the Phantasm series.","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I generally prefer my horror films to have some semblance of internal logic that applies throughout&#x97;I don't care how crazy things get, just so long as the film sticks to its own set of rules. I cut the Phantasm films a lot of slack, however, because they're just so much fun.So what if writer/director Don Coscarelli repeatedly changes what is possible within his realm, has his characters come and go at whim (whilst alternating the actor in the role of Mike), adds convenient new details to suit his ever expanding story-line (which I'm positive he is making up as he goes along), and generally plays everything extremely fast and loose? As long as there's plenty of insane action, warped humour, gloopy gore, and flying spheres a-go-go, then I'm one happy chappy.Lord of the Dead follows on immediately from Part 2 and continues in much the same vein, with Reggie (Reggie Bannister) continuing his hunt for The Tall Man after he kills Liz and abducts Mike (A. Michael Baldwin returning to the role). On his quest, Reggie teams up with orphan Tim (Kevin Connors), who is a dab-hand with a razor-edged Frisbee and a crack shot with a pistol, and tough soldier Rocky (Gloria Lynne Henry), who uses her nunchuks to crack skulls and keep men at bay (like Reggie, for example, who takes a shine to her).Phantasm III is a another consistently entertaining entry in the series, with great effects, suitably cheesy performances from its cast, and imaginative direction from Coscarelli; bonkers highlights include Tim's cool booby-trapped house, The Tall Man's severed hands turning into scuttling critters, Reg's erotic dream featuring Rocky, and, of course, lots of outrageous sphere-related carnage, all topped off with the now obligatory 'shock' ending (that is unlikely to catch fans off-guard but which is enjoyable nonetheless).7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb. "},{"Title":"Better than II, but still an excruciatingly bad film...","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  These spherical objects that The Tall Man creates in the Phantasm series are truly quite amazing. They have the ability to hover in the air, move at rapid speeds, view their surroundings with a heat-sensitive POV, and detach various objects that can bore through their victims' skulls. In Phantasm III Lord of the Dead, we learn that there are thousands of these balls, and it made me wonder how The Tall Man has so much time to construct them, in between robbing graveyards, dissecting bodies, creating evil dwarves and driving across the country in pursuit of new towns to ruin. Sure, we now learn that he places dead people's brains inside the objects, but where does he craft these spheres? What are they made out of? How does he make them perfectly round? How are they able to hover in the air? How do the brains inside them function?No matter. Because Phantasm III is almost so bad that it's good. Almost. Unlike the second film, this one seems a bit campier, providing darker humor and less sequences of cornball dialogue. It's still terrible but not in a boasting sort of way. And the movie does a good thing by focusing on Reggie (Reggie Bannister) instead of Mike (A. Michael Baldwin). And is it just coincidence that the actors' names relate to their characters? Nope. Phantasm is one of the all-time low-budget family-oriented series. And when I say family-oriented, I don't mean it's targeted at families with children -- I mean the Phantasm family, the fans of the series. Because the entire way these movies are constructed are to entertain the die-hard fans. Just like the Critters series, Phantasm falls back on flashbacks, recurring characters, movie in-jokes that reference earlier sequels, and familiar gimmicks (such as the endings). It's a true cult movie.So the more you watch these films, the more you are guaranteed to enjoy them. But they're still terrible and very silly -- I can't imagine how so many sequels got made. Did they really make that much money?Taking place directly after Phantasm II, this film has Reggie joining up with Tim (Kevin Connors), an orphaned child, to help find Mike (now played by the original A. Michael Baldwin, who took a hiatus during the 80s to pursue spiritual enlightenment). With the help of old and new friends, Reggie finds himself face-to-face with The Tall Man and another dimension, where he finds Mike trapped and unable to escape.Hunky 80s teen icon James Le Gros (well, he was popular in Japan) looks absolutely nothing like puny A. Michael Baldwin (the original Mike from Phantasm), and after seeing Phantasm II, it seems as though Coscarelli has downgraded his hero. He wisely focuses attention on Reggie, instead, and Baldwin is introduced for the first time about halfway through the movie. I have nothing against Baldwin, and he was the original Mike after all, but he's completely different from Le Gros -- awkward, strange, silent, and boring. He's not a very good actor and he's not a very convincing hero. And because Le Gros and Baldwin are so very different, it's hard to remind yourself that they are supposed to be the same characters. I wouldn't even buy them as brothers. What's great about James Bond is that even after he changes images, his missions start fresh, so we don't feel a need to remind ourselves that Pierce Brosnan is supposed to technically be the same guy that Connery played. With a new look comes a new plot. But with Phantasm III, the plot is the same, and the flashbacks are present, which is often times quite confusing.The film likes to blend in humor, mostly the sexual kind. This time around, the ever-horny Reggie is now on a quest to get black chick Rocky into the sack (Ever tried vanilla? he asks her. Didn't I tell you? Dairy products give me gas.). So let's get this straight his wife and kid die, and two days later he's trying to get laid? Hmm... Reggie is the best character in the film, but as the sequels tread on, he looks increasingly tired and too old for it all. It seems as if Coscarelli decided to make a horror movie one day, and enlisted the aid of his friends to help him film the movie. Now, they've all outgrown the movies, but they're still making them. They should just stop. Part V is going into production soon. Why?It's hard to actually classify Phantasm III as a movie because it seems more like a home video project made on a low budget with a bunch of pals. The special effects are a great deal better than those in the first two, but a movie cannot be judged solely on its effects. As a horror film, Phantasm III isn't very scary at all, and as a comedy, it is only mildly amusing.I'll admit that I was entertained, to a certain extent, and that it seemed a bit better than Phantasm II, which I think tried a bit too hard to become something more than an independent horror film. But if you actually stop and consider the flaws of Phantasm III, they're way too enormous to pass over.Once again, Coscarelli uses an unexpectedly good and surprisingly lasting finale to close his motion picture. But the fact is that Phantasm III just doesn't make much sense at all, promising to reveal certain things when it only extends our confusion about them. And like those frustrating Matrix sequels, it ends with a tie-in for another installment; a cheap way of getting audiences to see the next film. And also like the Matrix sequels, it tries to answer too many questions about too many open plot holes, when all the audience wants is an exit door.* / ***** "},{"Title":"Bad Movie","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" If a film maker has a bad idea it manifests itself as a bad movie . Take PHANTASM 3  LORD OF THE DEAD for example where someone for some unexplainable reason has decided to shoot from a script that has several dozen of its first pages missing . I don't know if it's the fault of writer/director Don Coscarelli or the fault of the BBC who showed this movie missing a first reel but the opening makes absolutely no sense whatsoever even for those of us who managed to sit through the ending of PHANTASM 2 . A lot of people smugly point out the lack of continuity in the Universal FRANKENSTEIN movies but that's nothing compared to the start of this movie where the protagonists and the story hit the ground running literally . Wasn't the Tall Man dead at the end of the last movie ? In fact while I was watching this it was always at the back of my mind that the BBC might have actually shown PHANTASM 4 by mistake but no this PHANTASM 3  LORD OF THE DEAD and after watching it LORD OF THE BRAIN DEAD would be a more accurate title "},{"Title":"I preferred Phantasm 2 over this one!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Our heroes Reggie and Mike are going after The Tall Man once again.Chasing him they stumble across all manner of friends(a militant chick and the annoying kid who seems to pop up in films when all else fails).The comedy aspect featured here is pretty weak-Reggie Bannister has some good one-liners though!There is plenty of gore as people are dismembered in various ways.The film is never boring,so if you like Phantasm series give this one a look!  "},{"Title":"Didn't I tell you... dairy products give me gas. Pointless sequel.","Date":"26 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm III Lord of the Dead starts where the previous instalment Phantasm II (1988) finishes with the hearse crashing & exploding. Reggie (Reggie Bannister returning from the previous instalment's) runs over to the burning wreck & discovers Liz being devoured by the evil midgets & Mike (A. Michael Baldwin, back to play Mike again for the second time after missing out on Phantasm II) thrown clear but badly injured. The Tall Man (Angus Scrimm, another returnee) approaches & wants Mike but Reggie pulls a grenade out & threatens to kill them all, the Tall Man wants Mike alive so he leaves, for the time being that is... Mike is taken to hospital & begins to recover, however he is attacked by a zombie nurse (Irene Roseen) but manages to survive. Mike & Reggie decide to set out & find the Tall Man before he finds them, unfortunately things don't work out as planned & the Tall Man abducts Mike. Reggie continues the trail he & Mike started in Phantasm II & arrive at the next small town on the map, Holtsville. Again he discovers the town almost completely dead except for three scavengers, Edna (Cindy Ambuehl), Henry (John Davis Chandler), Rufus (Brooks Gardner) & a young boy named Tim (Kevin Connors) whose parents were killed by the Tall Man. Reggie decides to take Tim with him as he heads for the next town, Boulton. There they find the Tall Man & attempt to rescue Mike from his clutches...Written, produced & directed by Don Coscarelli the third film in the Phantasm franchise isn't an overly impressive one. The script introduces nothing new except that the spheres have brains in them, is basically a rehash of part 2, again has no real continuity compared with the others (Reggie definitely dropped his gun at the end of Part 2 so how come he had it at the start of this? Now, instead of just wanting to kill him the Tall Man wants Mike alive for some obscure reason) & adds an annoying supernatural element as Mikes dead Brother Jody (Bill Thornbury) keeps turning up at one point in heaven depicted by a corridor made from blankets & a floodlight at the end. Phantasm III is also full of the horror film clichéd coincidences, whenever our character's get stuck the ghostly Jody turns up to help out or dish out some useful advice. Then there's the fact that the Tall Man doesn't like the cold (who does?) so guess what? Reggie & Mike end up in a mortuary which have cryogenic freezing equipment, which is helpful. The list goes on, it's all rather predictable, uninspiring & doesn't really offer much in the way of entertainment. The character's are few & the new ones are annoying, especially the kid. What is it with young children in most horror films? Their always so annoying! It moves along at a fair pace but didn't particularly grip me & at just over 80 minutes it felt longer. The sphere drilling itself into someone's head is present but the scene is obviously there for the sake of it.This was Coscarelli's third Phantasm film as director & he does nothing spectacular, easily the best part of the film is the climax in the spooky mortuary that looks more like a Gothic Church, he uses light & shadow well here to create some much needed atmosphere. There is some brief unwanted nudity from Rocky (Gloria Lynne Henry) who I wished had kept her clothes on. The blood & gore is virtually none existent & what little it does contain is seriously toned down, a bloodless slit throat, a zombie has it's head twisted off, a few decapitated heads, some mutant midgets, some messy gunshot wounds & that's about it, disappointing.With a budget of $2,500,000 Phantasm III Lord of the Dead suffers from the ever decreasing budget size of the Phantasm films & looks pretty cheap throughout. Cinematography, music & production values are alright but nothing special. The special effects aren't that good, the hand creatures look silly & most of the effects scenes have been done before in the previous films. The acting is OK considering the material I suppose.Phantasm III Lord of the Dead is nothing to shout about, it's an average, lazy & dull horror sequel. The kind of film that is almost instantly forgettable when there are so many much better films out there. If you want to see a Phantasm film then I recommend Part 2 as this offers nothing new or any improvement & also recommend that you give this one a miss. Only watch if your a Phantasm fan or your absolutely desperate. "},{"Title":"Pretty lame sequel compared to Phantasm II","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  In the third entry of the Phantasm series, Mike and Reggie continue chasing the Tall Man, assisted by a trigger-happy 9 year old, a black G.I. Jane and the spirit of Mike's deceased brother (he died in the original Phantasm). Number 3 is a rather disappointing sequel, since the gore and black comedy is a lot less inspired and exciting as it was in Phantasm II. I got the feeling the stress was merely laid on Reggie's incompetence as a lover and his talent as stand-up comedian. The humor in the previous film was a lot more dry and oppressed, which fits a story like this better. Also, the settings aren't as macabre here, plus the constant presence of the Tall Man (Agnus Schrim) isn't as obvious&#133; There still is plenty of gore but not half as satisfying this time. By the way, beware for the severely cut version as it shows most delightful killings off-screen. The entire Phantasm series is the lifetime achievement of Don Coscarelli, who wrote and directed 4 episodes so far&#133;the fifth being in production. The first one is a semi-cult classic, the second is a horror-feast of gore and violence and the rest can easily be skipped. A. Michael Baldwin returns as Mike, even though James LeGros portrayed his character a lot better in Phantasm II.  "},{"Title":"Didn't annoy me as much as the other ones did.","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Really the biggest compliment I can give this movie is that it didn't annoyed me half as much as the previous 2 movies did. I'm still obviously not the biggest fan of the entire series but I can actually take and enjoy this movie for what it is.They changed a couple of things around for this sequel again. First of all Reggie Bannister is a returning character and actor who this time really got made the main lead of the movie. Secondary character is a kid again, as was also the case with the first movie. It makes this movie more in tone with the first one, more so than the second one was. In that regard alone this movie already is a better sequel.I still don't understand though what is going on half of the time in this movie. I really enjoyed the first half but after that the movie started to get crazy again and I started to loose interest in it all pretty fast.I never really understood why this movie appealed to so many horror fans. As an horror this movie really isn't any good. It only has some gore at times but it just never features any well build up tension or mystery and doesn't have any scare moments, or other classic genre elements, in it. The best thing about all the movies is perhaps the evil tall man character, who deserved to be part of a better or at least more interesting movie series really. He besides is far too little in this movie and really doesn't get an awful lot to do, until the very end of the movie.But oh well, this movie at least made me somewhat interested in watching the fourth movie as well, even though it is obvious to me that I will just never become a fan of this series and I highly doubt that the fourth movie Phantasm IV Oblivion can change this around.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Poor third showing, but it has it's moments","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This second sequel to Don Coscarelli's labour of love lacks the ingeniousness of the first two parts. The Phantasm series has little in the way of plot, but the inventive way that the story was presented more than kept it afloat, and the result for the first two was very nice indeed. Because the invention isn't as strong here, the lack of story really shines through, despite Don's best attempts at covering it up with an array of new (and annoying) characters, a script that is basically a blending of snappy one-liners and sexual innuendo, and the poorest man's cult hero ever to grace the silver screen. One thing that is very good about this film, however, is that despite the fact that it was shot in 1994, Don Coscarelli has still managed to capture the essence of the earlier films in the series, and it's refreshing to see a late 70's-early 80's style horror film released in the 90's. More directors nowadays should attempt this when making horror films, because the style back then mixed with horror much better than the glossy atmosphere that is too often done today.Reggie Bannister is as much the Phantasm series as Don himself is. Unlike the normal movie hero, Reggie is (very much) a normal guy that just happens to have found himself in an abnormal situation. This gives Phantasm it's own unique style, while also highlighting the tongue-in-cheek nature of the series. Michael Baldwin returns in the role of Mike, which is unfortunate as James LeGros did a much better job with the character in Phantasm 2. Michael Baldwin looks out of place in this movie, and it would seem that Coscarelli realised this, as he doesn't grant him much screen time at all. Of course, Baldwin is the original actor in the role, but it's not believable that the guy from Phantasm 2 has grown into this guy, as he looks too different. Furthermore, he cant act either, which doesn't do the film any favours. Coscarelli's assortment of props and villains is right on cue again, as the strange 'Tall Guy' is back to his old tricks, along with those wonderful little balls that tear into people's skulls. Unfortunately, however, Don has found no room for the chainsaw this time round; which isn't good at all.This is definitely worth seeing for the Phantasm fan, but everyone else should stay away. It's a decent waste of 85 minutes, and you could certainly do a lot worse, even if it does lack the charm and vision that made the other two so delightful. "}{"Title":"Lesser Entry in the Series","Date":"21 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Phantasm III (1994) * 1/2 (out of 4) Reggie (Reggie Bannister) and Mike (A. Michael Baldwin) are again looking for the Tall Man (Angus Scrimm) who is (once again) going from town to town killing everyone. This time the two have the help of a 8-year-old boy, a tough black chick (Gloria Lynne Henry) and Mike's dead brother Jody (Bill Thornbury). This third film in the series takes a giant leap into the territory of horror/comedy as we get a lot of slapstick bits but in the end both elements fail and the final product is another disappointment. I'm really not sure why this series is so popular outside of the atmosphere of the first one and the gore of the second, this third entry has very little going for it. Once again Bannister manages to be entertaining in terms of his dramatic style and I must admit that his comic timing got a few laughs. Scrimm is once again back of the Tall Man and he fits the the role perfectly. Both Baldwin and Thornbury, members of the original film, are back and both are decent but nothing great. The gore this time out doesn't come anywhere close to the previous film and even the classic sphere isn't used as nicely as the previous films. I'm really not sure why the director decided to cut out the red stuff while adding more laughs but that's exactly what happened. The movie runs out of gas around the hour mark and this here makes the final thirty-minutes rather hard to take and the screenplay really doesn't give us too much. "}]