[{"Title":"Third Review... and I think I finally get it.","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"65 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I reviewed Reality Bites I was 15, and I had missed much of the film's point, praising it without critique. The second time was after viewing the film again a year later, upon which I began to notice things that I had naively ignored, such as just what self-centred people the characters were. I re-reviewed it, this time with an overly negative response. It was not until my third watching, and third review, of the film that I returned to my initial opinion, this time with reasons rooted in aspects of the film it had taken me 2 years to spot.Comedy star Ben Stiller is most well known for his comic portrayals of characters cursed with incredibly bad luck (see Meet the Parents, There's Something about Mary, Zoolander). His career as a director is not nearly as extensive as that of his acting, although he has appeared in every film he's directed. For those wondering, it all started in 1994, with romantic comedy Reality Bites.Winona Ryder plays Lelaina Pierce, a fresh-faced college graduate who works a frustrated job as assistant producer for a cheesy talk show, while in her own time she enjoys filming her friends Vicky (Janeane Garofalo), Sammy (Steve Zahn) and good-looking rebel Troy (Ethan Hawke) in an amateur documentary on the disenfranchised lives of Generation X called 'Reality Bites'. In a mild car accident she meets Michael (Stiller), a sweet-hearted businessman, and they begin a romantic relationship, from which sparks talk of taking her documentary to the commercial network Michael works for. Amidst this, tensions between Lelaina and Troy begin to rise as his feelings for her become clearer...Reality Bites is the kind of film that is prone to misperception. The movie has an under-the-radar subtlety to it that was widely missed even by advocators of the film. While the characters are given sensitive treatment in the script and in performance, they are also portrayed with the hidden agenda of satirizing the generation they exemplify and the culture of that generation. On one level this is apparent the constant 90's culture references, quotes such as Troy's response to promptings from Lelaina while documenting him I am not under any orders to make the world a better place. The more hidden layer of subtlety comes in the form of the film's general Hollywood treatment and product placement the film makers chose a undeniably commercial approach to a subject that is widely presented as such (life and love in the 1990's), while the specific matters and characters in the movie were based around independent and un-commercial philosophy. This means the film is, by its very nature, ironic on more than one level.Critics of the film were mostly irritated by the main characters' stereotypical personalities and subsequently found them to be boring. This misses another of the film's points the characters are deliberately stereotypical and too often were the naïve and condescending opinions of these characters, namely Lelaina and Troy, mistaken for the morals of the film. Reality Bites doesn't believe that Lelaina is a genius documentarian, it doesn't believe that Troy is a brilliant and secretly reliable guy and it doesn't believe Michael deserves the rotten deal he gets. It just shows how this kind of cultural mentality plays out in practice.That being said, one very straight-forward quality of the film is the acting performances. All four members of the lead cast do excellent jobs; they nail their characters with succinct accuracy. Ethan Hawke is the stand out performance, as the brooding and condescending Troy, a character most unlike any of the others he has played before or since. Ryder is at her best here, in a performance topped only by that of Girl, Interrupted. Stiller, too, delivers solidly, even if the role is very similar to others he has played.Reality Bites may strike a resonate note of realism for members of Generation X, but that really isn't its ultimate goal. Essentially this is a film that doesn't necessarily wear its heart on its sleeve, but serves as moderately engaging entertainment of a slightly more insightful nature than others of its kind. "},{"Title":"Resonates with me","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"51 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really enjoyed this movie. Looking back in hindsight, I can see the selfishness of the characters, and I have read the complaints about this, but isn't that kind of the whole point of the movie? It's about people talking about not selling out while at the same time they ARE selling out in many different ways. They (the characters in the movie) are all consumers who satirize the very idea of consumerism but refuse to stoop down to the level of getting menial jobs to try and pay the bills. The movie defines for me how education isn't everything and from my own experience I have learned that sometimes the great dream (of being a writer, artist, musician, etc.) just doesn't pay the bills and in order to make decent money one may have to go into a field that is not originally their first choice as a means of employment. I remember being young and wistful, with dreams of being an artist, only to have to settle for an office job to make ends meet.The movie does express what life was like for me at the time. I was a naive student with dreams of producing great artistic work, but who learned that what is taught in college as reality is not really reality at all. College students are fed with lofty artistic statements and philosophies and are taught to analyze endless aspects of society, ideals, etc., and are taught that knowledge and education are power but are not taught that credibility and respect are things which must be earned and that very few people actually start out at the top of the career ladder.Overall, this continues to be one of my favorite films and I appreciate the myriad of messages that it sends, though they may, at times, be contradictory. "},{"Title":"After further review... it doesn't hold up well...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"85 out of 141 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ok.. When I first saw this in the theatre upon it's initial release, I really indentified with it. Upon viewing it seven years later, I realized what a whiny, early-twentysomething I was back then. This movie is incredibly pretentious and makes my generation look like a bunch of babies with dirty diapers. Unfortunately, in the mid 90's, that's exactly how most people my age acted. We felt we deserved the world on a silver platter... and cried when it wasn't handed to us.The characters, by 2001 standards, are all horrible mid-90's stereotypes. Hawke, Ryder and Garofolo's characters are painfully self-absorbed. Especially Hakwe's character Troy, he is supposed to be deep and intellectual, but after viewing the film in 2001, his serious slacker persona is almost comical. Lelaina (Ryder) is upset because she can't land her dream job immediately after college. (who does?!?) Vickie (Garofolo) is basically a slut who works at the Gap. She talks about AIDS tests as being a defining point of Gen X. This never happened and makes the film seem even more dated. I won't go too much into the story, but it's basically a love triangle between Troy (Hawke), Lelaina (Ryder) and the nice-guy yuppie Michael (Stiller). The early-mid 90's stamp is all over the story, as Stiller's successful-nice guy character is dumped for the slacker with few redeeming qualities (Hawke). In 1994 I saw Michael as square and Troy seemed pretty damned slick and cool. In 2001, I think Michael would be vacationing on the French Riviera, while Troy would be selling used cars. Amazing the difference in attitude seven years make. Technically, the movie is well done. Stiller does a pretty good job directing and gets admirable performances from his cast. Especially the supporting actors Kurtz, Mahoney and an underused Steve Zahn. The soundtrack is excellent and holds up to the test of time much better than the film or soundtracks from similar movies. (ie. Singles)Overall, Reality Bites is an average love-triangle story with WAY to much mid-90's Gen-X slacker sentiment. IMHO, this movie did not age well and today, it seems like a self-parody with it's angst/slacker theme....Ratings In 1994 7/10 In 2001 4/10 "},{"Title":"Breaks my heart every time","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really do have difficulty with the short shrift this film seems to get. Admittedly, Ethan Hawke's appaling I'm nuthin' doesn't really do the film any favours but that asides, Reality Bites always has me in tears.  The basic storyline, centering on a love that both people know exist but due to circumstance and fear has not manifested is so universal, and so well done. The 'my life is falling apart' endless phone calls to the psychic 0900 number part is so tragi-comedic, and the entire movie is full of continuous great scenes.  Admittedly, being a single 25 year old white male who originally saw the film a few years back, I was probably caught at the optimal time for it to have an emotional impact, but I find myself going back to it again and again.  Winona has never been better, and Janeane Garofalo is stunning as the low self-esteem serial one night stander with the AIDS paranoia and over-full shag book.  Also, great cameos from the Soul Asylum geezer and Evan Dando's stunning turn during the end credits add to the film.  Overall a stunning film, admittedly which will probably only be appreciated by a relatively narrow demographic. "},{"Title":"to think I once felt guilty for being a little disappointed...","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came out in the theaters and I was a teenager myself, and I remember feeling a just a little shortchanged and even dirty, like I'd been manipulated in a way. I did enjoy it, but the reasons for enjoying it do not hold up today. Watching it again has been fun because looking at it through adult eyes, I am having fun seeing how easy it is to spot the dated qualities and outmoded philosophies that, as one reviewer said, were pretty much defunct by 2000, or maybe even by 1995-6. And it's not like I was some profound kid who had all this insight how mass media sells these ideas to young people...I bought into the whole Seattle grunge thing lock, stock and barrel, I thought guys with stringy unwashed hair and bad attitudes were totally hot, I wore crocheted vests, mood rings, and colored sunglasses with the best of them. So me thinking that something did not ring true must have been because it is pretty obvious that this movie is in essence a failure.1. The characters-The movie works really hard to make Troy be the better option for Leilana. For teenagers, he was totally sexy to watch on screen and totally swoon worthy, but his utterly obnoxious attitude, his rudeness to Ben Stiller's character, and his bullying just came off as unpleasant at the least, and his philosophy for not working are textbook definitions of a narcissist. Hearing some of his pseudo intellectual discussions are painful and embarrassing, because it is clear that the movie feels that young Gen X'ers embrace and admire such outlooks unequivocally and at face value. And kids were supposed to identify with this person? What an inconsiderate person, to stand up Leilana's father for the job interview and lead her to blame herself, and to embarrass women around him for being attracted to him. Any good friend and countless therapists would advise against having him as a boyfriend. The sad few seconds devoted to his dying father are not enough to redeem him or understand him. Bottom line, if Ethan Hawke was supposed to make this person somewhat sympathetic, he failed, or if he truly was supposed to be this unlikable, then good work. Leilana did come off as sympathetic and overall was well played by Winona, and her beauty is the one of the few things in this movie with true staying power. Her character does some pretty awful things, though. When her boss rudely rebuffs her video ideas, she humiliates him on air. When her friend offers her a job, she snaps at her. Instead of swallowing her pride and working at the gap for a bit, she resorts to the embarrassing gas card scene, which we are supposed to think is cute and rebellious. It is totally unconvincing that a valedictorian would ever be so irresponsible and immature, even if she had fallen on bad times.As for the other two, they are both well acted and likable, but seem to be added on simply to achieve a gritty 90's edge, like HIV testing and coming out to your parents. Neither subplot is developed enough to give this movie the edge it craves. Both are attractive and funny, and Vicky especially projects a friendliness, sympathy, and is cute as hell in those throwback clothes. 2. The Michael stuff really is a failure. Ben Stiller did a good job acting in this movie and came across as warm and real, but this movie is his work too. I guess a simple plot device would have been to make him more arrogant from the get-go so that he could seem like the bad guy but that would have been cheap. Either way, the movie does seem like it's trying to convince you that he either betrays Leilana or doesn't understand her the way Troy does, and it doesn't work. Those two had a positive chemistry and seemed to complement each other as characters. To make this a true coming of age and growing up story, Leilana should have either chosen Michael, who emphasizes growing up, taking responsibility for your actions, and change for the better, or decided to be on her own for a while to become a more mature person. 3. The biggest failure of this movie, and in my opinion, the most dangerous, is how it elevates Troy's attitude as the noble one above all, as if being narcissistic and self-involved are desirable. Being that he is the hot guy of the movie and that the other characters seem to respond so positively to him, a young teenager is left with the message that this is the new way to be and that Michael's responsible and kind persona are hypocritical or selling out. Leaving the theater back in '94, I was enjoying myself thinking about the romance between two good looking and stylish characters, but I couldn't really get into that part as much as I should have. Since I also really wanted to be cool and up to date, I was wondering if I should be acting or living like any of these characters, living in a flat with a guy who mooches off me, sleeping around with strangers, dancing at the gas station, etc. The movies have a lot more influence on young people than one thinks. In my gut, I felt two things a-My parents would be horrified if I brought friends like that around and more frighteningly, b-I secretly would agree with them. "},{"Title":"Gets better with time","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"26 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie the first time I saw it, and I enjoy it more with each viewing.  It's routinely panned for reasons that I really can't comprehend. It's witty, well-acted, quickly paced.  I notice that people don't talk as badly about it anymore.  I think it's because Reality Bites  will be one of the films that future generations will look back on to know a little bit about this time.   "},{"Title":"It doesn't so much bite as it does nip","Date":"3 April 2005","Score":"44 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Any film striving to chart the up-to-the-minute details of twenty-something life in 1994 was bound to feel a tad outdated the second that 1995 had found its cultural niche. And true, 'Reality Bites' was clearly trying so hard to be hip and with the times that there are points when its characters can seem very distant now (there can't be too many people today who'd consider dancing around a gas station like an unrestrained idiot to be a fitting definition of coolness &#150; nowadays viewers will probably be more inclined to identify with the clerk looking on with bemusement in that scene). Nonetheless, the uncertainties that come with entering adulthood and establishing a steady independent life of your own in the real world will always be relevant issues to young people no matter what the era, so any flick that deals with them has a fair chance of striking a chord with such an audience (being a young twenty-something myself, they're certainly hot on my own mind). Sadly, they never amount to much more here than the backdrop for a familiar love triangle yarn, albeit the familiar love triangle yarn as you've never seen it before. Our lead girl still gets torn between two guys, each from a different rung on the social ladder, only this time round it's actually the down-to-earth businessman making a healthy living for himself (Michael) who's an amiable mass of benevolence, and the laid-back young musician struggling to make ends meet (Troy) who acts like an offhand, self-righteous bully for much of his screen time. That the film still expects our sympathies to lie in the usual places regardless and root for Troy simply because he's the underdog is just the slightest bit galling (let's ignore the fact that Leliana, the lucky heroine who has the honour of choosing between them, is something of a whiny, irresponsible brat herself). Perhaps the only thing more fatal than choosing to go with such a wearisome and predictable formula is using characters that don't even comfortably fit it.Fortunately, 'Reality Bites' does have a number of small redeeming qualities which come along at just the right moments and may make us intermittently forget that this is all going to be part of something very hollow and routine overall. It's stylish, well-crafted and reasonably entertaining, if you can forgive the occasional patch of cringe-inducing dialogue (I'm a non-practicing Jew Hey, I'm a non-practicing virgin &#150; dear lord), and Ben Stiller adds life and flair from whichever side of the camera he's on. His debut direction feels surprisingly accomplished, panning the various scenes from a selection of imaginative angles and connecting them together very smoothly, while his character is easily the most likable and understandable of the bunch (too bad he wasn't meant to be). John Mahoney (better known for his role as Martin Crane in the popular sitcom 'Frasier') has a memorable cameo as a disgruntled TV show host, the soundtrack is filled with lots of little audio treats, and the people in the prop department have certainly provided us with plenty of interesting things to look at &#150; it's actually quite fun to watch if you keep your eye out for all the novelty memorabilia that these characters have hoarded; in addition to Michael's beloved Dr Zaius figurine, a Garfield-shaped telephone and a metal 'Charlie's Angels' lunch-box, among others, have made it to the set.But what really hurts 'Reality Bites' in the end, other than the hackneyed storyline, is just how much depth and substance the protagonists are sorely lacking. Considering that it revolves around a recently-graduated girl determined to demonstrate that she and her friends are more than just shallow Generation X-ers, devoid of any desires that extend beyond having sex and eating pizza, it doesn't exactly do a great deal to convince us otherwise. Most of their time is seemingly devoted to nothing more ambitious than messing around and having spats with each other, while the more serious material, including a subplot which sees Leliana's best friend Vickie awaiting the results of a test for HIV, is downplayed so considerably that you never get the impression that any of them are terribly concerned. The back-stories we hear about rough childhoods of divorced or neglectful parents are equally perfunctory, and the sad fact that Troy's dad is currently dying from prostate cancer is treated very incidentally by the film as a whole - what little is made of it feels more like an emotional blackmail designed to make us feel sympathy for the pretentious Troy than an actual aspect of his character.It gives us something good every now and then, but overall 'Reality Bites' just isn't strong or satisfying enough to qualify as a coming of age classic (don't even think about comparing it to 'the Graduate', or even 'Risky Business'). While it may go on being fondly-remembered by those who experienced it at the time, on the whole this one feels like it's been rather grounded in 1994, and left with only real claim to fame &#150; and that's that it famously beat 'Pulp Fiction' to the rights to have 'My Sharona' on its soundtrack. With hindsight, it was probably 'Pulp Fiction' who had the last laugh.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Reality or not?","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie knowing it wasn't really a comedy but a drama about the life of people in their early twenties in the 90's. What pushed me to rent it was the fact that many people qualified this film as horrible, but many other people loved this film and were talking about it like it was the most realistic thing ever. Let's face it. I'm not going to pretend to know what it's like to be a teenager/young adult in the 90's since I was 9 years old when this movie came out. However, I think I have a good enough judgement to tell if this movie was realistic or not based on my personal experiences.This movie isn't specially about the 90's, it's about becoming an adult and all it implies. It's about a cast of characters who hesitate between forever living what they were told is a pointless life always having fun and bumming around and becoming like the adults that they have criticized so much in their childhood. This, by itself, is very realistic, because it's a problem that many young people face even today. The main character Lalaina represents this fact completely. She's shooting a video of her friends as they struggle to find themselves in this world that was built by baby-boomers that they can't relate to. Also, she's a very clean-cut and hard working person, yet she hangs out with her friends who are more of the rebellious type. This movie tries to represent the alternative crowd. Each character in this movie has an alternative as well as a conformist side, which is very strange. By example, you have a female character who wears vintage clothes and lives in a typical artsy room but works at the gap. This is another side of what was mentioning earlier. As young adults, they're straying away from the whole alternative-ness of their teenage years. This is something I've seen among people I know as well, and that I personally dislike. I guess it's something very typical of our era as well as the 90's.What I found unrealistic in this movie was that the characters seem a bit cliché sometimes. Sure, I've seen people like that. But the personalities in the movie are too simplified. By example, there's the guy who always is slacking around doing nothing because he feels that having a full-time job until you retire is like wasting your life. Okay, but what else? What type of person is this guy, really? Also.. Each of the characters seem to act the way they do because they come from broken homes, which isn't very realistic in my opinion... The video that the main character has made is supposed to make their viewers know her friends and herself, but we don't really get to know them by watching the entire movie. Overall, I thought it was an enjoyable movie. I liked the atmosphere of it. It also wasn't always predictable. I gave this movie a 7 because I liked it even though I disliked some of it's aspects. "},{"Title":"Captures the era, but disappoints mightily","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  *SPOILERS*Reality Bites is one of the more unique viewing experiences I have had recently (just watching it for the first time yesterday, ten years after its release--it was one of those movies I was always just going to get around to seeing, and incredibly this took me a decade).  I say unique because, while disappointment is certainly no stranger to the American film fan, it's a rare thing indeed when that disappointment extends to a sense of betrayal, even pain.The film starts out loaded with promise.  Snarky Gen-X college buddies Lelaina (Winona Ryder), Troy (Ethan Hawke), Vickie (Janeane Garafalo) and Sammy (Steve Zahn) have just graduated, hate their jobs, and are looking for direction in the directionless mid-'90s. Lelaina has started a documentary about the four of them in hopes of finding answers that way.  Then she causes a stranger she initially mistakes for a yuppy (Michael, played by director Ben Stiller) to have a car accident, which leads to a sweet and very authentic romance. The whole film feels supremely natural from the get-go.  The performances and characters are solid (aside from token gay buddy Sammy, who is a complete and utter tack-on) and the attitudes capture the era as well as the clothes and music.Then, much to my chagrin, we are betrayed by Stiller and screenwriter Helen Childress on several fronts.First, the movie almost abruptly stops being about youth and self-discovery and turns into a tired love-triangle story with the loathesome Troy making up the other leg of the tripod with Lelaina and Michael.  Sure, I get it, the two of them represent the choices in life and direction that Lelaina must face.  But I don't want these characters reduced to a cheap metaphor, especially when the metaphor crowds out a theme that could have been really meaningful to anyone who was young in the '90s.  We never had our Five Easy Pieces, sadly.Secondly, and most grievously, Lelaina and the film choose terribly wrong.  They choose Troy.  And in doing so, Reality Bites makes the same sad mistakes that its generation did.  It mistakes a goatee and a lock of hair over the eye for sincerity.  It prizes immaturity, ego, pretension, self-absorption, inertia and tantrums over the honesty and humility of Michael.  It's almost laughable when the massively phony Troy tells Lelaina, I'm the only real thing you have.  There's nothing real about Troy.  There was nothing real about the legions of self-obsessed a**holes he represented.Because Troy is so unlikable, the movie makes the unforgivably cheap move of killing off his unseen father about ten minutes from the end.  This is supposed lend this vile human being some kind of worth in our eyes, I guess, but I didn't buy it for an instant.  The orphan routine comes off as just another drama-queen ploy (successful, of course) to worm his way into Lelaina's pants.  What really scares and even sickens me is that female viewers probably ACTUALLY SWOONED when Hawke delivered those maudlin final lines to Ryder--falling for the seduction of the worst aspects of that era...if this were an '80s movie, choosing Troy would be the equivalent of choosing the rich, yuppy jock.Then, the worst betrayal of all, the movie completely abandons Michael, easily the best character (certainly the best person) in the film.  He's not worth an ending, you see, because he has a clean-looking haircut and doesn't play acoustic guitar.  Someone please give me a stiff drink so I can forget about this ending.I'm angry enough to give this film a 3, but I figure anything that evokes so much feeling in me, even for the wrong reasons, has to be worth at least a 5.  Great performances (Ryder, Garafalo and Stiller), superb and natural direction, some nice dialogue, and an overall sense of authenticity push it to a 6.  But I'm hard-pressed to go beyond that for a movie that so completely and utterly fails to get it, and in the process loses the opportunity to be a landmark film for my generation.If you want something that actually deals with mid-'90s ennui in an unflinching manner and offers real insight, rent 1994's other slacker opus, Clerks. "},{"Title":"The title says it all","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" None of the characters in this movie are as clever as they think they are, much of the dialog is trite and eye-roll worthy, and the one character who's supposed to be a dumb sellout is the only one who actually shows any depth, maturity, or compassion. Which is a shame, because I like almost all of the actors in the film, especially Ben Stiller and Janeane Garofalo. Good thing most of the actors went on to make much better films.First, let me say that the best thing to happen to Mike (Ben Stiller) is that Lelaina (Winona Ryder) left him for the slacker. Mike deserves a woman who can appreciate a man who is willing to go out on a limb for her time and again, who tells her she's beautiful even when she's dressed like Betsy Wetsy, and doesn't mind that she's a self-centered pseudo-intellectual who's still trying to find herself. Lelaina clearly isn't that person. She'd rather have a guy whose idea of honesty is insulting her at every opportunity.Maybe Mike seems more sympathetic to me than Troy because Ben Stiller is such a likable guy, and I'm not the biggest fan of scruffy facial hair. Who knows? The bottom line is, anyone who takes her craft so seriously and is so irrational that she gets mad at the most honorable, self-aware, kindest person in her life (one who puts his reputation on the line to get her a big break in the field of her choice), just because the people he worked for butchered her film (although some might call the resulting montage, which basically mocks its whiny subjects, an improvement over the poorly shot mess she originally submitted), deserves to be stuck with a commitment-phobic loser with a bad attitude.I'm a Gen-Xer, and although I remember how hard it was to find decent work in the 90s, I must say that I cannot identify with those characters who, I suppose, the filmmakers wanted us to believe are cool, intelligent, and profound. Mostly, I guess, because I don't see that they possess any of those qualities.To be fair, this film is very dated. Maybe it seemed fresh and original in 1994. Perhaps I might have liked it had I seen it back then, when I was a self-admitted self-centered, maudlin GenXer facing tough career choices, too. But I doubt it. "}{"Title":"If you try to be ironic and fail... well, it's kind of ironic","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The defining moment of Reality Bites is when a newspaper editor asks Winona Rider to define irony. Well Ethan Hawke's character is right, it is indeed when the actual meaning is the complete opposite of the literal meaning.In the colloquial sense of the word however, a good example of irony would be having characters bemoaning the ham-fisted attempts by the baby boomers to define and package generation X, in a movie that ham-fistedly attempts to define and package Gen-X.The makers of Reality Bites however are apparently immune to irony, even when it is attached to its own backside We are supposed to be (humourously) appalled right along with Rider's character when the documentary she has been constantly working on gets commercialised and dumbed down. Her documentary, you see, gets distilled into a series of catch-phrases and disconnected, clichéd scenes set to a soundtrack of pop music, and abounding with product placements. Sadly, the butchered documentary is indistinguishable from the rest of the movie in this sense.Reality Bites attempts to be Diner, or The Big Chill for Gen X, but instead ends up being more of a St Elmo's Fire for the 90s. It rings false almost continuously. There is never an interaction between characters that doesn't seem contrived and forced. From moment to moment they move from one artificial scenario to another; dancing in the gas station, the episode of Good Times game, everything the characters do feels fake.This movie feels like it was written by someone who conducted interviews with gen Xers, watched how they live, and then wrote a story, based on the romantic comedy formula, that included all the touchstones and references they felt would appeal to Gen Xers.In short, Reality Bites was written and directed by people who just didn't get Gen X. Worse though, they also didn't get how to make a good movie.On the plus side, you can watch for appearances by Andy Dick, David Spade, Jeanne Tripplehorn and Renee Zellweger in tiny roles, and this may have been the career-defining moment for Janeane Garofolo....and I have to give the people behind Reality Bites credit for the line Because Mom, I'm not retarded. "},{"Title":"what was this film aiming for?","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I rate my movies by how much i feel they are worth watching. Thus totally equals a score of 10 and don't bothers like this one end up with 5 or below.The back cover of Reality Bites presents it as a commentary on life for 20-somethings in the 90s - with a love story to boot. It begins that way... but lapses soon enough into what is merely a clichéd love triangle tale between Winona Ryder's documentary-maker-wannabe Lelaina, Ethan Hawke's darkly handsome moody-muso-slacker Troy and Ben Stiller's likable yuppie Michael who, whilst adoring, will never really get her. No props for guessing who she picks. The sad thing is that the deluded Lelaina ain't that deep, and it's her that isn't deserving of Michael.Overall you can tell the film is trying to say something, but what? I didn't enjoy watching it enough to bother chasing for meanings that mostly had to rely on the audience's imagination to be formed. Whatever the message was supposed to be is strangled by the sloppy script and dislikeable characters (can you say pretentious and whiny? The only character we're actually able to relate to, who doesn't seem to think the world revolves around him, is Michael - the yuppie! So what if he's a suit, he's the only one who isn't an a**hole).While Reality Bites manages to be reasonably entertaining throughout, it will leave you ultimately unsatisfied and more than likely bothered - it doesn't really explore or say anything favourable about those Gen-X-ers and the love triangle thing has been done a thousand times before, and better. "},{"Title":"No one can eat fifty eggs.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although I technically fall into the skipped-over demographic that lies between Generation X-- the target audience for this film-- and the Dawson's Creek trolls, I find myself having a strange affinity for Reality Bites.By far its greatest attraction, at least for someone like me, is its unabashed cynicism, which somehow manages to avoid becoming tiresome, even as the plot drags on and on and on toward oblivion. Reality Bites certainly does mean well, even if it intent is somewhat lost in the execution.Unfortunately, this movie could not be any more overwrought, and it ultimately angsts itself into a very deep hole. Particularly frustrating is Ethan Hawke's character, a pseudo-philosopher who revels in his own delusions of nobility, when, in fact, he'd be a helluva lot better off just getting up off of his bum and trying to do something meaningful, instead of just moping around making pithy little comments that add up to exactly _jack_.And Winona Ryder's character, although purportedly the film's protagonist, is just too whiney! It's very difficult for even the most jaded viewer to develop sympathy for her struggle to find herself or whatever it is she's trying to do.Janeane Garofalo manages to save the film, though. Just the idea of someone like Janeane attempting to work at the Gap... it carries the movie through its many self-absorbed flaws.But, for all of its shortcomings, Reality Bites has somehow managed to DEFINE a large segment of a generation-- how it holds up over time will be an interesting test of its worth. Still, it's difficult to imagine that Ethan's trite little musings, however deep they were intended to sound, will impress people even five years from now.Rating 7 out of 10, which seems inflated, even to me. But I've given out lots of 5s and 6s (my voting has a nice bell-curve pattern...), and Reality Bites, at the very least, attempts to say something more than the vast majority of films, so I must give it some credit. And the performances, although it would be a stretch to say that ANY members of this cast were challenged by their roles here, are impressive. Some great scenes and one-liners, as well. Like 50 eggs, Reality Bites will go down more smoothly if broken down into smaller viewings, so you don't choke on all of the angst at once. "},{"Title":"The Real Reality World Bites","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember a few years ago watching the VH1 show called I Love the '90's, which I'm sure you've either heard of or seen. Reality Bites was one of the movies mentioned and how big it was at the time. My sister saw the clip with me and mentioned how she and her friends were in the Ben vs. Ethan fight, the good guy vs. the bad guy or who was just cuter? Goes to show where our shallow side started. But I was curious to see the movie and found it playing on TV one day, so I decided to check it out. This is definitely a movie of the '90's, which I find amusing that in the '90's we were obsessed with the '70's where the 70's were obsessed with the 50's. Watch as we go a little further in the 10's, we'll be obsessed with the '90's I guess. But back onto the movie, over all I think I liked it. All though I don't agree with the way it ended, it was a good coming of age story with some good laughs and decent performances.Long-time friend, temporary roommate guitarist Troy and budding film maker Lelaina are attracted to each other, though it's an attraction that neither of them has really acted upon. He's a slacker, nihilist and grunge rock musician by night, losing job after job in a series of minimum wage dead end endeavors during the day. Lelaina meets Michael when she throws a cigarette into his convertible, causing him to crash into her car. The two soon begin to date. He works at an MTV-like cable channel called In Your Face as an executive, and after learning about a documentary she's been working on, wants to get it aired on his network. After an impulsive act of retribution, Lelaina loses her job, which causes some tension with her roommates. She and Troy then sleep together and confess their love. The morning after, he avoids her and, after a messy confrontation, leaves town. Meanwhile, Lelaina's relationship with Michael dissolves after he helps her sell the documentary to his network, only to let them edit it into a stylized montage that she feels compromises her artistic vision, though he did not realize how her work would be updated for the audience, he tries to make things right with her. Torn between the good boy vs. the bad boy, Lelaina must choose between them.At the time The Real World was on MTV, there was some major competition to grab the youth's attention. This movie is one of the most honest I have seen where the young adults are acting like the way a lot of young adults do, very scared and unsure of what the future holds for us. Going from job to job, date to date, wanting money, sex, a house, a car, and a great job but never sure if it takes hard work, connections or just good luck. Winona did a great job showing great intelligence and courage in her role, she held herself very strongly and was a pleasure to watch. The only thing I did not appreciate about the film is that Ben Stiller is a successful executive and it's almost looked down upon as if he sold out, which was stupid. If he's not the right guy for Winona's character, that's fine, but don't make him seem like he's a dork. But with a good cast, this movie does pull itself together well and keeps you interested. I would recommend it.6/10 "},{"Title":"Feel Good... Feel Angry","Date":"26 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this film and right up until the last 10 minutes of that film I was really loving it. It had a meaningful plot about a group of young people's hope and dreams. Whilst some of their reactions to quite trivial events are laughable, they also struck me as believable for people of that age group (I remember it myself). The characters are quite well fleshed out and I did find myself identifying with them and wanting them to succeed.I put this movie on because it was recommended as a feel good and for about 80 minutes it does just that. And then it goes and ruins everything with our protagonist, who is self assured and intelligent; pick the complete and utter douche bag. It pretty much destroys what was a great movie and has made me feel angry rather than good and a bitter taste in my mouth.It's a shame as well because I think this is the only movie in which I have seen Ben Stiller play quite a serious role, which he does extremely well and is an almost instantly likable character that I think a lot of guys can relate to.The sad truth is that I think in real life girls like Lelaina really would chose guys like Troy over someone like Michael. It's also sad that realistically someone like Troy would be cheating on or would have broken up completely with someone like Lelaina. OK so this might be what would really happen but this really REALLY isn't what I want in a feel good movie. *I shake my head* "},{"Title":"Too much","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I hate Ethan Hawke's character in this movie. Since he is a main-character and a love interest in this movie he should have one redeeming quality, but he doesn't. He is supposed to be a struggling musician intellectual type, but just comes off as a loser. I think the writers want you to root for his character, but he comes off as way to self-absorbed to make you want to do anything but punch him in the face. He follows every slacker cliché, such as smoking pot out of aluminum cans (something most people haven't done since high school). Every line that is supposed to make him appear witty falls short. He just comes across as conceited most of the time.And I understand that slackers are usually dirty but he has a pile of grease in his hair during the movie which is just disgusting to look at. Usually the underachiever love interest is supposed to at least be attractive (e.g. Jared Leto in My So Called Life) - but he isn't even good looking. Having a slacker character is fine but they still need some redeeming qualities. None of the characters in this movie are fully developed, him especially. "},{"Title":"Reality bites the alternative.","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I have overviews being written about Ben Stiller in various magazines and TV programs,they all mention how he first started out in indie films,before he got discovered by a more mainstream audience.After having a look at the back cover,and seeing the very impressive cast listings,I was looking forward to an amazing laugh- riot.Instead,I found the film to be shockingly light on laughs of any kind.The plotA group of Generation X students graduate from college,and realise the it is time that they all enter the real world,and look for a real job.One of them (Celaina Pierce)has been making a documentary film about her friends,whilst she has been stuck at being an assistant to a TV chat-show host,that cant stand her.Suddenly,a sign of hope appears,when a very trendy music TV producer (Michael Grates) crashes into her car!.Due to how genuinely apologetic Michael seems to be (and also due to him being a producer)Ceclaina shows him the documentary that she has been making.Whilst this should be the first step to a clear path to stardom for Celaina,she sadly,has to decide if she wants to enter the sell-out mainstream world,or if she should stick to her Gen X friends.Which include her friend Troy,who is trying to figure out what his true feelings are for her...View on the filmFor a film that has such a craving to be seen as part of the early to mid nineties alternative scene,it just feels completely artificial and hollow.One of the things that surprised me was,that apart from a handful of some very good tracks,the film completely skips over making any references to the excellent films,music and novels of the era.Whilst all of the strong cast give acceptable performances,they are sadly let down by the terrible screenplay by Helen Childres.Which includes very badly-written sub-story lines for Celainas friends (a story line involving Janeane Larry Sanders Garofalo,waiting for results on being diagnosed with AIDS,is written as such a minor thing,that it should have been cut out at the earliest stages of the screenplay.)The main romance in the film between Celaina and Troy completely crumbles,due to there hardly being any chemistry between them,and also because Troy is a very nasty egotistical bully threw out the whole film.Final view on the filmA strong cast,let down by a very badly written,completely unfunny screenplay. "},{"Title":"Irony Shirts","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I love this kind of stuff, when the manner of the film reflects the content of the film, especially when the filmmakers don't know it.Stiller has subsequently directed `Cable Guy,' which meanly brought us a film about a guy who meanly brings us film; and `Zoolander' which is a collection of vacuous postured performances about guess what? vacuous postured performances.Here, we have an aimless, amateurish but honest film about..That's right. The self-reference is rich. It helps that Winona and Ethan are so darned earnest and so ungrounded in the environment of the film (because Stiller is a poor director). That makes it ever more real to see them disconnected from their film world.Naturally, Winona is a genius FILM student. (Ethan's terrific later Hamlet would use the same self-referential device.) Naturally, the man in her life who has trouble understanding is Stiller, both in the film and as director. Naturally, all the philosophy Ethan's character is reading deals with just this problem. Naturally, the issue here is that people steeped in irony don't know what it means.Naturally, this is just the thing Janeane builds her skits upon, so (naturally) she steals the show. "},{"Title":"No sir, I don't like it.","Date":"20 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's like a vortex, the Reality Bites pitch video Ben Stiller's character shows Winona's is actually THIS MOVIE! The writer must've made a checklist of all of the 90's edgy topics like AIDS, homosexuality, and then threw in some 80's parents just don't understand, making for a very after school special like tsunami of cheese. It looks promising from the cover but it's really a Hollywood movie trying to act like an indie flick, a product of grunge being highly marketable that year. It didn't do it for me when I saw its debut at 16, and after giving it another try just now it's even worse than what I remember. I really hope future generations don't refer to this film to see what life was like back then. It doesn't come close to having the same depth John Hughes movies had the previous decade.I guess this is Ben Stiller's directorial debut and I'm so glad he went on to do comedy instead. You can see some of his self deprecating humor when he freaks out at Ethan Hawke's character near the end.I don't know if there is a really definitive Generation X 90's movie, I'd vote Chasing Amy if I had to pick one though. "},{"Title":"REALITY BITES intersects w/ PURPLE RAIN","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watching cable today, I caught the last 30 mins of Reality Bites starring Winona Ryder, Ethan Hawke and Janene Garolfo. Is it me?? Does the entire scene were Michael returns to offer Lelaina some work & Troy makes it OBVIOUS he & Lel is INVOLVED remind U of Prince's film PURPLE RAIN ??? Especially when Troy jumps on stage & begin to expose their sexual exploits causing Lelaina to FLEE from the venue! Remember Prince singing Darling Nikki & Appolonia running out of the club?!! This whole scene was literally SNATCHED from Purple Rain. Stiller & Childress ... DO U HAVE NO SHAME ? In their defense, this film certainly lives up to its title! Incidentally . . . the outside camera shot of the venue looks a lot like the music club from Purple Rain too. SMH. "}{"Title":"the film of the 90s Grunge generation","Date":"11 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love this film; Ethan Hawke is brilliant and really does sum up the 'searcher' generation, the new Beat. Grunge in this film is typified by over-intelligent, under-achieving, dope induced philosophical musings and desire to make a difference but not knowing how to go about it in world where young people feel anonymous and disenfranchised and dealing with modern day issues; coming out, HIV tests, unemployment, friendship, love and life aspirations.I think this is perfectly cast, loads of familiar faces, and I think this is my favourite role of Winona Ryder. Steve Zahn and Janeane Garofalo were great and the comedy, and Ben Stiller (who also directed) is good despite being an atypical role for him, and is one of his best roles. Ethan Hawke, however, is the deserved lead in this snapshot of reality, and a showcase of his band/singing. This is a well cast and performed ensemble cast production, and there are truisms left right and centre; it speaks to the heart & soul and is relevant to the 90s generation and I'm sure has relevance to later decades and has - IMHO - aged well. It is super-funny, touching and enlightening; something for everyone who's young enough and old enough. Even after 20 years it's one of my favourite films and watching it gives me such a warm feeling. "},{"Title":"For a movie called Reality Bites, the characters sure have nothing to complain about!","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Look, I get that being a young adult ain't easy, they're a lot of issues in life no matter what age...except for the characters in this movie. Winona Ryder's character (lelaina) is a horrible person who steals 900 dollars from her father...because she's Rebellious and Ethan Hawke's character (Troy) is one of the most despicable people ever put to film. Apathetic, pretentious, egotistical, despicable, he's just an awful character. AND YET, these two are our leads who we root for! THESE TWO! Lelaina is a stealing, whiny, pathetic child while Ethan is a lazy, jerk who thinks his music will be his career (ignoring the fact his music makes Creed sound like The Band)hey Ethan, most people who have a music passion tend to have a job so they can support themselves while chasing their dreams...just a thought...oh wait you have parents willing to support you and give you money but they're just The Man to you. ugh.... This movie is framed like were supposed to root for these two when characters like this should be framed as if they were the horrible people they are and consequences happen to them (a la Trainspotting) instead they are just two cool rebels...The only three likable characters either get barely any screen time (Janeane Garofolo's character and Steve Zahn who deserved much better) Apparently to this movie, being privileged sucks too...was this movie made by those whiny teenagers in class who make those poems that mean absolutely nothing?But my biggest question is...what is the point of this movie? Was this was meant to be a satire of the 90s? Well it came out too early in 1994 for this to satirize it...but even if it wasn't it was not framed like a satire. It was filmed as a serious movie... Was it to relate to teenagers or young adults? Maybe so but I'd hate to meet the people who are like this, because in real life there are consequences and for stuff like the characters in this movie, it's not a good consequence. Was it too be a nice romantic comedy? Well it fails there amazingly since the characters are so horrible. NO I'll tell you what it's purpose was, CASH! This movie is perfect pandering towards this kind of demographic, let's face it, teenagers are idiots and they will dig this kind of stuff, how ironic that a movie against the man was made by the man (BTW, that's irony Ethan Hawke. Not the actual meaning is the complete opposite of the literal meaning) Now there are people who apparently relate to this movie and say That's what I was like IF that's the case 1. NO WAY did you get out of something similar to that without ANY consequences like in this cinematic abomination. 2. Is that really a good thing? Most of the time when you look back on stuff like this you say Wow...I was a complete idiot. Bottom line...I hate this movie...I hate everything about...The only good acting comes from Jeane, Steve and Ben Stiller (who I forgot to mention gets ridiculed for GASP having a steady, desirable job and being nice!) everyone else is awful, it's shot poorly. If this movie summed up Gen X than thank god we moved on from those days, things were better in those days? If it's like this movie than that is completely wrong! "},{"Title":"Bite it Back","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Four 1990s smokers discover Reality Bites as they try to make it in the real world, after graduating from college. Smart but whiny Winona Ryder (as Lelaina Pierce) wants to be a documentary producer. She is obviously in love with dirty-haired slacker pal Ethan Hawke (as Troy Dyer), but they have a hard time hooking up. Then, Ms. Ryder, a self-described non-practicing virgin, meets 1980s yuppie Ben Stiller (as Michael Grates), who reveals himself to be a non-practicing Jew, and the fireworks begin. Best friends Janeane Garofalo (as Vickie Miner) and Steve Zahn (as Sammy Gray) are more interesting, but receive less screen time. One of the best scenes, involving Ryder at a support group meeting for alcoholic sister Patricia Childress (as Patty), was inexplicably sent to Deleted Scenes Hell.**** Reality Bites (2/18/94) Ben Stiller ~ Winona Ryder, Ethan Hawke, Ben Stiller, Janeane Garofalo "},{"Title":"What can I say ? I just love this movie.","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love it, I love it, I love it, I love it.It's really an extraordinary movie about love and relationships in 90's. I don't belive you if you say you don't see our everyday choices in this film. Lelaina Pierce is simply one of us, a person trapped in 'The Mc World', somewhere between ideas of love and making money and whole career stuff. When she kissed Ben Stiller for the first time in this movie, an audience in my cinema was very upset, but at the end no one doubted her final choice.I know you also want to record your voice on an answering machine in the way Ethan Hawke did it in the final scene. It' s as obvious as enjoying a moment, a few seconds before the rain...  "},{"Title":"No one can eat all the Reality!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film, takes everything Coupland's book, epitomising Generation X, says, and throws it in the face of the viewer.  The characters are the Valedictorian who forgoes her principles and works on a schmultzy TV programme, the guy with the 180 IQ, who drops out of college to take up a McJob, the graduate, actually settling in to a career, and the secondary character who has sexuality issues. The plot is great, with many insightful quotes, about the generation we have become.  Winona usually bores me to pieces,and annoys the hell out of me, with 'her pointy little face',yet I can tolerate her in this role, Ethan was definitely the best in the film, with the best lines and the most arrogance. Stiller deserves recognition for his directing, and not so much his acting, which was rather stiff, yet he was believable as the sold out yuppy.Overall, I would say this film is my favourite film, and everyone needs to see it. "},{"Title":"better now than it was four years ago","Date":"4 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reality Bites is a fine movie, but it didn't make much of an impression on me the first few times I saw it. Granted, I was only fourteen when it came out, and a lot of it was over my head. But now that I watch it again, I find it totally charming. The dialogue is so great -- some of it might be a tad cheesy or trite, but on the whole I think it's nicely written. It's also got a great soundtrack, references to 70s and 80s television and music, and a spoof of MTV. If you just ignore that nagging, annoying Generation X feel, what you end up with is a cute, clever movie that I think anyone would enjoy. "},{"Title":"Generation  X, Y, and ZZZZZZZZZZZ","Date":"2 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Broad and shallow film directed by Ben Stiller spins an unoriginal and unsurprising tale with characters and situations seen a dozen times before. The only things that have changed are the clothes, the soundtrack, the slang and the cultural references which begin to feel like the film's only purpose for being. This film covers ground so familiar that it's flat and barren. The central characters feel like stand-ins for real people, the romance doesn't spark, and the one-dimensional feel of it all makes this more about Generation ZZZZZZ than X. Not one of the actors has an original or memorable moment or anything of interest to say. "},{"Title":"Brutal","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a film that does not deserve even one star, and although I listed it as such, it really gets zero from me. Simply put, it is the worst film of the 90s. The acting, particularly Hawke and Garafalo, stands out as being lame (Not that I cared about even one character in this film (Which even makes it worse than Hot Tub Time Machine, who had at least one redeemable character)), and sad to say, the actors operated with a script that no one could possibly salvage. However, what is the worst is how the word Comedy pops up in the description of this film. There is not one scene in this film that can be classified as giggle worthy (Let alone funny). It certainly is one of the worst films I have ever saw in my life. The film is brutal, and should be avoided at all costs. "},{"Title":"Whine with that documentary","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here is yet another movie where people in their twenties sit around and smoke pot all day. That is not all that we do and this movie has the most whiny and pathetic characters in it. This main character, Lelaina, is making a documentary about her friends after they graduate from college. It's not even good because all she does is just tape them laying on the couch and smoking pot. She also tapes a lot of whiny people who are so messed up about their parents divorce twenty years ago. I just wanted to tell them to get over themselves and get a job. I especially liked that jerk, Grant. He was so honest and so correct about Lelaina. I also didn't care about who she picked as a love interest. I really didn't like this movie that much. "},{"Title":"sorry, gen-Xers, you were pathetic","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie captures the biting reality well. that's why it is so painful to watch. it actually rings true. troy, the rebel philosopher, and lelaina, the artistic intellectual, are sadly realistic. like many Americans of that generation, the two are self-absorbed and narrow-minded. and they do deserve each other - at least in the time span depicted in the movie.reality bites was not trying to be about coming of age. it simply reflected the fact that many gen x college graduates failed to grow up in due time because they believed to be ah so special way beyond their teen years. i wonder if this is why so many reviewers did not like young ben stiller's take on life... they simply hate to see the similarity between themselves and the pathetic main characters. "}{"Title":"One of those movies that defined my life","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Some films are great because of their escapism. Others are great because they transport you to a time or place that is exotic or different or unknown. Reality Bites is not one of those films.Instead, this is a movie that is great because it's true. I was a teenager when this film came out - too young to be living it but old enough to be afraid of it. (As another comment put it, I fall into that skipped-over generation between GenX and GenY). Despite that, this film stayed with me as I made all those decisions that people are supposed to make - going to college, graduating at the top of my class, and then... what? Now, ten years later, I can say I successfully surpassed Reality Bites and forged my own reality which doesn't, well, bite. But the confusion, the aimlessness, the frustration that life won't be the way you planned and the fear that maybe all the hard work won't pay off, well, that stayed with me.There were so many classic scenes in this film that I can't even begin to list them. I can just say that there's a general feeling with this film that the actors, the writer, the director... everyone just gets it. They tap into what it's like to have followed all the predictable, next-step paths of life and done all the things we were supposed to do, and find at the end of them that instead of the keys to the city, we were handed a big giant blank. They know what it's like to be confused about life, confused about love, confused about pretty much everything... and be learning that a future is something you build one step at a time.I can't review Reality Bites without mentioning the soundtrack. There is no other movie whose soundtrack has made it into such heavy rotation in my CD player for so many years. Lisa Loeb, U2, Lenny Kravitz, and of course My Sharona - just to name a few - make this movie so much of what it is.Reality Bites is a movie that people either love or hate. I think those who hate it don't quite understand it, and those who love it - like me - do so because we identify with it. That's why it ranks as one of my all-time favourites. 10/10. "},{"Title":"WAS one of my favorites","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Notice the past tense there. I used to love this movie, and if this were a few years ago this would be one glowing review, but now that isn't the case. I still love the soundtrack and the character of Vickie (because her love of all things retro is just as out of control as mine and Janeane Garofalo is just plain awesome), but the rest is falling flat. Lelaina becomes grating because she's so WHINY it makes me want to puke. Is she supposed to be 8 or a twentysomething here? (Blah blah I can't find a job even though I just graduated from college as a valedictorian and everyone hates me! That's pretty much how she feels through the whole movie.)But the breaking point is Troy. I totally and utterly cannot stand this guy or Ethan Hawke in general. Sure, he's intelligent, but the way he flaunts it so arrogantly is what makes him such an unlikeable guy. I don't deny that I'm quite an intelligent person, but I don't go around making people feel inadequate about it like Troy!The ending of this movie has always left a weird taste in my mouth. It's just plain inconclusive. I remember sometimes I'd watch this and stop it just before the ending draws on because it's just so unsatisfying to watch. (evil, evil spoiler begins its terror) Yeah, so Lelaina realizes that Troy is really her soulmate and that Michael the Yuppie is really a shallow, um, yuppie. Why does this bug me so much? Shouldn't I be happy about the outcome? (end of evil, evil spoiler)Several years back, this movie probably would have gotten an 8 or a 9, but now it gets a 3. If it weren't for Garofalo's wonderful performance as Vickie it wouldn't be worth watching at all anymore. "},{"Title":"Presentable look at the alternative lifestyle.","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Seems as though Universal put the near-perfect timing on releasing this out in theaters with high school graduation just around the corner, circa 1994. REALITY BITES definitely lives up to its name, and it shows. Those who've seen this will find it fairly memorable, as it presents mid-90s culture in brilliant sophistication. Just about the entire film is talky, tunesy, and artsy, and that strongly makes up for a plot that really doesn't exist. The whole point concerns college-bound graduates who face the times hard and simple in many different ways. In case you missed out on Karen Duffy credited at the very start, please don't press the STOP button at the end. You may be surprised! Judging by the fashionable looks and string guitar sounds, I'm not so sure if this one will be appealing anymore, at least for a while. Five years has come and gone, but a 90s culture classic remains.  "},{"Title":"Offensively trite...","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Old-fashioned coming-of-age clichés and young romance packaged in new-fangled wrapping. Ben Stiller made his directorial debut with this would-be irreverent look at Generation X-ers making a go at life after graduating from college, exposing his soft penchant for normalcy in the second-half and slushing the movie with sentimental humor. Winona Ryder is a very ingratiating actress, and convincing as an unconventional girl unsure of which road to take--but a slacker she is not; when the film shows her as floundering, or getting by using her 'cute' wiles, it lapses into cartoony territory. There's not much reality in Reality Bites, except that shallow is as shallow does. Pretty desperate and drippy. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Really Stupid","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Hollywood seems to come out with a new movie about recent college grads about every 10-15 years. I think I've seen them all starting with The Graduate. And Reality Bites has to be among the worst. I remember the early 90s. Young people did not listen to Peter Frampton. They didn't have Shaun Cassidy posters on their walls. One of the themes of the movie was the reluctance of the characters to sellout. And yet the producers sold out big time to the tobacco industry. There's smoking in almost every scene, product placements, and even a plug for Camel Straights. The movie really bites. I could write more about the boring characters, the meandering plot, etc., but who cares? But I add one more comment. When the yuppie Michael turns whats her name's documentary film into a pizza commercial, this movie within a movie is actually better than the film itself. "},{"Title":"The worst Gen-X film ever","Date":"19 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this shortly after graduating from college. I must say that I was pretty embarrassed to be a part of the generation that the film sought to characterize. There are numerous misconceptions about Gen-X and Bites pretty much captures all of them. For one, I can say that few twenty-somethings in the 90s celebrated Shaun Cassidy, Good Times, Frampton, Planet of the Apes, and Schoolhouse Rock with as much zeal as the dunderhead characters in this film. In fact, many of the Gen-Xers I was friends would sneer at the thought of listening to Frampton Comes Alice and damn sure would not know who Dr. Zaius was. Likewise, most twenty-somethings were either jamming to Alice in Chains or even Snoop's first album instead of going nuts to the Knack. Yes, Gen-Xers helped make retro stuff hip again, BUT such music, films and so on were only cool because stupid films like this pushed pop culture references down everyone's throats. In reality, however, some of the stereotypes presented in the film are true. I did know several people like Winona Ryder's character who graduated from college with little focus, little talent and not flexibility to make it in the professional world. And Ethan Hawke's depiction of an oh so ironic, chain smoking slacker was not untypical of some of the era's lost souls. Inaccurate or accurate, it's still a frustrating mess and its ridiculous conclusion only leaves the audience frustrated and furious. "},{"Title":"Made me feel like tearing my eyes out","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie had ambition.  It was meant to be the film that would stand once and for all as the definer and glorifier of generation-x.  It tried very very very hard to be clever and ironic and witty and hip.  It is on my personal list of my top ten most hated movies of all time (not the worst movies, just the ones I could stand the least).I will admit that I am not at all a fan of either Winona Ryder or Ethan Hawke.  In fact, since I saw this movie six years ago, I have refused to see any movie starring either actor.  In 'Reality Bites,' they portray the type of hip misunderstood geniuses that we all wish we could be; they have vast education and intelligence but no marketable job skills, they spend their time ridiculing yuppies and pitying themselves, and they are really good looking.  Also, at one point Ethan gives an excruciatingly bad performance of a terrible song that he presumably wrote himself.  Joining the impossibly hip duo are Steve Zahn and Janeane Garofalo as their quirky college friends, and Ben Stiller (who also directed this farce) as one of the aforementioned yuppies.Now, I happen to like Janeane Garofalo, Steve Zahn, and Ben Stiller, but it took me several years to be able to appreciate them again after seeing this movie.  ***Spoiler Alert*** After an hour and a half of irony, self-pity, and bed-hopping, Winona and Ethan finally realise that they really love each other, and all is well.  Usually this type of love-conquers-all ending ruins the film for me, but in this case the proceedings could not have gotten any worse anyway, **End spoiler alert***I hated this movie simply because of its smugness.  It even takes great pains to define for us the word 'irony', and how ironic it is that such ironic people are unaware of its definition.  Also, I have very strong suspicions that Ethan Hawke became so immersed in his Reality Bites character that he stayed in character for another seven years (until Training Day - which I didn't see and never will, but at least he cut his hair and shaved his goatee).  It is possible that my immediate, visceral aversion to this movie resulted from a complete inability to empathise with such obnoxious and self-satisfied, yet still whiny, characters as we see here.  They have no redeeming qualities as people, and they mistake their idle mockery of everything about them for some kind of genuine hipness.  This is not a mistake that the viewer should be making. If you are a person who thinks that there is nobility in being hopelessly untalented and unemployed, then you may like this movie.  Everyone else, stay away.  "},{"Title":"another form of torture","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is probably one of, if not the worst movie i have ever seen before in my life. acting is subpar, the direction is crap, and the script is terrible... i have seen bad movies, this is just painful. what is the point to the movie? is there a point? a bunch of people bitching about their lives. wow. sounds thrilling. hey, i could bitch for two hours and save myself the money. i like ben stiller, but it was simply his worst film ever, along with the rest of the casts'.  "},{"Title":"Better Left In The Time Capsule","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If I were a less responsible critic, I'd recommend Ben Stiller's REALITY BITES, merely on the basis of good intentions. It is a fairly harmless movie, and it certainly means well. However, I can't in good conscience condone the smug, self-appreciating dialogue, selfish and obnoxious characters and pathetic (yet forgone) conclusion. The story revolves around Lanie (Winona Ryder), a recent college grad trying to make it in the real world. She works as a production assistant on an early-morning talk show, hosted by a man so peppy and sappy on screen that movie law forbids him to be anything but a total asshole when the cameras are off. In her free time, Lanie assembles footage for a documentary about her friends, a melting pot of mid-nineties hipsters that completely cover the gamut of common social problems Sammy (Steve Zahn), who's gay; Vickie (Janeane Garofolo), who works for minimum wage at the Gap and worries she has AIDS; and Troy (Ethan Hawke), an intellectual slacker who fronts a third-rate grunge band and is secretly in love with Lanie. Of course, Lanie's in love with Troy, too, but she's involved with Michael (Stiller), who is a total Baxter. Rather than tell each other their feelings, though, Lanie and Troy choose to bicker incessantly between singing along to the hits of the '70's and waxing philosophical about TV sitcoms. I realize this film was considered a benchmark in capturing the mid-90's slacker culture, but looking at it now, it's a dated timepiece, and a rather tired one at that. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main problem with this generally abysmal attempt to translate early Nineties Generation X slacker attitudes to the big screen is the characters. The film essentially deals with Ryder's character `Lelaina's romantic dilemma as she decides whether to go for slacker `Troy' (Ethan Hawke)or MTV exec Michael (director Ben Stiller). For some reason we are clearly supposed to sympathise more with Troy than Michael. Yet Troy never comes across as anything other than a deeply pretentious bore, while Michael, whom we are presumably supposed to think is a malevolent yuppie, in fact comes across as a nice enough, perfectly decent chap. Troy continuously mocks Michael's supposed stupidity, yet we never see any evidence that he is any less intelligent than Troy. Despite answering the 'phone with quotes from Shakespeare Troy in fact seems pretty insecure intellectually, perhaps explaining why he constantly derides Michael. As a romantic comedy hero he has only his looks to commend him - a far cry from the characters Hawke portrayed so expertly in Dead Poet's Society and Before Sunrise. The only thing that would stop the audience rooting for Stiller over Hawke in the film is the fact that she and all the other characters are such shallow unlikeable characters. The terrible documentary that Stiller's character makes which so horrifies Ryder and ultimately forces her into Troy's arms, is in fact, exactly the sort of thing one would expect to appeal to someone like her. Another problem is summed up by the poster for the film, which shows all the characters standing in front of a brick wall. Daubed on the wall are various slogans summing up various issues affecting young people - trust, jobs, relationships, safe sex and inexplicably ' hey, that's my bike'. One can easily imagine the meeting where these issues were noted down cynically as ones to be used in the film. All are touched upon in an entirely perfunctory manner. One character thinks she has AIDS. She goes for a test. She doesn't - phew! Another issue ticked off the checklist. Reality Bites is full of actors who I like, but none - except perhaps Janeane Garofalo - emerge from the venture with any credit, least of all Stiller who directed the damn thing. If you want a taste of Generation X rent a Richard Linklater film or read a Douglas Coupland novel instead. Reality Bites is ultimately a truly terrible movie and should be consigned to the dustbin of history along with other supposedly profound works of rubbish like The Breakfast Club. But I don't think that sentence would have fitted on the poster.  "}{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"18 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is not worthy of the good things I've been hearing about it. As a teenager, i found it particularly dull, and i was left feeling angry at the world. Maybe it's because i wasn't an American teenager in the 90s, but even if the film has characters which may remind of past friendships, it lacked in humour, romance and charm. Winona Ryder's character was a complete idiot, and made me want to hit something (preferably her) with a spade and i can't say much for ANY of the other characters. This film doesn't even have comedy value in its badness, it will just suck the joy out of your life. The ending is especially painful, don't be fooled into thinking it will remotely redeem itself, it doesn't...in fact, the ending's the worst part. So in conclusion, I do not recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched reality bites about two days ago and have had it on repeat since. firstly i would like to say that those who do not like this movie are entitled to their own opinion but i was really annoyed to find that some of the users have actually insulted people who do like the movie so firstly by all means have your own opinion but let others have theirs. I thought reality bites was brilliant. In my view it depicted well the struggle that teenagers can face when leaving school college or uni. Some of the parts were cast awkwardly but I do have to say my surprise at seeing Ethan Hawkes depiction of Troy Dyer. I had to be honest typecast him in the role of saintly good guys but found this a refreshing change. Others may not agree but the film really spoke to me and i do not believe for one minute it was because of my shallow personality but simply for the fact that, that is where my life is right now. I give this movie a 10 and in regards to the debate of Winona Ryder's character picking the wrong bloke I disagree. She went for a genuine bloke not a co-orporate clown. A movie to at least watch once even if you don't enjoy it. "},{"Title":"I'm apparently one of few who LOVE  this movie","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It kinda hurt me to read so much negativity about this movie. I re-watch this film annually. Where is all the venom coming from? I graduated from college in 1995, without a career waiting for me. I totally related to Lelaina.I don't know where all the hostility towards Troy comes from. Many intelligent people choose not to buy into our consumer driven culture. He recognizes that materialism/consumerism (which Michael clearly represents) does not make anyone happy. And like many others, he doesn't know quite what will. To me he's a smart guy with existential issues. He never proposes to be something he isn't. And he's only rude to Michael, the antithesis to everything he believes in.As for Michael, I don't think he was intended to be anything other than a transitional person for Lelaina. He wasn't evil, just sort of shallow and not of Lelaina's culture. He is a reminder that while money does make things easier in some respects, it has no heart and will not fulfill you.This movie is completely romantic, not to mention hilarious in a completely sarcastic understated manner (are employee snacks subsidized?). I love it. And I like the fact that the girl goes to rescue him instead of vice versa (even if he does find her first!). Awesome soundtrack. "},{"Title":"This is my life...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"23 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a much better film than the consensus would have it. in fact, I would say it bids fair to become a classic (it certainly will serve cultural historians of the nineties well...) Compared to Singles, a superficially similar film released a couple of years earlier, Reality Bites is so much more, well, biting... Not to say that I don't like Singles, it's cute, but the movie in question here is much more than that. I could really empathize with these characters, especially Rider's Lelaina Pierce. It's hard to hang on to ideals in the real world (guess that's why I'm back at university). The script is REALLY good, almost every line is funny or incisive or both. The acting is first-rate- so they're playing themselves, so what! Does that make it any less enjoyable? I don't think so... This is a superior romantic-comedy, set amongst the same noncomformist set that enlivened the screwball comedies of the thirties, and it works just as well...    "},{"Title":"Nineteen Ninety F*cking Four Broseph","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yeah, I saw this movie. What would you like to know? What are the names of the actors in this movie? That's an example of the types of questions you can ask. Who directed this movie? Are they from America? Does this movie have a soundtrack? These are other examples of really good questions to ask me. Here is like another good question- Does what happens in the movie, like is it important, like is it significant to the plot? This is the part of the review where I try to stretch it, y'know, ran out of things to say but I'm still trying to meet the bare minimum of what constitutes for a review. These last few words here should do just that. "},{"Title":"Manipulative nineties crap. Watchable, though.","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reality Bites is basically a case of putting a trendy patina on a shopworn romantic comedy cliché. The film is something of a paradox; it's specifically about the reality of finding a job and love in an unforgiving world, and tries to spell out, in pretty big letters, that people in the nineties had issues to deal with. But therein lies the films problem - its sheer glibness; serious issues like job globalization or the advent of AIDS appear as snapshots, almost reduced to an exercise in style. In numerous shots, the real characters in the film represent youth culture as its referenced in rock videos and the grungy, black and white magazine ads of its day.Troy, the main love interest in the story, is a composite of the dude from the Replacements and some 90's retro fashion insert. Additionally, Troy is a wellspring of political and philosophical quips about the surrounding world, ultimately cynical in tone and indifferent to the ideal of success or suburban security. The other guy in the movie is sort of a TV exec yuppie, likable enough but not really cool at all and somewhat self regarding and out-of-touch. (Maybe a tad eighties, as well. The biggest crime in this movie would be to openly admit liking Billy Idol.)The comedy/drama/romance focus of the picture is REALLY about media grad Lelaina Pierce tryna find true love and so she must choose between these two male stereotypes. The curious feeling of gender and class manipulation is palpable, if only because the filmmakers are interested in selling an age-old love triangle convention and also because of the tendency to reduce the nineties Gen-X/grunge era to a type. A handful of good dramatic conflict scenes help prop the vehicle up, so to speak, also a film soundtrack was marketed around the same time. "},{"Title":"iconic Gen X movie","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Generation X college graduates struggle to find their way. Valedictorian Lelaina Pierce (Winona Ryder) tries to maintain her sincere believes while making a documentary about her group and working at Grant Gubler's morning show. Troy Dyer (Ethan Hawke) is her best friend and a willful womanizing slacker. Vickie Miner (Janeane Garofalo) is concerned that she has become a manager at the Gap. Sammy Gray (Steve Zahn) is trying to come to terms with his sexuality. Music TV executive yuppie Michael Grates (Ben Stiller) crashes into Lelaina's car leading into a romance.This is an iconic Gen X movie. Winona is adorable. Ethan Hawke is at the height of his slacker cool. There is great music. There is great slacker dialog. The only problem is that Ben Stiller is not a big enough jerk. That breaks a cliché from the traditional rom-com. One breaks the formula at one's own risk. Although who doesn't want to dance in a gas station convenient store? "},{"Title":"Life After College!","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reality Bites is a movie I can currently relate with, as I have been recently suffering through post-college trauma. The movie has such a relatable premise, but I feel it could have been just a little better. But watching the movie provided me with the feeling that I am not alone in this ordeal. The movie was written pretty well and this is Ben Stiller's directorial debut, so a movie like this is not a bad way to begin a directing career.Stiller's film is about a TV production assistant named Lelaina who is creating a documentary about post-grad life with her three friends Troy who is a philosophical unemployed slacker, Vicki who is the manager of Gap, and Sammy who is trying to find his sexuality. When she meets Michael, an executive at an MTV-like studio, there is a chance her documentary can now go public. The film is reasonably acted. Winona Ryder does a pretty good job as Lelaina, even if she seems a little whiny. I liked Ethan Hawke's character as his philosophy reminded of his character in the Before Sunrise series. Ben Stiller had a limited role, but he did a solid job. I also like Steve Zahn as the man trying to find out who he is. Overall, Reality Bites is a decent movie because mainly it has a theme that people my age can relate to. The path to show this theme may not work as effective, but the movie was still mostly entertaining. I will say that the documentary shots got a little annoying at times, but the narrative itself is quite good. My Grade B "},{"Title":"Winona in Real Life","Date":"11 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Slightly cynical, but not overwhelmingly so. Good cast. Probably one of the better Winona Ryder films-- better than 'Heathers' I think. I like Ben Stiller, so I liked his character better than his rival's, but Ethan Hawke's guy was okay too I guess. There's also something to be said about having a clear resolution to a three-party triangle where one of the two rivals is clearly chosen, although in this case I think the choice was somewhat influenced by 90s anti-business cynicism. Although I'll admit that Hawke's character was sympathetic to some degree for me, despite being somewhat cynical about life. On the whole about as good as many movies of this kind, and better than some. And it's not bad, pretty nice, to see Winona Ryder get a good part in a film that, works for her, I guess, since a lot of them don't, I think. She always comes across to me as a nice girl with usually bad luck, so it's good to see her when she's at her luckiest. (8/10) "},{"Title":"that scene bewildered me","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" -- SPOILER -- When Lelaine comes back angry and disappointed from the premier of her show and Troy declares his love and they have sex, I had an uneasy feeling, the scene is presented as romantic with romantic lighting, romantic guitar, etc. (and I bet many people probably taught how sweet), but basically this is a scene where a person in a momentary state of weakness is emotionally pushed to do something.Now I don't say this scene depicts a full fledge SA, neither that the Troy character is bad (you don't have to have bad intentions to do regrettable things), nor that this kind of situation is not realistic (cause it is)... what bothered me the most I think was the choice of music, it should probably have been more dissonant, not some mellow mushy guitar.am I the only one ill-at-ease with this scene? Sorry for any misspell, English is my second language. "}{"Title":"Did he dazzle you with his extensive knowledge of mineral water?","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" None are more hopelessly enslaved than those who falsely believe they are free. - Goethe Work Makes Freedom - sign above Auschwitz entrance The directorial debut of Ben Stiller, Reality Bites is a well meaning but slight film which hopes to capture the tempo and anxieties of Generation X. The film revolves around a small cast of young adults (Winona Ryder, Ethan Hawke, Ben Stiller, Steve Zahn), all of whom are raging caricatures. There's the artist, the sex junkie, the drop out, the corporate sell out and of course the always-precious Winona Ryder, who serves as our window into their world. She faces well worn conflicts does she pursue a career in the arts, or trade her dreams and aspirations for a reliable corporate job? Does she settle down with a loser musician, or a likable but stiff businessman in a suit? At the heart of the film is therefore a tug-of-war between the logic and rationales of techno capitalism and the sensitive soul's vague yearnings for something else.Whilst the film is absent of analysis or serious insight, it does capture a certain relevant vacuity. Stiller's whiny young adults hang in limbo, aimless, lethargic, high-strung and always placating themselves with material or biochemical pleasures. Deeming the adult world abhorrent, they flutter in the wind, unable to function in it, but unable to conceive of, latch onto or find something else.Other anxieties abound fears of rejection, poverty, success and judgement turn all these characters into emotion wrecks. They're stuck in post graduate delirium and quarter life crises, some pushed into self promotion, solipsism and competition, others opting to instead drop out of the game altogether.Like all these films, Reality Bites turns its back on a deeper reality. It ignores the fact that its anxieties are essentially social symptoms spawned by social systems. Indeed, our very neurological structure is closely tied to, and is necessarily continuous with, environmental relations, which are themselves directly responsible for certain neurological or synaptic connections flourishing or atrophying and dying off. In a very real sense, you are continually being built by the outside. By individualising what is systemic, these films thus override the possibility of their subjects becoming agents, rather than patients, of their symptoms.Whilst there are hundreds of films like Reality Bites about Generation's Xers, Generation Y's anxieties don't seem to make it to cinema screens. Maybe they've been completely inculcated, have self medicated themselves into zombiedom, or simply have no use for cinema, the stuffy medium of their forefathers. Perhaps with interactive media supplanting old media, the quaint idea of stories, and even the audience/object dichotomy itself, is displaced by a situation in which the anxiety tale is writ on the subject itself; their virtual and real bodies are the new anxiety performance.Cynicism and irony were a huge part of Generation X's identity. They saw the ideals, dreams and possibilities of the Baby Boomers get thoroughly squashed. The result was a generation which recognised the reality that rebellion and honest dissent would either fail or make one a laughing stock. Authentic emotional expression was to be buried or cocooned in irony/cynicism, lest one risk ridicule or hurt. But Generation X at least knew how to smell BS. Generation Y's thoroughly of the post-everything, multicultural, accept-everything entertainment world. They're both stronger and more fragile, supremely confident and well adjusted, but perhaps with a nihilism buried so deep they're not even aware of it, shuffling off to the abattoir with smiling faces, heads bobbing to personalised play-lists. No surprise that The Journal of Social Psychology reports that Millennials think about social problems less, have less interest in government, family and community, and have a very inflated sense of self which in turn leads to unrealistic expectations and chronic disappointment. They're also pushing back each of the five milestones of adulthood completing school, leaving home, becoming financially independent, marrying and having kids. But maybe this is all overly pessimistic. Maybe it's stereotyping. Maybe every generation's a mass of differences, simultaneously ahead of its time, of its time, and of the past. Or maybe it's prophetic that our next generation will be dubbed Generation Z; a nation of snoozers.7.5/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Generation X better than generation 0 no?","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" http// storiestoriesdk.wordpress.com/2011/08/20/ reality-will-bite-eventually/Hi everyone , since this movie marked my teenage years in a way and today I got a little nostalgic a text for that in my blog feel free to read it and tell my what you think. It is not really a review it is more how some films affect us even if they aren't the greatest piece of film history, however generation X and this was surely a glamorized version of it feels like the hippies of the 60's compared to what we are experiencing now. And although the cynic in me says that this film is a bunch of clichés at times and characters that are more stereotypical filled with songs that are there to manipulate your emotions I have a soft spot for it since it made me feel something that people would usually experience with theirs favorite band and so on "},{"Title":"what can i say?! it bit me, and it bit me hard!","Date":"5 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" this movie made me want to have grown up in the 90s! actually, i was 2yrs old when it came out so i didn't watch it until a few days ago. so obviously i don't know it its depiction of that generation is too accurate. But the thing is that even if on the surface it seems different today, the core of their angst remains the same. as a university student and an adult i'm supposed to have everything figured out and be in complete touch with who i really am inside. but the truth is that i'm so far from it, it's a miracle i can make any decisions about my future. i know what i want but i don't exactly who i am. weird, right?! so i really don't think its outdated or too old to relate to. also, i read some of the other reviews that criticized the characters; like how much Ryder's character nags, or how cynical or simply lazy hawk's character is, or how slutty and stereotypical Vicky is. i simply disagree; everyone is annoying and has depression periods in their lives when cant find a job after college, when they had all these hopes and dreams when graduating. troy is not lazy and is not too philosophical, he is simply a smart individual who refuses to get submerged by all those corporate society elements around him. and Vicky is just a normal young woman that works hard (becoming manager of the gap) and plays hard (sexual life and AIDS scare).so instead of looking at it in a really superficial manner, the deeper point of view is fascinating. and the implied meanings (fear, dreams, love, existence,...) with many more reasons, are what makes this one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Reality Prequel","Date":"23 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" See, I'm a product of the 1990s. Most of my friends/peers that are of my age believe their decade of choice is the 1980s. But, my heart belongs in the 1990s.I loved the music better. I came out. I learned about life in and around college. I traveled a lot and expanded my horizons tremendously. This didn't come without a price &#x96; one I would surely pay in the double naughts. (I'm sure those who had fun in the 1960s felt the same in the following disco decade.)That all said, it was thoroughly refreshing to revisit Reality Bites, the quintessential 1990s movie. Okay, I would include Clueless into that genre, but that's another viewing/review. It had the independence feel, the snappy and intelligent dialogue, the product placement (oh, that was abundant and to think we thought the 1980s people were materialistic&#x85;) and the grunge look. Heck, we see the (NBC's) Friends characters who can live comfortably in the big city, in a nice apartment, without so much a job nor two nickels to rub together. I would LOVE to live and breathe so comfortably without employment as these young adults lived in decades past.But, I digress. This movie was wonderful. It had an excellent soundtrack and fantastic acting. Though Hawke and Ryder were both perfect, I always love seeing Garofalo and truly loved seeing all the future (to 1994's Reality Bites) secondary actors get some screen-time. Such as Spade, Stiller, Zahn, Zellweger and (Andy) Dick.Basically the movie revolves around slackers Lelaina (Ryder) and Troy (Hawke) who inadvertently become roommates, along with best bud, Gap-Manager Vickie (Garofalo.) It's obvious that Lelaina and Troy need to be together, but after a chance meeting between Lelaina and Michael (Stiller) the tension rises.Throw in a few subplots, involving the topic of the moment AIDS and gays coming out, you have a very well-thought out, WAY before its time film. Forgive me &#x96; no, take that back, I make no apologies for my reviews or opinions &#x96; but I would compare this independent/reality show movie to Citizen Kane. Both movies had great ideas, presented them, and though neither took off at the time, both were looked back upon as experiments that would show up dozens of times in the far future. Survivor, anyone? How about The Blair Witch Project's hand-held cameras held by amateur filmmakers?I first saw Reality Bites immediately when it arrived in theatres in 1994 and liked it a lot. I made a decision to see it again, since I liked it then and it defined my 20's (actually, I just turned 20 at that point) but I never got around to it&#x85;until now, 16 years later after someone recommended it after viewing my site. I am SO glad he did. I might never have seen this fantastic movie again.I remembered a lot of the wonderful dialogue &#x96; and I could even still quote it Would the two of you just do it and get it over with? I'm starving! and If I could bottle the sexual tension between Bonnie Franklin and Schneider, I could solve the energy crisis, and loved the many, many references, including Melrose Place. Furthermore, I did purchase the soundtrack and fell madly in love with all the tracks, but mainly My Sharona and Stay (I Missed You.)For anyone who hasn't previously seen this movie, again, like Clueless, it might be hard to watch now as it might appear dated. But truly, the dialogue, love story &#x96; boy it still makes me choke up in the closing, and references are still fresh today. And that makes this a must see for 1990s lovers and anyone who's young, finding themselves and need to believe in dreams.Side Note The edited version of Lelaina's video was really&#x85;not that bad. I believe she completely overreacted, but that's not what the character Ryder played wanted. So, to move the story along, I guess we just have to accept it was a bad product, when in reality, she needs to lighten up. On a positive note, it did lead her to make the true (and painfully obvious) romantic choice. "},{"Title":"Ben Stiller first time as a director is a good one","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Director Ben Stiller was relatively unknown at the time of his directing debut with Reality Bites. Stiller shows some good work behind the camera. This was an original story that I can relate to now, being close to graduating college as I am sure many did when this movie came out in 1994.Winona Ryder plays Lelaina, a college grad who is not sure about what to do with her life. All she wants to do is play with her video camera, hang out with her friends, played by Ethan Hawke, Janeane Garofalo, and Steve Zahn. Stiller himself plays a supporting role as a guy who likes Lelaina and treats her like a queen.This is a fun movie, with a great soundtrack. Stiller knows how to direct his actors and make them give believable performances. Ryder, Hawke, Garofalo, and Zahn not only give believable performances but make us feel for the characters and what they are going through getting out of college and entering into real life. "},{"Title":"Don't be judgmental","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's 2009. I find myself to be 63 years old. Early boomer.We started the habit of spending lots more years in colleges. Is was an affluent time, and many could afford to more early than in later years. I for example, graduated from high school in 1964, but not from college until 1972. I spent a lot of time on my butt, I smoked a lot of dope, I was a philosopher and a Trotskyist. Not a bad education. My friends in school,whom I keep track of pretty well, are generally the sort of people Michael would have admired. I am a judge, with 5 children, and I have been married 35 years. My kids are all fine.The thing is, these kids are all so young. Michael seems to be doing well without the protracted adolescence. If Troy had to get straight right then, he would have been worse off. Better he had the time and prerogatives. I bet he is not the unforgiving philosopher any more. And I bet he did not become a bomb throwing anarchist. I'll bet you he is a creative member of our society, I bet he hasn't been in jail, I bet we don't have to pay for his kids. He was smart, attractive, and -- yes -- even pleasant enough to make it. And I bet he did fine. "},{"Title":"A must-see","Date":"28 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this film, I think it's a great and objective point of view of what we call gen X. It shows stereotypical characters in a really mundane environment, and it's still a great comedy. It's kind of an innuendo kind of joke, you can either get bored for the common situations the characters are involved in or have a laugh at a film loaded with ironic and contradicting situations. I like it even more, because you see people behave as ridiculously as in the film every day, for example the paradox of such a commercial movie being about some grunge, anti-commercial people. Anyway, it's a realistic yet funny sight of average 90's youth, spiced with some romance and a nice soundtrack. Besides, it's in my opinion the film that shows the grunge mentality to the ones who didn't actually experience that nice, absurd decade. "},{"Title":"You've been waiting for this to happen...","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reality Bites is a sharp clever movie, partially hidden in a longish, sometimes dull film.My favorite scene in the movie is when Vickie calls Lelaina out on ringing up a $400.00 phone bill, and Lelaina immediately becomes paranoid and delusional, accusing Vickie of having been waiting for this moment so she can lord it over Lelaina.Needless to say, the movie concerns a group of post college slackers trying to make it in the real world after graduation. The main focus is Lelaina, her quasi-documentary and the love triangle she has with Michael and Troy. Troy is the handsome slacker and Michael is the corporate type. Janeane Garofalo also appears and steals so many scenes you almost wish that this was her movie and Winona Ryder was playing the sassy best friend. Steve Zahn rounds out the group as Sammy, but aside from a very brief and sweet scene where we see a before and after shot of him coming out to his parents, he is essentially a non-entity.Reality Bites has some wonderful scenes, but it also feels too self-important at times, and drags way too much at various points. And honestly, there is never any real tension over who Lelaina will choose in the end. "},{"Title":"Moving","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I believe I originally saw this movie in theaters when it first came out in 1994. I remember liking it then because I was 25 and could totally relate to it. I just watched it for the second time. It's been 14 years since my first viewing. I still like it. I got a little impatient with Ethan Hawke's character about halfway through the movie but a cut came along soon enough to prevent me from popping the DVD. I'm slightly biased toward this movie because of Winona Ryder's character's interest in creating a documentary and her position as a production assistant. Ethan Hawke's Troy is a moving tribute to many lost souls in this world. It does not seem like he is acting from the impression I have of him in real life. This is really not so much a comedy as it is a dramedy. Worth seeing if you were in your 20's in the 90's. "},{"Title":"stands the test of time","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i first saw this film back in 1994 and i immediately loved it. i loved Winona Ryder's character and the love story. i rented the movie a lot during the mid 1990s, but back then i did not see the subtleties in the movie. fast forward many years and i watch it after graduating from university - that was when i got the movie, i could relate to the characters and i understood the subtle undertones of the movie, its more than just a love story, its a story about finding your place in the world as a 20-something - figuring out who you are and making mistakes along the way. i just watched it tonight, first time in years and the story is still as fresh, just as relevant. i may be a 30-something now but i can still relate to the characters and the story. plus it has a great soundtrack!! it is also really funny to see Ben Stiller play a more serious role as we are so used to see him as the funny character. "}{"Title":"Incredible Movie","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reality Bites is one of my favorite flicks out there. However, the last guy is probably right when he said it might not to certain people. Reality Bites is half love story, half search for identity story. The characters in this movie as great and the story is one most Gen X college students can relate to. Indeed after going to college for 4 years and getting that degree in film, whats next? Where do you begin? And the film really focuses on this theme very well by portraying each of each of the characters at the end of college all searching for their careers. But, the great thing about reality bites, is while it may get a bit harpy at times, it's always got a great sense of fun charged in each time it overbears you with the corny stuff.If your still on the edge of watching this movie, check out the soundtrack. Let me say that the film uses it spot on. "},{"Title":"Music on the roof","Date":"23 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Does anyone know the artist and title of the song that is used in the very beginning of the movie when Laney is filming her friends on the roof? As far as I know, there are no lyrics in it. It sounds a bit electric. I tried to find it on Google but that won't work. The song is not included on the soundtrack. Somehow it sounded really familiar to me. I can not upload the video part because I saw the movie on television. Please let me know if you have the answer! I really like this song so some help would be great. (I didn't really like the movie, I did like the music. For me, the movie was a bit too long and whining almost. But well that's my question and I hope someone can help me with it!) "},{"Title":"People bitten and chewed by reality.  Not A Comedy","Date":"30 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No Spoiler flag, despite this being &#133;. as I understand there to be a problem with the advertising. I purchased the DVD because it is a Winona. So, there is also Janeane Garofalo to make this special and the box says that it is a comedy and I was really needing a cool and fun escape from reality when I decided to purchase this. Watch it, I felt let down. Not because of the actors or the story but because of the difference to what I had needed it to be. If there is really someone at Universal who considers this to be a comedy then I should not be surprised that their fruits are not all at 100% of the level of their best? * This is about four people during the period of their early employment after graduation. We are shown that they are not as perfect as one might suppose, how they cope with that. There is some comedy, they do attempt to be light hearted, just that is overshadowed by their reality, which has taken too many bites. The title comes from an amateur film, but it is double edged. Approached at the right time, in the right way, this could be an interesting story. Just now I would not know. * In a way this reminds me of Sandra Bullock's 28 days. In that, the background notes consider the actors playing the rehab inmates to be extremely funny, just to me they are actors managing to be in tune with a particular type of role and doing that really well. People bitten by reality until it shows in a particular way and to me the result and the experience is far from funny. The actors in Reality Bites do not have the same jizz, but there is still a parallel. Could be that the feature version of Fame, 1980, is a loose parallel too. I had needed Fame to be a masterwork of a different sort of sense. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Most people compare this movie to Singles, which I finally saw in 2005 I think and really don't like. I actually liken this movie more to Fight Club, both because it resonates in a strange way with my own life experiences and because it bears the same message.I saw Reality Bites right after my 2nd year in college, making me a tad younger than the characters; nonetheless I was exposed to the exact same larger issues (heterosexual AIDS, homosexuality (anyone here remember Coming Out Day 1993?), crappy job market) and I was also fighting for my own sense of identity during a time when there was virtually no positive attention being paid to my generation. It also helped that I grew up in east Houston and knew most of the landmarks both physical and cultural. However, it didn't perfectly jive with my life either frankly, I grew up too poor to get a free car from the parents, or be able to go to Rice University(!), or purchase a video camera, or even just drive on a whim to downtown Houston to get to the top of a skyscraper. And living in an apartment? Not for another three years. Still, I enjoyed the film at the time and even more so now that I just turned 30. The soundtrack has been in my collection for a long time just for U2, Lisa Loeb, and the Juliana Hatfield Three.As plenty of people have pointed out, the characters ARE whiny and privileged without realizing it and make plenty of dumb decisions about changing the world. Coming out to your parents -- in conservative Houston -- before you get a job and established is stupid. Choosing to date the high-IQ slacker rather than the kind-hearted guy moving on up is stupid too, as is sleeping with dozens of people or selling yourself out for both money and whacked-out neurotic chicks. None of these people are ultimately heroes, but that's why for many of us who are near their demographic they relate so well. The only people I've known who are the right age but still really hate this movie are those for whom (to be blunt) it strikes too close to home super-ambitious business types selling out to their companies and workers with retail McJobs who know they could be so much more but can't see how to get there.I think the real point of the movie is the same as Fight Club identity is important but cannot be mediated by your purchases or chosen social markers. We all WANT to be unique individuals and publicly recognized as such, but paradoxically the only way to achieve that goal is to stop searching for it. We all WANT to change the world but will only do so within our usually-quite-small circle of influence. Railing against consumerism while walking the mall is amazingly self-blind.Stiller and Hawke did an excellent job making this movie just enough in all the right directions. The love triangle -- required for a movie to get funding -- wasn't too overdone in the end, all the characters get a lot of screen time, and we get to see in a direct way that friendship really is the only support in their lives. (We also see as in Threesome how much such a close circle can cut out those on the outside -- Stiller's character never had a chance without the acceptance of Ryder's character's friends.) Everyone gets to display both their weaknesses (such as Ryder's character trying to alter the TV show she works for) and their strengths (such as Hawke reducing the whole existential angst crap to 5 bucks and a coffee). It's not a film I would put on every day; much like American Beauty it's only right for certain moods but nonetheless perfect for those moments.Finally, I should refer to both St. Elmo's Fire and Singles. Neither of those similar-themed movies really get to me, in fact the former I really despise because the characters are even more obliviously privileged and self-centered than those in Reality Bites. And Singles just seemed too West Coast for me -- few people outside Seattle and California really got to see the grunge scene or sensitive new-age pony-tail guys in real life. Plus Kyra Sedgwick's character just grated on my nerves. I mention these because I think they show the one fatal flaw in Reality Bites if you aren't the right age for this movie, it just won't feel right. "},{"Title":"Good Flick","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reality Bites, yeah that pretty much sums it up. For anyone who didn't fall right into a 70'000 dollar a year job, business majors, boo. This movie has a great sound track and every time I watch it. I just get reminded of how much it sucks and is awesome to be a twenty-something. I mean on the one hand you have a shitty job and sometimes the future looks bleak, but on the the other hand you can still get away with sex,drugs, and rock and roll with out to many questions asked! Ethan Hawk is a major fox and his character just makes him all that much cooler. Thank you Reality Bites for giving me a nice concise definition of irony, in your face Alanis! This movie gives those of us who haven't fully explored or reached our career potential hope, and it totally justifies living in a shitty apartment with like 8 of your closest and job bearing friends! If you are ever having a bad day and you just need a little reminder that you're not the only one with massive issues pop this movie in and enjoy the mixed up lives of people slightly, it was the 90's when movie stars still looked somewhat normal, more attractive then yourself. Good Flick!!! "},{"Title":"Another key movie for the X-Generation","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wait! I'm not saying that this is a great movie by any means; but it deserves some recognition for displaying how was the life of the Generation X and how people dealt with love, early job opportunities, life philosophies, decisions, etc.But this movie centers on clichèd characters that you will only see on movies dealing with real life situations. I mean, these characters have little or minimal clue about how life really is. But we can't be too harsh because the purpose of the movie is to entertain although Ben Stiller tried to be the somehow a spokesman for the generation.So I would suggest you to watch Reality Bites to see how pretty young adults deal with difficult real life situations like getting a job, living by yourself, love interests, etc. But remember, it's only a movie; life bites harder. It's not that easy. "},{"Title":"Here we go again!","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I really don't wanna make this entire review about Winona Ryder but there's things I just can't help. That's why I'll write some, until I believe is enough. As you may know, I love Winona; not only because she is beautiful, but because she is gifted and a tremendous actress. When I reviewed The Crucible I said she did the film in a time where 'the world was hers'...Well, when she made Reality Bites she was experiencing that time too.Just think about it, 1994 Having worked with Tim Burton, Francis Ford Coppola and Jim Jarmusch some time before; having worked alongside Meryl Streep, Gary Oldman, Cher; having worked under Martin Scorsese (that got her an Oscar nod) and alongside Daniel Day Lewis and Michelle Pfeffier in The Age of Innocence. Now, she was going to be in Little Women with Susan Sarandon, in a breathtaking performance that would get her another Oscar Nomination...All of this with 23 years! And take note that the National Board of Review gave her the Best Supporting Actress Award for both The Age of Innocence and Mermaids during those years, and the Golden Globe in 1994 was for her...But who cares, right? When the world stopped being hers, she did Girl, Interrupted; which got Angelina Jolie an Oscar and Winona wasn't even nominated. Now she is not in a good career moment, and I don't know if she'll come back; but I stick to my word Every one of her performances scream 'Oscar'.During 1994 she was also being part of a film so unique that I find it more inspiring every time I watch it again; Reality Bites. This was not only Ben Stiller's spectacular directorial debut (which he ruined later on with two mediocre comedies), but also Helen Childress' visionary screen writing debut. Sadly, Childress hasn't done anything since then; but her script captures the after-college life like no other I've seen. The key is in its focus on a small group of people and their hopes and dreams.In Reality Bites, there is a world, but it matters little to Stiller and Childress...The world is there, but they want to show us their world; which is these people. So we see Lelaina (Ryder) and her divided relationship with her divorced parents; her camera that shoots the daily activities of her friends. Troy (Ethan Hawke), a musician and not graduated guy who finds himself from job to job, watching T.V. all day but has a remarkable intelligence and life philosophy.Sammy (Steve Zahn), a funny guy who is gay and is not able to tell his own family; and Vickie (Janeane Garofalo), a hippie who works at 'Gap', rejects marriage because she is afraid she might die, but writes down the names of every person she sleeps with in a diary. Lelaina captures all of these personalities, hoping to make a documentary; and idea that Michael (Ben Stiller) makes remotely possible after knowing her and developing romantic feelings for her.There's a scene where Michael and Lelaina are having dinner and she explains what the video she is making is about A glance at people who wants something from their lives without any real role model (which is what the film itself is)...Instantly, he looks at her and says You are very beautiful...You're really...Beautiful She doesn't know how to react, and we realize that the romantic part of the film is absolutely free of clichés; Stiller makes us see this repeatedly through the rest of the ride.Sounds like too much? I'm just getting started, and the thing is these characters have the whole three dimensions mastered and possibly one dimension more. Childress made the right decision when she created everything for this small group; and the result was lines, words and moments that have been in my mind ever since. Like you, me, a coffee and a little conversation..you, me and five bucks, for example; and all this phrases I don't wanna write because they are in between the essence of the picture. In the end, the script just makes you want to shout This is life! Performances are another strong point in Reality Bites. Starting by Winona, who surpasses the limit as this good hearted and full of life young woman who wants to do something about the world; anything, even when she doesn't say it. Childress wrote the role with Ryder in mind and that's the most flattering thing that can happen to an actor. Ryder didn't disappoint and this is one of her finest performances, I could say even better than Girl, Interrupted. Troy is a portrayal of Ethan Hawke in his early years; when his look was so insightful that there couldn't be anyone better than him for that type of role. Garofalo's Vickie was her first big screen participation after being a part of Ben Stiller's short running comedy show. Stiller gave her a dramatic role, and she impressed big time. Steve Zahn's portrayal is nothing like the star he is now, and it is moving to watch him reach that depth he still has somewhere.And about Stiller, well, he knows that Michael is her career's best interpretation; and there's nothing bad about that. There's nothing bad about Reality Bites either...Everything is just incredible! "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Watched this film only because it had Winona Ryder in it. She's cute and discombobulated in it, but it is far from her best work. Actually all of the main actors did passable work in the film. But it was pretty darn boring. Maybe you have to be a Gen-Xer to get it. I'm not and I don't. These kids don't understand the first thing about the real world, and they aren't learning it by the end of the film. Making a living does not necessarily equate to selling out. Oh and by the way, decent jobs for college graduates were not that scarce in Houston in the mid-Nineties. But you had to want one of them enough to go after it. This film is really the story of the slackers, and it's one of the reasons that generation got that reputation. Unless you are a Ryder fan, skip this one. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie- if you can relate to it","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In reading other reviews, I noticed a common thread I loved it when I was twenty-something, but now I think it is silly. As a twenty-something who is one of the last of Gen X that is still in college, I see that this is a movie that is entirely dependent on the ability of the viewer to relate to the characters. Yes, some characters are exaggerations, and yes, they are both as one-dimensional and multidimensional as you want them to be, but together, they form the stereotypes of Gen X. There are parts of each of them I see in myself, and maybe the point of the movie is to show that we are all like each of them, that no one is just one thing (Breakfast Club, anyone?). Then again, maybe the point is to show us that life is not always what we planned and that that can be a very hard lesson to learn. Now, years after it's release, maybe we can just look at it and remember that we were all cheesy self-important boobs at one point, and that we have (hopefully) come a long way.Having said all that, it is one of my most favorite movies of all time, and it definitely gets better with each viewing. "},{"Title":"Soap Opera in Disguise?","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Lelaina, Troy and Michael. And Vickie, Lelaina's roommate. And Sammy. Forget him, he's the gay guy having trouble coming out, but his story is just filler, and practically non-existent. Vickie fears she may have AIDS, there's about one and a half scenes devoted to that. So that leaves the trio, or triangle, of Lelaina, Troy and Michael. The first two are recent graduates of college, and like a lot of people in their early twenties, trying to come to terms with the fact that earning a living usually isn't fun, especially if you aren't talented, focused, capable, mature . . . like the somewhat older Michael, who works in television in New York, and actually has a decent salary.Troy is currently without a job, he's had a dozen or so, and moves in with the girls. Lelaina has one, as assistant to an obnoxious talk-show host, but soon gets herself fired, becoming aware she was on the way out anyway, if her boss had his way. She makes numerous attempts to find work somewhere, anywhere, but unsuccessfully. Not in print journalism &#150; she can't define 'irony', which, of course, was the situation she was in; intelligent, smart (or thought she was), just out of college, and couldn't even get a job in a Burgerama, couldn't do mental arithmetic fast enough. Perhaps she was like a Henry James character intelligent but not clever. Maybe this is a story on which Henry James could have based a pretty good novel &#150; frivolous girl, reckless drive in a horseless carriage, two men in her life, conflict between practical or meaningful employment and desire for the all-important financial security.Earlier she had met Michael, by inadvertently causing his car to hit hers, while she was acting in her typically immature, reckless, dopey way. Michael likes her, and eventually, when she's out of work, also likes her pathetic home videos, which he manages to sell at the studio where he works. So Lelaina is attracted to Michael for awhile, and buys a nice dress that Troy thinks looks like a doily. Troy and Mike don't get along at all. Michael knows he's doing OK in Life and The World, while Troy lies around in the over-intelligent, over-philosophical doldrums, yearning for a nobler calling that Michael doesn't believe exists.Lelaina is torn between the two. Who to choose, successful Mike, or maybe-to-be-successful Troy, who has been musically active lately, singing, playing guitar in a night spot downtown. They all talk, and squabble, and separate, and suffer. Eventually Lelaina makes a choice, but it's unlikely to be permanent, unless they both come down to the Planet Earth.This isn't a movie I enjoyed much, but it successfully shows the unattractive side of being young, the hopes and fears and yearnings of youth, the overwhelming desire to have it all, immediately, that most of us suffer through, till we really start suffering, in a Working Life that stretches to infinity. The film seems to be a good record of dissatisfied young people who wouldn't and couldn't fit into the traditional American way of life. It also gives an accurate glimpse of the popular music, the way people dressed, spoke and expressed themselves, and day-to-day working life in the nineteen-nineties. The movie doesn't really seem to be a comedy, but some scenes are funny or have inherent humor. "}{"Title":"Great film","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an interesting film. I watched it while in middle school and it, somehow, motivated me to work hard in high school and college. It seemed very real to me at the time.Now out of college for some time, I still see much reality in this film. I will not spout out the educational bits I received from it, but I do find most of the film to hit close to home.I was listening to graduation speeches on NPR a few days ago and the students were so in line with Wynona Ryders speech at the intro of the movie. Giving students 'answers' to life, saying that college is reality...well...I love reality. But if I thought college was reality, then I guess the reality found outside of college would bite. "},{"Title":"true  ONE.!!","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  if you are hopless.. insane or they say you are so... a little bit wierd also if they said so.. if you have your dreams hanged up .. if you have your way of life twisted round your feet if you have your heart somewhere  where you dunno..! watch reality bites.. as you are gonna see people almost in your case .. !! 4 graduates, all have their own reality bites,all have suffered an abnormal childhood but still they have talents..!! see how life will open the door for the best use of their talents..and the their hearts. "},{"Title":"I bet they were having fun making the film","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie. On the other hand, it was pretty painful to watch.To explain. The comic effect of the film is based on many situations where the characters find themselves having to say, declare, profess something that must feel important to the other person(s), right now, right this moment. They take a deep breath... and fail miserably. I was moaning and closing my eyes time after time. The characters are recent US college grads and therefore clueless. They do not have to appealing to be funny. Ben Stiller did a good job acting and directing, and There's Something about Mary was still to follow... "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I was too young to appreciate it.  When I saw it again after I graduated from college, I was like, Wow, this movie defines my whole life.  The characters are really good, especially Troy Dyer (Ethan Hawke).  I can't believe how many great quotes are in this film. Anyways, this is a very special movie.  Anyone and everyone who's trying to discover themselves after college should see it. "},{"Title":"One of life's details to take pleasure in","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'll admit that I'm not really a member of the generation this movie was intended to speak to but oddly enough I find it amazingly easy to relate to. A friend of mine was the one who initially suggested I see it, claiming that I'd love it since it's a lot like the other movies that my group of friends love like Empire Records and such. So one day I was browsing through the videos at Blockbuster when I remembered that she'd recommended it. I rented it right there and hurried home to pop it into the VCR. And it was amazing. It was, at times, oddly close to the way my friends and I act (without the drugs part). We've been known to sit around and sing strange songs like Conjunction Junction and Bad Boys (The Theme from Cops) while in restaurants just because we felt like it. And the movie really captures the whole point of doing things like that, the freedom of just having fun with your friends.The cynicism of it all is perfect as it somehow blends with their moments of friendship and fun. They claim the entire time that their lives suck but, like most people, they don't seem to realize when they're really enjoying themselves until they can look back later and say Why didn't appreciate my happiness then? The acting and over-all characters was very well down. The complaints that most people seem to have in this area is that Ben Stiller's character seemed, to them, to be the better choice. He was, after all, a nice guy. Why didn't she choose him? The answer's simple; she didn't love him. Love doesn't care how many other nice guys you meet. It only cares about emotions, not logic. So yeah, he treated her horribly. He broke her heart again and again. But she'll still come back to him. And that's because that's what love is. And she'll break -his- heart again and again and he'll still come back. It doesn't bother with anything aside from pure emotion and feelings. That's why it hurts so much and this movie captured it perfectly.So what I'm getting at is, yeah, it has flaws, all movies do. But it also maintains a clear and wonderful message without having to force it down your throat. I most defiantly recommend it.  "},{"Title":"why this is the best movie ever made","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  being of the same generation of the characters portrayed in reality bites, alone, gives me a reason to comment on this outstanding film. a big disbeliever in fate, i believe this film exudes the reality of chance in an astounding way. the irony is that it leaves you disagreeing with the title. reality does not bite and as cheesy as it may sound, the somewhat happy ending for lelaina is not overbearing. it is as realistic as they come. this film is my very favorite because it is the only movie i have ever seen that has left me touched and satisfied with my own life. kudos to ben stiller and a must see to those of you who have not! "},{"Title":"entertaining but dated","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had heard great things about this film, but only five years after its release, it already looks dated. It was entertaining and enjoyable, but at times it was up its own a***.My main problem with it was that it didn't really convince the viewer that Wynona was making the right choice between her two lovers. Ben Stiller's character actually seemed deeper than the 2-dimensional yuppie sell-out he was meant to portray, and as for Ethan Hawke, it would take more than saying I love you at every given opportunity to convince a woman to spend her life with an arrogant, immature and temperamental brat. (even if he can quote cool hand luke and recite the dictionary definition of the word 'irony').   "},{"Title":"Highly Watchable","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was brilliantly cast.  Winona Ryder is my idol, and she was amazing in this film.  Janeane Garofalo was completely believable.  Ethan Hawke was beautiful.  Steve Zahn was hilarious.  There are so many famous cameos; I love it!  The soundtrack is completely listenable-to.  Every time I see this film, I love it more and more.  So quotable.  Maybe it wasn't highly publicized or accepted, but it's SO true to life, and SO worth the time it takes to watch.  I have to admit, though, that I DID see this film for Noni... but it was well worth it in the end! "},{"Title":"Don't Eff with the Cult","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cute with My Lord demands recompense.Reality Bites is an awful movie with awful actors based on an awful synopsis. It brings tears to my eyes that such a film should ever be produced.Yes, this is the first time Ben Stiller ever directed something. Yes, this is one of the contributing reasons as to why Ben Stiller is not an all-time great Director.I'd much rather watch Tootsie.Or Will Smith in his upcoming movie about a dance studio for underprivileged teens where he stars as Lady Brenda.That movie will rock your world.CWC4EVR "},{"Title":"Wake up and smell the cigarettes!","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The reality is that each of the actors in this film have much better work to their credit. Ben Stiller's directorial debut is an effortless attempt at capturing 20-something rebellion against the system. Many very unlikely situations are presented, as well as factors that don't endear the characters to the audience.When within months a college class valedictorian (Wynnona Ryder) ends up unemployed and wasting away on her sofa, chain smoking and despondent, someone must be kidding! The same best in her class super girl was stomped when asked to define the word irony. When her parents refuse to bail her out when financially strapped, Ryder comes up with a little scam (victimizing her parents) to tide herself over. Not funny! Another character (Ethan Hawke)is a self-proclaimed genius, yet incapable of any normal social behavior. Arrogant and mean, he seems to bank on his good looks. Childhood trauma is a favorite reason for major mistakes made in adulthood. There are no reasons, only excuses.Stiller gets 4th billing as an upwardly mobile film executive, pursuing Ryder, despite many obstacles most men would see as signs to let go.Most off-putting were the unnecessary indulgence in cigarette smoking. James Dean and the rest of the cast in Rebel Without A Cause never puffed away the kind of smokes each lead character did here. Maybe it's not reality that bites, but just this film? "}{"Title":"Best Winona Ryder film","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite movies, and certainly the best movie Wynona Ryder ever chose to do.Ben Stiller executes the film the way I think the writer had intended, and it is not only directed perfectly, but written brilliantly. There is so much honesty and Reality in the film, that sometimes you feel like you're actually watching real life.Winona Ryder is able to deliver the character's emotions and thoughts almost as though they were her own.I applaud Ethan Hawk's performance in this piece as well. He is not to be sold short in this film. We've seen him as a free-soul, a closed off kid, a genius, and now a recluse. He is so smart and so trashy, and is able to allow you to feel for him, in ways you'd rather not for his character. That there is something there you can relate to, even if you'd rather deny it. His character is most certainly the favorite of most, in the film, and it's hard not to pay closer attention to him than anyone else in each of his scenes. Even though, Stiller featured himself in the movie as one of Lanie(Ryder)'s love interests, and directed the film, he still gives Hawk the floor in most of the scenes, even when they are featured together.I love the directing almost more than the acting. Stiller is actually a better director than most people like to give him credit for. A lot of people tend to discredit him because of 'The Cable Guy', a darker comedy starring Jim Carrey, but I feel just the opposite. Because I liked the Carrey movie, I'm more partial to films that Stiller directs. And, especially 'Reality Bites'. It's been called an off-beat comedy, and that it's not really speedy enough for some, but it's just right for me.The humor is so true to real life, and the writing is some of the best I've ever seen. It's a piece that should have been nominated and in my opinion received so much more credit in every aspect than it did.And now, a moment from the film, Hey? What is your glitch? - Ben Stiller "},{"Title":"Pretty Good","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I found this movie to be a good watch. The bashers of the movie probably just hate one of the actors or actresses anyway, so they just have to bash on every movie they are in.The story is about Lelaina(Winona Ryder) and her friends struggling in life. Troy(Ethan Hawke) is Lelaina's best friend and is constantly getting fired from jobs. His dad has cancer as well and could die. Vickie(Janeane Garofalo) has taken up a job at the Gap, and is also scared of getting AIDs because one of her friends got it. And Sammy(Steve Zahn) is trying to deal with telling his parents about his sexuality.Then Michael(Ben Stiller) comes along and gets involved with Lelaina. It causes a sort of life triangle where eventually Lelaina has to choose between Michael or Troy.I guess this isn't exactly that great a summary, but that's okay. I recommend you watch the movie. You may find you like it, like me.8/10 "},{"Title":"Let's put on a show! - Andy Hardy in the 1990s","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Coming of age movies are one thing, but movies in which a bunch of kids hang out and do goofy things together are another. Beach Blanket Bingo, The Stawberry Statement and The Breakfast Club are randomly chosen examples from the past. Since such movies must have young actors, they often launch careers. I don't know if Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland started it all but they're the example that comes to mind. Reality Bites also has the similarity of putting on a show; in this case, a video.I had heard of, but never seen, Reality Bites before. Well, I saw it recently on VHS and true, I must admit that it has many cultural references to North Americans born in the late 1970s. But I thoroughly enjoyed it nonetheless.In my view, the movie has fortunately no over-riding message. It is ultimately various life slices with various sub-plots. I enjoyed one subplot in particular because of the actor. It involves a hypocritical TV morning man played by John Mahoney. He's always good and his performance here is no exception. Such professionals make for good movie-making. And this movie, I must say, is well-made. Hats off to the scriptwriter. "},{"Title":"..she made the right choice..","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is amazing....and let me explain why. It may seem to the first time viewer that yes, maybe lanie made the wrong choice at the end...but the truth is she made the right choice. Although Michael was a nice person, with an actual career and future...he wasn't the right one for HER....she is not that person. Troy was her best friend, they had common interests and history together. Although Troy had his faults, so does she and that is why they fit together, like they would fit with no one else. Troy understood what her dumb little video meant to her..even though it was, just a dumb little video. And another thing she had with troy that she didn't with Michael, is passion. They had sexual tension and passion when they argued and teased each other, and Michael may have been nice..but he was simply too bland for winonas character, they didn't fit. "},{"Title":"Funny and enjoyable, despite the glimpses of darkness","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just borrowed this movie from my older sister and I must say I loved it.  Though it's 9 years old now, I don't mind, I really enjoyed it.  A very funny movie with pretty mature material and lots of good (but somewhat hollow) dialogue.  Basically a couple of jobless losers enjoying themselves, rebelling, and realizing that this is a tough way to live life.  Had the movie taken this course of going through their career problems and showing how things evolved from there, I would have liked it even better than the whole love story business, but I still enjoyed this movie tremendously.  I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"ETHAN HAWKE AND WINONA RYDER ARE GREAT TOGETHER","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is real, natural, beautiful and makes you think you are part of it.  The cast is great, I couldn't think of a better casting for this movie. Ethan Hawke and Winona Ryder are linked in such beautiful and odd way that makes the movie even more unique.  Their chemistry together is amazing. Enjoy this movie with either family or friends.  You won't regret it.  10 out of 10 stars 0) "},{"Title":"Reality bites, and so does this movie!","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has no actual plot. It keeps on bringing up new sides to the so-called plot and then moves on to another side and leaves us without any answers... I felt as if I had been watching this movie for 3 or 4 hours when it ended, just to show you how boring it was to me... Ethan Hawke's or Wynona Ryder's good looks couldn't save this movie! I give it 5 out of 10 and I don't recommend it to anyone... "},{"Title":"Suicide-inducing warehouse of gen-x mannerisms","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A mere five years after its release, this pander-o-rama about the glamour and pathos of being young and sociologically deprived looks about as horrifically smug as a movie can be. The only thing more chilling than realizing your generation will forever be defined cinematically by this swill is imagining what kids of the Britney Spears/Katie Holmes generation think while watching it. To readers under twenty no, we didn't all sit around singing Conjunction Junction for laughs. "},{"Title":"A definitive portrayal of Generation X...for what it's worth....","Date":"1 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Many reviewers and critics said it best...what do you do when the hero of the film (Ethan Hawke) is a complete a---hole, Winona Ryder is a horrid documentarian that would give Ed Wood, Jr. a run for his money, and Stiller, who is supposed to be the bad guy, actually isn't that bad of a human being? And Winona's friends are the smarmy, arrogant, Generation X punks who think they know everything (when the reality is (forgive the pun) they don't know jack). Past generations would quote Tolstoy and Shakespeare, Generation X quotes TV commercials, Scooby Doo cartoons, Star Wars, and bad sitcoms. Generation X is probably the most insincere generation ever, detaching themselves and calling themselves ironic, when all they really do is indulge in pretentious pseudo-intellectualism. Is this film an accurate portrayal of them? Yes, in some ways. Is the film worth watching? Yeah, at least once. Stiller gives a decent performance, it's nicely shot, and Garofalo actually almost gives her slacker character depth. This is probably due to the fact that Garofalo actually has some substance herself, as opposed to the character she plays. Janeane said in a recent interview that Stiller didn't want her on the film and nearly got her fired (Ryder intervened), which would have made the film an unmitigated disaster, because she's the best thing in the film (I don't think her and Stiller are that good of friends. There seems to be some unresolved issues between them).Check it out more as an artifact of its time more than a cool film "},{"Title":"Reality? Winona - A genuine person","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always really enjoyed Winona Ryder's performances. Once again she took what could have easily been a very conventional role and gave it some real humanity and depth. I have always been amazed at how good Winona Ryder has been in nearly every one of her performances. It surprises me that she hasn't yet won an Oscar. Though I suppose it is really something to even be nominated anyway. And I think perhaps for her it is probably better that she didn't. I have always felt that Winona Ryder possibly could be described as a genuine, down to earth person trapped in an actors body. perhaps she's someone that might have chose a different life than that of an actor if she had it all to do over again. She has always appealed to me as the sort of person who just wants to be an average joe...oops- I meant jane who happens to act for a living. She certainly would be an interesting person to just sit and talk to about anything that has to do with 'nothing important'. The sort of person I could certainly identify with. I wish she lived in my neighborhood. I would love just to call her up and invite her to denny's for some simple coffee and chatter. There are not many actors nor people of any fame that I would feel comfortable trying to connect with. But somehow it isn't hard to see that she would really make a good friend once you sat down with her a few times and forgot about the her notoriety. I might also add that if she did indeed Rip off sacks 5th ave. I think it only helped reveal the fact that she is simply a human being. One with problems. One that is anything but perfect. One who has fears, and has trials in her life just like all of us. Winona seems genuinely to be the sort of person that has never let her fame go to her head and I think this is what makes her such a passionate performer. In some off beat way perhaps she shows the world a real part of herself coming through in her roles in film. The part of herself that is vulnerable, sometimes fearful of the world around her. Perhaps the sort of person that maybe would give anything just to be accepted as a regular person. As always her performance in 'Reality Bites' was brilliant. You can see that she both carries and strongly supports her fellow acting participants, and is often clearly carried and supported in the same way. The result is that you realize there is allot more to this woman than simply beauty. There is the obvious attractive characteristics that she has been lucky to be born with, but more importantly she sometimes allows us to see what a truly beautiful person she really is from within when she is willing to let us see it. There is no one like her in the world,and I for one feel pretty dammed cheated for not having the chance to get to know her. But not for who she is on the level of fame, but for who she is in her heart- a genuine person. And luckily I am grateful to at least sometimes see just a glimpse of it on occasion through the mist of what we call 'film'. Winona Ryder is unique and I for one am glad she is...simply by sharing her gift of humanity through her wonderful performances, I am a happier person in some small way knowing there are people like her in a world gone wrong. "}{"Title":"The Truth Hurts","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this years ago, and never really thought about it... then about 100 last night, I watched it again, but in a completely different mindset than before.  I recently graduated college, decided I liked being a hippy too much to get a career job, and so I wait tables with a Bachelors in Business. So yeah, the movie hit a little closer to home last night - when I watched it before, I didn't think I'd ever end up like that, and I still don't complain QUITE as much, but I understand the mindset.  The characters are overblown, but I think that was intentional... subtlety had to be sacrificed in order to reach the masses, that kind of thing. And the thing with the parents, some people have said that these kids had nothing to complain about, that they were given everything... let me tell you man, a BMW and a nice childhood isn't everything.  I have a truck I didn't pay for, never hated my parents, and they've always been supportive... doesn't mean I don't whine about life, because even with all that, life does suck sometimes.  But the movie kind of instills hope, and made me think more about the little things that make me happy... if you're waiting for the love of your life to come along, and think that's the magical cure for your crappy life, WRONG.  Life is still going to be crappy at times, it's up to you to find the happiness. Anyways, that's what I got out of the movie, and just wanted to share, because so many people were dogging it.  It's a close picture of reality, but magnified and overblown.  All in all, I liked it, the cast was great, and the movie had a point... even if some overlooked it because they couldn't get past their loathing of the characters.  Give it a try and keep an open mind. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  angst, angst, & angst","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everyone goes through a process of self-discovery. Who am I? What's reasonable to expect from life and am I getting that? That's the basis for the film Reality Bites. The acting is good, but I'm not sure the story has a point to it? Or is it just a lot of angst? I suppose the point might be that life starts getting good when you've got your act together. But you need life to be good to get your act together. The characters in the life ultimately sort it out, but they make a lot of mistakes on the way.Normally we're used to rooting for characters who don't screw up, don't wallow, who have passion and take arms against a seas of troubles and by so acting, end them. But in a sense the melancholy is refreshing and has something realistic about it.Who should see this film-- fresh college graduates seeking some inspiration-- anyone who's job hunting-- Drama fans, I think you could skip this one and not regret it. Maybe on a rainy day.So... good film... sorta depressing. How shall I rate this. I'll give Reality Bites a 7 out of 10, sort of a bonus 6. "},{"Title":"Why can't everything be OK again after 30 minutes, like it is on 'The Brady Bunch'?","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  My one-line summary was quoted from Lainie (Winona Ryder). These 4 college friends try to figure out what life is all about, after graduation and away from parents. I give it 6 of 10, and I have enjoyed watching it several times especially because it was filmed in Houston, where I have lived since 1986. Right after the brief college commencement scene, the real opening scene shows the 4 friends in downtown Houston, on the roof of the building called Two Shell Plaza, where I once worked. That particular connection is one reason I watch this movie.I believe most people interpret the title incorrectly, thinking of bites as a verb. Instead, it is used as a noun, a snippet of something, as in sound bite.  Reality Bites are snippets of reality, without judging whether they are good or bad. In fact, within the film Mike (Ben Stiller) put together several snippets of videotape of the 4 friends and that film short was called Reality Bites.Throughout the film there is a love/hate relationship between Lainie and Troy (Ethan Hawke), both of them types of 'slackers' in different ways.  In the end they find each other, and we must presume all will be well with them as the film ends with the two of them in their new apartment. He will be a successful musician, and she a TV producer. Not a great movie, but not as bad as some reviewers seem to think. It has some interesting, and I think pretty accurate, character studies of the younger generation turned loose in the world.Ben Stiller also directed this. Jeaneane Garofalo was one of the 4 friends. "},{"Title":"A film that continues to define a generation","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Recent college grad Lelaina (Ryder) must decide between a coffee house dwelling slacker named Troy (Hawke) who continually loses menial jobs, and Michael (Stiller), a decent hardworking yuppie in Chicago. Essentially a film that started it all by raising awareness of The Gap, the 7-11 Big Gulp, and conversations about Generation X pop culture. Then unknowns Janeane Garofalo and Steve Zahn play Lelaina's best friends. Stiller's ability to understand the material shows that he has an interest in a generation that's trying to find the middle ground. Hawke, an underrated actor, is quite good as the sharp tongued Troy, who seems to come off as unlikable in some degree for his mouth and his constant criticism. Ben Stiller eschews his comic persona for a more serious role as good guy Michael. Garofalo and Zahn steal nearly every scene they're in as Lelaina's confidant and closeted friend respectively. Winona Ryder avoids any period house film of which she seems to most likely belong to, as the desperate Lelaina. John Mahoney appears as Lelaina's needy prick of a boss. Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Reality can Bite, but reality has set in on this already dated tale of love and angst in the 90's...","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film so much when it was first released.  The soundtrack was terrific (still is) and the characters had some meaningful things to say that I felt boded well with my generation.  Watching it 5 years later, the film has aged rapidly and its sometimes sour, one-note message with typical stereotypes made me shake my head in disagreement this time around.  Much like John Hughes pictures of the 80's, the situations and the dialogue surrounding the story have become dated.  It has some great moments sprinkled throughout, mostly because someone my age can relate to the heroes' plight.  It starts out as an attempt to encapsulate Generation X, but turns into a traditional love story, which, believe it or not, is well done and does not necessarily hurt the movie.  Strong performances and a nice love story save this film which could've ended up on the whatever happened to list.Winona Ryder is the idealistic beauty of this rag-tag bunch of friends that covers most young stereotypical bases (Class Valedictorian Ryder, philosophical rebel Hawke, promiscuous Janeane Garafolo, and a gay fourth member of the group who is forced into the screenplay with no significance whatsoever).  There are some great sequences after the opening credits. Good Morning, Grant, a funny send-up of cheesy morning talk-shows (take your pick) features the great John Mahoney in yet another impressive cameo. An early confrontation between budding lovers Hawke and Ryder is effective at showing the sexual tension between these two central characters.  And one of our best actresses of my generation, Winona Ryder, is sexy, sensitive, and real.  Its the Hawke character that wears thin.  He is given empty poetic anecdotes to recite as he puffs on an eternal cigarette, sounding good, making no sense.  Still, he provides enough heart to make the final passages believable and convincing.Some aspects of REALITY BITES are so hard to swallow now. Aids, Aids, Aids. Sure, its an important topic, but the Garafolo character tells us an Aids test is our generation's rite of passage.  Yeah, only for promiscuous chicks like her.  Hawke's tired monologues along with the annoying typecasting (including director Ben Stiller, who plays the much-needed dorky counterpoint to Hawke's coolness) leads us to the biggest misfire of the film.  Ryder's documentary, a simple hand-held recording of her friends smoking up and talking smack is exactly what it is.  The recording of friends with a camcorder that we have all done as well, if not better than she does.  What was so great about her work?  I guess we were supposed to be blown away by the profoundness of Garafolo's trip to the hospital to have her rite of passage on a shoddy video recording.I'm being mean, but honest.  This is not to say DON'T SEE IT.  It is worth seeing because of the acting and the great rock n' roll soundtrack.  Just forget that a class valedictorian can't find a job (yep), all baby boomers are stupid, and many other things.  One thing the film does well is constantly show TV.  We are DEFINITELY the TV generation, but deserve a better representation on film.  Good effort with disappointing results.RATING 6 1/2 of 10 "},{"Title":"Interesting and sweet (SOME SPOILERS)","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was one of the more mainstream offerings in the array of films that emphasized the overly hyped Generation X phenomenon, a list that ranges from Slacker to Singles and includes a host of other films. Winona Ryder stars as Lelaina, a recent college graduate. Out on her own and independent from her supportive, but out-of-touch parents, Lelaina faces the realities of careers and relationships. She can't stand her internship under a local television personality (John Mahoney), and she's forced to choose between Michael (Ben Stiller), a well-intentioned music-video network executive, and Troy (Ethan Hawke), a brooding, sensitive slacker. Meanwhile, she must also protect the artistic integrity of Reality Bites, a video documentary that depicts the everyday lives of her friends (Hawke, Janeane Garofalo, and Steve Zahn). The first time I saw this movie I went insane! I saw it on the first day of school that year, so it started me off pumped. It meant so much to me, and accentuated and made sense of many parts of my life. I cannot explain how close I am to this movie. My best fiend saw it with me too, and we have been a lot closer since then.It was very smartly written, realistic as hell- not necessarily the actions, but the feelings behind the actions taken in this movie. As a drama/comedy, Reality Bites was great. The first half of the movie, though, was one of the funniest, darkest setups I have ever seen. A lot of sarcastic humor that many would call it whatever. It's got some of the best one liners I've ever heard. I will not go on and on about the ending, because other reviewers have overly voiced their 10 line opinions about how it's so good that it's gone past bad and back to good again or really artsy and it sucks. About the ending, I will say this- It is not a normal Hollywood ending. That's good. Hollywood is redundant.  Ghost World is one of the better teen or coming of age movie I have seen in a while. The story was very sweet, and it gives people who are hopeless (like myself) hope. This is because the beautiful AND unique dork of the movie gets to find true love! I don't usually see that in todays movies.The movie consists of many interesting characters, and the actors who played the characters did an outstanding job (especially Ben Stiller and the beautiful Winona Ryder). The settings in the movie was good, and I liked how the movie used different room colors for different occasions in this movie.There are some problems of this movie 1. The movie was a little bit long, and sometimes the story drags. 2. Ethan Hawke character seemed pretty small, it would be nice to more a little bit of Ethan Hawke character.This movie was funny, sweet, and interesting. If you are sick of the ordinary kinda teen movies, you should watch this interesting little teen movie called Reality Bites)If you liked this movie, I recommend Ghost World (2000), Election (1999), maybe Can't Hardly Wait (1998) and Psycho Beach Party (2000) "},{"Title":"This movie rocked.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ben Stiller did a great job of directing as well as acting in this very entertaining piece of art.  Winona Ryder, as well as her acting, was HOT!!! She put all that she had into every part of this film.  Janeane Garofalo was sort of deppersing but due to the fact that she was always hanging around with Winona, everything ended up being perfect, and did not get the least bit boring.  This movie was wonderfully directed by Ben Stiller because it had an underground feel to it with high quality everything.  On top of that it just straight out rocked!  It is one of those few movies that is a comedy as well as a drama to the fullest amount.  Ethan Hawke did a surprisingly fantastic job in his role as Winona's boy friend.  The chemistry between Ben, Ethan, and Winona was unbelievable.  It is something you don't want to miss.   ROCK!!! "},{"Title":"Take your Prozac and call me in the morning!","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" To be honest, I've rented this movie at least four times and I notice nothing new... aside from the fact that it makes me want to take a bullet to my head with each viewing.As much as I like Jenneane Garofolo's shtick, I think that all these actors are only out for pity, which I can say for sure cannot and will not be obtained by the viewers.If anything, it's a pretentious look at what those that can't make the best of a bad situation do smoking, mocking those that can, and basically complaining about what they could be doing instead of what they are doing in the present.Don't bother with this one.0/10 "},{"Title":"The whiney side of post-80's materialism","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  REALITY BITES isn't without its good moments but it's overshadowed by completely self-absorbed, whiney characters that don't even get what they deserve in the end.This is often called the definitive Gen-X movie but I couldn't disagree more.  Sure, in the early 90's there were plenty of people that moped around, assumed they were misunderstood genuises and thought that society owed them an entry-level job as an Executive VP making $200k per year, but we called them idiots and losers.  There was nothing hip about that attitude back then, and why Ben Stiller decided to make a movie about it is beyond me.  Stiller does infuse the film with a certain amount of yuppie hyper-pragmatism but it's potency is diluted by the stiffness of his own one-dimensional character.  He's afraid to really challenge the ideas of the main characters with real, thought-provoking arguments (the kind that really teach you how to grow up), for fear of how his intended audience will react.  In the end, he is the cliche'd, uncreative, sellout yuppie who's easy to disagree with and label the bad guy.  And that's pretty much true of any of the big, bad and bitter adults that won't let these young, misunderstand morose geniuses spread their wings and reach their potential.  In the end these are just kids that are complaining that they didn't end up like Ferris Bueller.  I guess reality bites. "},{"Title":"BEST movie i have ever seen.","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is so amazing. It totally relates to how I feel about my real life. Renee Zellweger is so sexy in this! All the acting is perfect. They should make a best movie ever award and give it to this movie every year for the rest of eternity. When those two people kissed, oh my gosh, i just wanted to die I was so excited.Every part of this movie is so perfectly played out. I can't even put words to how much I love this movie. Everyone in it looks so hot. The stylist is amazing, what is her name? She matched all the clothes with amazing talent. I love it. I love this movie. When I first saw it back in '94, I didn't like it that much, but now I do. I love it so much that i decorated my room with the posters and named my children after the lead characters. The only movie that could ever be better than this one....has't been made yet! It's just that great! Watch this movie, definitely. It Will change your life forever.Long Live CWC! "}{"Title":"Don't Mess With The Cult!","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Cute With Chris RULES!!! Sorry.Winona Rider (Lelaina Pierce) and Ethan Hawke (Troy Dyer) generate a lot of chemistry in Reality Bites, and that's the saving grace of the film. The movie calls itself a comedy of love in the 90s. I don't think it was that funny, or that realistic, but it was a good clean movie to watch and had some pretty good acting. It has a lot of good music, and the classical references in the movie are pretty interesting.The basic plot is about these struggling recently-graduated people trying to find jobs and dealing with the real world (one wonders why they'd want to, given that they could be in college forever). As John, my mentor, remarked, this (finding jobs) somehow seems to a obsession among undergraduates these days. The statistics aren't clear, but is it really true that one, who is reasonably successful (by this I mean someone who also manages to avoid being average), will find it difficult to get a job? It is definitely true an undergraduate degree doesn't hold much value these days, but that's because, in one sense or another, standards have declined and therefore it is a lot easier to graduate without much effort. This might sound unfair, but there are a lot of majors which make graduation all the more easier. A college degree no longer matters---what it is in matters a bit. In any case, a college degree is not a prerequisite for being good in an area. This is clearly evidenced by the fact that certain people, say people with experience in writing software and in systems OUTSIDE of classes, find it easier to get jobs than people who haven't spent enough time exploring what they intend to do the rest of their lives. This means you should obtain internships to show you can cut it. But I digress...Lelaina is the college valedictorian who's making a movie about her friends as they deal, having no role models, with reality. Troy is an intellectual, but a slacker and thus gets nowhere in life. Then there's Michael Grates (Ben Stiller), who's a non-intellectual yuppie who vies with Troy for Lelaina. Lelaina's roommate, Vicki Miner (Janeane Garofalo), who works at a GAP and sleeps with 66 (yes, she records each person's name in her diary) boys before she gets tested for AIDS. All these characters together form a modern-day soap opera. From one perspective, it diplays the confused interrelationship-etiquette seen in today's society. It also displays these young people struggling to fight against the commercialisation that reality brings upon them. Unfortunately, the movie becomes a bit of a self-parody in that regard given its gross commercial placements, and it never goes beyond the level of a soap-opera. Worth renting.www.goosemanrocks.com "},{"Title":"Big gulp","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is great! I Love this movie because it totally embodies a decade. It has the 90's all wrapped up. If my kids ever want to see what the world was like when I was young, I would show them this movie. Diet Coke, the Gap, A.I.D.S. test, and of course the rocking sound track. I think the cast of this movie was great. I really like Wynona Ryder she's a great actress. Janine Garafilo is so talented; she is hilarious. Ethan Hawk dream boat, and the other guy I don't know his name, but he was amazing as well. Ben Stiller was a perfect tool. I think the story is great and it makes me laugh every time. If you want a real treat go out and get a big gulp from the local 7-11, some cheese curls, and pop this flick in. It is def one for the DVD collection. "},{"Title":"I love Winona!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am continuing my examination of the slacker genre with this film and I was pleasantly surprised. While Jeneane Garofalo stole every scene she was in, I thought that Winona Ryder was fantastic and, along with Ethan Hawke, epitomized this genre.She was the driven one, the one with dreams, and he was the classic slacker; sitting on the couch, no goals, just philosophizing about life and drifting through. She was the one to pull them through.I was also surprised that I liked Ben Stiller in this film. I have not seen anything that he has done that was worth a second look, but I plan to delve into the extras on this DVD just to see him and listen to what he has to say.Great movie. "},{"Title":"It works in spite of itself","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Winona Ryder stars, generally exhibiting her desirableness and her lack of talent. Ethan Hawke is her co-star, playing the scuzzy asshole who gets the girl even though I sometimes wished he didn't, and concurrently found it very probable that he did. Director and secondary love interest Ben Stiller is the most interesting case though, as he plays a viable if hapless foil to Hawke in perhaps the only human performance I've ever seen him deliver (as opposed to his current career, which consists entirely of encouraging the audience to enjoy bad things happening to him). This is particularly fascinating because within the overall film, Stiller the director uses his own character more as a symbol of a lifestyle and ideology than as an important participant in the plot.Actually, the long stretches of the film in which Stiller disappears seem to enable the two-headed nature of the film, as it lunges between the romance plot and the career plot. While these wouldn't seem to be particularly contradictory, the film uses his presence or absence to dismiss one plot, almost out of hand, in order to focus on the other, which leads to a resolution that actually seems to ignore what the movie was about&#133; well, at least half of the time.All that said, Reality Bites is an interesting time capsule of a film, if wildly uneven, and it does contain some genuinely great character moments. My favorite of these is Stiller's speech about Yorick, the only time when the film doesn't try to convince us that Hawke has one-upped him. "},{"Title":"A gem of a movie - a generation perfectly captured!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Reality Bites is not only brilliant because it's funny, brilliantly cast and directed flawlessly by Ben Stiller - I love it because of the universal themes it depicts truly belong to our entire generation and you will recognise something in it, no matter where you're from...I grew up in Europe so my background is different from Lelaina's and her mates - yet her anguish is so familiar, her friends are just like mine and each time I watch this movie, I feel such nostalgia for those great, scary, exciting years when I left university to enter the big bad world...It seems to me that our generation (X as they call it) is defined by the constant contradiction of our principles, or lack thereof...we look at our parents and accuse them of selling out and giving up on the great dreams of the 60's...we envy the freedom they had, we despise how they wasted it...yet in many ways we have sold out as well - to comfort and consumerism, Oprah-fed self-obsessed anguish and lack of purpose....still we retain a bit of hope, that somehow we'll be a little better, that we'll not always compromise, that we can still be true....These are all questions subtly raised by Reality Bites....but even without all the grand talk of existential issues, it's a must see classic - if only for the My Sherona sequence in the petrol station store. Lovely stuff. "},{"Title":"More to it than meets the eye","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie seems to be either loved to bits or reviled with a vengeance.Those who hate it say the movie stinks because its characters keep complaining about their horrible dead-end lives when the reality is, their lives are actually pretty good.Like one of the other reviews here said, what's there to complain about when you have an apartment that can house 3 people comfortably, a dad who gifts you a BMW!!! and designer clothes? Reality Bites also exaggerates, overemphasising some aspects of the life and times of Gen-X with a fair degree of hyperbole.Indeed that's true.But this is a movie, and unlike life, it isn't always in-your face, down-to-the-last-detail realistic, thankfully! At times, in any artistic medium,exaggeration and dramatisation may be required to ensure a tight and focused storyline. Otherwise, the medium may fail to get the message across. Also,like so many of us realise at some point or another,money doesn't buy happiness although we hope or think it will...take a look around at some of the rich people you know...The movie isn't about perfect, honest, hard-working people. It's about young adults just out of college... people who may be messed-up and ones who some call 'losers' and 'slackers'.Although some young adults may be in touch with what they want to do with their lives and manage their lives well and consequently angered by what they feel is an unfair depiction by the film of their generation...quite a few aren't.The characters in the film may be whiny, spoiled brats...but then neither they or the film expect the viewer to think they are cool just because of their 'cool' and 'deep' dialogue...if you look close enough you'll realise that beneath the ultra-cool, devil-may-care, sarcastic and flip camouflage of these characters lies the anxiety of confused and lost,maybe even likable, people who have far more depth to them than there appears to be at first glance.People trying, not necessarily successfully, to come to terms with real life for the first time...and realising that life's much more layered than they think.That, I suppose, is the major point of the movie.*SPOILER BEGINS * This exchange from the scene where Lelaina tells Troy how much the documentary she made meant to her, although she didn't think it was anything great, was one example that revealed the characters' uncertainty and doubt...what they REALLY feel below the cosmetic makeup of their personas.'Lelaina I just don't understand why things just can't go back to normal at the end of the half hour like on the Brady Bunch or something.Troy Well, 'cause Mr. Brady died of AIDS. Things don't turn out like that.Lelaina I was really gonna be something by the age of 23.Troy Honey, the only thing you have to be by the age of 23 is yourself.Lelaina I don't know who that is anymore.Troy I do. And we all love her. I love her. She breaks my heart again and again but I love her.' The scene at the movie's end between them is another example.* SPOILER ENDS * The thing is, while this movie doesn't cater to everyone's tastes, it hits a chord with those who've been through the dilemmas the four principal characters face- questions of identity - lost, evolving or regained, rebellion - overt or simmering - against society or in general, new-found independence,the responsibilities that come with it and the not-always-healthy coping or escapist mechanisms young people come up with to deal with life and so on.Unlike other reviewers here, I don't agree that the film had a and-they-lived-happily-ever-after ending. All the final scene showed was that for now, that moment... they were happy. They had no idea about what the future held...like how long all this would last, would they get jobs tomorrow, had they done the right thing? and what not...But those things didn't matter...because, for the moment, they were happy.I could say here that this is the deeper philosophical meaning of the film...you gotta live in the moment...but I won't ;) "},{"Title":"welcome to the maxi pad!","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ben Stiller's directorial talents go unsurpassed in this one. It's a pity he's gone onto do typical slapstick, straying from the early days of his otherwise genius work. Though this movie probably comes in second to The Cable Guy. He so dutifully portrays the slacker lifestyle and'anything-goes-day-to-day' philosophy that defined the 90s and became the backbone of our slowly degenerating society, but at least he does it intelligently.Not only is this movie exemplary of the ever-changing front on a woman's place in society but the place of her opinions and the way she presents them (or rather doesn't, for that matter). "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The most common criticisms of this movie were (in short) whining ne're-do-wells and pretentious acting/theme. Alright, I can see that.However, there are those that can empathize with the characters and appreciate their circumstances. It may be a gloss of Gen-Xers and the woes experienced by university graduates, but this is (in large) the nature of the movie medium. And Art, no matter what the medium, always seeks to filter out certain elements or details in favour of those details necessary to communicate the message. I believe 'Reality Bites' has accomplished this, if not for all people, at least for some -- and this is what ultimately matters. Those that are sensitive to the message will understand and need not articulate it to those whose experiences do not permit an honest understanding. Lastly, bitching about people bitching isn't 'ironic', but it is certainly a great parody of ego -- ie. of the hypocritical ego. The tone evident in some of these reviews border on a strange hostility. Yah, you have the right bitch. I guess. But, about people bitching? hmmm. . .  "},{"Title":"Truly great film","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  'Reality Bites' is one of those movies that deserves a certain place in film history. It never became a great cinematic masterpiece, nor did it aspire to be. It simply is a movie about the true meaning of life...which is nothing. Humans are nothing more than their experiences. Who we are is directly relative to where we are and who we are with at a nameless point in time. I loved the raw reality of Troy's(Hawke's) mix of misdirected sorrow and dark love. I liked the wit and subtext that can only be related to by the non-shallow. I loved this film for everything it tried not to be and for everything it said in the process. Ethan Hawke, Winona Ryder, Janeane Garofalo, and Steve Zahn form an outstanding cast.It's blatantly honest.  "},{"Title":"sometimes its OK to whinge","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  after watching this movie for an essay i have to write at uni i thought i might get some reactions to the film. personally i thought that this film was a good glimps of deeper issues and feelings, in 1990 and even today generations have to come to terms with a postmodern world where nothing is sacred (lelaina's movie). i think it adequately addresses much of what was going on in the world of that time,*plot spoiler* MTV generation, unemployment, divorced parents, AIDS, moving out of home and being broke, lowering yourself to a job you don't think is worthy. to all those who see this movie as not properly portraying a generation i say to you- how can you portray an entire generation? your town is different to mine, your background is different to mine. and to anyone who has ever been caught up in the tension of a friendship that you think should be more, this movie does an excellent job of putting on to screen those feelings. i would have liked a little more of the character of sam, he just kinda turns out to be *plot spoiler* gay with no real warning. but this film is going to be excellent for my essay on youth, identity, and a postmodern world.  "}{"Title":"Once bitten.....(Spoilers)","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first viewed this movie, I was pretty young, so I instantly fell in love with the philosophical and deep (ya know, like the ocean) Troy, played by the heart-breaker Hawke. At a later glance, one almost pushes for Ben Stiller's character Michael to pull out ahead and win the fair Lelaina's (Winona Ryder) hand. Of course, when soulmates encounter, everyone, no matter how well intentioned or worthy, gets left in the dust. Troy and Lelaina were meant to be, getting there was the hard part.This movie fell right in line with the grunge style of the era, even allowing for a cameo from Soul Assylum's singer. Janine Garafalo was amazing as the University graduated Gap manager Vickie. She's the witty, educated, stoner-hippy type that has great style and knows how to have fun.This movie addresses AIDS, homosexuality and selling out. I think it's a great flick and would recommend it to anyone itching for a modern tale of love and well, reality.  "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Personally I really enjoyed 'Reality Bites'. Yes it has a dumb title but the film itself makes up for that. It isn't the greatest film ever or anything like that, but then it doesn't set out to be..it's simply a feel-good movie with some good acting and some really likeable characters, along with a sweet storyline.Winona Ryder is excellent as Lelaina, and Ethan Hawke's Troy is a great character, the type of person I think it would be fun to be friends with..you could learn a lot from him (apart from how to keep a job longer than a week) and it helps that he's especially gorgeous in this movie. Janeane Garofalo (Vickie) and Steve Zahn (Sammy) really grow on you...the four characters seem like an ideal group of friends who it would be great fun to hang out with. Overall, this film is very enjoyable and I really liked it -)  "},{"Title":"Movie for Gen Xers and 20's crowd","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are a Gen-Xer, this movie will grab your heart. Each of the 5 main characters have something we all can identify with. Plus the movie accentuates the struggles of a typical college grad of the early to mid 90's. Most of us can totally identify with the character who struggles to find a job without any experience, and the job would have paid $400/week if she was lucky to land one. Plus, the movie talks about how the Big Gulp from 7-11 changed our lives (no doubt), when we were living with roommates to make ends meet, and getting a BMW was the ultimate dream (still is for most recent college grads). Who hasn't sat all day endlessly watching TV while being depressed about his/her life? Maybe you too has called the Psychic Hotline to get advice on love matters. Remember when AIDS was BIG? (yes, even bigger issue than today). How about being confused with your love life and just life in general? Yes, it is all contained in this film. I am the exact age of the characters in the film (23 yr old back in 1994), and watching this film for the first time as a 33 year old brought back some cherished old memories. It was especially nostalgic for me since I lived through virtually moment in this film which further reminded me that a success is a journey, not a destination. Finally, Winona Ryder has never before or since looked more beautiful "},{"Title":"This movie doesn't bite.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has good acting and deals with relevent issues many kids do deal with. I liked that the movie took real issues and dealt with them in a realistic manner and I guess alot of people could relate to this movie and that's why it's liked so much.Although I liked Reality Bites I wouldn't call it the best movie ever made or anything, just a quirky well acted movie that spotlights some real life dilemas/issues in a way that's both charming and pretty blunt. Winona Ryder was great as usual here though I wouldn't call it her best role(that honor I would think would go to Little Women. But all in all this movie does not bite, it's a good movie. Just 2 criticisms I MUST make known1)First Winona Rider and Ethan Hawk had VERY LITTLE chemistry together. I'm not saying Hawk didn't do a good acting job but their scenes together just lacked chemistry. They probebly shouldn't play lovers in another movie. And also2)This is the WORST title I have ever heard of for a movie. Ok, I understand this was the focus of the movie(that reality does indeed BITE.) But still.. the title was so CORNY I almost didn't agree to rent this because I felt it had to be a ridiculous movie. Thankfully, I was wrong but if they ever make a part two please get a new title. "},{"Title":"Not just for generation x","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***SPOILERS**** I bought the DVD without really expecting too much (actually i just wanted to see winona ryder act, shes terrific as always) other than it being a romantic comedy.  However, i was quite pleasantly surprised when i finished the movie.  The issues that this film portray with are completely relevant to teenagers of today (which includes myself) despite the fact that its nearly 10 years old.  It deals with young people who after having their heads stuffed full of idealism during their education are then thrown into the real world, where they try to infuse that idealism into simple everyday acts like making enough money or paying the house payment all the while trying not to be a sellout(yuppie).Despite what some of the other viewers said (that the characters are too shallow, etc) I found the acting to be very good.  Winona Ryder's performance as Lelaina Pierce, the valedictorian film student who has a misunderstood genius for unadulterated documentary film making, was very believable though at times she did seem a little too, well, overdramatic(like when she was in the diner and michael called her about his bringing of the tapes to NY.  She was screaming into the phone.  I dunno, maybe she was just excited).  But still, Winona was great!  Troy Dyer(Ethan Hawke),  the pseudo-intellectual couch potato, and Michael Grates(Ben Stiller), Troy's antithesis, the hardworking TV executive, were greatly acted, not to mention believable as well.  But i won't go into specific details since this comment is getting a bit longer than i had anticipated. Just watch the film!Overall, Reality bites was a great film that i truly truly enjoyed.  Its a must see of all Winona fans.  However, i understand that it might not appeal to all people, especially older people who can't really relate to Lelaina, Troy, or Michael.  I would recommend it to all my friends though.  I give it 9/10 (It would have been 10/10 but the ending was not really up to par with the spirit of the rest of the film)Also, a little bit of extra features on the DVD would have been nice. Instead there was only bio info about the actors/actresses. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After graduation, four friends find themselves struggling with finding work, relationships and realizing that reality just bites. I thought this was a great movie, the cast was terrific and I just love Winona Ryder so much. The main reason that I liked this movie is because I could relate to it in many ways. Although the story started slipping near the end I still enjoyed it very much. I would give Reality Bites 9/10 "},{"Title":"Well I like it.","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  First of all the cast really appealed to me. Winona Ryder, Ethan Hawke, Steve Zahn, Janeane Garofalo and Ben Stiller on there day are all fine actors (but in recent years most have fallen in quality). Plus the fact that this is Ben Stiller directing feature debut.I think Reality Bites is a good look on sub-generation X twenty something's who venture into the big bad world in search of employment.I can associate with Hawke's somewhat tortured soul trying to get the girl he loves, but they are in the friendship group.I find Reality Bites a very intriguing, interesting and good piece of film making about life in the early 1990's7/10 "},{"Title":"Great Chemistry!","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ethan Hawke and Winona Ryder had excellent onscreen chemistry.  I mostly rented this to see Renee Zellweger who had a very small part...I did not even manage to see where she was in this movie.  However, the story definitely held my interest and it is one I will see again.  The sexual tension between Hawke and Ryder was incredible. "},{"Title":"I liked it, hated it, and loved it at last","Date":"15 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, I was born in 1971, a true genXer and I watched this movie in 94 and I liked it, then some years ago I found it pretty depressing and dull, but then when I was 30 I watched it again and I remembered why I had loved this film, funny and poignant. There are some flaws (as in all the movies are), but these guys and girls are my youth, how I felt in some moment of my 20's. Maybe my kids tell me in 2015 that is an old movie, but I love this film. "},{"Title":"this movie rules!","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies!it's definitely got everything you ever wanted in a moviedrama,romance,comedy...all rolled into one big plot! Winona Ryder and Ethan Hawk have good chemistry in the movie,and Janeane Garofalo is just hilarious!i'd give this movie 11/10! "}{"Title":"Disappointed Musings of a New Yorker","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was told by my peers that I just HAD to watch this movie. So finally, after years of stalling, I did. I was expecting a smart cynical view of post-graduate life...well it was half that. The cynicism was high, however the quality of the movie was not. The acting was poor, the lines (except for a few standout exceptions) were mediocre. But for a movie, it was enjoyable enough.....just don't expect too much.  "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies ever...","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...This movie is great and everybody who disagrees must be crazy!!! Reality Bites has been one of my favorite movies for years and I will never get tired of it. I've seen it so much times and every time after seeing it I for some reason feel great...I know, it doesn't make sense but that's just the way it is. For once the movie is more realistic than the most movies today and that's one of the reasons why it's so good. I think that the reason why people like this movie so much is because of Lelaina's and Troy's relationsship, if you can call it that. It doesn't take a genious to figure out that they WILL end up together at the end of the movie but still... The movie is, as said earlier, great and all you out there who like romantic comedies......watch this one!  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie, About Love, Friendship, Fun And Life In The 90's.","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Three of my favourite actors/actress' (Ben Stiller, Winona Ryder and Janeane Garofalo.) star in Reality Bites, a brilliant movie, about the lives of young adults growing up in the 90's. One of things, that is so great about the movie, is that it's very realistic. Reality Bites is definitely a classic comedy and I give this great movie a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Far underrated!","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reality Bites combines an independent movie feel with a cast of Hollywood's best without compromising the integrity of either.  Although never given the respect that it deserves, it remains somewhat of a cult favorite.  Although the film is often dumped in the romantic comedy category, it barely fits there.  It goes far beyond that genre into social commentary, drama, documentary, musical, and more.  The sound track is one of the best and best utilized in movie history.  The movie watches like a music video.  By far the cast makes the film.  Ryder and Hawke put in first rate performances, and are surrounded by a set of great actors who steal every sequence.  Ben Stiller both stars in and directs this excellent movie, but please, don't group it with the rest of the movies he's made.  It's much, much better.   "},{"Title":"Greatest Depiction of Life, Love and Troubles Ever!","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I Love this movie! Wonderful! It shows humaness so well in the characters and the troubles they have are ones we can easily relate to. Winona Ryder and Ethan Hawke are fabulous together and Garafolo and Zahn add great comedy to this wonderful film! "},{"Title":"Formula, cliche gen-x stereotype","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Reality Bites is an example of exactly the type of shallow cliches it pretentiously tries to satirize.  From the opening pot smoking graduation party right through to the predictably dull ending the lame, witless attempts to be cleverly ironic just keep on coming at you like so many Good Morning, Grant cue cards. Excellent cast wasted on mediocre script.  "},{"Title":"This is how they will remember Generation X in years to come...","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first encountered this movie when it hit the theaters in 1994. Somehow back then, it touched me in a very strange way - I was still living at home with my parents and was not all that happy about it, and seeing this movie with the Youngsters managing their lives pretty much alone and independently really stirred my desire to go independent as well - though it took me some more time, I really believe this movie (together with some others like True Romance, for all that it's worth) changed the direction of my life.Working for a psychology reading about Generation X at the university, I met Reality Bites again, this time with a totally different approach. This time, the movie did not change my life, but gave me a perfect example what Generation X, if it ever really existed, was all about.A generation over-educated and under-employed was fighting for their right to exist, and the older Generations perceived it as a cunning way of escaping responsibilities while in fact the young people only wanted to give their life some direction and meaning...Reality Bites is a splendid movie with excellent Ethan Hawke and Winona Ryder portraying members of Generation X in all their complexity. Sometimes the problems seem to be overwhelming, but they find a way out of every dire situation except for one - and that's of course HEARTACHE!Though I never lived quite this chaotically, I still can identify myself with these guys. The movie is like an emotional journey back... "},{"Title":"Then and Now","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, at the time of its initial release, I really liked it a lot. I didn't necessarily buy it as the definitive Gen-X movie or anything, but it still offered up a feast of pleasures Wynona Ryder (who I don't normally like) at her sexiest and most appealing, a quirky and irreverent script, a *great* soundtrack, and the projection of a real lived-in feel amongst the main group of friends. Their hanging-out and their conversations with each other felt very genuine and unforced, and reminded me of times I'd spent with my own friends. People who criticize the film for just showing young people sitting around forget not only how much of life (even the enjoyable parts) is spent doing nothing particularly momentous, but equally how difficult it is to capture that elusive, just-sitting-around quality on film. Heck, I even thought Ethan Hawke was terrific (although this was due more to my inability to get over the fact that it was the same actor who played the nervous, uptight kid in Dead Poet's Society).Looking at it today, though. . . . well, I still like it, but I can see more clearly a lot of its flaws and why many people (particularly those of my age group, i.e. the Gen-Xers) didn't like it. It is a bit too self-important, and many of its moments feel forced. The romantic triangle aspect of the movie seems more like a gimmick to propel the action than as an idea anyone could seriously get behind. I'm still totally captivated by Ryder in this movie (weird, because I almost never care for her otherwise), but it feels wrong that she should end up with *either* of these two guys. Hawke and she have a believable and appealing chemistry, but he's really too much of a poster boy for Slacker-hood to be taken seriously as a romantic prospect. And Ben Stiller as the corporate yuppie is just too dweeby and annoying. His performance is the big weak link in the movie; he takes what could have been (and seems written as) an interesting, double-edged character of personal charm but deep insecurity, and turns him into a one-dimensional nerd whose tics and mannerisms grow increasingly more grating.And yet, there's just too many good things in this movie to write it off. The scenes with John Mahoney as the daytime talk show host - hilarious! Ryder's conferences with her clueless parents (I love when her mother, played as a perfect ditz by Swoosie Kurtz, lovingly calls her daughter sugar booger); any scene with Janeane Garofalo or Steven Zahn in it (this movie introduced me to both these actors, and I've enjoyed them more and more ever since); and, most memorably, the hilarious butchering that Ryder's student film receives at the hands of MTV. That scene makes me laugh uncontrollably every time I see it. It demonstrates Ben Stiller's greatest ability as a director a profound media savvy and an ability to satirize not only television, but any form of pre-fabricated culture. His jaundiced yet playful eye takes in everything from Melrose Place to psychic hot-lines, Gap outlet stores and 7-11 Big Gulps and posits them as the type of cultural detritus that, for good or bad, a generation has come to view the world through. Nothing as coherent as a statement comes out of all this, but the film does provide an enjoyable fun-house mirror through which a certain segment of the population can find itself reflected, if perhaps imperfectly.So, yeah, not the film to end all films (and the worse for sometimes looking like that's what it's trying for), but certainly good for a few self-referential chuckles, and an appealing (if a bit slovenly) cast of characters to spend the evening with. "},{"Title":"Pretty good Generation X portrait","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is not the best movie about life after high school in the real world,  but it's a worthy member of its category.  Ben Stiller made an impressive directorial debut with this pleasant story about five generation Xers who find that life in the adult world of bills,  rent,  dead-end jobs and unrequitted love relationships really bites.  LaLaina (Winona Ryder) wants to film and finance her own Real World type documentary starring her close friends Vickie (Janeane Garafalo),  Troy (Ethan Hawke) and Sammy (Steve Zahn).  If she's a success,  she may be able to get out of her thankless job as an assistant to a totally anal talk show personality.  She meets Michael (Stiller) a handsome yuppie type with whom she shares mutual attraction and a desire to help her get her film project into the right hands.  In the meantime,  slacker Troy is a broke garage band singer who lives off of his friends and changes jobs like he changes his underwear.  He and LaLaina fight like a couple of cats in a bag for the most part,  but an underlying affection is evident.  Vickie has one night stands every week or so and is worried about contracting HIV.  All of this is the subject of LaLaina's documentary.  After Michael ends up making an unintentional mockery of LaLaina's film,  the film goes in several erratic directions and never seems to resolve its main dilemmas.  But it's still a pleasant watchable story.  **1/2  "},{"Title":"Who are we supposed to sympathize with here???","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Am I really supposed to feel sorry for a valedictorian FILM MAJOR who can't get a job she adores on the first time out?  Or a lazy, self-centered pseudo-intellectual whose only joy in life is belittling other people?  I guess that is what they had in mind when they made this flick, but it went over my head somewhere along the way.  No, I don't agree with Lelaina picking Troy over Michael.  Michael was a nice, well-meaning guy, while Troy was selfish and expected Lelaina to be there to love him only on HIS terms.  The most interesting characters, the other two roommates, were sorely underused.  Save yourself the trouble and just buy the soundtrack.   "}{"Title":"A so-so film with so-so acting","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was nothing amazing at best. Winona Ryder had come so far since Beetle Juice and Edward Scissorhands, and then she seemed to forget everything she learned for this movie playing a character that would in the end set her up to play characters like Pam Dawson in Mr. Deeds where she was just as bad. I expected much more from Ethan Hawke. After doing Dead Poet's Society, I thought he would have kept his amazing acting style, which is somewhat true. He just blended in with his twentysomething surrounding a little too well. Ethan Hawke has made progress with movies like Great Expectations, Gattaca, Hamlet, and Training Day. Then there is Ben Stiller. What can be said about Ben Stiller, that hasn't already been said about Gigli? The Ben Stiller Show had a short run, but was generally a funny show. Then he makes makes his mainstream film debut with Reality Bites. The film is great in comparison to the other movies Ben Stiller has directed, The Cable Guy and Zoolander. This movie was staring the confused Ben Stiller that can also be found in Meet the Fockers and Along Came Polly. This is not to be confused with the angry Ben Stiller from Heavyweights and Dodgeball. I must say that the award nominations say it all. When the only award you were nominated for, and can't even take home is Best Kiss at the 1994 MTV Movie awards, it really says something about the content of your film. The winners of that award were Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson, just so you can compare, and in a close second were that kid and the whale from Free Willy. No Kidding. I gave this movie 4 stars for one reason. It was entertaining and didn't make me want to shut it off(much like Troy did). "},{"Title":"it's OK, if a bit naval gazing","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It's an OK film-- if you can get past Winona Ryder and Ethan Hawke, the rest of the cast is really good. Ryder's character ends up being an annoyance, and what anyone saw in Ethan Hawke as an actor is totally lost on me. My main issue with the film is not the self-referential Generation X pity us feel of the film (which is, whether intensional or not, the actual overall theme) but rather the overwhelming sense of entitlement that everyone in the film seems to have, for no particular reason. I found it hard to like any of the characters, with the possible exception of Garafalo.For those that haven't seen the flick-- a group of apparently University of Houston graduates leave the collage world, to face life as young urbanites in the trendy Montrose area of Houston, Texas. Hawke and Ryder are our romantic pair-- he being a drunken buffoon of a boyfriend (but very musical, in a sort of performance art way). Janeane Garafalo is the pudgy best friend to Ryder, and possibly the only reality-based character in the story. The earlier scenes in the film ring more true than the latter half of the film, which frankly had me looking at my watch in the movie theatre waiting for it to end.An over-hyped film, in my view, but not a bad way to past time. "},{"Title":"take your daily angst multi-vitamins everybody...let's locomote!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" winona ryder seems to be at the right generation movies every decade. take 'heathers' for the 80's. 'reality bites' for the 90's. and, well, she still has to make her mark for this era, and i know ppl will kill me if i say it's mr. deeds or s1m0me. nevertheless, reality bites is a movie so close to my heart. it definitely serves as a landmark (or film mark?) for the bottled up dreams and anxieties of the nineties. i think people are afraid to say the movie is good, critics don't seem to know what to make of it. the film's obvious appeal and beauty is something that gets people, but it's also something silly that they can't reveal. reality bites is a filmmaker's dream...it stands on its own, grows big and influential on its own, and shines despite all its slop and sarcasm. i would just like to make a stand and say that this film is good, i'm thankful that helen childress wrote it and ben stiller directed it, and winona and jeaneane took the two best roles one could play. I'm thankful that this movie is there when i need it, right when i've reached my own winter of discontent. "},{"Title":"another form of torture","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is probably one of, if not the worst movie i have ever seen before in my life. acting is subpar, the direction is crap, and the script is terrible... i have seen bad movies, this is just painful. what is the point to the movie? is there a point? a bunch of people bitching about their lives. wow. sounds thrilling. hey, i could bitch for two hours and save myself the money. i like ben stiller, but it was simply his worst film ever, along with the rest of the casts'.  "},{"Title":"This movie bites!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw this movie a few years ago, I was disappointed and horrified. Disappointed because all I had heard was critical acclaim showered on this movie. Horrified because this movie was sold as an example of the attitude and lifestyle of my generation, X. What an embarrassment to Gen X this movie is! First of all, the characters are all whiny, immature, apathetic, and lazy. They complain nonstop about anything and everything and are never happy. That part of the writing doesn't make sense because some of these characters have accomplished quite a bit in their lives such as being the head of their class in college, etc. Yet as soon as the graduation ceremony is over they are completely negative about all that?? Huh? They say the stupidest things, and their one favorite activity, which is annoyingly shown throughout the whole movie, is singing Schoolhouse Rocks songs and other retro songs-totally moronic, that needed to be shown only once. These characters are supposed to be in their early twenties, yet act like a bunch of rebellious, spoiled rotten teenagers! This movie is a total misrepresentation of my generation, and Ben Stiller should be ashamed to have made such an offensive piece of crap. I would never recommend this movie to anyone!! "},{"Title":"A page from the grunge diaries. Part 2. (minor spoilers)","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There were two very definitive relationship comedies made in the early 90s. The first was Cameron Crowe's 'Singles,' which is about an assorted cast of characters looking for love in Seattle. The other is 'Reality Bites,' which seems to have held up as the more popular of the two (although if it is being judged purely on soundtrack, my money is on Singles).In this one, our primary character is Winnona Ryder, Lelaina Pierce, a recent college graduate who, like many of us pathetic college graduates who are far too optimistic and been trapped in school too long, expect this to be the turning point in her life. At this point, in her mid twenties, the job, the relationship, everything...it's all supposed to fall into place.As an aspiring filmmaker, Lelaina meets a studio executive who may be able to help her out in both aspects. He offers to produce her post-graduation mini-documentary and also plays the role of the boyfriend. Although this is technically the main point of the film, it is more like a series of subplots just like 'Singles.' My favorite, Janeane Garafolo plays Lelaina's cynical friend who is a GAP employee awaiting the results of an AIDs test. Ethan Hawke resembles Rob Lowe's character from 'St. Elmo's Fire,' as he plays the drunken slacker who is sort of conflicted with how he feels about Lelaina. And Steven Zahn is Sammy, a guy coming to terms with his sexuality. Lelaina's character is really quite a melodramatic, so things evolve into those crazy dramas, as they often do in these kind of stories.All in all, I liked this movie better than 'Singles,' although I liked Matt Dillon's character in the latter better than Ethan Hawke. While the story and its characters do sometimes come of as irritable, for the most part it is a funny film and a nice arrangement of all things. Plus, it has a pretty good soundtrack, which fans of the early 90s post-new wave and somewhat, post-grunge (but not much) should enjoy. If you like the above mentioned cast of characters, then that should be reason enough to give it a try. "},{"Title":"Pure absolute total CRAP!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought about posting this review, after seeing Snow Falling on Cedars (why does Ethan Hawke keep playing wounded characters??? Anyway...)Reality Bites, is a film in my life that I reserve for comments of complete falsity, and absurdity that I find HIGHLY offensive.  I don't mean offensive in the moral sense where you might have some zealot wanting to censor art..Oh no, that's not what I am talking about.  I saw this film in the theatre paying as a University student with my sister.  Here is a film that was suppose to be about us, about our so called generation (no I am not even going to use that BULL***T label that's been used).Crap. What an UNREALISTIC portrayal of people who are supposed to be me??  Educated people who can't find work and are depressed cause they feel life is not fair, and they never got a job after they graduated.  GET OVER IT!  and then you have some villain type character who is successful and is portrayed as the anti-thesis of what you should be. GIVE ME A BREAK!!!!!AND WHAT a false ending...  I had no sympathy for ANY of these characters (except Stiller) who are nothing more than some MARKETING person's idea of what THEY think late 90's young adults should be.  Great message to send to people, be an educated, slacker, SHUN work, do some occasional drug use, fret about your parents divorce, and go nowhere... and somewhere you are happy in all this (DON'T ask me how that works).Yeah that's a great message.I don't know anyone of 'my generation' who was like this, but it seems this movie paints everyone of my era with this horid brush.  Everyone I knew who was truddging through the early 90's and the recession WANTED a job and had an idea for the future, unlike these fakes.Here's a better message for this filmTry this one...Get a life.Rating undeserved out of 10 "},{"Title":"So Nineties","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I remember really liking this film when it first came out, but it hasn't aged very well. It seems to be suffocating under the weight of its own lethargy.Many teen concepts are played out here, the angst, the moving out for the first time, the corporate sellout versus being true to yourself, and for a while, I got sucked in. But now when you look at the film its hard not to see it as some cynical marketing piece, as Bill Hicks once said, they've gone for the anti-market market. It plays big business and corporations as evil whilst simultaneously being in bed with so called corporations and taking your hard earned cash while they're at it.Again, some of the characters just need a good slapping, too many emo-kids here, the world isn't fair, yeah, get over it and get a wash while you're at it. Maybe its a bit too kitsch for me, and Americans will get more out of it than other nationalities, but I thought the acting wasn't great, the jokes too few and far between, the direction plodding and the tale itself rather predictable. There are worse films out there though, so don't be afraid of giving it a try, it just seems as empty as the post-modern society it was trying to deconstruct. "},{"Title":"This movie typifies what's wrong with today's Generation X","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The correct title should have been, Being a loser is cool. I, as a part of the age group portrayed in this movie, am totally offended by the characters portrayed in this film. I don't know what alternate slacker universe the writer/director lives in, but any group of people that sit around all day, getting high, then complaining about how life sucks, should be slapped silly. The only successful character in the movie, portrayed by Ben Stiller, is an evil business type. WHY??!! I guess the message is this,  If you are a poor, whiny, slacker, then you should be pitied and looked upon as oppressed, but on the other hand, if you are a success, then you are an evil, controlling, money oriented jerk!! Don't waste your time with this sorry excuse for a film.  "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wish I could take credit for this, but alas I cannot. But, I think it as SPIN magazine that said, Reality Bites, and so does the movie. A boring and overused story of a girl who must chose between two guys (as if they are the only two out there). One is a wannabe rockstar and the other is a yuppie. All you wish that she would do is go out and find someone else. Stereotypical and boring.This movie is about a group of friends that all graduate from college and move into a shared apartment. The main character (Winona) is an idealist that graduated top of her class that does not want to work for the man. She meets Ben Stiller (the yuppie) accidentally and the two start to date while the rockstar (Ethan Hawke) gets jealous and accuses her of being a sell-out for seeing the guy. The tension that happens between Ryder and Hawke has been overdone in about every Hollywood movie. Steve Zaun was good, but the direction to make him this boring, I am just a quiet gay guy, was a bad choice.Jeanne Garafalo was very good in this movie and she made it more bearable and the direction and acting with her was great. I think there was a good effort, but it just seemed to fall short of what it was trying to reach. Maybe it was reaching for nothing and it was just meant to entertain, but I doubt it. "}{"Title":"Reality Doesn't Bite. This Movies Bites.","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Ben Stiller directing his first film was a complete screw up. This movie bites not reality. Winona Ryder, Ethan Hawke, Steve Zahn, and Ben Stiller all star in this train wreck. I give it a 6. I don't know why but I give it a 6. It feels like I missed something watching this movie. This movie is a stupid comedy with no real laughs in it. This movie stinks just like The Dana Carvey Show and Tom Green's Stunt Show. Some major stars in this movie, but still this movie sucks big time. I would like Mr. Stiller to show me my money back sooner or later. I don't see the comedic gem in this movie. Sorry Ben but you don't have my vote. "},{"Title":"Gen X refresher course","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" REALITY BITES (1994) ***1/2 Winona Ryder, Ethan Hawke, Janeane Garofalo, Steve Zahn, Ben Stiller, John Mahoney, Swoosie Kurtz, Joe Don Baker, David Spade, Anne Meara, Jeanne Tripplehorn, David Pirner, Evan Dando, Karen Duffy. Insightful, funny and smart comedy about recent college grads of Generation X Lelaina (Ryder) wants to be a media artist but still remain with her pals but faces love and Hawke and Stiller (who made his directorial debut) as the platonic philosopher and video exec with a heart of gold, respectively, vying for her. Biting and witty screenplay by Helen Childress. "},{"Title":"This movie bites.","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm one of the very, very, very, very, very (this could go on a long time!)... few people who thought Ben Stiller did a good job on The Cable Guy, and it was a good satire.I had wanted to see Reality Bites for a while and finally got to see it on TV last week. I was really disappointed. It's a lame romantic-comedy with unlikable characters and a wandering story.It's basically about slackers (primarily Winona Ryder and Ethan Hawke) who sit around moaning because their life is so terrible. The people who work for a living are portrayed as vicious, mean fascists.The film isn't very well directed (it thinks it's really hip, clever, and New Age-ish, when it's none of the above), and presents a bunch of characters I couldn't have cared less for.If you want to appreciate Ben Stiller's sense of comedy, I'd recommend Cable Guy over this any day of the week. "},{"Title":"Left-wing in the USA","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A picture of left wing-wing generation X in the USA.These people should look like left wing? In Europe they would be far right-wing and superficial.As usual nothing made in the US, has any intellectual content, first of all Mr. Allen. Even people who claim to be intellectuals are too brainwashed by TV and hamburgers and 44oz. Colas (as cited in the movie)and MTV.America has them all in hand. In the end the bourgeois so called left wing is always a winner, when it comes to compromising with traditional American values.Nothing new, nothing well done. I wonder what US Anarchist do different? Do they eat at an alterantive fast food chain? Vote 2/10, as an insult to real European alternative intellectuals (not burger intellectuals but real intellectuals). "}]