[{"Title":"Sumptuous production","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Mystery","Review":" I must disagree with Alice Liddel (which by the way should be spelt Liddell). The story of Kaspar Hauser is a well known historical fact and Sehr's film presents one of the mooted explanations for the appearance and origin of the 'wildboy' Kaspar Hauser, a youth who had lost almost entirely the ability to speak or write due to more than a decade of mistreatment. Sehr's sumptuous production covers not only the experiences of Hauser, but the courtly intrigues surrounding his incarceration and attempted murder and is cast in the light of tensions between the States of Bavaria and Baden. The acting is superb, lighting and cinematography are exquisite.The previous reviewer's (Alice Liddel) comments in relation to the Nazi fascism and the 'cover-up' of Germany's past are frankly ludicrous. "},{"Title":"A very gripping tale","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Mystery","Review":"  *Spoilers* This is an in depth historic view (acuratly sticking to the known facts, but seemingly acuratly guessing the rest) on the true story of Kaspar Hauser who elegedly was the son of a very influencial family (the house of Baden?) in southern Germany during late 18th century.As a newly born he was switched for another baby and incarcerated until his teens when he was released and sent (on his own) to the nearest city. Not able to say more than one sentance he had to learn by heart and not having had any social contact with anybody he is understandingly disorientated and basically retarded. A scolar takes care of him, tries to teach him language and about the world. Kaspar slowly grows into a fragile, naive human being. He attracts a lot of attention, due to his very strange background. He becomes so famous that in the end he befriends a lord who continues to take care of him but also seems to use him to some extent for his own amusement... at least it seems to me like that. Things go from bad to worse, the people trying to eliminate him in order to take over his families power and status catch up with him.As I said, a very gripping tale. Masterfully played by the main actor. He absolutly becomes the fragile Kaspar and plays him with a devotion as if he really was him! The story itself is very dramatic but also provides some laughs, mainly I guess because it is just charming to see the young man Kaspar asking questions in a way a 4 year old would. But that is Kaspars nature, a very kind and simple nature. While watching him grow up in the outer world you always fear for his safety, for his well being and hope that he is not harmed by anyone in any way, may it even be by harsh words.The viewer gets sucked in and gets stuck in this historic must see, with great German actors, excellent costumes, props, scenary and language. If you can, watch it with english subtitles so that the original actors brillinat efforts are not in vain.Clear 10/10 "},{"Title":"How to make an interesting story unappealing","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Mystery","Review":" Kaspar Hauser is a German 135-minute movie from almost 25 years ago. It won big at the German Film Awards back then with victories for its direction and lead actor before racking up the big prize as well. I cannot share this acclaim. People in the German-language areas will probably be familiar with the mysterious tale of Kaspar Hauser, a young German who appeared out of nowhere and nobody knew where he came from or what his past looks like. One reason why Hauser is fairly well-known to this date may be Werner Herzog's strong movie on the character. That one is also a lot more famous than this one here. A major difference is the inclusion of the duchy and political complications in this newer film, an aspect that was almost non-existent in Herzog's work. Instead, Herzog focused almost entirely on the character and the people he lived with when he was found. It was all about the integration of Kaspar Hauser. This one here is a lot more about his past. And this is also why the present is pretty uninteresting unfortunately. I do believe André Eisermann was pretty solid and possibly the best aspect about the film, but still he had nothing on Bruno S. and I find it baffling how Eisermann is the one who won the German Film Award. Other than him, there are a couple more familiar faces in here during earlier stages of their careers. Thalbach, Ochsenknecht, Laser, Lohmeyer and Silberschneider are still somewhat famous today, at least here in Germany. But they cannot elevate the material and the uninteresting story in my opinion. The writer and director is the late Peter Sehr. It is his second work in terms of both and was his big breakthrough back then. And again, I cannot share the praise. I don't mind his direction, but the script I found very uninteresting for the most part, which is especially disappointing as the movie is about such a famous character. And when Sehr attempted to make it interesting, for example during Hauser's murder at the end, it still feels off the mark. This ending for example also was obviously included for dramatic purpose and as such it was not convincing as we do not know what really happened to Hauser, so it is mostly a work of fiction, extremely loosely based on real events. I did not enjoy it and I believe it was too long for its own good. Thumbs down. "}]