[{"Title":"Incredible success when seen as a surrealistic cinematic pastiche","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"121 out of 142 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is a bit of a dorky pushover. For example, he buys hot concert tickets to try to get a date with a fellow bank employee he's been pining after, but she easily scams him into keeping the tickets for herself, and he is too weak to publicly object. But when he comes across an ancient mask of Lodi long ago discarded by Vikings who tried to bury the troublesome object at the end of the Earth, he discovers it has the power to unlock his true self--suave, smooth-talking, manic, a bit dangerous, and a hopeless romantic.The Mask was a perfect vehicle for Jim Carrey. It not only allowed provided the perfect justification to flamboyantly engage in his rubber-faced antics in a manner even more over-the-top than what he'd become famous for, but it provided an opportunity to stretch his acting chops towards a more serious side at just the right time in his career, paving the way for later work such as Man on the Moon (1999), The Majestic (2001) and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004).The success of the film wholly depends on Carrey, as he has to sell his characters' frenzied insanity so that it's believable as a reflection of Stanley's inner self while at the same time likable but teetering on the edge of becoming obnoxiously overbearing. Of course, the amazing special effects and make-up help, as well as the clever script and more than competent directing and cinematography, but with the wrong actor in the part, the whole affair could have easily collapsed. The other cast members are fine in supporting roles, with Cameron Diaz coming across as being almost otherworldly beautiful, but Carrey is rarely off-screen, and rightly so.The Mask is notable for both spoofing almost the whole history of cinema while at the same time respectfully paying homage to it. The audience is treated to everything from silent film slapstick to lavish musical numbers (with excellent songs), frenzied Tex Avery-styled animation to gangster film suspense. On its surface, the film is a crazy, often funny, hyperactively paced cinematic pastiche.The subtext about identity and public faces versus private selves is interesting, but not the focus. It would be fine to explore further, but to do so in this particular film would have taken too much time away from Carrey's surrealistic tour de force. Besides, we've had later films where that subtext has been closer to the heart of a story, such as Catwoman (2004), and where it was very thoroughly and competently dealt with.Many aspects of The Mask differed from the comic book source material, but this is a case where the changes led to such an excellent result that most people have forgotten about the source material and primarily remember Carrey's performance in this film as definitive. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedies I have ever seen","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"106 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Actually, I saw The Mask by accident. I wet to the cinema with my friend to watch something. When we arrived at the cinema and saw the poster showing The Mask we did not feel like watching it. But as it was a long way home we decided to go and see the film. And we enjoyed the movie so much that we decided to go to see it next day again. The first time we watched it we did not catch everything as our eyes were flooded with tears of laugh and our bellies hurt form laugh cramps. The story is really catching and Jim Carry is simply fabulous. The plot makes you think what it would be like if you had the mask and what you would do with it. Stanley Ippkiss in his funny quest made me be happy with what I am and what I have. The Mask is undoubtedly one of my most favorite comedies and it has a steady place on my video shelf. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"105 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is easily Jim Carrey's greatest picture! Not only that but in my opinion this was one of the funniest films of the `90s. This is such a fun movie that you can see it 10 times and it's still as fun as the first time. The film stars Jim Carrey in another amazing performance and the BEAUTIFUL Cameron Diaz in her debut. Also this is kind of like the Rocky Horror Picture Show of my generation. I remember Halloween 1995 when my friends and I dressed up as the characters from this movie and did the Cuban Beat! )4(****)out of 4(****)starsAn ENTERTAINING MASTERPIECE!!!! "},{"Title":"The Mask is, and forever will be, SMOKIN'!","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"79 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask was the movie that introduced my family to Jim Carrey. And we all thought that it was great. Carrey plays unlucky bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss, who one night finds an ancient mask. When he puts it on, he turns into sort of a cartoon character; think Roger Rabbit on acid. The really great thing about the movie is that they just turn Carrey loose. Anything that you can imagine him doing, he does here. A particularly funny scene is when the police tell him to freeze, you'd better believe that he freezes! All in all, Jim Carrey's humor will never get old. He may have given his all-time funniest performance in The Mask. "},{"Title":"Somebody stop that Jim!","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the movie that got me into Jim Carrey (though I'd seen him on In Living Color a couple of times), and it's still my favorite, though Ace Ventura #1 was also kind of funny.The great thing about this film is that Jim is actually really restrained all throughout, only going into goof ball mode when he puts on the Mask. He's pretty likable and engaging here, not quite as prone to irritating some audience members like he did in Batman Forever and Ace Ventura #2. Cameron Diaz... my God, she looked SO GOOD here, how have her looks faded so quickly since this film? She looks so... plastic now, kind of like a giant Barbie doll.One of the big standout scenes in this one is Jim singing Cuban Pete to escape all the cops. Not that the other Mask gags are unfunny, but Cuban Pete really stands out. Too bad the cartoon Mask didn't have a little more restraint to it.  "},{"Title":"A Fine comedy treat","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"35 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Carrey is on top mad-cap form in the Mask, he plays Stanley Ipkiss, a boring Mr. nice guy with a longing for more excitement and success in his life. When he finds a relic of an ancient mask, he gets slightly more than he could have dreamt of; he becomes a cartoonish superhero and at last he can live out his desires; or not! This film also introduced the very beautiful Cameron Diaz, and what man can forget her first screen appearance as she breezes in to the bank in all her splendour.Hilariously funny, cracking special effects and a thoroughly entertaining story, the Mask is a winner people, and it's an absolute must-see for everyone who likes a bit of Jim Carrey madness.7/10 "},{"Title":"How to cast Jim Carrey","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"50 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's hard to use Jim Carrey in a movie.  He's very good at his rapid-fire mimicry routine, but how can it ever be anything other than a diversion from both character and story?  (Very rarely is it a pleasant diversion.  `Ace Ventura' was unendurable.)  And yet, what else can you do with him?The `Mask' solves the problem so neatly it almost cheats.  The story is ABOUT someone with a double life - so by day, Carrey does all the character and story stuff, and by night, wearing the mask, he does his stand-up schtick.  The two are as integrated as they need to be.  It's pulled off with such an air of innocence I can't possibly complain.  SOME of the clichés (those to do with the police especially) are so very worn out that even the most thorough of movie-goers is surprised to find them still alive; but the writer seems to have been honestly unaware that they were clichés, so that's okay.I was told that the film is saturated with animation in-jokes.  I couldn't spot very many.  Stanley-with-the-mask has the soul of a Tex Avery cartoon character I suspect that's all there is to it.  The computer animation, or the computer-enhancement of Carrey's animation, is tastefully done.  It never looks pasted over the top of the footage the way so much computer animation does.  (`The Mask' failed to win an Oscar in the special effects category - like so many other more deserving films, it was beaten by `Forrest Gump'.)  The Cuban dance numbers are irresistible, as is Stanley's pet dog.  Sure, `The Mask' is no masterpiece, but it's a clever, charming film that richly deserved its runaway success. "},{"Title":"This movie is a scream!!!","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you ask me, 'The Mask' is Jim Carrey's best work ever. It's his best movie and the only one of him I find really great. It's not a movie without its faults, but it's original, imaginative, creative and has very good comical gags. It's a classic. Or, to use only one word to describe it Smokin!Jim Carrey can be two things either a really funny comedian either a comedian who does his job well but overacts, although no one can deny that there is a genius inside this man. In 'The Mask' he is awesome. I consider this one of his best actings of all time, if not his very best.In 'The Mask' Jim Carrey portrays Stanley Ipkiss, a clerk in a nice Edge City bank. He is a very nice and easy-going guy with great sense of humor (which matches his funny name). He is «the nicest guy», yet shy and somewhat depressed and he does not have much success in his job and personal life. He doesn't have much friends, except for his co-worker Charlie and his loyal dog Milo (a Jack Russell Terrier). Stanley likes to watch cartoons (particularly a Tex Avery one with a whistling wolf), decorates his apartment with items from these cartoons and he has the most unusual pajama )Jim Carrey also portrays the title character (The Mask), which is the other side of Stanley Ipkiss... or at least what he wants to be but can't be without the mask. The mask gives him superpowers and courage to do things he wouldn't be able to do without it. For example, he can dance like Fred Astaire, Gumby and Barishnikov (all together) - and he can flirt with the gorgeous Tina Carlyle. The Mask is a cartoonish figure that can do incredible things.This film is a crazy comedy, a film that surpasses the limits of imagination. Yet, despite its cartoonish humor, it also works well as a thriller and has a dark atmosphere. At the same time, this movie is clearly inspired (in many ways) on several cartoons, such as the Looney Tunes, Tex Avery's 'Red Hot Riding Hood' and even the live action/animation movie 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit'. The movie also has great sceneries and backgrounds, as well as great lines, nice special effects and its magic.Cameron Diaz in this movie... my goodness! Is there any guy who wouldn't fall in love with her in this film? She was really a stunning beauty in this film. She was absolutely at her hottest and most sensual here she was more curvy, sexier, so beautiful and her smile was even more enchanting. Her role as the gorgeous and loving Tina Carlyle was a great acting debut for her. Plus, she was great in this role. In fact, she was a better actress in her early acting years than in more recent years. And she got slimmer with time.Cameron Diaz also sings very well in this film, with a husky, jazz-like voice. What a difference comparing to 'My Best Friend's Wedding', where she sings terribly. She was 21 years old in 'The Mask' but she surely looked older than that. She is really like a live-action version of Jessica Rabbit in this film.Other funny characters (along with Stanley Ipkiss) are Charlie Schumacher, Milo, Detective Doyle and the impatient Lt. Mitch Kellaway.Most of the soundtrack is great the opening theme and other instrumental themes during the movie and even the cheerful songs Hey Pachuco and Cuban Pete - this last one is sung by Jim Carrey himself in a hilarious part where he (as The Mask) dances and makes the policemen dance either. It really makes one wanna dance.Most actors are pretty good in their roles Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz, Peter Riegert, Peter Greene, Ben Stein, Amy Yasbeck, Richard Jeni, Nancy Fish, Jim Doughan and Max.Max is the name of the dog that portrays Milo. The intelligence of that dog deserves to be mentioned. This breed of dog is known for its intelligence and loyalty, but also for being lovable, playful and stubborn dogs. Milo is all of that. Plus, Milo seems to understand everything they tell him. When his master is giving him orders, he moves his head as if he is understanding every word that is said. Plus, he climbs a considerably tall wall to rescue Stanley and we can see in his eyes when he is feeling fear, joy and sadness, for example. What a fabulous dog actor!The loaner... what a piece of junk! That car makes its own scenes hilarious! Why? Simply because of what it is a charger in a junkyard.Jim Carrey makes this movie as good as it is. I believe that this movie couldn't possibly be this good without the great Jim Carrey. This role was made for him and couldn't be played by other than him.This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"one of Carrey's best","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Broad, inventive comedy stars Carrey as a repressed, down-on-his-luck banker whose once uneventful life is dramatically changed when he uncovers a mysterious ancient mask that brings out his innermost desires. After developing a close bond and gradual affection for a sexy songbird and prospective client (Diaz), he then tangles with her ruthless, lowlife gangster boyfriend (Greene). Lively, imaginative comedy with big laughs and nifty effects that almost make you feel like you're watching a live-action cartoon. The violence borders on extreme, but Carrey is in peak form and provides more than enough classic moments to make up for it. A must for Carrey fans. *** "},{"Title":"S-s-s-s-mokin'!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"46 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   Jim Carrey plays Stanley Ipkiss, a zero as the film tagline says, who never speaks his mind about anything. The typical mild-mannered guy. After Stanley finds an enchanted mask under a bridge one day, though, everything changes. He goes from zero to hero. But first, he plays around with his new found menacing powers. Calling the mask a hero is like calling Hitler kind of a good guy. The mask makes Stanley rob banks, scare people and more. He's half-hero. The Mask is not great, but it fits Carrey's film persona quite well. He bounces off the wall (literally) and just doesn't sit still. Typical Carrey. If you're not one for loser-to-hero films or wacky slapstick, don't see The Mask. Otherwise, it's worth a peek.3/5 stars "}{"Title":"One of my favorites in my DVD collection","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Remember back in the day with the hit TV show In Living Color had several stars, one of them being Jim Carrey. He was one goofy guy with crazy physical comedy routines that could get your stomach hurting from laughing so much. But could this man make it to the top and possibly bring in a number one movie at the box office? He did, with 1994's smash hit The Mask. I remember seeing this movie when I was 9 years old and being in the theater nearly dying of laughter. I wanted this movie so badly on VHS when it was released, my parents got it for me and I think I must have played it a few dozen times a day. Jim Carrey was like no comedian that I had seen with how crazy this guy would be and The Mask truly showcased his talents.Stanley Ipkiss, a clerk at an Edge City bank, is a shy, luckless romantic who is regularly bullied by nearly everyone around him, including his boss, his landlady, and car mechanics. His only friends are his dog Milo and his co-worker Charlie Schumacher. Stanley is smitten with Tina, a beautiful young woman who his new client at his bank. Later that night Charlie and Stanley go to a club, but after being denied entrance to the Coco Bongo, Stanley is stranded with a broken-down rental car at the city's filthy harbor, where he finds a mysterious wooden mask. When he takes the object home and puts it on, it comes alive, wraps around his head, and transforms him into a wackily-suited, green-headed, cartoonish figure called The Mask, a trickster unbound by any limitations whether be personal inhibitions or physical laws, who cheerfully exacts revenge on some of Stanley's tormentors and terrifies a street gang that attempts to terrorize him.I still watch The Mask to this day, it's one of my personal favorites in my DVD collection. Jim Carrey is still a blast to watch, how could you not laugh during his Cuban Pete performance and getting all the cops that are trying to arrest him into a salsa dance? Cameron Diaz's first ever movie, God I wanted to look like her so badly when I was a kid, she was so beyond gorgeous and absolutely adorable in The Mask. Even Peter Greene made one heck of a creepy villain as Dorian and seeing him transform the mask into something like a monster was just scary. Then seeing Jim Carrey's dog transform into the mask was classic slapstick three stooge like humor that would get anyone laughing hard. The Mask is a classic that I will always enjoy and recommend if you need a good laugh, great Jim Carrey movie, still one of my favorites.9/10 "},{"Title":"Superlative superhero comedy","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Being a superhero comics reader, I tend to see The Mask primarily as a superhero movie. When I look at the best superhero movies yet made, the list of really good ones is quite short. The first X-Men movie was good, the Spider-Man movies are decent, and the best of the lot may be Mystery Men. I also like Sky High. But, one I frequently forget to consider is The Mask. It is actually just as good as Mystery Men, and so one of the two best superhero movies yet. It is a total comedy classic, also in terms of Jim Carrey's acting. Everything is done perfectly and for reasons that make sense to the plot, and it's just fantastically funny I can explain everything!! Explain THIS! Ummmmm....Taking its cues from Tex Avery cartoon is genius, and complementing everything with superb (for the time) special effects that still hold up today is just brilliant. This movie has it all, and it all gels in perfect hyper-slapstick harmony. The story is cool, the acting and casting are inspired, and Cameron Diaz is pitiably innocent and adorable.A fine, fine piece of movie-making.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Mask","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" When I was younger this used to be a fantastic family comedy film, and it still is. Basically Stanley Ipkiss (Golden Globe nominated Jim Carrey is the mild-mannered bank clerk working with best friend Charlie (Richard Jeni), and one day he meets and is instantly attracted to the beautiful Tina Carlyle (introducing Cameron Diaz). They see each other again (after he has been soaked) at the Coco Bongo Club, and it is on his way home that he discovers an ancient green wooden mask inhabited by the spirit of mischievous god, Loki. When he puts this mask on, he is transformed into a green faced uncontrollable wacky cartoony alter-ego superhero. When Tina eventually meets The Mask, she is instantly attracted to him and has no idea it is Stanley. Meanwhile, Stanley has to deal with Lt. Mitch Kellaway (Peter Riegert) who has reason to believe Stanley is this Mask. Eventually, Stanley has bigger problems when Tina's villainous gangster boyfriend Dorian Tyrell (Pulp Fiction's Peter Greene) gets hold of the mask, and plans to take over Edge City with his new found power. The concluding scenes in the Coco Bongo Club, fighting for the mask, including dog Milo putting it on, are fantastically funny. Also starring Amy Yasbeck as Peggy Brandt, Orestes Matacena as Niko, Nancy Fish as Mrs. Peenman, Jim Doughan as Detective Doyle, Denis Forest as Sweet Eddy and Ben Stein as Dr. Arthur Neuman. The cartoonish special effects are amazing, Carrey is hilarious as The Mask, Diaz's debut is great, this is just a must-see family film. It was nominated for the Oscar for Best Visual Effects, it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Make Up/Hair, Best Production Design and Best Special Effects. Cameron Diaz was number 65, and Jim Carrey number 47 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, Diaz was also number 26 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and the film was number 68 on The 100 Greatest Sexy Moments for Diaz's great introductory entrance. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"This film is magical","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 'The Mask' is easily the best movie with Jim Carrey ever and even the only film with him that I really like. After all these years, it's still sensational and a breath of fresh air. It's a festival of cleverness, originality, creativity and imagination, with a unique style and cartoon-like sense of humor.I agree that Jim Carrey is a comedy genius and I can see why he is considered «the man of the 1000 faces». In this film, he is terrific. He does an excellent portrayal of his 2 characters (Stanley Ipkiss and his own much wilder and care-free alter-ego, The Mask - not to mention that The Mask has incredible superpowers) with his characteristic big-pie humor but without pushing it too far. I think this is his best role and acting ever.This is the Jim Carrey movie to own. It now deserves the honor to go down in history as a classic from the recent history of cinema. Jim Carrey makes this movie the legend it is.This movie is definitely smokin', a wild comedy that goes farther than the limits of imagination. Like the older 'Who Framed Roger Rabbit', it combines cartoon-like humor with thriller, suspense and darkness and heavily drinks inspiration from lots of famous old cartoons.Other things contributing to the movie's timeless appeal are great characters, hilarious lines, exotic scenario and a party of special effects. It's a different and magical movie experience.Cameron Diaz's character Tina Carlyle is so enchanting that I'm sure many men's hearts melt whenever they see her in this. Cameron Diaz was extremely beautiful and hot in this.The dog that plays Milo is really cute and an amazing animal actor.Soundtrack is terrific from the various musical themes to the jaunty Latin-like songs 'Hey Pachuco' and 'Cuban Pete'.Title in Portugal 'A Máscara'. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey at his best.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" never thought it could happen. Jim Carrey (star of Ace Ventura Pet Detective) upstaged -- and not once, but twice! While it's true that The Mask is another vehicle for the rubber-featured modern-day amalgamation of Jerry Lewis and the Three Stooges, this time around Carrey has some competition, and there are a number of scenes where he ends up playing second fiddle.The special effects are, for the most part, rather impressive, but they're as frequently guilty of overwhelming the star's performance as complimenting it. Nevertheless, if you think Carrey has an expressive face, wait 'til you see him with the mask on. Eyes pop out and jaws drop -- literally. ILM goes to work with their own version of live-action animation whenever anyone dons the mask. Good costumes and make-up serve only to enhance the computer-generated visuals.And, even as the audience's attention is arrested by the work of the effects wizards, there's still room for a canine scene-stealer. Milo (whose real name is Max) is the perfect foil for Carrey's goofiness and -- yes -- there are occasions where his animal antics divert the spotlight away from his two-legged co-star.Carrey, meanwhile, is playing a split role mild-mannered Stanley Ipkiss and his superhuman alter-ego, the Mask. Stanley is a shy, unassuming man who works in a bank and lives with Milo in a small apartment. One day, following a terrible bout with Murphy's Law, Stanley finds a curious-looking mask floating amidst some debris in a river. Later, at home, when he finally gets around to trying the mask on, Stanley learns that this isn't some archaeological curiosity. It has power - the power to transform. From the moment the mask clings to his skin and his face turns green, Stanley's personality undergoes a radical shift. Insecurity is replaced by flamboyance. Physically, there seems to be little that he can't do, from twisting his body into a pretzel to taking a bullet in the chest or forming a tommy gun out of a balloon.While wearing the mask, Stanley makes a comment about becoming a superhero, but he's really interested in one thing Tina Carlyle (Cameron Diaz), a voluptuous nightclub singer who works for a local gangster (Peter Greene). Following a bank robbery (to finance his wooing), the Mask discovers that a cop, Lt. Mitch Kellaway (Peter Riegert), is hot on his trail. And it's not that difficult a trail to follow. After all, how many lime-faced bandits are there who move like the Warner Brothers cartoon Tasmanian Devil? Carrey plays Stanley with surprising restraint, giving his zaniness free reign only when the mask is on. In some ways, it's a Clark Kent/Superman thing. Stanley and the Mask might share the same body, but they're very different. One is a typical nice guy who finishes last. The other is Robin Williams' genie from Aladdin come to life (Carrey provides dozens of whirlwind impersonations).As a comedy, The Mask is genial, but its recycled plot is far too thin for the film to succeed as either an adventure or a spoof. Comic book and cartoon are two terms that come to mind for describing this movie. Neither is intended to be pejorative, but each conjures certain apt images.Carrey is only in The Mask for 25-30 mins. I wanted to see more. But it's good to see his serious stuff as well.For me, Ace Ventura was too much concentrated Jim Carrey. In The Mask, the forceful personality is diluted. The star is mostly-subdued except during those off-the-wall bursts of energy that accompany the appearance of the Mask. The film is entertaining enough -- in a light, undemanding sort of way -- but more than the combined efforts of Carrey, ILM, and Max are demanded to camouflage the seams and holes still apparent in this production. No one else could have played the part better. "},{"Title":"One of the finest comedies ever.","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask has got to be one of the best comedies ever, everything here smells originality. If you've seen a Jim Carrey movie you know his style, he tends to overdo a little sometimes but he manages to stay funny, a lot of people don't like him because of all the weird stuff he throws in while acting, but this movie can change some minds about Carrey. The Mask follows the story of Stanley Ipkins, an average guy who finds an ancient Scandinavian mask, it contains within the Norse god Loki banished and imprisoned, now whoever puts on the mask gets possesses by the joker spirit of the god gaining incredible powers and the will to cause problems.In The Mask Carrey plays two characters, one is the more-than-regular Stanley Ipkins, who's a shy fan of cartoons and works at a bank, he's not good with the ladies and the world seems to conspire against him at all costs, luck sure doesn't seem to enjoy playing on the side of Ipkins at all. The other is when he puts on the mask and transforms himself into a green-masked party-boy maniac, ready to joke all around town, all his romantic repression is unleashed and he starts acting in a cartoony style much like the cartoons he enjoys so much seeing. There are funny scenes all around but the highlights are when Carrey puts on the mask, including dance scenes; one is particularly funny because it has a cover music track of Cuban Pete sang by Carrey himself, seems like the song was destined to be funny. The movie also features the debut of Cameron Diaz when she actually looked cute and not a super-sized barbie doll.If you like Carrey you really should see this movie because it's one of the best stuff Carrey ever pulled. If you're not a fan, you can still enjoy it because he also plays a normal character that's actually normal, without the weird faces, with the crazy stuff being performed by his masked person, although the crazyness is probably boosted, it's easily understandable since he's indeed possessed. If you're still not convinced about Carrey maybe his comedies aren't for you, you can probably enjoy Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind anyway. "},{"Title":"Awesome, under-rated classic.","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" How often do you see a movie like this? It absolutely rocks. Even though it tones down the violence of the dark horse comics, it seamlessly blends Tex Avery style wackiness into the real world. If that does'nt reflect the inner child in us and what everyone wants to be, then what does? Firstly, the main character is brilliant. Hes an explosive combination of all the wacky toons we all love. But the difference is that its all amplified 10 times over and its all real! You actually combine all this wackiness into a very serious, realistic, dark and gritty world. The guy who came up with the 'Tornado' routine needs to be given a major award. This has to be Jim Carrey's best performance in his career and for once, hes not overacting or being annoying. Cameron Diaz looks her best in this movie.The actors who play Kellaway and Doyle also give very likable performances. The villain is also very well played but he loses his charm when he puts on the Mask. The music is also awesome. This is one extremely enjoyable film that is also very posh, cleanly cut and refined despite its subject matter and content. The production values are very high.My only complaint about this movie is that it does'nt have enough of the 'Mask' himself. For that you'd need to go and see the animated series but the latter is not at all as good as the movie itself, strangely. "},{"Title":"Poor Cameron Diaz...","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When she made her big screen debut in 1994's The Mask, she was about as close to physical perfection as one can get.  Tall, curvacious, and blessed with two of the prettiest eyes in filmdom.  The next time you see The Mask on TV (or if you have it on your own movie shelf) watch her big dance scene with Jim Carey.  You know the one, with Royal Crown Revue playing Hey, Pachuco! in the background.   She was pretty, she was round in all the right places (and none of the WRONG places), she looked like she was having the time of her life and she wanted you to jump on in and start dancing to share the fun.  And after all, why not?  The Mask was all about fun.  Kick back and watch Jim Carey play for all the laughs he can get with the eager help of his co-star, Industrial Light and Magic.Unfortunately for Cameron, someone high up on the Hollywood food chain decided that she needed to lose a few pounds.  Well, no she didn't.  But it was too late.  By the time Something About Mary came out a mere 4 years later, she had been fully indoctrinated by the Anorexia is Sexy-ah brigade.(As an aside, THIS is the primary reason you shouldn't let gay men run Hollywood.  See, their standard of beauty is the captain of the varsity swim team.  Curvy babes like Cameron Diaz don't stand a chance under their withering assault. But I digress.)But on the bright side, Cameron Diaz's lovely frame was captured on film in a cheerily silly movie for all eternity.  We should be grateful. "},{"Title":"A timeless classic","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of my favourite movies as a kid, and a guilty pleasure as an adult. This movie has everything that a kid could be looking for in a movie. I introduced this to my 6 year old son recently and now its all he talks about, he mimics the various characters portrayed by The Mask and has even started getting his friends asking their mums and dads about it.10/10 from me, for the simple fact that it doesn't exactly what its supposed to, entertain families.Its a fun filled story packed with that old school slap stick comedy mixed with some cartoon parodies, all seamlessly blended by the master of laughs, Jim Carrey. "},{"Title":"Delightful Comedy","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I've seen this hilarious, inventive, fast, crazy, and delightful comedy many times and it never bores me. It makes my eyes pop up and my jaw drop down not unlike Jim Carrey's Mask persona in one of the film's many incredible scenes. This is the perfect movie for Jim Carrey's talents in physical comedy. He sure had a lot of fun and improvised in many scenes doing the parodies and paying the homage to the famous movies and characters in recognizable and hilarious way. The movie made me laugh all the time; it is a perfect fun for the whole family which does not happen too often. All supporting players made the film even more enjoyable but one actor who did impossible and almost stole the central spot from Carrey was the dog, the Jack Russell Milo. What a great performance! If they ever gave the Oscars for the best animal performance, Milo would be the one to receive it. The Mask also marked the film debut for an ex- model, 22 years old Cameron Diaz, and I believe that it was one of the most stunning debuts ever. The moment, she stepped in Stanley Ipcus's (Jim Carrey) bank and his life, the new star was born. I've never seen her as beautiful as in her first movie, and her dance with Carrey at the night club has proved that she could keep up with the most amazing physical comedian of our time. Great fun. Oh yes - how could I forget the Oscar nominated special effects that made Carrey's transformations from a shy clerk to a superhero absolutely amazing. I think that this comedy is timeless and it would delight the viewers of all ages for many years. "}{"Title":"One of the best comedies of the 90s","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" THE MASK is the story about a nice guy, Stanley Ipkiss, who is unhappy. He has a landlord who always yells at him, a boss who always berates him, and people always take advantage of his nice nature. One day, his life changes. He comes upon a mask in the lake and puts it on. Upon putting on the mask, he is transformed into a kind of comedic troublemaker who can do anything. What results is one of the funniest and most enjoyable comedies made in the past twenty years. Jim Carrey plays Stanley Ipkiss totally perfect. His character is so quirky and likable, and yet he manages to let loose way further as the mask. The mask, in question, only contributes to an already very rubber face. The visual effects are all very inventive and original, especially for the time! Cameron Diaz makes a stunning acting debut as the woman of Stanley's dreams. I haven't even mentioned the big bank heist, references to Tex Avery, the climactic fight scene, the two incredibly brilliant dance sequences, or the adorable dog yet. All I have to say is that all these subplots are balanced perfectly. There are some incredible sight gags herein, the exploding windshield early in the film still makes me laugh. This is a wonderful film and it certainly entertained me more than than most 90s comedies. I highly recommend this film if you're looking for a fun laugh.Pros -Excellent performances from Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz -Amazing visual effects -awesome dog performance -the two dance scenes to end all dance scenes Cons -cheesy villain and resolution to that -it ends a little too quickly "},{"Title":"Jim & Cameron dazzle!","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First of all, I'd like to say that Jim (Carrey) and Cameron Diaz dazzle together as a mild-mannered bank clerk and a sultry nightclub singer. You guys are great! The first time I saw it, I didn't even know it was Cameron Diaz portraying Tina Carlyle. When I saw THE MASK again for the first time in five years, I was surprised to find out that it was her. I practically cheered when Stanley/The Mask (Jim Carrey) beat the daylights out of Dorian (Peter Greene). I thought The Mask was a funny guy. Another thing that I liked about the movie were the songs that were performed at the Coco Bongo. I especially loved the swing piece that was performed. The song that made me laugh the most, though, was Cuban Pete. In my opinion, Tina (Cameron Diaz) sounded good when she sang Gee Baby, Ain't I Good To You? You go, girl! The special effects were very intriguing in my opinion... especially the transformations from man to Mask. In conclusion, I highly recommend this smash hit to all you Jim Carrey or Cameron Diaz fans who have not seen it. "},{"Title":"Like Looney Tunes Cartoons Brought To Life","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you get someone like Jim Carey it's often hard to find a vehicle that's suited to their talents. No such problem here, with the manic, hyper energetic comedian fitting the role with utter ease. It was as if the whole idea was written with him in mind.Actually it's more likely that someone sat down one day & decided to see just how far they could push the new digital special effects of the day. Whatever, the results are pure lunacy.Carey, as mild mannered, down trodden Stanley Ipkiss is a bubbling pot of seething desires & emotions ready to boil over but forever with the lid firmly clamped down. He plays the part supremely, not overly sentimental (something of an achievement in today's Hollywood!) & always giving an air of the raging spirit within that is just itching to get out. It's like watching someone walk a tightrope.Jim Carey as The Mask is something of a whirlwind, quite literally. Who can forget the two stand out lines when the Mask takes over; Somebody stop me! & Smokin'!. These two lines sum the character up in a marvelous way.His dog, Milo, is also well done. How on earth some Hollywood exec didn't insist that it become some sentimental pooch I'll never know. Yes it is far too intelligent, far too useful, far too convenient, but it is excusable in the context of the film.The marginal story line about gansters, a bank heist & so on is merely a framework for Carey as the Mask to perform increasingly manic acrobatics on the screen. The references to cartoons, especially Wiley Coyote & Road Runner (perhaps the best, most imaginative cartoons ever made) are obvious. There is even a direct steal from a Bugs Bunny cartoon where it appears that the audience has stood up in front of you to applaud a performance as Carey gets handed an Oscar.The cops & the villains are all about as dumb as each other, which is the reasons why they're there. Carey as the Mask is the focus of all this, after all. Peter Riegert as Lt Kellaway & Peter Greene as the villanous Dorian Tyrell do the job well though & Tyrell even gets a shot at wearing the Mask with somewhat muted results. Let's face it, nothing compares to Carey's version.The pace wanes a little towards the end, but still contains an interesting twist, where the love lorn Carey discovers the truth about Amy Yasbeck's reporter & Cameron's Diaz's night club singer. It is  not what you'd expect. There are also some surprisingly good musical numbers, I bet that took some explaining in the studio board meetings!All in all a good laugh & the mark of this film is that several years later, after watching at least 3 times since release, a recent TV showing still made me laugh again.There'll never be another, perhaps that's as well as I doubt that the material would be so forthcoming, although it's a shame there won't be another helping of The Mask. "},{"Title":"Other than The Elephant Man, this is my all time favorite movie.","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Could there have been anyone else perfect for the role of this crazy guy?The Mask 1994Now let's see here, how to explain this movie...honestly? How does one think of this as Jim Carrey's worst movie (they've obviously never seen Copper Mountain...)? This was a great film. They managed to make terrible CGI look good! Now that's hard to do. Unlike Son of The Mask. Which didn't. And ruined this movie for many people. You know. The one we don't talk about.However I adore this film too much for that load of cacá to ruin the movie. Kudos to Jim Carrey. A great movie with just enough suggestive humor to appeal to adults and funny scenes to entertain kids. If I ever become a movie director when I grow I bit older, because I'm a bit young, I plan to make a The Mask II, which was planned to be made but wasn't, and was replaced by the Great Disgrace...(also The Mask II will have nothing to do with the events of Son of The Mask...)Anyways GREAT FILM! I recommend it to all! "},{"Title":"SSSmokin' indeed. Jim Carrey is a comedic tornado.","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is my favorite Jim Carrey film of all time. I love this film quite a bit. It's fast, it's fun, and it's funny. Stanley Ipkiss(Jim Carrey) is a bank clerk, he's nice guy, that lets everyone stomp all over him, not to mention that he is a hopeless romantic. He stumbles upon an ancient mask that represent the Norse mythology god Loki. Upon wearing the mask he receives superpowers and brings his inner most desires to life. What I love most about this film is that there is a duality between Stanley Ipkiss and the Mask. As Stanley he's shy, timid, mild-mannered, a good guy who gets taken advantage of. But, when he puts on the mask, he's the complete opposite, he's able to become someone he wishes to be full of wisecracks, jokes, cartoony antics, and full of confidence who chases after Stanley's love interest Tina who is portrayed by Cameron Diaz. I believe this is the film that showcases just how good of an actor Jim Carrey really is. He's able to remain as human as possible, perhaps even a little relatable to some guys as Stanley Ipkiss, but he's able to go off and show off his physical comedy as the Mask. He is literally bringing a cartoon character to life. It's very memorizing. I sincerely believe this is an underrated performance by Jim Carrey. The supporting cast is great. I liked everyone in this film. Peter Riegert is great at Lt. Mitch Kellaway who chases after the Mask, who suspects that the identity of the Mask is Stanley. Peter Greene is great as the villain Dorian, a complete jerk from the beginning. Cameron Diaz is good in her supporting role as the love interest, there is decent chemistry between her and Jim Carrey. Oh and she is also absolutely gorgeous in the film, stunning really. Richard Jeni is also very good as Stanley's best friend at his job. The real supporting character that steals the spotlight is Stanley's dog Milo. A great sidekick and director Chuck Russell puts good use into the dog and actually serves the plot. For 1994, the visuals are impressive and frankly still hold up very well. The disappointing aspect of this film was Amy Yasbeck's character Peggy who is a writer for a newspaper, and a semi-love interest for Stanley. There's a neat twist in the film involving her character, but she abruptly disappears in the film, I already know the behind the scenes story involving her character, but the film doesn't wrap her arc and it's very apparent. The other thing I would have liked to see is the reaction of what the Mask is able to do with his abilities, nobody in the film seems like it's a big deal that he's continuously traveling in a tornado, or able to elongate his body, let alone do everything physically impossible, especially Lt. Kellaway. It doesn't have too much credibility in that department. This film is will always have a special place in my heart, as cheesy as it sounds. The Mask is the first film I watched on VHS. Batman Forever being the first film I ever saw in theaters. Both which stars Jim Carrey. It's really because of Jim and this movie that really got me into films in my youth it opened the doors for me. Green also happens to be my favorite color because he frequently plays characters that are green. What I love about this film is that this film has somewhat of a deeper message. As quoted by Ben Stein who has a role in the film, We all wear masks. Stanley Ipkiss actually wears a mask in the film, he wants to be something else, but he's too afraid and too timid, and the mask provides his desires, eventually he learns to become the man he wants to be and doesn't really need the mask anymore. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Comedy Classic","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The mask is a film for me that i like as much now as much as i did when i was a kid, but considering i'm really just a massive man-child it is to be expected. The film really being the perfect setup for Jim Carrey's comedy styling's. The plot follows Stanley Ipkiss, a typical working scrub. Who finds a Mask which turns him into a egotistical Cartoon character essentially. Who causes the ire of the local gangster. Jim Carrey leads the film fantastically, the zany nature of the story and his acting give the a comic book feel, giving it a timeless quality. The humour at times being very childlike, but at times having a real edge to it. The villain Dorian Tyrell played by Peter Greene is quite a ridiculous character in a lot of ways, with so many poor henchmen around him. But Greene does some how get over this and makes him pretty intimidating. The film also has Cameron Diaz possibly at her sexiest with a great entrance in to the movie, and Milo the dog contending with Carrey with some very funny moments. Things i did not quite like were the attempts at comedy involving the cops. I did like Peter Riegert cynical detective, but his inept partner was just plain annoying.A great film to take you back to your childhood and remind you how funny Jim Carrey can be. "},{"Title":"Smokin', Everyone Was","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Quick! (Just like the Mask) Let me tell you my story.Honestly, I don't remember if I saw this in theatres. I probably did, because what I do remember in early 1996, is buying the VHS copy of this movie and I watched it a grand total of 5-6 times in under a week. I recall watching The Mask over and over and never getting sick of it. Sure, I had plenty of other movies to watch, but this one&#x85;was so much fun.And it still is today. Recently, I bought this movie on BluRay, because I remember loving it, but haven't seen it in over 10 years. I seriously had just as much fun today as I did with those multiple viewings when I first bought the VHS. This movie really holds up from the many years since its release. It really is timeless.Goody-Man Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is transformed into the daredevil Mask figure when he finds, and dons an ancient wooden mask, and his inner desires come out tenfold. He goes for the girl, inadvertently pisses off the mob and takes care of business as The Mask superhero/cartoon character that mild-mannered Stanley couldn't.The story isn't exactly new, even for 1994, but it's take on the age-old underdog/superhero is fresh, exciting and most of all HILARIOUS.As a matter of fact, when prepping and watching the movie to write this review, I was puzzled on which genre this movie fit in Action/Adventure + SuperHero? Or Comedy + the rest mentioned? And as I found myself laughing and laughing, even after my 5+ original viewings, I settled on This MUST be a comedy&#x85;with a close second of Action/adventure + SuperHero.I think this is a very underrated film. It was a very old concept that was a ton of fun, thanks to Jim Carrey at his peak and newcomer, Cameron Diaz who (almost) stole every scene she was in. She was gorgeous and talented and it was hard to believe that this was her first outing. Honestly, as much as I do like her, but not so much every movie she's been in &#x96; though I do enjoy a lot of her films, she was fantastic in this. And I understand that dog was like a prop, I still LOVED little Milo. You have to suspend your disbelief a lot during this movie, so you might as well believe all the dog accomplished.This movie is so straight forward to typical movie viewers and still, it's a lot of fun. And it contains one of my all-time favorite scenes/songs in any movie The Cuban Pete dance segment. Priceless&#x85;as was this movie. See it! It still holds up today and despite all the smoking, especially if you're against that, it's a helluva lot of fun. "},{"Title":"I don't normally watch Jim Carry, but when i do, i do it right.","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love the Mask. The movie was just like a big cartoon, and fortunately enough, I am immature enough to love this childish humor. The effects were acceptable because it was meant to look like a cartoon. The jokes were funny if you have a little bit of a child at heart. I may be overrating this film, and i feel as i am, but its just the love of these nostalgia cartoons that makes me love this film. I cant say anything more, its just him Carry's best film to me, and deserves a little more recognition. This movie set out a cartoon series(which was not as good since the joke of putting a cartoon in real life is gone) and eventually a sequel, which i did not enjoy much either. The beauty was Jim Carrys over the top acting in this role. It does not work in many characters but is PERFECT for the chaotic mask. My opinion, I'm overrating it a bit, but go watch it. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey steals the show","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Have you ever wanted to see Jim Carrey wear a green mask and bounce off the walls making Looney Tunes references? Well now you can! With, The Mask, a really great comedy with Jim Carrey as a bank clerk that finds a mysterious mask and when he wears it, he's bouncing off the walls and making you laugh.I love this movie mostly because Jim Carrey really steals the show and it has a lot of funny part's where he would imitate celebrities and act like a cartoon. In a good way. He's kinda like how Robin Williams when he did the voice of Genie in Disney's, Aladdin.Overall, The Mask, is a funny movie that will make you laugh from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Smoking!","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I enjoyed this film! That's saying a lot since I never liked the animated series which I grew up with. I just found it too weird and too crazy. But it works in this one. Especially with Jim Carrey as the lead role. I've noticed that Jim Carrey always gets the goofy and crazy roles. It was actually weird seeing him as a sane and normal bank clerk during the beginning of the movie. Regardless, I love Jim Carrey. He's a great actor.This was a pretty good film, considering I don't usually like crazy. The actors were great if you take into account that they're acting in a slapstick sort of comedy. It reminded me of the Rocky Horror Picture Show, actually. Though, I did like this one more. I also thought that the special effects were great for the 90's. Or maybe that's just me.In The Mask, Jim Carrey plays an average bank clerk who one day stumbles upon a mask which allows him to let loose and become crazy. His antics are hilarious and crazy and it's just plain funny. You're sure to laugh with this one! "}{"Title":"Hugely enjoyable comedy, and by far one of Carrey's better films","Date":"14 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I truly enjoy this film. It isn't the best movie ever or anything like that but it is still a hugely enjoyable comedy in my opinion. And I also think that along with Liar Liar and The Truman Show that The Mask is one of Jim Carrey's better movies. Here Carrey's role is split, his mild mannered banker and a wild, crazy superhero. Either way, he excels in this film, he is completely in his element and completely unpredictable. He is helped by the special effects, which are utterly amazing, a truly imaginative and sophisticated visual style that worked so well here. Here because of the special effects, Carrey moves around at whirlwind speed, pops his eyeballs and swaps parts of his anatomy for his cartoon equivalents and you know what it is jolly funny. There are so many good scenes though my favourite was the Bugs Bunny-style Cuban Pete routine. Also superb are the script, which is as funny and as imaginative as the film itself and the suitably tongue in cheek music score. Not to mention the adorable pet dog, underrated Peter Reigert, Peter Greene's Dorian and gorgeous Cameron Diaz. Overall, hugely enjoyable, funny and imaginative, so much better than its sequel Son of the Mask which I disliked so much I try to forget it exists. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The Strange Case of Thespian Jim and Comedian Carrey","Date":"21 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's interesting that the film that does so well at solving the core problem of JC's style is his first big, starring role. He is hilarious when nothing stops him; it's really that simple. However, his schtick works best for sketch stuff, where the laughs are all straightforward and throw-away. For a feature, it really works best if you care about the characters, if they're credible and relatable. They are here. The risk at using extreme stuff for material is that, at the end of the day, we can't recognize it. We can't get completely into it. Here, the goofy antics are entirely linked to the alter ego that he also plays, explained as the catharsis for a repressed nice guy. His facial expressions(clear through the well-done make-up) and voices and all are put to excellent use. The humor in this tends to be over the top, silly and wacky, and if you're up for it and enjoy such, you're likely to love that aspect of this. It's got inspiration from the classic Tex Avery cartoons, and a wide array of pop culture references. There is cleverness and parody as well. Ben Stein and his bone-dry wit are marvelous here. The plot is good, and in spite of being relatively typical stuff, it does surprise the audience. All parts are well-cast, and Diaz shines; it's no wonder this gave her a career. Pacing's great, this is never boring. The effects are perhaps dated today, but they show a real energy and enthusiasm, they all get the job done, and you can tell that these guys wanted to put something specific up on the screen, and would not stop trying 'till they did so, and that is always wonderful to see in a business we associate with jaded, cynical attitudes. The tone and look are spot-on, for walking a difficult balance between grotesque and cute. Editing and cinematography are well-done. The odd thing with this is that, for all the stuff that's written almost with them in mind, this isn't all child-friendly. While it is somewhat restrained, the violence and occasional disturbing content isn't necessarily something all parents will be OK with their kid seeing. In fact, I believe there are a bunch of people who did find watching this to be too intense when they were young. Nonetheless, if you think you'll be fine, and you like imagination-packed thrill-rides, then jump on. You won't want it to end. The DVD contains two entertaining and informational commentary tracks(the older of them has a little moderate to strong language), four documentaries that I will review individually since they have their own pages here on the site, two deleted scenes with the option of hearing the director go into why they were taken out, and what his intentions were with them, and finally, a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to any and all fans of Carrey, the style of jokes and gags, and the genres of fantasy and/or romance. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies from the funniest guy in Hollywood","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Ace Ventura Pet Detective was really the movie that put Jim Carrey on the map. The Mask is the movie that solidified his position as the funniest guy in Hollywood. In The Mask Carrey plays Stanley Ipkiss the nice guy who always finishes last. He gets a hold of a mask that once he wears it his innermost desires come to life. Will Stanley let the mask rule his life or will he realize he's great just the way he is. You'll just have to watch the movie to find out. Jim Carrey gave an awesome performance in this movie. He was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Actor in a musical or comedy. He didn't win it, but his performance was definitely good enough to have one it. Ipkiss is in no way Ace Ventura. He isn't the confident wild man that Ace is. He's the nice guy that finishes last that everyone likes. Carrey plays it to perfection. Once the Mask is put on Carrey becomes that wild man that we love so much and thats where the movie really excels. The animation they used for Ipkiss with the mask on is great and Carrey plays the wild man better than anyone ever. He sings, dances, and throws out some of the best one liners ever. Stanley Ipkiss is a great character and thanks to Jim Carrey for making him that. Cameron Diaz is great in the film. This was the movie that introduced us to the formere model. She holds her own real well in the movie. Carrey was so hot when he did this movie riding the success of Pet Detective and she shines in this role. She is absolutely gorgeous throughout the whole film. She's not a bad actress and I really wish she'd do more roles like this. The extras on the DVD are decent. There are some deleted scenes that are alright and the directors commentary is decent as well. The movie can be viewed in full or widescreen format and it features dolby digital sound. I wish they'd done some more with the special features though. They could have done something cool with the music or special effects, but they didn't. The music is great in this film. I have the soundtrack as well and the music helps make this film great. Jim Carrey is great when he dances and sings in Cuban Pete. There are some great swing songs like Royal Crown Revues Hey Pachuco played in the movie. This really could be considered a musical in many ways. This is a fantastic film. It's fun the whole family can relate to and is a must own. The DVD is pretty easy to find cheap, so don't miss out on this fun film. "},{"Title":"I think it was the first film I ever watched.","Date":"1 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I think The mask is the first film I ever saw. That would answer my obsession for Jim Carrey. It's not really an obsession, but Jim Carrey is my favorite actor. The Mask is a fun film that really is a film that most people may not appreciate. Well, some may, some may not. I truly do appreciate The Mask because for a film that came out in 1994, it was pretty neat. I also thought it was pretty funny and pretty fun. I didn't really have a problem with The Mask, because I can't find much wrong with it. It's a cartoony film that has a great cast, which introduced Cameron Diaz, who I also like. Whatever Cameron Diaz is in I am most likely to see it. Like I had no intention on seeing What happens in Vegas, but I saw it. I really liked The Mask, though it is a little silly at times, it's still really funny and pulls itself together. The film is like a comedic comic strip that does nothing but entertains and Carrey is great and funny. If you want to see a goofy Jim Carrey comedy, then see The Mask, if you haven't already. "},{"Title":"S-s-s-s-smoking fun!","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey plays Stanely Ipkiss, a business man with a very unfortunate life.He finds a mask in a river, takes it home, puts it on, and a whole new Stanely is unleashed.'The Mask' is a silly comedy filled with tons of slapstick violence, yet it has enough energy and potential to make this flick a really fun one.Is is a good family film? Take out the moderate PG-13 language and guns and you have yourself a movie that's suitable for the whole family.The one thing that struck me about this film was the award that Jim Carrey was nominated for.Was it an Oscar? No.Was it an Academy Award? No.It was a Razzie.he was actually nominated for a Razzie for worst actor in this movie.Has Hollywood lost it's taste in movies or what? Jim Carrey being nominated for a Razzie in 'The Mask' is like Tyler Perry winning an Oscar for every film he made.Talk about bad taste.Overall, I enjoyed 'The Mask' and I'm recommending it for those who love Jim Carrey and cartoonish violence. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the comics but a huge blast of zany fun - 81%","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I actually watched this about two weeks ago but have been busy honeymooning and other wonderful things. In fact, I actually remember this movie vividly because it was the first movie I got on VHS for Christmas many years ago. I remember it for its groundbreaking CG work, inventive and original story, the jaw-dropping debut scenes of Cameron Diaz and the zany face-pulling brilliance of a young Jim Carrey. And ignoring the frankly diabolical sequel, I find it strange that no-one else was able to produce a decent follow-up because this still makes me laugh more than 15 years later. It may little to do with the much darker source material and anyone who doesn't like Carrey in Robin Williams-tribute-mode should run for the hills but this viewer rates The Mask as a real class act.In case this somehow passed you by, the film introduces us to everyday loser Stanley Ipkiss (Carrey) who works in a bank in rundown Edge City with his self-styled Lothario friend Charlie (Richard Jeni) and lives alone with his dog Milo and a vast collection of cartoons. But when Stanley discovers a mysterious wooden mask, he finds himself transformed into the larger-than-life ladies man he wished he could be. With a seemingly limitless supply of powers, The Mask begins tearing Edge City up but not without incurring the wrath of local hoodlum Dorian Tyrell (Peter Greene) and the sour-faced Lt. Kellaway (Peter Riegert).The only things ruining The Mask for me is the feeling that if the movie hadn't strayed this far from the original comics and retained the edgy darkness thereof, we would still have a decent movie worth watching. Having said that, you would be a complete clot to ignore this film altogether because this is still a brilliantly entertaining family film, filled with enough humour for children and adults alike. Made when CG was still in its infancy, it's incredible to realise how well the technology has been utilised. From cartoon-headed dogs to mischievous alarm clocks, this is a film with a great deal of thought behind it. But the old school hasn't been forgotten either - Max, the dog that plays Milo, is actually the best of the lot and his performance is the funniest by far! Certainly, he's funnier than Carrey whose wide-eyed mania begins to grate after a while. The other performers do well maintaining a straight face throughout the mayhem, Diaz probably leading the pack as Dorian's reluctant moll.But this is Carrey's film and whether you'll enjoy The Mask depends largely on whether you enjoy Carrey in whirlwind mode. Personally, I prefer Carrey to the likes of Robin Williams or Jack Black and he certainly does a better job than *spits* Alan Cumming did in the retched sequel. What's surprising about The Mask is that despite the emerging talent on show and the then-not-quite-perfect science of CGI, this is still a hugely watchable film that most viewers will enjoy. I'm not sure why IMDb's rating (6.6 at the time of writing) seems so low, maybe there are more fans of the comic out there than I anticipated and I imagine they were disappointed with this. But never having read the comics, I find this a wonderfully quirky family film alternative despite the occasionally edgy humour. Sssssmokin'! "},{"Title":"There's absolutely no masking of the fun here, this film is hugely entertaining","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is a glorified bank teller and a shy, nice guy. This means his salary, prestige, and success with women are very limited. Living in a small apartment with his faithful dog, Milo, and with the landlady from Hades next door, Stanley keeps trying, nevertheless. When the lovely Tina Carlisle (Cameron Diaz), a lounge singer, comes to open an account, Ipkiss is more than attentive and gracious. One day later, his car breaks down and he is also thrown into the gutter by a pretentious nightclub bouncer. Ending up in a river, our hero finds an old wooden mask. For some unknown reason, he takes the relic home and flings it onto the couch. But, aha! That mask is magic and the following evening, Stanley is compelled to put it on. From that moment, Stanley is transformed, when the sun goes down, into a green-faced, super-powered, ultra-confident man. Heading toward the nightclub where he was rejected, he scores a hit with the crowd and with the lovely Tina. But, during the night, he also beats up some thugs and scared his landlady, so the police detective (Peter Riegert) comes by to ask questions. With the mob gaining power in the town, especially Tina's horrific boyfriend, Dorian, the detective wants to curtail the criminal activity. But, can Stanley avoid the urge when the mask's powerful magnetism comes calling? This is a hugely entertaining film that masks none of the fun from its intended audience. Although there is enough violence and sexual connotations to make the film unsuitable for the youngest, older children and adults will delight in the flick's antics and Carrey's irresistible performance. As the man who goes from zero to hero, Carrey's genius for physical comedy is a total delight. The supporting cast is also nice, with Diaz a huge asset in her first major film, for she is utterly gorgeous and sweet. Riegert, too, is dead-pan fun as the uber-serious detective, while all of the other cast members give equally memorable turns. The setting in seedy Edge City is marvelously tacky while the costumes, especially Tina's knockout outfits, are very nice. As for the script, the direction, and the special effects, they are all beyond great. Miraculous might be a better word! In short, if your goal for an evening's film choice is to laugh, laugh, and laugh some more, here is a first tier candidate. It would be difficult to see anyone not having a swell time while watching The Mask. "},{"Title":"...Jimmy, a Mask named Jim Carrey!","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is a cult classic. Those six words are enough to describe the movie itself from my view.I never really got into it when I was younger (maybe cause I never SAW it!) But then early this year, since I am a HUGE cartoon fan, I decided to check it out. And boy, did I miss out on a lot of fun, which I was finally able to be part of! For starters, THIS is the film where Jim Carrey's zany/goofy antics are absolutely perfect and in time with the movie he is starring in. This movie even made me like Jim Carrey a bit more (I previously saw him in How the Grinch Stole Christmas, which was actually kinda good IMO). And it gave me my first glimpse of Cameron Diaz, which was appropriate since it was her debut film role as the beautiful miss Tina Carlyle. And was she ever sexy! Combine the Girl of Red Hot Riding Hood, Jessica Rabbit, and Daphne from Scooby-Doo, and you've got a great character with a great actress! Ben Stein was also great, too. I get a kick out of hearing his boring voice! The plot is one I can identify with. A social misfit that loves cartoons... almost kinda like ME! (Though I'm a bit more socially successful than Stanley Ipkiss was). And after a terrible day, he finds the ancient mask that transforms him into... THE MASK! From here on, it's classic cartoon bouncy/zany stuff whenever The Mask is lurking! Unfortunately, he is only the Mask for 30 minutes of the film, maybe because this was produced in 1994 and they didn't want to blow a lot of money with extensive use of CGI animation (Remember, CGI was state-of-the-art for its time back in 1994!) The Mask is able to whirl like the Tasmanian Devil, seduce like a Pepe Le Pew clone, carry many things up his sleeve, and just put a smile on your face.The Mask's cartoony antics are very similar to (and reminiscent of) some of the great super-cartoony classics, such as the Tex Avery cartoons, some of Bob Clampett's best works, and A Pup Named Scooby-Doo! (Great show, BTW!) The CGI animation is state-of-the-art for its time (Shame this film didn't win the Oscar for best special effects!) Some of my favorite bits include the lines It's party time! P-A-R-T... Y? Because I GOTTA! and I believe my friends are (on the guest list for the Coco Bongo club), perhaps you know them... Franklin, Grant and Jackson! and Let's ROCK THIS JOINT! I also loved it when The Mask squeezed that little horn at the car, but the horn lets out a long verbal AAHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOGAH! as loud as a Chrysler air raid siren, as well as when he is asked by a punk if he's got the time, The Mask gets out a ticking clock and says Look at THAT! It's exactly two seconds before I honk your nose and pull your underwear over your head! This then results in The Mask's first wedgie! And his little balloon animal show... For you sir... a French Poodle! *BANG! Sputter...* Sorry son, the dog was rabid, had to put it down! And what about the Hey Pachuco musical number, and The Mask's Oscar-winning performance (complete with an animated applauding audience silhouette!) Personally, my all-time favorite part in this movie is when The Mask goes to the Coco Bongo nightclub, and among seeing the sexy Tina Carlyle, he bugs his eyes out, unfurls his tongue on the ground, pounds his heart through his chest, and then he MORPHS INTO A 'TOON WOLF AND HOWLS AT HER, THEN WOLF-WHISTLES AND BANGS HIS HEAD WITH A MALLET! That wolf scene is a thousand times better than any werewolf transformation I have ever seen on film! Whew... glad I got all that out. Anyways, one of the best movies ever made. In the words of the green-faced living 'toon himself, The Mask is 'SSSSSSSSMOKIN!!! "},{"Title":"JIM CARREY is a Comedy God! And today, that god is called LOKI.","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Amazing movie. Jim Carrey is an absolute scream! And in this Diaz is an absolute dream! The great thing with this film is it is almost impossible to tell where Jim Carrey starts and the cgi takes over. So well crafted and only the master himself could ever of pulled this off. His face and talents are like special effects. GENIUS! Jim Carrey, the living cartoon. I love all his movies, including his later more serious films, but I would love to see him return to this style again.Also, Cameron Diaz, although hot, has never looked as stunning as she does in this flick. SMOKING HOT! WARNING! DO NOT WATCH THE SEQUEL! I have not seen it myself, nor do I ever want to. It has FAIL all over it, read the IMDb reviews if you don't believe me.JIM CARREY is the MASK! "},{"Title":"The Mask The king of the rumba beat","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now this is a movie that everyone should see The Mask.Stanley Ipkiss (played by the young and mighty Jim Carrey) has never had too much luck in his life. He works in a bank, has trouble talking to girls and watches cartoons before going to sleep. All this changes one night when he finds an ancient mask in the sea. From curiosity, he tries on the mask and BAM! one of the greatest monsters from the 90's is born. Now with a green face and a goofy yellow suit, the mask heads out to the city to live the good life. His pockets loaded with ridiculous gadgets and his mouth filled with cheesy one liners.The Mask is a lot of fun to watch. Rarely does a movie take you to such an unusual situation and makes it relateable to the audience. Jim Carrey executes his role with comedic perfection. His voice, movements and expressions almost make it seem as if he had once upon a time been a maniac with the green face. The other actress that needs a mentioning is Cameron Diaz, making her debut as one of the sexiest women of all time. She brings all the boys out their seats and makes all the women jealous. Don't be surprise if you keep coming back to see this movie just because of her.I recommend this movie to those who are looking for a fun time. It's a great movie and it will bring out the Cuban Pete we all hide inside our soul.9 SMOKING stars out of 10 "}{"Title":"A brilliant, wild ride","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the most exuberant, wild comedies ever, with Jim Carrey turning in one of the most absolute comic performances ever seen on screen. Sure, there's the make-up to help him along, but it's all nothing without his incredible body language (yeah, I know he doesn't really hop around like that) and his Carrey-esquire ability to push each gesture to the limit without violating the viewer's confidence in Carrey's underlying intelligence. Cameron Diaz's entrance must be one of the most amazing film debuts in history and, being a terrific actress anyway, she sustains the impact throughout. The supporting cast is great,especially Peter Greene in the critical role of Dorian, Nancy Fish as Carrey's landlady, and Richard Jeni as Stanley's buddy. What really elevates this film beyond simply being a great star-vehicle is - well, actually, a few things. The sets are suggestive of Edge City - the name of the city in the movie - but nothing like the wasteland of Robocop or the Gothic urban-scapes of Batman. Sometimes, understatement works better - the movie has a comic book element to it, of course, but the sets themselves, while hinting at a sinister zeitgeist, don't fall into comic book sensibility. But the element that raises this to a 10, for me, is that it's simply a very well-told story with a great script. It's filmed tight, things make sense emotionally, the pacing is varied and compelling, and one cares about Stanley (Carrey) and Tina (Diaz) from the beginning of the movie. I am surprised at the rating this film receives from IMDb'ers - I would have thought it'd be higher. But maybe it's because recent first-time viewers are used to Carrey and Cameron, and even the tone of the movie itself. I saw it when it came out with one of my kids, and have watched it numerous times thereafter with them - and by myself as well. Catching 10 minutes of it on TV is still a treat some nights. It hit me like a thunderbolt when I first saw it and I still love it. If there's anyone out there who hasn't seen it, what are you waiting for? "},{"Title":"Jim Makes the Movie","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of Carey's funniest movies.  The story may be just okay but with Jim's acting ability it is pulled of brilliantly.  The movie does have a few flaws with some overplayed parts but none of this really hurts the film.  If you do not like Jim Carey don't rent this film.  Why would you?  This movie was made for him.  I also believe this is the movie that Cameron Diaz looks her best in.  She is sexier in the long dresses than she is in the Angels movies.  One of the funniest characters in this movie is the dog.  You will love watching Milo do his thing.  I own this movie and watch it every now and then.  If you have not seen this movie, where have you been?  Rent it today. "},{"Title":"Somebody Stop Me!","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great comedy starring a superb comedy actor. Jim Carrey is his usual 'whacky' self. By day his character is a low-life who works in a bank but by night, lock up your daughters because The Mask is in town! Cameron Diaz in one of her first major movie appearances looks absolutely stunning...especially in her opening scene! This movie is most certainly is a must-see. If you haven't seen it yet; first of all have you lived in a cave?; rent it, buy it on video or DVD. You'll be laughing your head off. Trust me! "},{"Title":"Cute, but one disappointment","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film was a great lot of fun. It had many cute bits, it reflected a huge amount of creativity from the entire production crew.But there still was one big disappointment. We got to see Jim Carey wear the mask. We got to see the big mafioso wear the mask. We even got to see the dog wear the mask. How I wish we could have seen Cameron Diaz wear the mask!  "},{"Title":"Pure fun, yeah !!!","Date":"23 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think this film is better to watch two times - so you could give a real price to the actors phrases... Jim could play this role even without a mask i think ) One of the best comedies with great special effects - the best of which is Jimmy The Mask ) If you have never seen it - you missed a lot ! And Cameron (her first role i guess?) - she is just wonderful. "},{"Title":"Is that Jim Carrey's face or just special effects?","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Based on the original, highly violent comic, The Mask bursts on to the screen with dazzling special effects and Jim Carrey's face. The story of the comic book has changed slightly, making the evil mask turn loser Stanley Ipkiss into a hero, rather than a cop killing psycho. I believe in among all the special effects, most males will see this movie for the co-star Cameron Diaz. Jim Carrey definitely suits the role, and so does his dog Milo, who steals the spotlight in some places. If you're looking for a laugh, you may as well pick this up. "},{"Title":"Sssmokin!!!","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I don't like all of Jim Carrey's films because his madcap antics can be so over the top and annoying at times. But The Mask isn't like that. Its hilarious from beginning to end. The plot is fairly unoriginal, a loser comes out on top story, but Carrey's performance elevates the material to classic status.Stanley Ipkiss is a meek banker who can't get anywhere. His love life is practically non-existent. His landlady has seriously got it in for him. Everybody takes advantage of him. And the worst part is, he just takes it.One night, after a humiliating encounter with the love of his life Tina Carlyle (Cameron Diaz in her feature film debut) at the Coco Bongo nightclub, he happens to find a wooden mask in the river. When he puts it on, it transforms him into a completely different person.The Mask as he comes to be named is obviously inspired by the Tex Avery cartoons, because he is like a human cartoon character. All his inhibitions are stripped away, and he can literally do anything he wants.Jim Carrey is perfectly suited to this character, because The Mask is such a zany bundle of dynamic energy. He is so completely mischievous and has none of Stanley's ineptitudes. The mask gives Stanley the attention and fame he has always wanted.There are many memorable scenes, made even more special because this film was one of the first to use CGI. The FX are dazzling, and really help bring the film to life. The Mask moves like a whirlwind, he has cartoon eyes that pop out on cue. His legs are as fast as the Road Runner. The delights are numerous.One of the best scenes is The Mask's Cuban Pete act when he is in a tight spot with the cops (as The Mask he robs the bank he works in). It is a marvellous dance number that would not have looked out of place in a Bugs Bunny cartoon. Stanley has absolutely no control over what he does when he becomes The Mask, which is why it becomes more of a burden to him.Eventually, the mask falls into the hands of Dorian Tyrel, a local mobster. But unfortunately, he has different ambitions than Stanley. When he puts the mask on, he becomes a monster. The mask gives him the power he has always craved, and will allow him to take over Edge City. Obviously, Stanley must prevent that from happening, so he gets to play hero without the mask.Cameron Diaz is a very beautiful woman, and even in her film debut, she really proves she can hold her own. Any outfit looks good on her. She's quite charming. And she has a wonderful smile that quite lights up her entire face. I'm just glad she got the recognition she deserves.Typically, the audience knows things will turn out well for Stanley in the end, but this is still an entertaining film. Apparently, there is going to be a sequel, but it won't star Jim Carrey because he hates to do them. I'm not sure when it comes out, but it should be interesting to look at. After The Truman Show, The Mask is Jim Carrey's best film. "},{"Title":"Jim Carreys funniest movie.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie, I'm almost ashamed to admit it. It's big and dumb, but it makes me laugh. I guess because Jim Carrey was new to me, I was delighted with everything he did. And Cameron Diaz clearly is a STAR from the moment she enters the film. Peter Reigert is great as always, and the film is just delightful. It has an energy and a zaniness about it that seems to come naturally, whereas with the Farrelly brothers films it all feels forced to me. Worth a rent...... "},{"Title":"Dr. Carrey, Mr. Mask ... and the cinematic tribute to the greatest cartoon director!...","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Along with Dumb and Dumber and Ace Ventura Pet Detective, Chuck Russell's The Mask is part of that 1994 trinity that finally, and forever, put Jim Carrey in Hollywood map. He was certainly a successful and relatively known comedian before but I'm sure the size of his house and the relationship with his banker had considerably improved in 1995.And it was a deserved success, as only the big screen could do justice to this face-of-thousand-faces, to this extraordinary elasticity and capability to transform into a celebrity or to express any possible emotion, or both. Just look at Carrey becoming James Dean, it takes him a few seconds but it's like watching a live metamorphosis and the result is outstanding, he seems to have a rubber-made face that can use every single muscle. And when you see the two other movies, you realize that Carrey has elevated the word 'grimace' to the rank of high art, and that in fact, he didn't need the mask to be the Mask, still, he needed The Mask to show that he was Carrey before the Mask.Indeed, the paradox of The Mask is that it uses Carrey's talent with a device that is a green rubber mask and one of the first use of CGI to create Tex Avery-like special effects, and that premises gives the misleading impression that the faces Carrey makes are the results of special effects. Yet, this paradox helps the movies and Carrey's career as well, as it allows him to play a more human and appealing character than Ace Ventura and Lloyd Christmas. As the meek and shy Stanley Ipkiss, Carrey can let his more sensitive side being expressed and create a likable character in the same vein than Buster Keaton or Charlie Chaplin and let his Mask-counterpart act like Harpo Marx.Ipkiss is a timid bank clerk who's get bullied by everyone and he has no one to vent his anger on, he just comes back home, talks with his dog Milo and watches a few Tex Avery cartoons and envies the wolf's exuberance and liberty. It's like Jim Carrey wishing to be Jim Carrey. We finally have glimpses on a realistic facet of the actor's range and it does have a few serious undertones as it explores the traditional 'Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde' dual personalities theme with a sort of Faustian notion that there's a price to pay for being better by cheating, that it might lead to mayhem and a false impression of happiness. But he's only human and when he discovers that mask on the beach, he can't resist.And he has a taste on how it feels to live like a Tex Avery character and becomes one of the greatest creation of the 90's, a guy dressed in the typical zoot suit and act like a real version of Genie from Aladdin with some of the obnoxiousness of Ace Ventura. Yet, there's no doubt that The Mask is 100% original creation, and a source of gags and music like no comedy had provided since the Golden Age. The film is punctuated by great musical numbers, a magnificent Cuban party, a Konga with policemen and prostitutes, some impressions where Carrey can deliver his comical talent and so many unforgettable punchlines as Smokin' or Somebody stop me!.But if it wasn't just for a series of 'unstoppable' stunts, musical vignettes and other comedic numbers, the film would have quickly become redundant. There's also great performances, besides Carrey who, for once, is allowed to tone down his usual zaniness and shows a true vulnerability, and manages to look sweet and handsome. There's the scene-stealing dog, who has a great talent to read the lips, and it contributes to one of the film's best gags, totally lost in the original French version I saw&#x85; and it tells something when the film's best gag doesn't involve the main character.And there is the love interest, played by Cameron Diaz, in a film debut kids who became teens in the mid-90's never forgot, I plead guilty as I remember having rented the VHS only for her entrance and the nightclub sequence. Diaz is amazingly sexy, sensual and beautiful as the equivalent of Tex Avery red-headed pin-up, it's not just the body but perhaps her smile that makes her so appealing, but Diaz just doesn't play the pin-up, she's as convincing in her acting as Carrey and even pulls out dramatic expressions when the situation requires it. Both Carrey and Diaz deserve credit for their performance, and the scene where they dance together is the greatest tribute to Tex Avery, and the film had me if only it gave tribute to my favorite cartoon director.It was 'no holds barred' with Tex Avery, but that's not true, Tex Avery cartoons, as crazy and nonsensical as they were, were not just successions of fourth-wall-breaking moments, mindless screams, wild explosions or chases that never added up to the plot, don't get The Whacky World of Tex Avery and good old Tex Avery cartoons mixed, Avery was a storyteller, and The Mask doesn't take its zaniness for granted and can afford a good plot with an obligatory antagonist, well-played by Peter Greene, a mid-90's figure who seems to have disappeared from the screen (he was Zed in Pulp Fiction and Redfoot in The Usual Suspects), an embittered cop with his jovial assistant, and a nice climactic confrontation where the Mask shows its limits, when worn by the wrong person&#x85; or animal (Muttley-like-laugh) Indeed, it's better to act according to our true nature, and it doesn't take a mask to reveal who we are, in Ipkiss' case, the mask was just the catalysis for a new departure&#x85; and for Carrey's career. I have a feeling ever since he started doing these comical roles, Carrey has tried to prove he was more an Ipkiss than a Mask, this shows how defining the movie is. "},{"Title":"Still great after all this time","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I haven't watched 'The Mask' for years and I was actually wondering how well it would stand up after over twenty years. Back in 1995 Jim Carrey was Hollywood's (comedy) golden child. Everything he touched was Box Office dynamite. However, since then, his offerings have been a little more hit and miss (don't get me started on 'Dumb and Dumber To!'), but I'm pleased to say that The Mask still shows off his manic persona and comedy timings.I have a feeling 'The Mask' was based on a comic book, but I haven't read it! Therefore, I can't really say how well it's transferred across to the big screen. Although I can say that it works. Carrey plays a &#x96; depressingly average &#x96; guy who's too nice for his own good. Everyone takes advantage of him and his life is pretty awful. Naturally, when he finds a mysterious wooden mask that when worn transforms him into a green-faced superhero, he chooses to fight crime, protect the weak and generally stand up for justice. Or rather he kind of considers all those options. He mainly just uses his new powers to get back at all those people who have wronged him and do his best to woo the &#x96; then unknown &#x96; Cameron Diaz.Yes, the story is hardly original and, if you've seen any of Marvel's latest offerings, it's pretty much identical to every other superhero film, i.e. man gets superpowers, man fights crime, defeats villain and gets girl. But, don't let any small lack of originality put you off. It's not there to be a great work of art with deep and meaningful prose and character arcs. It's there to entertain, utilising Carrey's full repartee to the max.The manic jokes come thick and fast. Normally, the best films are 'team efforts' when the cast all play their parts. Not here. Here it's just Carrey, Carrey, Carrey. He steals every scene and created a thousand new catch phrases in the process.It's a fun film and it should be enjoyed by everyone. It's simple enough to be understood and enjoyed by children and it's just dark enough to appeal to adults.100% prime Carrey (and Cameron Diaz is pretty good, too). "}{"Title":"Classic Carrey","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey careens through The Mask like Gumby on coke, a hopped up ball of energy that lights the screen up in glorious craziness that's pretty out there even for him. In casting a character that basically becomes a loony toons character in real life, they hit the nail on the head with Carrey, and he delivers in a tour de force piece of physical comedy that put him on the map in a huge way. Also bursting onto the scene in her official breakout role is Diaz, playing the luscious Tina Carlyle, a sultry lounge singer. Carrey's eyeballs pop out and his tongue rolls onto the table when he sees her dance. Audiences had the same reaction, and her work here catapulted her into the stardom we see her in today. Carrey plays mild mannered bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss, a pitifully beta push over who's about as good at talking to girls as he is dealing with his domineering boss and witch of a landlady. He's a wimp, a thorough Nancy boy, a set up which makes the eventual metamorphosis into The Mask all the more delectable of a payoff. When he hits proverbial rock bottom, he finds an ancient looking Mask in the harbour, and takes it home. Upon putting it on, he transforms into a living, breathing representation of his innermost desires and feelings, bursting out in a deliriously zany, green faced maestro of mayhem that can pretty much do..anything. It's somewhat Freudian, and there's even an interlude with Ben Stein as a droll psychiatrist who ponders Ipkiss's sanity before booting him from his office. Carrey as The Mask is the star of the show, an ever wisecracking ball of slapstick glee and mirth, whirlwinding his way from one over the top encounter to the other, with his trusty dog Max. He's finally given the stones to take what he wants, albeit in violent, creepy and demented fashion, and pursue Tina, in between bank robberies, assaults, car chases and Cuban dance numbers involving a troupe of singing cops. On his tail is nasty crime lord Dorian Tyrell (the intimidating Peter Greene, having a ball) and a grouchy police detective (Peter Riegert). The film is pure 90's cheese given a shot of surreal antics. There's a whole army credited to the visual effects, and one can see why when you look at the splendour on display, rushing past at such speed and precision you'll need a re-watch just to catch it all. One of Carrey's best, a milestone for Diaz, and some of the most fun I've ever had growing up with a film. S-s-s-s-smokin!!!!! "},{"Title":"One of the finest comedies ever","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask has got to be one of the best comedies ever, everything here smells originality. If you've seen a Jim Carrey movie you know his style, he tends to overdo a little sometimes but he manages to stay funny, a lot of people don't like him because of all the weird stuff he throws in while acting, but this movie can change some minds about Carrey. The Mask follows the story of Stanley Ipkins, an average guy who finds an ancient Scandinavian mask, it contains within the Norse god Loki banished and imprisoned, now whoever puts on the mask gets possesses by the joker spirit of the god gaining incredible powers and the will to cause problems.In The Mask Carrey plays two characters, one is the more-than- regular Stanley Ipkins, who's a shy fan of cartoons and works at a bank, he's not good with the ladies and the world seems to conspire against him at all costs, luck sure doesn't seem to enjoy playing on the side of Ipkins at all. The other is when he puts on the mask and transforms himself into a green-masked party-boy maniac, ready to joke all around town, all his romantic repression is unleashed and he starts acting in a cartoony style much like the cartoons he enjoys so much seeing. There are funny scenes all around but the highlights are when Carrey puts on the mask, including dance scenes; one is particularly funny because it has a cover music track of Cuban Pete sang by Carrey himself, seems like the song was destined to be funny. The movie also features the debut of Cameron Diaz when she actually looked cute and not a super-sized barbie doll.If you like Carrey you really should see this movie because it's one of the best stuff Carrey ever pulled. If you're not a fan, you can still enjoy it because he also plays a normal character that's actually normal, without the weird faces, with the crazy stuff being performed by his masked person, although the crazyness is probably boosted, it's easily understandable since he's indeed possessed. If you're still not convinced about Carrey maybe his comedies aren't for you, you can probably enjoy Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind anyway. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable and Funny Watch but Far From Perfectly Executed","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For all of the fans of The Mask comics from the early 90's, I don't think you will be exactly satisfied. While the storyline is a little different, the riotous out-of-control violence is missing making it kid friendly and more of a family film. In other words you won't see The Mask shot full of holes and the graphic chaos similar to a Deadpool comic.This Stanley Ipkiss is not exactly the awkward shy fearful nerd that I expected but more like the typical goofy screwballish Jim Carrey. In his early movies especially Carrey very much seems like a one trick pony. He may be good or the best at his routine but it doesn't change the fact that he isn't very versatile.The look of this film was clearly a 90's sets and was reminiscent of Who Framed Roger Rabbit? with its similar effects and visuals. The crazy style was perfect in some ways for instance the makeup for the mask and his big shiny choppers. Some of the effects were on the cheesy side and the stupid dancing scenes kind of brought the whole film down. It started out strongly but the train lost steam in the end as the movie became less interesting relying on a lot of fake-looking visual gags. That being said it was a very enjoyable and funny watch but far from perfectly executed. "},{"Title":"One of Jim Carrey's Finest","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I LOVE THIS MOVIE. This was the movie that started my Jim Carrey craze. The effects were just amazing, Jim Carrey's performance was amazing and he always made you laugh and this film is my number one film of all time. I can't stop watching this film even to this day, if you want to have a laugh or want to see a great comedian at work then this is the film for you (I know it's mine). One of my favourite scenes of this movie is when he goes up against the bad guys and pretends to be shot as the Mask, Stanley Ipkiss is such a sweet and awesome character. It's one of Jim Carrey's finest films and I recommend it to anybody. I give this film a 10/10 and it's SMOKINNNNNNNNN. "},{"Title":"Hero in a Mask? I","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The hero, stanley epcis, hope I spelled that right, is a banker. He is quite a cartoon fan with a dog, which I believe is the most adorable, bright creature I've ever seen. Then he met this woman and the story starts to run.Its basically it. But what made this a good view is its comical ways and I meant it to be both figuratively and literally. Jim Carrey takes up the figurative part. I think he is the best in this regard, for what I've seen so far in years, ever. The Literal part will be about the effects and animation and it is impressive. To make guns move so real but you know it doesn't spin like that in reality, and that is the amazing part, considering the time in its production.The ending, you will find it predictable but the story though important, not quite the only factor that makes this good. Though there is a sudden twist in it. The good was stupid and turned out bad and the beautiful and enemy turned out a trusted ally.The hoola, hoo, holla! was the best of my watch. The choreography with exaggerated movements we know Jim Carry carry out so well was superb. The coco bango, yah! Well, this isn't turning out to be a good, intelligent review. Let's resume then...The music and dance routines. There were many of them. Quite the jiggle and before you'd know it, a smile is painted in your lips and laugh out loud. It is super comical and unreal, and it's obvious this would never happen even if it was the common reaction of talking and walking, but it is part of the goodness of the movie.Obviously, I've enjoyed the movie, of re-watch and year 2015. But I can't say its humor would appeal to the people today. No need to say that this kind of things evolve along with everything else. Maybe, perhaps, but to my believe, more likely. "},{"Title":"Verdict Strong comedy","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Story The Mask starts by taking us to the Edge City where all the action will take place. We see the Mask released from its locked up underwater treasure chest, we then get to meet our protagonist Stanley Ipkiss (Carrey). Stanley is a lonely banker who gets walked all over by his co-workers along with people taking advantage of him during his daily life. When his bad day continues to get worse he finds a mask that transforms him into a charismatic mad man. After the Mask character gets involved in a bank robbery he ends up making enemies with the criminal minds in the town putting Stanley's life in danger. Stanley must learn to measure his new found confidence gained from the mask to save the girl and clear his name. The Mask makes for a great comic book story, it plays on the very simple ideas of not having enough confidence until you can become someone else. It also looks to follow very simple save the girl from villain story, easy to work with and makes for an overall entertaining idea. The Mask doesn't try to throw any twists in the story keeping it easy to follow. It really comes off as a simple comic book story that can be followed and enjoyed by all. (8/10)Actor ReviewJim Carrey Stanley Ipkiss/The Mask as Stanley he is quiet laid back banker, who lets people walk all over him. After he puts on The Mask he becomes a mad man with no fear. Jim does a great job balancing the two characters with ease and being able to bounce between them with a blink of an eye. (9/10)Cameron Diaz Tina Carlyle beautiful woman who approaches Stanley in the bank but her motives are not what they seem. She becomes a romantic interest for Stanley. Cameron makes her debut in film here and does a good job in the damsel in distress role. (7/10)Peter Greene Dorian criminal that The Mask gets involved with after losing his long planed out bank job. He wants to the power of the mask but soon shows the darker side inside him. Peter does a good job as the villain but never offers anything we haven't seen before. (7/10)Support Cast The Mask's supporting cast is henchmen, police officers and a friend of Stanley's. They all play their part to offer a few laughs for The Mask character.Director Review Chuck Russell &#x96; Chuck does a good job directing this fun comedy film. (7/10)Comedy The Mask offers plenty of laughs, with Carrey being the main cast member offering them. (8/10) Settings The Mask uses the settings well creating a city that is under threat from a crime lord. (9/10) Special Effects The Mask uses its special effects well that really haven't dated 20 years on. (10/10) Suggestion The Mask is a must watch for anyone who just wants to watch an entertaining comedy where Jim Carrey shines. (Watch) Best Part In The Mask The Mask character is over the top and fun. Worst Part In The Mask In today's market the story will look one dimensional. Funniest Scene In In The Mask The Mask watches Tina perform at the club. Favourite Quote 'Somebody Stop ME!' Believability No (0/10) Chances of Tears No (0/10) Chances of Sequel Has a terrible prequel Post Credits Scene NoOscar Chances The Mask was nominated for Best Effects, Visual Effects. Box Office $351 Million Budget $18 Million Runtime 1 Hour 41 Minutes Tagline Stanley Ipkiss is not the man he used to be. Trivia Jim Carrey was paid $450,000 for his work in the film, a huge bargain for New Line because the deal was signed before Ace Ventura Pet Detective (1994) became a surprise hit, and made The Mask a hot property for the summer 1994 release schedule; Carrey then inked a $7 million before this film opened to star in Dumb & Dumber (1994).Overall Ssssssssssmoking! Comedy Check out more reviews on http//moviesreview101.com/ "},{"Title":"The Mask we all want to have some time","Date":"14 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Great fantasy comedy.Jim Carrey makes use of all possible grins to give life to one of the characters she has given birth raunchy film.While the plot does not offer any real originality about situations in which Carrey is possessed by the Mask supplement any deficiency, that is, in this film, so spectacular and fun that result.Peter Green as convincing villain role, but you are missing something over black humor on their part and Cameron Diaz, newcomer at the time, it is sexy and funny.Adult tone that marks the whole film is much appreciated, as The Mask is no way a child character, in fact who has read the original comic know that this is a much darker and violent paint him as a character in the film and was subsequently in the animated series just a year later.The character itself, is fascinating. It represents the hidden fantasies of each of us and we possess powers that make us physically invincible, resilient, immune to bullets, superhuman speed and strength and freedom to do whatever we want, without fear of reprisal or police rules state etc ... in a nutshell winners, a world where we do not close the doors of the best club in town for being a nobody like the good Ipkiss, having the most hot girl, the best table, spread tickets like candy at a Christmas parade, in short, be the mambo Kings, as they say.The visual effects, even today are still very good, being deservedly nominated for an Oscar and other awards in that category.It also highlights the very successful and catchy songs like Coco Bongo Pachuco ¨ or ¨ Cuban Pete, police soundtrack.Nothing more to say about a film that won her debut year and has already become a cult film and fondly remembered for those lucky enough to live intensely the last decade of the 90s. "},{"Title":"The mask is funny and crazy","Date":"2 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is a good slapstick comedy film and was massive at box office for that particular time. The story is about a odd Bank Clerk called Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) who lives in a rental apartment with his one and only dog. He has at times a troublesome life but on one particular day at the Bank he works at, he meets this beautiful woman called Tina (Cameron Diaz) and has fallen for her ever since. So one night, he spots something unusual and goes closer to the city's harbour but what he thought was there was in fact wrong. However, he instead finds this strange mask and takes it back home. On that very same night, Stanley (Carey) puts the mask on without knowing the magical affects of it. It is this mask that not only brings fortunes to Stanley's life (Carey) but also trouble and more problems. But its up to Stanley (Carey) or The Mask to solve the trouble and problems. The Mask is a classic. The film had everything comedy, action and even romance. The characters were well thought-out and the cast did justice to their roles. What makes the film unique is that at times its all fun and games but at other times its in all seriousness and you got yourself a crazy funny film filled with explicit action.It was probably this film that made Jim Carey a success he already is today. It is a film worth watching if you're looking for some laughs and action. You won't be disappointed at all. "},{"Title":"A power tie....","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stanley Ipkiss is a shy man who working in a bank.He discovers a mask by the sea, which pictures the Norse god of tricks and deception, Loki.When Stanley puts on the mask, he transforms into an uncontrolled reflection of himself, that does crazy and sometimes, criminal things.This new super Stanley falls in love with a singer, Tina Carlyle while he decides to eliminate every gangster in the city......Between Apr 1994, and Dec 1995, here in the UK, Carrey was shoved down out throats until we got burned out.Both Ace Venturas, Dumb And Dumber, Batman Forever, and this were released, and they were huge hits.Looking back though, only one of those really holds up, and this isn't it.It's not as dark as it should have been, the comics were very dark, Ala Tank Girl, this is aimed at kiddies, and teens, and twenty years later, by Zeus does it show.Carrey is still good as Ipkiss, but after a few turns as the titular character, he really starts to grate, and the catchphrases are nowhere near as funny as they were when I was sixteen.Saying that though, it's pretty original for a comic book movie, Diaz is superb as the object of everyones affection, but it just doesn't hold up today. "},{"Title":"Smokin'!","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Originally intended to be a horror film that would replace A Nightmare On Elm Street as New Line Cinema's big horror franchise, The Mask took a comedic turn when director Chuck Russell came aboard, who was ironically the director of A Nightmare On Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors.Loosely based on the first half of the much darker comic series of the same name, The Mask is about Stanley Ipkiss, a cartoon-loving bank clerk who lets everybody walk all over him. Stanley discovers a strange mask in the harbour, and upon putting the mask on he gains the power to bend reality and his personality is amplified, turning him into a love-crazy wild man with the characteristics of a zany cartoon character.The intentionally cartoonish visual effects are great, and Jim Carrey's performance fits the character's actions perfectly. Cameron Diaz makes her debut in this film, and never looked better. Peter Riegert portrays a police lieutenant trying to catch the Mask, and does a great job playing the straight man.I never would've guessed I'd peg the sequel to such a great movie among the five worst films I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"Strill Amazing After  20 Years!","Date":"26 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Cameron Diaz (Tina) and Max the Dog (Milo) steal this picture out from under from Jim Carey, who plays The Mask! Tina was supposed to be a just a live-action Jessica Rabbit but she is sexy, cute, funny and smart, and can she dance! Yes, she is the proverbial girl with the heart-of-gold but so much more. Max, I hope, won some kind of animal Oscar as the tricks he does are truly amazing. The story of Loki's Mask is very simple. Put on the mask and you become just like yourself only more so. If you are shy and romantic (like Stanley) you become a super-hero Ricky Ricardo impervious to bullets and bullies. If you are an evil monster through-and-through (Like Dorian) you become the devil incarnate. Fantastic CGI from ILM and a long way from the primitive CGI used in Jumanji. The Mask turns into the girl-loving Wolf and several other Tex Avery cartoon characters. Bullets can't kill him. He can leap from buildings, dodge bullets and swallow bombs like Superman. In one of the best scenes, Carey becomes Cuban Pete. Wearing only the green mask, he orchestrates an entire Conga-line dance number with Edge City's Police on his own without much help (if any) from ILM. It's amazing to see. There is a cruel edge to the action, as several thugs are blown away by gunfire in various scenes. Thankfully, also cut, was the Tribune newsgirl's demise (See DVD extras) which wasn't funny at all, but was in early release prints. Fictitious Edge City is only a step away from Gotham City and very campy indeed The giant piggy bank and costumes at the nightclub. Landfill Park, complete with colorful methane gas clouds. Another milestone It's the first-action comedy from New Line Cinema, which, previous to this, only made Nightmare on Elm Street horror films. It's a 9, rated-down due to comic violence. "},{"Title":"Perfect vehicle for Jim Carrey","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A mask with magical powers is released from an underwater chest in Edge City. Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is a super nice meek bank clerk. This is the first movie with Cameron Diaz. She plays a hot bombshell who walks into the branch to open an account. It turns out that she's actually casing the bank. Then he finds the mask, and things take a turn for the crazy.This is the perfect vehicle for Jim Carrey. He is basically a Bugs Bunny cartoon with the mask on. And that's his persona on stage. This premise allows Carrey to use his manic energy to the fullest without looking ridiculous. And it doesn't hurt to have a hot Cameron Diaz walking around in those tight short dresses. "},{"Title":"Tex Avery Lives","Date":"23 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the Best Movies of the 1990's. This is a Charming Homage to Animator Tex Avery and a Perfect Role for Jim Carrey. Oh yea, Cameron Diaz in Her Debut is Drop Dead Gorgeous. There is not much to not like in this Wonderfully Rendered, virtual Remake of Animator Avery's Gags. He was a Legendary Groundbreaker in the World of Cartoons and is a Name often Linked to the likes of Walt Disney and Max Fleischer.But this Film stands alone because it is so well Crafted that it cannot be Overlooked in its near Perfectness. Everything comes together here as a Work of Art. There is the use of State of the Art SFX (1994), a Bravura Performance from Carrey, a Stunning and Full Musical Performance from Diaz, and a Brilliant Amalgamation of Cartoon and Live Action. The Dog is also in on the Fun and is as Good as Everyone Else.This is a somewhat Underrated Movie that holds up Fine, and is a Timeless Piece that will Entertain Audiences for Years to come. Just like those Old Cartoons. A Must See. "},{"Title":"I love this movie and can't say anything bad about it.","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" THE MASKI remember watching this when it first came out. It was such a big thing back then.The movie is about a sad lonely banker who finds a mask one day. When he goes home and tries it on the mask sticks to his face and changes him into a completely different person. The problem is, he robs a bank that a criminal organisation were already going to raid. Now they are after him as well as the police.This is a comedy that is more like a cartoon than live action. There is slapstick as well as musical sequences. But it is all so well done that you can't help but watch it in wonder.The movie stars Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz. This was Camerons first movie. She was very good in it considering she didn't have much acting experience. Jim was fantastic in this, Back in the 90s is when Jim was in his prime. He was making so many great movies back then and he was so funny. This is probably my favourite Jim Carrey film. He is still making good movies now, but they just don't seem to be as funny as the ones he made back in the day. One of my favourite characters ion the film though is not even human. Milo was fantastic. Milo was Jims dog in the movie. The dog that was used was so well trained that even he was really funny and made me laugh so much.As I said before, there are some musical numbers in the film. Yes it is done in a very cheesy way, but it fits in with the movie very well. The songs are very catchy and funny to watch... especially Cuban Pete. I actually bought the 12 vinyl single of this back in 1994.The special effects are still very good even for now... so you can imagine how good they were when the movie came out in 1994. It really was amazing back then and it was completely awesome to watch.There is a sequel to The Mask called the Son of the Mask... avoid at all costs. It is terrible and really destroys this classic film.The Mask is so funny and very entertaining. It really is one of my favourite films from the 90s.I will give this film 8 out of 10.Hold on, sugar! Daddy's got a sweet tooth tonight!For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey dons a mask and becomes a superhero of unexpected magic and mischief","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is a good but not great comedy starring Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz. The special effects are stunning! I for one thought that they seamlessly integrated the real with whatever methods were used to generate the impossible; and they were unexpected and amusing too. There is a little dog that's awfully well-trained too and plays a significant role.Carrey made a reasonably good transition from television to the big screen, but was not fully in command of the craft so as to give us the complete illusion that we were not seeing Jim Carrey playing a part. Diaz was very good and believable. The bad guys in this movie were undistinguished. Peter Riegert played a cop but his part was not well written. Peter Greene could not make much out of his part either. Carrey's part was not bad, but also had soft spots where not much was happening.So, overall, I recommend this movie as a decent comedy and innovative in effects, but yet not scoring at the top of the comedy charts. "},{"Title":"A Whirlwind of Fun and Amusement","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one really impressive movie. It's style seems to be 1940's retro and is like a living comic book on screen. I quite like the comic book style movies, that is if they are done well, and this movie has been crafted brilliantly. The Mask is not a deep movie, but rather it is a fun movie where we watch Carrey's talent blossom in a character that was almost made for him.Stanly Ibkiss (Jim Carrey) is a nerdy bank clerk with a heart of gold. To him the world seems to be going against him because he is basically used, abused, and then discarded by all around him. Then one night he finds a mask floating in the harbour, and when he puts it on, in a whirlwind, he becomes a comic book superhero.I won't go deep into the movie, but rather discuss the one thing that seems to come out of it, and that is the idea about masks. Ibkiss is naturally a funny and delightful fellow, however this changes when he puts on the mask, because while his heart doesn't change, his confidence does. In a way it is Ibkiss' lack of confidence that lets him down. However, as we come to realise at the end of the movie, Ibkiss doesn't need the mask to be confident, or even a super hero, because all the mask does is that is amplifies what is already there. Ibkiss realises that he does not need the mask to be a super hero, so finally discards it and becomes himself.I guess the major theme here is to be one's self, and as such things don't matter. We shouldn't try to be somebody that we are not because if we do that we only end up fooling ourselves. Further we should not let others define who we are because the only person who and define who we are are ourselves. Ibkiss thought that he needed the mask to be somebody but in the end realised that the mask was nothing except something that drew his true self out from himself.I could rave on a bit more about this movie but I won't because I really don't need to. This is a superbly good movie and it is one that is really enjoyable to watch, and makes a far better movie that Carrey's earlier Pet Detective. "},{"Title":"Funny,Goofy and Beautifully Animated,","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is a great movie with a very insane and enjoyable storyline with a really good comedic cast.Its not my favourite Jim Carrey performance,but it is without a doubt one of his most memorable,it really showed just what a wacky and fun actor he really is,and thats why he is one of my favourite comedy actors.The best parts of the movie is without a doubt whenever Carrey has the mask on,its a perfect mix of animation and live action,all these scenes are really exaggerated and very funny,simply impossible not to enjoy.I also really liked Cameron Diaz in this,it was her first film and it really showed the world that she was both a talented,funny and of course very attractive actress.The Mask is without a doubt a must see for all fans of Jim Carrey.When Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) discovers a mask that transforms him into insane superhero,he uses it for his own fun,and to impress Tina Carlyle (Cameron Diaz),but gets in some big trouble with the law along the way. "},{"Title":"somebody stop me","Date":"24 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You just have to appreciate the technicality and the visual effects that went into the production of this massive hit. The Mask introduced a character that we all started to love and cherish, a hero that can do absolutely anything his mind thinks of. This slap stick comedy showed how Jim Carrey became a good lead actor; he carried the show right from the start to the final battle, doing everything we see in the Warner bros cartoons.After this massive hit, an animated series was also done, introducing more villains and more takes into the life of Stanley Ipkiss. This movie The Mask is based on a series of comic books of the same name; the comic is the product of Dark Horse Comics and The Mask was introduced in the 80's based on a concept by the publisher Mike Richardson and created by writer John Arcudi and artist Doug Mahnke. Like in this movie the comic series follows a magical mask and its owner Stanley Ipkiss. When the mask is worn the wearer can bend reality, do the impossible physically and survive the unbelievable. All this is based on the wearer's depth of imagination which The Mask will then surpass.The plot is about a Mr. nice guy, Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) whom the world seems to step on. Things took a turn around for Ipkiss when he came across a magical mask, which gave him powers to do the impossible. But The Mask was uncontrollable and Ipkiss stepped on toes which were ready to do anything to kill the man behind the mask. The movie is filled with thrilling visual effects, and a wonderful cast. Jim Carrey was just exceptional. The Mask was also Cameron Diaz's first acting role, which later pushed her up the ladder as she now features in major movies yearly.The Mask was a huge box office hit making over 350 million from its 23 million production cost, it was also a critical acclaim, leaving behind it a trail of catchphrases in its time like smoking or somebody stop me. Its high box office status made the makers approach Jim Carrey for a sequel, which he turned down (as Carrey believes making sequels are not challenging). The ideas for the sequel were then used in the animated series, which spawned two seasons. Later after 11 years, a sequel was made but it was unrelated to the first or the animated series, it was titled Son of The Mask which received high negative reviews and was a box office bomb, as the visual effects and the plot were lame and out of place, putting in consideration that it was made with over 84 million.Our hero The Mask is best portrayed here in this beautiful movie and it is a keeper. www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Slapstick comedy that makes the world fixable","Date":"7 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey (Ace Ventura Pet Detective) is a zany comic who adds fun to any role he plays; Cameron Diaz (Head Above Water)is a wonderful talent in many films.In The Mask,we find Ipkiss(Carrey),getting bored with his everyday ho-hum bank job;On a chance,Stanley finds this mask that reaches inside to bring out retribution for the world's hard luck.As it happens,Diaz plays the lounge singer Ipkiss falls in love with.Dorian,a co- worker at the lounge,gets upset when Ipkiss (as the masked hero) averts his threat to steal all the savings.The cutest character is Milo,who plays Stanley's lovable pooch.I call this a marvelous film that really tickles the clichéd funny bone.Bravo and cheers! "},{"Title":"A Perfect Vehicle For Jim Carrey","Date":"16 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is a fantasy comedy that is based on a series of comic books published by Dark Horse Comics. The film stars Jim Carrey as Stanley Ipkiss, a man who finds the Mask of Loki that turns him into The Mask, a trickster uninhibited by anything, including physical reality. The supporting cast includes Peter Greene as mafia officer Dorian Tyrell, Amy Yasbeck as a newspaper reporter, Peter Riegert and Jim Doughan as two police detectives, Richard Jeni as Stanley's friend, Orestes Matacena as nightclub owner and mafia boss Niko, Ben Stein as a psychologist, and Cameron Diaz in her feature film debut as Stanley's love interest Tina Carlyle.Hyperactive mayhem results when a mild-manned banker discovers an ancient mask that transforms him into a zany prankster with superhuman powers in this special-effects-intensive comedy.Stanley Ipkiss is a decent-hearted but socially awkward guy who one night finds a strange mask. Stanley puts on the mask and the banker transforms into The Mask, a green-skinned, zoot-suited fireball. The rubber-faced Mask possesses the courage to do the wild, fun things that Stanley fears, including romancing Tina Carlyle. The larger narrative, involving the efforts of Tina's gangster boyfriend to destroy Stanley and use the mask's powers for evil, prove less interesting than the anarchic comic set pieces.The film delivered enough laughs as it is a perfect vehicle for the talents of Jim Carrey wherein he seems to have found a story and character that work together with manic energy.In addition to his physical talents, the film makes effective use of digital visual effects that bestow the Mask with superhuman speed, insane flexibility, and popping eyes out of a Tex Avery cartoon.The design is bright as a button and the transformation scenes real eye-poppers, but the film's best special effect is putty-faced Carrey with his razzle-dazzle star turn as the affable Stanley and his manic alter ego.This makes it a marvelously energetic and highly enjoyable. "}{"Title":"One of my personal favorites as a child and still love it as a young adult!","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, I never read the comics this was based on, but in terms of judging a comic-book movie adaptation on it's own merits, I used to watch this a few more time as a little child at the mid-90s when it was released and I loved it as much as anyone else in this website even as a young adult. Sure, it may not be the best movie, but I've seen much much worse films and I think that this is one of Jim Carrey's best films in my opinion next to Liar Liar and Ace Ventura Pet Detective.The story is pretty engaging and has some of my favorite moments throughout the film (the casino scene, the dancing sequence, the balloon animals, and the quotes Somebody Stop Me! and more), the script's humorous and made me laugh really hard, the special effects are the epitome of greatness, and the music is good, but the strongest aspect goes to the cast especially Jim Carry which I like the best and I liked his personality (going from a mild-mannered person to a wild and crazed superhero). Cameron Diaz and others did a great job with their roles and the villain is pretty good too. The pacing is brisk and the songs are good too.Overall, love this movie as a kid and still love it as an adult and it's definitely worth-watching! "},{"Title":"Good Comic Book Action-Comedy!","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz, Peter Riegert, Peter Greene, Amy Yasbeck and Richard Jeni star in this 1994 action-comedy based on the comic book. This takes place in Edge City where we meet Stanley Ipkiss (Carrey), a mild-mannered banker who seems to get taken advantage of. His luck changes when he finds an ancient green mask that transforms him into a smooth prankster. Diaz makes her debut here as sultry singer, Tina Carlyle who wins his heart, Greene (Pulp Fiction) plays her corrupt boyfriend, Dorian Tyrell, Riegert (Animal House) plays Police Lieutenant, Kellaway, Yasbeck (Problem Child 1 & 2) plays reporter, Peggy Brandt and the late, Jeni plays, Stanley's friend, Charlie. Jim is great in this, he & Cameron have good chemistry, the make-up & effects are terrific and Randy Edelman's score is also good. I recommend this good comic book film that's one of Jim's best. "},{"Title":"Did you miss me?!","Date":"24 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I wonder if there is a character that Jim Carrey cannot portray. He displayed The Mask's energy in one of his best performances. Despite Cameron Diaz's beauty, she couldn't steal the show away from Jim Carrey who was on fire. An instant classic and a very entertaining movie to watch. I wish there was a part two; too bad it was put to an end. I'd say that the weak link in this movie was the villain. He needed to be more aggressive and evil, but overall not a bad job. The Mask was a very charismatic character and made the movie more fun to watch. The visual effects were pretty good also. Finally, The Mask is a movie that cannot be skipped when it is on TV; it is too good to be skipped. One that Jim Carrey should be proud of. "},{"Title":"Perfect summer comedy","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask was a perfect vehicle for Jim Carrey. It not only allowed provided the perfect justification to flamboyantly engage in his rubber-faced antics in a manner even more over-the-top than what he'd become famous for, but it provided an opportunity to stretch his acting chops towards a more serious side at just the right time in his career, paving the way for later work such as Man on the Moon (1999), The Majestic (2001) and Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004).The success of the film wholly depends on Carrey, as he has to sell his characters' frenzied insanity so that it's believable as a reflection of Stanley's inner self while at the same time likable but teetering on the edge of becoming obnoxiously overbearing. Of course, the amazing special effects and make-up help, as well as the clever script and more than competent directing and cinematography, but with the wrong actor in the part, the whole affair could have easily collapsed. The other cast members are fine in supporting roles, with Cameron Diaz coming across as being almost otherworldly beautiful, but Carrey is rarely off-screen, and rightly so.The Mask is notable for both spoofing almost the whole history of cinema while at the same time respectfully paying homage to it. The audience is treated to everything from silent film slapstick to lavish musical numbers (with excellent songs), frenzied Tex Avery-styled animation to gangster film suspense. On its surface, the film is a crazy, often funny, hyperactively paced cinematic pastiche.The subtext about identity and public faces versus private selves is interesting, but not the focus. It would be fine to explore further, but to do so in this particular film would have taken too much time away from Carrey's surrealistic tour de force. Besides, we've had later films where that subtext has been closer to the heart of a story, such as Catwoman (2004), and where it was very thoroughly and competently dealt with. "},{"Title":"An endearing triumph of humour, style and heart","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Giant yellow hats off to Chuck Russell. It's easy to see how many ways this film could've gone wrong, but the commitment to quality is obvious in every single scene. The rubbery, one-of-a-kind effects, stylish art deco setting and vintage comic book vibrance create a terrific atmosphere, and the fact that it's all played so straight might be why it works as well as it does. Peter Riegert's Dt. Kelloway, Peter Greene's Dorian Tyrell and the rest of the mobsters never seem like they'd be out of place in a serious '90s crime drama, so seeing them all get caught up in the Mask's cartoonish exploits is a sight to behold.The excellent supporting cast, including the late, great Richard Jeni, Cameron Diaz' debut performance, Ben Stein at his deadpan best and the superbly emotive dog Milo round out every scene with something great. At the end of the day, the film is, of course, Jim Carrey's, and his stunning comic antics as the Mask are surprisingly rivaled by his Stanley Ipkiss. It's a role he fills with one compelling touch after another, each subtle expression as impressive as his wildest face-pulls. The earnestness with which he embodies what so many of us frequently feel like - a nice guy just desperate to unleash their inner Jim Carrey - is perhaps The Mask's most impressive spectacle. "},{"Title":"The best of Carrey","Date":"29 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's silly and it's childish. It's typical Jim carrey during his earlier years. This film is one of the reasons why I miss the 90s. Films today have seemed to take an serious, meaningful purpose to their delivery.Thankfully, I can watch films like the mask anytime I desire and bask in the silliness. If you go into this film wanting to see Carrey act like a Pratt then you will leave happy. However, if you expect some sort of rational story then you will leave not so happily. The scenes where he turns green always delivers the laughs.Overall, embrace in Carrey's charm and childish demeanour, he will no doubt leave you rolling on the floor laughing "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's Role","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" For the few Dark Horse Comics that have been adapted onto the big screen, this one was done right. Along with Dumb and Dumber (1994) and Ace Ventura Pet Detective (1994), this is the other film that really had the public tracking down who in the world was Jim Carrey. In my opinion, just like how the character of Lara Croft fit Angelina Jolie really well, the character of The Mask is the perfect role for Carrey. From what we've learned about Carrey, he is a living cartoon and still loves to watch cartoons. So in a sense, being The Mask was not hard task for this actor.Originally the personality of The Mask was much more violent and brutal than the one in this film. Jim Carrey wanted to give the character of The Mask more of a comedic touch. This was a good direction to go because that IS Jim Carrey's strong point. Carrey can be psychotically funny but not psychotically insane. He even proves in this film that he can sing! Another individual who starts off her career at a promising level is Cameron Diaz. And not only did she start her career off right, but also she's now one of the highest grossing actresses. That's luck if you ask me.What's great about Carrey is how he acts. He can be great as a cartoon character AND he's even more convincing as a wimp (as his alter ego, Stanley Ipkiss). What made Carrey more effective in this film than the other two he made in 1994 was that his energy (which is pretty high), was under control. Because of that, this probably gave Carrey's character more of likableness. As Ace Ventura or Lloyd Christmas, he was more or less free to do whatever he thought was funny on screen. In movies like those, you either really love the character he plays or you absolutely loath it to no end.As for the comedic part of this film, CGI is used, but it is used as it should be used; as a tool. All the CGI does, is enhance Carrey's cartoon mannerisms into a heck of a performance. From bouncing around like a rubber ball or having his eyes popping out, it makes the scenes that are funny even funnier. There are even parts in this film that have The Mask reference other characters from other movies. Things like that are what make this film all the more better to watch. Composer Randy Edelman provided the score behind this film. I like the music that he made for this. Edelman made good use of making the music sound animated when The Mask was on screen and calm when Stanley Ipkiss took over. Although I liked the music, my real appreciation lies within the film of Gettysburg (1993). The kind of music that he made for that movie was spiritually moving.As a last comment, I would like to say that I really did like this movie. This was my first Jim Carrey movie and after watching his performance, he has become one of my favorite actors to watch. However, I would be interested in seeing a remake of this film sometime in the future. Not to say Carrey's performance wasn't good but I would be more interested to see The Mask in his true form; a brutal, narcissistic psychopath. I say this because that's what the character originally was. Jim Carrey does quote a couple of moments from the original comic book but it isn't carried out the same way in the end. As a first choice, I would like to see Carrey play The Mask again but in the way The Mask originally was. And if Carrey wouldn't do it, then I would just be in the mood of seeing how it would turn out. But to be realistic, this is probably as good as its going to get.With a role that practically IS Jim Carrey, The Mask succeeds on all levels. It's a funny comedy, with great special effects and although it's slightly altered from its comic book origins, it still leaves a memorable impression. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey is Magnificent!","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like Always, Jim Carrey delivers a yet another Magnificent performance in the 1994 Box-Office Super-Duper-Hit 'The Mask'. Carrey, makes this film such a delight just by his sheer talent. An Actor who Easily can be referred as The Olivier of Comedies. 'The Mask' Synopsis Bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss is transformed into a manic super-hero when he wears a mysterious mask.'The Mask' is a terrific entertainer, that has been one of my favorite films since childhood. I've loved it since it released. It's an arresting film, that is truly funny. Mike Werb's Screenplay is entertaining & gives Carrey ample scope to hit a home run. Chuck Russell's Direction is good. Cinematography & Visual Effects, are very well-done. Carrey is in his usual Magnificent form. He brings Magic to the Screen as the Blank Clerk & As The Manic Super-Hero. He owns this film & proves what a talent he is. Cameron Diaz looks smoking & does well. Peter Greene is excellent. Peter Riegert & Richard Jeni support well. On the whole, 'The Mask' is a memorable watch! A Must For Carrey Fans! "},{"Title":"Very funny and enjoyable!","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not gonna lie. When I first heard of this film, I thought it looked stupid and ridiculous. Although I usually like Jim Carrey roles, it just didn't seem very enjoyable to me. Then I saw it, and I take back everything negative about it. Not only is it hilarious and awesome, but its one of my favorite Jim Carrey roles ever!Jim Carrey stars as banker Stanley Ipkiss, who finds a mysterious mask, that when put on turns him into a cartoony, green faced maniac who causes all sorts of mischief. This gets him into some trouble with not only the police, but a gang of mobsters.Funny and entertaining from start to finish. Of course it is Jim Carrey, so that is expected. He has two roles in here One where he's normal, and then when he has the mask on. Both roles are funny. Cameron Diaz's introducing role as the target of Jim Carrey's affections, who also get involved in a lot of his mischief.Basic comedy with all standard comedy ingredients. Very laugh out loud funny. Good not only for kids, but for some adults as well. Everybody in general should find this to be a very enjoyable family film that has something to it that makes it more special than other comedies, which gives it a thumbs up for me. "},{"Title":"A perfect combination of humour, action and implausibility","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I had a very fun time with this. The performances from Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz and Peter Greene were exceptional.Also the transformation scenes from being a mundane bank clerk to the ostentacious masked figure was a superb experience and the fact he had this nefarious side to him was a very nice change from becoming some sort of superhero.As said before the movie is hilarious and the action scenes are visually satisfying with the innovative use of weaponry adding to the visual experience due to the masked character.A very fun ride "}{"Title":"From zero to hero","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss is transformed into a manic super-hero when he wears a mysterious mask.I feel kind of sad to see that people say that this is Jim Carrey's best movie. I'm guessing they haven't seen Eternal Sunshine. But anyways, The Mask is a very goofy movie and almost perfect for Jim Carrey. Sure, it is a little stupid in ways but I rated it basically on it's point. The point was to be silly, and it succeeded at that. The Mask is a very good Jim Carrey performance and he is a very great actor who just loves to have fun. The film also introduces the stunning Cameron Diaz, I think this was her film debut and she did very well for her part. The Mask's scenes where possibly the worst as the comedy really isn't my thing and it's just plain silly but it still kept me entertained. The score I must add, is very good and I just mean the theme. Very mysterious and plays in my head. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Fun to Watch!","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 1994 has been a kind year for Jim Carrey. That year is what gave him his long, stellar career. He starred in Ace VenturaPet Detective, Dumb and Dumber, and now the Mask. I thought this movie is the best out of the three. I really enjoyed this movie a lot.This is about a guy named Stanley Ipkiss who is a bad luck guy. He finds an ancient, Viking mask that has special powers. When he puts the mask on, he becomes a fun character.I think that this movie proved that Carrey can do just more than comedy. He can also do drama. He was very fun to watch. This is also Cameron Diaz's first movie. She is very good looking in this movie.Overall, I had a fun time watching this. It's a nice movie to watch over and over. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Ooh, somebody make me stop laughing!","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was about 7, and just saw it again (18 now). I remember it used to scary me, don't know the reason yet.The Mask involves the audience and it's impossible to not laugh in some parts. The best for me was the Mexican cop's dance, although it was totally idiot, this is the kind of comedy that makes me laugh - and the one where Jim Carrey works better. The never ending limousine was quite funny as well.I had no idea how hot Cameron Diaz was, her beauty is different from modern girls. I don't know what is it, but she attracted me in a way no other actress has done so far without being in a porn movie, so she got my respect from now on.I tend to not like action movies because they usually take longer time to finish, but this one had the ideal length to don't bother the spectator (or just a few minutes more than the ideal). Another Carrey's great performance. "},{"Title":"A Candy-Coated 1990s Madcap Patchwork","Date":"17 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I guess the reason why I liked this movie so much as a kid can't be safely detached enough from the reason why I found it so pleasant revisiting it on a whim. So I'll just get it out of the way now Yes, I still get choked up when Stanley's dog Milo cries for him outside of the jail. OK? There. But it's not just that. It's that this dog, really named Max, is not just a prop; he's a bona fide character. Few movies have taken it upon themselves to really give the dog something interesting to do, but this dog not only emotes to tear jerking effect but also performs exciting unexpected feats, following the bad guys' car, intercepting the mask from the bad guys, all done to please an audience of children, of course, but nonetheless done exceedingly well to that end.The opening shots of The Mask give the impression they were recovered from a distraughtly shoestring 1950s sci-fi movie. Marine salvage operations bring about the breakage of an antiquated trunk that's lay for lifetimes on the bottom of the cove, and a peculiar wooden mask drifts to the surface. Shortly thereafter, unhappy bank teller Stanley Ipkiss, an amiable geek played by Jim Carrey, is gazing into the murky waters after a frenzied night of embarrassments. When he glimpses the mask drifting with some debris, he for some inexplicable reason thinks it's a man in trouble and jumps in to save him. All he retrieves is the mask.Metamorphoses are naturally the heart of comic literature. Billy Batson yells Shazam, Clark Kent scurries into a phone booth, Bruce Wayne slides down the pole, and invariably an inconsequential pushover befits a comic-strip hero. No wonder pubescent kids react to these stories so fiercely. Think about what happens to Stanley when he dons the mask. He's instantly changed into a delirious cyclone of aggravated liveliness, clad in a banana-yellow zoot suit, a intersection congealing the Joker, Aladdin's genie, and rudiments of The Shadow.One of the crucial design choices must've entailed the Mask character's makeup. It renovates Carrey's facial appearance into a much bigger, comic-bookish caricature, while all at once the facade is still able to authentically move. The effect is a movie character who appears half genuine, half comic strip. And director Chuck Russell is up to utilizing special effects to shift easily between what might be possible and what is unquestionably not, as the Mask spins like a fast-tempo jazz hydrometer and gleefully triumphs in circumstances that would've overwhelmed poor Stanley.The plot starts with luckless Stanley utterly smitten with statuesque client Tina Carlyle, Cameron Diaz's debut. She trifles with him in the bank while taking clandestine videotape of the vault for her boss, the violent Dorian Tyrel (a quite well cast Peter Greene), who manages the Coco Bongo Club, where, sure enough, Tina's the catlike diva. The plot otherwise features Richard Jeni as Charlie, Stanley's sounding board, who familiarizes him with the charades of the Coco Bongo Club; Peter Riegert as a cop who notes the Mask's tie lookss to be of the same cloth as Stanley's unbelievable pajamas; and Milo, Stanley's dog, who's no less than as cunning as his master.It's also this manic energy and 1990's madcap patchwork that holds together a narrative that is every trace as imitative and baseless as it can be. The art design on the movie goes for the loudest possible 1940s film noir aspects of plenty of superhero comics, and the Coco Bongo Club seems reprocessed from Criss Cross or Out of the Past. Stanley's apartment looks like an adolescent boy's bedroom; all that's lacking is a sign on the outside of the door saying No Girls Allowed! The appearance of the film is as much entertainment as anything else. It's been alleged that one of the crucial traits of an actor is a capacity to share the delight he takes in his performance. You could say The Mask was anchored in that. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious yet creepy from time to time.","Date":"12 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was on TV last night and as I am a fan of Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz(it was her movie debut)I said to hell with it i'll watch it again.The movie is based on a comic by Dark Horse and it tells the story about a timid mild-mannered man named Stanley Ipkiss(Carrey) who is how shall I put it a kinda guy who wouldn't be a hit with the ladies and is a bit shy. One stormy day and a beautiful young woman named Tia Caryle(Diaz) comes in and Stanley is smitten by her unaware she is the girlfriend of a gangster called Dorian(Greene). One night Stanley is humiliated as the car he had on loan gives up on him on a bridge and he spots something in the river and thinks its a dead body. Turns out its an enchanted mask that has special powers(apparently its suppose to be the god Loki who was banished into this wooden mask). As Stanley loves cartoons one night he decides to put it on and what do you know it wraps on his face and he twirls around like that Tasmanian devil in the Looney Toons and is transformed into a wacky cazy womanizer creature who's behavior is like a cartoon.I loved the part where the mask takes out a condom out of his pocket and does bizarre impersonations of Elvis Presely and some other people.Jim Carrey has to be the most wackiest actors I have ever seen in my entire life. He is so OTT and so loony. Cameron Diaz was pretty darn good in this flick. It may scare the crap out of me as a child and even up to today it still freaks me out. But having said that its funny and great.Keep an eye out for a jack Russell dog named Milo trust me he is hilarious.I'll give it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sometimes everything just works","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The comic from which this movie is derived is quite a dark piece of work. Happily, the movie adaptation chose to concentrate on the humorous and surrealistic elements which were always there. Even more happily, the movie coincided with an upsurge in Jim Carrey's career generated by his performance in Ace Ventura, and provided the perfect vehicle for his brand of face-pulling physical humour.The story is serviceable, but is essentially no more than a vehicle for the wonderfully imaginative visual sequences.This was one of the earliest movies in which sophisticated CGI provided truly eye catching sterling support to a storyline, and it is a joy to see Tex Avery-inspired cartoon goings on translated into photorealistic real life visuals. There are some terrific musical sequences too, and the movie is also very funny.Oh, and it was Cameron Diaz' first movie. There are few stars whose first appearances on screen I recall (Ursula Andress, and then I'm searching) - Diaz in The Mask is another. "},{"Title":"Vigorous and enjoyable fantasy","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Unlucky banker Stanley Ipkiss (Carrey) discovers a mask in a river that gives him superpowers at night.The film that launched Cameron Diaz into our hearts and lives is also one of the more forgotten Jim Carrey masterpieces of slapstick comedy.When son of the mask was released 5 years ago it was slated as destroying the original concept of this film and ruining the family entertainment value of cinema and whereas plans for a sequel were originally thought up in the 90's this is a film best left alone as a sheer conceptual mind blast.Opening with an attempt at cementing some mystical origin, a scuba diver uncovers a case where the mask floats away and our adventure begins.Converting to the interior of an average bank we see Carrey's ordinary Joe conversing with a friend about concert tickets and is attire and laid back attitude instantly recognises as a push over who has no romantic socialism. Therefore cue a fresh face to give the film a far fetched romantic premise and we have a new star on our screens.Cameron Diaz, shot in one of the best making career openings ever (Megan Fox has nothing on this) director Chuck Russell chooses a soaking 20 something Diaz walking through the door before cutting back to Richard Jeni's beautifully spoken Hold the phone before switching back to the entrance and zooming in and then up to allow Diaz flicking her hair and walking confidently and purposefully towards the two star struck bankers. A moment of pure genius and idolism. As far as performances go, Diaz certainly generates the right mood for this picture, being perfectly innocent and charming, a figure looking for friendship and love, and the American certainly chances her own splendid dancing and witty humour. Whilst her comedy persona has improved through films such as My best friend's wedding this was a film that begun her road to stardom.Choosing a normal average bored character in day to day rota Carrey expands on the conventional through true wacky styling when the mask is in place. There are occasions when there is an over step of eccentric portrayal, on the park bench for example, but the majority has viewers siding with his spontaneous mischievousness. Not to forget Carrey is able to capitalise on the script through splendid catchphrases and facial expressions.The script itself is a good vs evil eventuality that adds some spice and tension in the final third whilst constantly having us smiling and laughing along with the array of familiar villains and good guys.A quick mention of the score by Randy Edelman which has a way of capturing the moment of vivaciousness perfectly whilst being sentimental when required.It may have flaws of over exuberance and a formula of eventual outcome but this is a joyous ride of passion and vigour that is certainly worth catching as a reminder of Carrey's brilliance. "},{"Title":"Carrey As A Green-Faced Hero Burning Down The House","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I get to revisit one of my all-time favourite comedies 'The Mask' after getting the DVD. This, and 'Ace Ventura Pet Detective' are considered Carrey's Hollywood breakthrough and of course I couldn't think of a better way to introduce one of America's funniest leading men. 'The Mask' is sheer fun and energy, from start to finish. I also liked the story which is pretty simplistic but engaging and the special effects are amazing. Chuck Russell has done a fantastic job in keeping it all together. Jim Carrey sort of has a double role. He is brilliantly restrained as the docile pushover Stanley Ipkiss and amusingly wacky as The Mask. Moreover Carrey also has a flair for singing and his 'Cuban Pete' is a terrific catchy number. Cameron Diaz oozes sensuality and excellently carries off Tina Carlyle. There is an amazing chemistry between her and Carrey. The supporting cast is very good and special mention goes to Max the dog who is such a joy to watch. 'The Mask' is one hell of a piece of entertainment, a movie that hasn't aged one bit. "},{"Title":"I Don't Mind This Not Truthful To The Comics But What The Hell","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay Unlike Most Comic Book Fans I Can Take An Old Kick To One Of My Favourites. Okay For Those Who Haven't Read The Comics The Mask Is An Insane Serial Killer(Even More So Than The Joker From The Dark Knight(But In The Comics He Was Just Insane(But I Never Am Concerned About DC Comics They're My Pet Peeve(Besides Harvey Comics)))). The Plot Is That Stanley Ipkiss is a bank clerk that is an incredibly nice man. Unfortunately, he is too nice for his own good and is a pushover when it comes to confrontations. After one of the worst days of his life, he finds a mask that depicts Loki, the Norse night god of mischief. Now, when he puts it on, he becomes his inner, self a cartooned romantic wild man. However, a small time crime boss, Dorian Tyrel, comes across this character dubbed The Mask by the media. After Ipkiss's alter ego indirectly kills his friend in crime, Tyrel now wants this green-faced goon destroyed. Okay Jim Carrey Is Hysterrical As The Green-Faced Goon. All In All Hysterrical "},{"Title":"Irreverent fun!","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If anything, The Mask could best be described as a cartoon for adults. Yes, it's a live-action film, but there's enough animation to sufficiently blur the lines between animation and live action, and the film's spirit is pure cartoonish.Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is a mild-mannered bank accountant manager who's always treated like doormat, even by his friend Charlie (Richard Jeni). One night, Stanley finds a mysterious mask which when put on, unleashes his complete alter-ego, known simply as The Mask. But the mask is not bound by laws (legal or otherwise, which gets Stanley into trouble, both with the law (represented by the cynical Kellaway (Peter Riegert)) and the mob (Dorian Tyrell (Peter Greene)).This film is all about Carrey. While his first major foray into film, Ace Ventura Pet Detective, allowed him to perform his antics, The Mask is a better vehicle. This is because it allows computer animation to supplement Carrey's abilities. Plus, The Mask allows Carrey more creativity.Fortunately, Carrey is up to the task. Like Robin Williams, he's skilled at impersonation and animated personalities. Carrey has great fun lampooning everything to circus sideshows to the Oscars. But Carey spends only about half the movie (at most) as The Mask. As Ipkiss, he's more subdued and meek. But Carrey is equally adept at portraying someone like Ipkiss. It is Carrey's versatile skill that lets The Mask be a caricature, while Ipkiss be very real.Carrey's co-stars are great as well. This represented Cameron Diaz's film debut, and it kicked off her career with a great start as the knockout club singer, Tina Carlyle (doesn't the name just SOUND beautiful?). There are few actresses with more screen appeal than Diaz, and The Mask makes as much out of it as possible. The other female, Amy Yasbeck is frumpier, but appealing as well. Despite Diaz having a huge aptitude for comedy, she isn't given much of a chance to use it here; Yasbeck is. Yasbeck has a great sense of comic timing.Carrey's male co-stars are more varied, albeit slightly. Peter Riegert is terrific as The Mask's nemesis, Detective Kellaway. It's a familiar part in this sort of movie, the no-nonsense cop with no sense of humor. But Riegert has a few advantages first, the law is REALLY on his side, and his banter with his dimwit partner Detective Doyle (Jim Doughan) represent some of the comic highlights. The late Richard Jeni shines as Ipkiss's friend and co-worker, Charlie. While Jeni doesn't steal any scenes (he's almost always paired with Carrey),y he has his shares of funny lines, all of which are delivered aplomb. As the villain Dorian Tyrell, Peter Greene is adequate, but not especially memorable. He's not even the best villain in the movie. That honor goes to Ricardo Matecena. He's only in two scenes, but he's noticeably more menacing than Greene, especially in his first scene.The Mask represents director Chuck Russell's most memorable hit. This is because while he has a knack for visuals, his direction in other respects is bland. He works best when he makes scenes as set-pieces. Two of the best examples are the musical numbers, the first being a surprise dance number of Hey, Pachuco! with The Mask and Tina, and the second is a rendition of Cuban Pete between The Mask and the Police Department. They're both energetic and fun.While The Mask may not be the pinnacle of the genre, it's definitely worth a watch. Though I never saw it in theaters, I'm guessing it works better on video than it did in the theater. "}{"Title":"One of Jim Carrey's Better Comedies","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Combining Jim Carrey with a bunch of giddy special effects seems like a redundancy, since Carrey himself IS a special effect. But that's just what this film does, with mostly entertaining results.Carrey plays a nerd who finds a mask that transforms him into a superhero when he wears it. Cue lots of intentionally cartoonish effects reminiscent of Who Framed Roger Rabbit? The film features an early role for Cameron Diaz as a love interest for Carrey.The film was Academy Award nominated for its visual effects, but it lost the award to the much subtler and more impressive effects of Forrest Gump.Grade B "},{"Title":"The total amount of laughs and excitement added up earns this an 8/10 in my book","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was just under eight years old when The Mask was released, but I probably heard about it around then. I also first saw the film probably as early as 1995, though I'm not sure if I saw the whole thing. My clearest memory of that experience is the scene where Jim Carrey puts the mask on and says, It's party time! I saw it again a few years later, in my early teens (left with a clearer memory of it that time), and have seen it twice within the past couple years. I may not have enjoyed the second viewing of the two QUITE as much as the first, but it at least came close, and was still a lot better than the last Jim Carrey movie I watched, Liar Liar.Stanley Ipkiss is a shy bank clerk who is easily pushed around and can't seem to ever be romantically successful. However, after one unlucky day, he finds a mysterious mask floating in the water near the bridge! He takes it back to his apartment with him, where he tries it on, and it magically turns him into a crazy, powerful, tough, aggressive, green-headed alter ego, The Mask! He doesn't know this at first, but this mask is an ancient one that represents Loki, the Norse night god of mischief! As the Mask, the bank clerk begins to wreak havoc in the corridor, and then outside, where he scares off a bunch of street thugs! He then wakes up the next morning, thinking it was all a dream, but he is wrong! After this, he continues to put the mask on at night, and tends to have better luck than he did before he found it, including his luck with romance, winning the heart of his love interest, Tina Carlyle. However, nobody in the city knows who's behind this mask, and since Stanley tends to cause trouble with it on, the police are after him. Not only that, he also finds the local mob after him! The last time I watched this 1994 blockbuster, a couple nights ago, I certainly didn't find it consistently hilarious, and it took a little while for it to really pick up. The first REALLY funny part I found was when Stanley Ipkiss' borrowed car falls apart just before he finds the mask. After that, there are quite a few very funny, sometimes hilarious moments thanks to Ipkiss' green alter ego, including the part where he pretends he's dying in a mobster's arms. The Mask is a rather silly character, but that doesn't mean not funny. The humour still isn't as consistent as I had hoped, and the scene where Stanley, with his mask on, forcing everyone around to dance may be a bit overlong. However, it's not entirely the humour that's making me give The Mask an 8/10. It also gets suspenseful at times, especially towards the end. So, I couldn't rate this film any more than a 7 if it relied entirely on humour for its entertainment value, but with the humour AND adrenaline combined, I think an 8 is more like it. Also, something I got out of this film that I obviously wouldn't have back in the mid-nineties is Cameron Diaz, who is so hot here in the role of Tina Carlyle!The Mask is not the greatest comedy ever made, and Jim Carrey's antics are not always funny, but they usually work, unlike in Liar Liar, where his silly voices, sounds, etc. got on my nerves a bit. Here, his character's alter ego is an amusing one, and is a lot like a cartoon character, so it's not much of a surprise that this movie spawned an animated series, which brings back memories, as I saw some episodes of that cartoon during its fairly brief run and enjoyed them. If you can't stand Carrey as a comedian in general, then I'm sure his performance here would be no exception to you in this film. On the other hand, for Jim Carrey fans (or those who SOMETIMES find him funny), who want a comedy, action, and fantasy adventure, this successful blockbuster from fourteen years ago could easily turn out to be an entertaining experience. "},{"Title":"Still smokin' after all these years","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Years ago this was one of my favorite comedies but when I rewatched it recently I was prepared to find that it hadn't stood the test of time. Happily, I was proved wrong.In case you don't know, the premise of this film is that 'Mr. Nice Guy' Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) happens upon a magical mask that transforms the wearer into a reflection of their innermost desires. In Ipkiss's case it changes him from a unassertive, hopeless romantic into a love-crazed wildman. The story wasn't exactly going to win any awards but it is a great showcase for some inventive comedy.Probably the reason why this movie still entertains me is because of the sheer cartoonishness of The Mask's mannerisms. Carrey is perfectly suited to mimic the sort of exaggerated physical comedy that you'd usually see in animated shorts of a bygone era. Then there's ILM to fill in the blanks with some pretty nifty special effects.This was also the introduction of Cameron Diaz, who was indeed smokin' at the time. She's charming and has pretty good chemistry with Carrey. The supporting cast is better than you might expect, with Peter Greene great as the menacing Dorian Tyrell, Peter Riegert surprisingly ideal as Lt. Kellaway and even a typically understated appearance by Ben Stein.The direction is nothing to write home about but there are a few musical numbers that have a cool, jazzy flavour to them. Like the physical comedy, they're like something out of a bygone era, and all the more welcome for that.So, there you have it; a film that's good for a few chuckles. Underrated and certainly one of Carrey's best comedic performances. "},{"Title":"Personally,This my favorite movie.","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Hilarious. I have this movie on DVD( I used to have the VHS but it broke) and, in my opinion, this is the greatest movie of all time. If you have not seen it, Buy it. If your a Jim Carrey fan, You will love this, Even if your not a fan of Jim Carrey, I still recommend this to you if you have not seen it. I am not going to give anything away for the people who have not seen it. Just watch and find out. I give this film 10 out of 10 stars. 2 very very big thumbs way up. It is Rated PG-13. Very funny film. It is my favorite movie because it is very funny. I love this movie a lot because I can relate to this film. and that I laugh at this film a lot. Jim Carrey at his best. This is one of those movies that you must see before you die. Best movie of all time. "},{"Title":"The movie that put Carrey and Diaz on everyone's radar.","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Who but Jim Carrey could play meek bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss, who one fateful day comes across an ancient mask. On a whim he puts it to his face, and the mask becomes part of him, altering both his physical appearance and his personality. He becomes a super dynamo, in strength and quickness, but also with a destructive streak. His challenge is to channel his energy into fighting the criminals.Way down the list of credits is Cameron Diaz as Tina Carlyle. Essentially an unknown before this movie, she plays what eventually becomes Ipkiss' love interest, and her performance here is largely responsible for the even better roles she soon was to have.The movie is not to be taken seriously, it is most fun to watch for the eye-popping special effects associated with turning Ipkiss, and at times others, even his dog, into something completely different when the mask goes on. Always a fun watch. "},{"Title":"Not Jim Carrey's best but a pretty good movie all up.","Date":"13 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now, I know this movie is known as the movie Jim Carrey restricts himself unless of course he is wearing the mask. The movie is about Stanley Ipkiss a hopeless man bored with being an unlucky dork, he finds a masks that makes him an extra hypo coll guy. The movie is definitely not Carrey's best but is a must watch for fans of his other films. Now this movie is one of those unfortunate movies that has triggered a series and a sequel which I did not find that bad but now has its own place in the worst 100 movies. Overall watch this movie if you want to laugh but I would choose Ace Ventura over it any day. I rate this movie 78%. "},{"Title":"You'll love it when Carrey does the chick chicky boom, chick chicky boom!","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Not only does Chuck Russell's The Mask deliver one of Jim Carrey's best performances, a shed-load of brilliant anarchic humour, special effects that still look fresh today, and some excellent musical numbers, but it is also the film that introduced movie audiences worldwide to the charms of the delectable Cameron Diaz. In short, The Mask is SMOKIN'!Carrey plays mild mannered nice guy Stanley Ipkiss, who happens upon a strange mask that, when worn, enables the wearer to become a suave, indestructible hero&#151;albeit a very mischievous one. Unfortunately, it also helps to get Stanley into a whole heap of trouble, after his wise-cracking alter-ego upsets local gangster Dorian Tyrell, first by ruining one of his heists, and then by making out with his gorgeous girlfriend Tina (Cameron Diaz).Director Russell expertly handles the non-stop madcap action, which is heavily influenced by the manic cartoons of Tex Avery and Looney Tunes (both are referenced in the film), and funny man Carrey gives his career the boost it so badly needed with an unforgettable turn that perfectly showcased his manic style, bringing him to the attention of Hollywood's big hitters.Packed full of eye-popping make-up and visual effects, and an even more eye-popping debut from Diaz (who sets the screen alight from the moment she saunters out of the rain, sexily clad in a figure hugging red dress), The Mask is 97 minutes of pure unadulterated fun for lovers of outrageous, zany, slapstick humour. "},{"Title":"Carrey's comic masterpiece","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It would go without saying that this is one of Jim Carrey's most memorable movies, and with just that in mind, it makes sense that so many people like this.There's a lot to enjoy about this movie the movie itself is good and doesn't take itself too seriously, (the largest indicator of this being that there are several cartoon references and likenesses) and while being full of action, it's also quite funny.The story is enjoyable and comes to a decisive end... but I won't spoil it for anybody who hasn't seen it. (Yeah, like anyone hasn't.) The fact that it was nominated for a Razzie doesn't matter; many people like surreal movies, and this is truly one of the best... if not the definitive best.10/10 "},{"Title":"Light movie version of a pitch-dark comic","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first met The Mask as a comic, a violent, even revolting comic. I had to read it is small doses, because the violence was too extreme for my taste.As a movie, it is totally different. That is usually a bad sign, most movies that changes the concept so much fail to tell a good story, but when The Mask gets a less violent script and Carrey's incredible rubber face combined with cartoon-style special effects (and pretty good acting in between), the result is that the humor gets a lot stronger.In the comic, Ipkiss murders his old teacher with a book down her throat, and the car service men are slaughtered in similar ways. In the movie, we see one of the car service guys in pain, but he obviously survives. When the comic Ipkiss slaughters dozens of policemen, the movie version merely teases them. And it is much easier to laugh at.And the movie is great fun. No wonder it made Carrey a superstar. I have seen many of his movies, and this is one of the very best. Other favorites, Bruce almighty and Truman show are in many ways logical successors.The original story misuses our Norse god Loki as bad as US people always seem to do. Americans seem to be unable to understand Loki, so they use him as a devil or a demon, which is completely wrong. But the movie is more bent to mischief than slaughter, so the movie makes a big step in the right direction.Something that disturbs me is the bad guy Dorian Tyrell (Peter Greene) and the plot around him. He is a flat, standard mobster, and his part seems like something that was slapped on because the original ending was too horrible for the movie. But let me also say that the actors do their job well. I just feel that the standard gangster plot feels cheap.So the mobster plot was a disappointment in an otherwise very funny and worthwhile movie. "},{"Title":"Totally Awesome","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was much younger than I am now when this film was released in 1994, but it has been a favorite since. I always did like Jim Carrey, and this was only the second film of his I saw. And this film was a starting point in Cameron Diaz's career.The acting in the film was moderate, with Jim Carrey being his exceptionally funny self, and Cameron Diaz stealing the scenes. It was hard to picture Amy Yasbeck as a backstabbing reporter who broke her silence about the Mask.It was good to see by the end that Jim Carrey threw the Mask away and got the girl. It was an excellent film, one in which thrust Diaz into super stardom. And Jim Carrey's popularity was thrust into the stratosphere with this film. The start of his major career. "}{"Title":"Clearly Carrey's Best","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey's style is considered by most fans to be over the top. So how do you cast a man like that? You give him a script like the Mask, that's how.This is by far Jim Carrey's best work. There are some that are AMONG his best, but this is THE best I've seen him do.A Cheezy but highly amusing storyline, great dialog, innovative dance routines, and great characters dominate this work, and Jim Carrey purely DELIVERS! You could do a LOT worse with 2 hours of your life.It rates a 8.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"SSSmoken'","Date":"4 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is one heck of a movie. I saw this when I was 5 yrs. old, and was scared at first, but then I saw it again, and I was laughing my pants off. In the opening shots of The Mask looks like a low-budget film underwater, with a iron chest resting for ages, until it is unlocked, and a mysterious Mask comes out of the chest and is founded by a nerd loser, bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss. Once he puts it on, it brings his innermost desires to life. The Mask is sort of a mix with Lonney Tunes character, with Tasmanian Devil, like the spinning tornado, as the Mask transforms, dying on a thugs arm like Bug Bunny, Tex Avery's Wolf at the Coco Bongo Club. As a result, the character played by Jim Carrey is half real, and half cartoon. The Mask has great comic elements, and is laugh out funny, Carrey gives his best performance as a cartoon character. This is a smart film, making you believe it's like a cartoon film, and also helped Cameron Diaz with her career, along with Jim Carrey. It's smart, funny, hip, and SSSomken!!!! "},{"Title":"Clichéd but solid entertainment","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The spirit of the Norse god of mischief Loki is trapped inside a green wooden mask, and anyone donning the mask during nightime unleashes that spirit and obtains vast powers. It also brings out the deep inner repressed character of a person, be it for good or for evil. For the character of Stanley Ipkiss, the deep inner self is a collage of old movies and cartoons with the soul of a hopeless romantic thrown in for good measure.The idea of the Mask is a unique story idea, and it provides the perfect vehicle for Jim Carrey to act out his palette of comic abilities.Unfortunately the story is also riddled with clichés the loser male figure defeats the villain, becomes the hero and wins the girl, the cop is bumbling and uptight, the one-dimensional crime-lord is pure evil, and so on.But one can forgive the clichés and get lost in the pure spectacle that is Jim Carrey doing his thing. It is hard to envision this film having been successful without Carrey as the lead. Cameron Diaz also puts in a respectable performance as the love interest in this career launching endeavour.While it's no cinematic masterpiece, the Mask is fun and highly entertaining. I would like to see more from story creators Michael Fallon and Mark Verheiden. "},{"Title":"The Best Jim Carey Movie By Far","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have never been a Jim Carey fan, i have always thought that in his movies he is trying too hard to be funny, acting way over the top, trying to play a cartoon character by himself; for me it doesn't work, but THE MASK is something totally different, because you are watching Jim Carey as a cartoon character, with large teeth and a make up that just by watching him it would make you laugh.Now this character is really a great vehicle for Jim Carrey to make his show, and this times it works more than perfect.This movie made me laugh a lot, and the wonderful thing is that THE MASK is not overused, making his appearances more enjoyable.My Jim Carrey favorite by far. Tell Scarlett I do give a damn, Jet' adore, jet' adore, jet' wind, i don't care 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I like this actor and actress!!","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" THE MASKOne day Stanley Ipkiss picked up a mysterious mask. When he wears the mask he changes a green strange man. This green strange man is very strong and he can everything what he wants to do. But there is a man who wants to rob his mask. Stanley falls in love with a beautiful woman. She knows Stanley, but don't know he changes green strange man. She loves green strange man.I like this movie. Because I like Cameron Diaz! She is very beautiful!!I also like Jim Carrey! I think he is one of a great actor! And I think this movie is entertaining and and astonishing! And also And also there are gorgeously cast. I want to see again. "},{"Title":"one of Jim Carrey's masterpiece~","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you get a wonderful mask which can hide your face? your character? If it makes your character change as you want? In this movie, one mask changed Ipkiss's characters. Ipkiss, who is timid and coward, became new person. He could do anything that he wanted whether it is a legal thing or illegal thing. He came to know that Tina that Ipkiss likes was the girl of gangster Dorian, Dorian got angried perfectly because he kissed with Tina. After that, there were many fighting between Ipkiss and Dorian and finally, Ipkiss has won. Everybody who feels boring about their life at least think something to be a hero as well as most hero movie. It is expressed in the movie. Want to get out of this boring and simple life. Want to be greater one. This movie satisfy the people who think like those. But there is a impressive scene in the last part of the movie; it is that Ipkiss threw the mask away and find his own character by himself. At last, it shows it is just a fiction after all, and makes people realize their life in the same time. "},{"Title":"Non-stop fun","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Seeing this film for the first time back in 1994, unaware of its roots in Tex Avery's cartoons and such made a lasting effect on me. Jim Carrey is in top form in this fast-paced package of laughs, action and great music (the sequence at the Coco Bongo Club stands in my opinion as one of the greatest and funniest musical performances caught on film). But let's not forget the colorful visuals and beautiful, on-the-spot photography, that really makes this film shine. As old-fashioned as this film is in many ways, it's also simply irresistible. Hold on to your seat, The Mask is coming! "},{"Title":"Plays Well By Carrey","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" THE MASK (1994) **** 'The Mask' plays well by the then-rising star Jim Carrey, cast as a happy-go-lucky bank clerk who discovers a mystical mask that turns him into a maniac superhero with eye-popping powers. He has a blast circling the dark, shady town in which he lives playing a masquerade of sorts. But he gets into friction when he clashes with a local gangster and a police detective. Knockout newcomer Cameron Diaz sparkles as the night club singer who serves as the love interest to Carrey.Rating System***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"SSSSSSSSSSSmokin'!!!","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of Jim Carrey's best! Prior to Ace Ventura, The Mask is full entertainment. Very cartoony, it makes Who Framed Roger Rabbit? a class project. All that special effects, all the music, all the laughs who could ask for more? The club scene was the best for me, that's where Cameron Diaz really showed her stuff dancing with Carrey. The Mask is so unbelievable, even the Cuban Pete number was an actual video. That video will make everyone dance. Stanley Ipkiss(Carrey) was the hero of this movie, when Dorian Tyrell(Peter Greene) showed evil when he wore the mask. he even took out other bad guys with that power. Then Milo, Ipkiss' dog uses the mask's power to take on the gang himself. It was a blast! A super hit for Carrey, don't get me wrong, this movie was not a letdown, not one bit! This will be another notch in his belt of hits. Rating 4.5 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Green is clean!","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask, I would say has to be my first or second favourite Jim Carrey movie. He is extremely funny in the Mask, the acting of the mask he turns into is brilliant and hilarious! The way he moves his teeth makes me laugh out loud because its so damn funny! It definitely surprised me that such a good movie could be made in 1994.Also Cameron Diaz does a great job for I'm quite sure of her very first movie. I always thought she was quite pretty but just ordinary but when she came onto the see when I first saw the Mask earlier this year, my mouth dropped in awe. She looked so good! She began well, and I think it boosted her career with the stunning acting.I've always enjoyed the way Jim Carrey makes a fool of himself in such films as Dumb and Dumber, Liar Liar and Bruce Almighty. I am actually looking forward to seeing 'Fun with Dick And Jane'.FINAL RATING- Worth the watch, Classic Comedy! "}{"Title":"Why I still watch movies (metaphorically speaking)","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Although I prefer the classic 40's and 50's 5 minute cartoons of Tex Avery to this homage, I must admit it still makes me hoot with laughter whenever I see it. One of the few 90's films I've liked (out of only a few more) I think it has the edge city over Ace Ventura, equally memorable for Jim Carrey taking off Captain Kirk in the dolphin tank as well as the horrible undisciplined ending.This also has as eye-candy a shapely Cinderella Cameron Diaz who is marvellous - as someone to paint a few little dresses on. Rather smoking for the eyes, I concur with Wolfie. The biggest star however was Milo, what a masterful yet restrained performance, basically as straight-dog to Ipkiss in either form. The two cops were a throwback to 40's style films too, such as the Falcon, Boston Blackie etc - no one is that dumb in real life, uh?The Mask has to be the best comedy film in decades, probably the best film of the 90's full stop, and I'm so glad a sequel never materialised. "},{"Title":"this movie is smmoookkkiiinnn","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now come on!!! This film is absolutely amazing, Jim Carrey steals the show. He really is quite an actor. The way he portrays his character is second to none one of the best examples of comedy genius in todays world. He really is something special and after the truman show, liar liar, dumb and dumber, bruce almighty, lemony snickets a series of unfortunate events, me, myself and irene, ace ventura, ace ventura when nature calls, once bitten, earth girls are easy, man on the moon, pink cadillac and sooo many more we can all come to realise how this one man pertains so much talent. Jim thankyou for everything you have given to the world through laughter. We really do owe a lot to this rubber faced (no pun intended) man with all the talent money cant buy.Thanks "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Stanley Ipkiss(Jim Carrey) has it the hard way. Living in a motel, a job with a boss that doesn't care, a car that won't run. Things change when Stanley finds a magical mask that changes him into that funny green faced guy. Soon though that green masked guy is running from the cops and from the finger tips of evil. So what happens when a masked funny guy comes in contact with a blonde haired lady and Paggy Brandt? Acts as funny as he can be. Even in the face of danger.Starring Amy Yasbeck(Peggy Brandt) Jim Carry(Stanely Ipkis),Peter Riegert(Lt. Mitch Kellaway)and Peter Greene(Dorian Tyrell), The Mask has made it all possible to believe in goofs and fun. "},{"Title":"excellent comedy of 1994","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask it is a movie that causes to see and to see as many times as be necessary to stay happy, it is that Jim Carrey is excellent comic actor, and its performance in this movie, like in the other comic movie of 1994 (Dumb and Dumber) they have taken it to the fame that today in day has. Other comic movies as Bruce Almighty, Dumb and Dumber, Ace Ventura Pet Detective they are others that should be in our collection of comic classics, and as an user he/she said somewhere around in their comment 1994, year of good movies, 1994 Jim Carrey's year, I say that he's right, and I hope that the stupid sequels that ruin the original spirit of the movies like Son of the Mask they stop to be carried out. P.S. Another attraction of this movie is Tina (Cameron Díaz), first movie where I see it, and that it is its sensual stereotype that has not had in other movies (perhaps in The Sweetest Thing). "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is, to put it simply, awesome. This movie still makes me collapse on the floor laughing at Jim Carrey's silly antics after watching it maybe 20 times. My personal favorite bit is when Stanley Ipkiss aka The Mask (Carrey) spontaneously turns into Cuban Pete, a singer/dancer/one-man band whose catchy music gets the entire police department dancing to avoid arrest. Although I generally enjoy more clever, witty humor, Jim Carrey's slapstick is no less than brilliant, with incredibly funny impersonations and perfectly timed gags. Equally good is the film's plot, which remains funny, interesting, and engaging to the very end. 10 out of 10 stars, no questions asked. If you haven't already seen it, rent or borrow it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is an all-time favorite of mine! I remember when i first saw this movie so long ago, it had me so cracked up I was in stitches. First off it is so kool how Jim Carrey's character, Stanley Ipkiss is just your average drab loser who works at a bank and lives in an apartment but becomes a romantic cartoonish green-faced wild man when he puts on a magic wooden mask! Such a great idea which originated from these really dark horror comic books from Dark Horse. Anyway I love how each character has a different inner self, Stanley being a silly wisecracking cartoon, the bad guy gangster Dorian being a scary looking evil demonic madman. And the dog, lol! I remember I would always rewind that part over and over where the dog puts on the mask and attacks Dorian's crony as a green faced sharp toothed super dog! Funny stuff! All of the characters fit perfectly in this movie and have great charisma. Jim Carrey is one of my all time favorite actors. The guy is just hilarious and his antics will never get old. The only minor flaw with this movie is that when Stanley has the mask on and is doing all his crazy stuff (pulling huge random objects out of his pockets, shape shifting, making his eyeballs bulge out of his head etc.) how come no one seems to think thats odd and out of the ordinary? I sure would. Well anyway thats just a tiny little ripple in this sea of insane hilarity. This movie is a must-see all time classic. See also my review for the brand new sequel, Son of the Mask.-Patt Cooper "},{"Title":"brilliant film!","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is definitely one of the best films i have seen! its funny n grabs your attention right from the beginning. Jim Carrey was such a good person to be the mask as he is funny and sometimes weird in his films, but thats what makes him Jim. He is a very talented actor and he is my act idol for my future! fantastic film! 10/10 5 stars! definitely! Cameron Diaz is such an amazing actor and it was interesting to see a comedy person and a sexy blonde seducing person come together and fall in love with each other. My favourite bit is when Jim (the mask) smashes the alarm clock then jumps out the window hes laying on the floor and he says  look mum I'm road kill ha ha ha! That made me laugh so much! There are so many fantastic films he has done i love them all! From Jordan Price x "},{"Title":"Carrey Makes Himself Known With This Film","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Before the master comedies of Dumb and Dumber (1994), Liar Liar (1997), and Man on the Moon (1999), there was The Mask. Stanley Ipkiss is a nice bank clerk but is unable to stand up to anyone and pretty much a pushover to anyone. After the worst night of his life, Stanley's car breaks down on a bridge overlooking the river. As Stanley beats his car he sees something in the water. After retrieving it, he walks home. That night he throws the mask on to his face to scare his dog, Milo (Max) an incredible force overtakes him and his face becomes green. He is overcome with a supernatural power to create things and cause mischief. That night he enacts a little 'revenge' on the mean people of the day including his land lady and car mechanics. But soon Stanley's fun is disturbed when his goofs indirectly lead to the death of small time mob boss Dorian (Peter Greene). Avenge is enacted and Dorian is now out to kill all the gangsters of the city and retrieve this mysterious mask. Along the way Stanley gets help from local beautiful dancer Tina Carlyle (Cameron Diaz), Max, and Lt. Kellaway (Peter Riegert).The Mask is smart, it's funny, and it's one of Carrey's earliest films and Diaz's first film. The Mask is filled with gags and humorous jokes one of the best being Stanley dancing with Tina and being shot, then accepting an Oscar for portraying the killing. Carrey does good work with Stanley and makes him out to be a total loser with a dog as his only friend. You'll laugh to tears and have a fun time while watching Carrey transform into the mischievous 'Mask Man' and along with Milo once. Some things maybe scary for kids but not intended and humor will quickly follow.The Mask. Starring Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz, Peter Riegert, Peter Greene, and Max.3 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"Carrey at his best!","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" A great mad-cap film full of laughs! Down on his luck guy finds mask that transforms him in to a superhero, sounds normal enough, doesn't it?! This film allows Jim Carrey to perform at his best, and he takes full advantage. He shows, I believe, why he is one of the best comedic actors around today, he seems to have no boundaries and is so full of energy he could make your head spin, but they're good things! This film also introduced the world to Cameron Diaz, and what an intro!! She doesn't really shine in this film, but as her first, was probably never expected to do so, she's a nice bit of eye candy for the guys, and I'm sure they don't mind! There are plenty of really funny moments and a bit of sentiment too, in all a great film! "},{"Title":"Fantasy/comedy beautifully done. Carrey does his best work here.","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It is not easy for me to say this because Jim Carrey is one of my favorite actors but nothing he has done since The Mask is very remarkable or put in another way, his performance here is still his best. I didn't much care for the Ace Ventura films even though they did have a great Carrrey performance. His dramatic roles are mostly admirable but doesn't really stick with you for that long. The Mask was and still is a movie where almost everything was so beautifully done that everything else he has done feels mediocre. Especially, when you look at his other venture into fantasy film with The Grinch... it is but a mere shadow of the sublime universe that is created here.Every time we see a shot of Carrey here is like watching a hundred firecrackers going off at the same time. His Ipkiss character and what happens to him is almost every boy's dream come true. Who among us haven't wished that we could let go of all of our inhibitions and get the girl of our dreams in the process? The production design in the entire movie is also pure gold with bright colors and a film noiresque ambiance. The villain, played by Peter Greene, is also truly frightening and Cameron Diaz has never looked better. One fault i can point out is the policemen characters. They are just too buffoonish and belong on a second rate kiddie show. Other than that everything is so well accomplished that a sequel which was initially planned would have ruined the first film. I'm glad that as of this date it still hasn't been made.Jim Carrey might have ambitions to be more than just a comic actor but I think that he should be proud of this film and if he never wins an Oscar he should still consider himself the best comedic actor of the 90's. Too bad there isn't such a category. "}{"Title":"A movie for everyone","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I disagree with the other reviewer, when I first saw this movie I was 16 and I thought it was brilliant. I am 22 now and I still like it. The only reason you should avoid this movie is if you dislike Jim Carrey's style of overacting and being silly (I know some do). Otherwise he is great in this and without him I don't think the concept would work at all. There is a balance of story with all the comedy and while it isn't a life changing movie it is fun and well made, the effects are great for a film of it's age and stand up OK even 10 years later. The characters are ideal, the two detectives are the perfect double act and Cameron Diaz is both incredibly beautiful and talented in her first big role. In summary, I think adults can enjoy the silliness and the comedy as much the kids and the plot, acting and effects knit the whole lot together really well. "},{"Title":"This Movie made Cameron Diaz and JIm Carrey stars!!!","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is the movie that made these two actors famous!! Forget Charlies Angels and Bruce Almighty, this is the film that propelled them to stardom!!! The film is based on a Man called Stanley Ipkiss he is a loser, always late for work and watches cartoons in his spare time! but overall he is a friendly guy who wouldn't say anything bad about anyone!!! but his patience is tested when his car is is ruins and everyone thinks he is a pushover!!! until he discovers a special Mask which brings him special powers!!! than he meets a beautiful women named Tina Carlyl(Diaz). she sings at the Coko Bongo a hip night club for the gambling type and she has a abusive boyfriend who isn't interested in her and is always trying to get her framed she meets Stanley and falls for him but has to keep it secret!! basically The mask robs the bank and Tinas boyfriend wants Stanley dead because he kmew that it was him!! than Tina and Stanley fall in love!! etc!! overall! i really enjoyed this movie! and don't bother with The Mask 2! not worth watching!! BUY THIS DVD NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!! Its SMMMKOOOOKKINNNN!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Hello","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a really good film the only problem is its to short and it needed more time with the mask in it. Cant wait for the sequel. Casting was very good with cameron diaz playing the babe shes like so hot. If you've ever seen the mask cartoons its very good this film because it makes it seem like a cartoon but its real actors which is most impressive. Jim carrey was the perfect man for the part. Hope to see him again in the sequel if possible. Cameron Diaz was like sooooo hot in that film. Although shes hot everywhere. Shame Britney wasn't in it or Christina that would of made the film a lot better with those to babes in it. A really good film for 1994 but a hell of a long wait for the sequel. its been 10 years "},{"Title":"Leaving the Strip","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Something like a spoiler warning...This is a milestone in Jim Carrey's career something unique, something different.  Frequently he is given a character whether lawyer, Grinch, pet detective and required to be a total goofball as the character.  Here is not the case.  Here he is given the character and required to try and be normal (he can't, but that's the point) and then have an alter-ego where he can explode.The effects have dated somewhat in the last decade, but it's Carrey's comic timing that still make it interesting.  He's allowed to go into excess, something that few other of his films (except maybe his stint as the Riddler) permit without insulting us like 'Dumb & Dumber'.Watch Carrey acting like a cartoon, then becoming a cartoon, while completing the irony by watching the same cartoons.  That's the evolution of Jerry Lewis for you...and it's still funny.This also introduced Diaz and her formula.Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "},{"Title":"For the cartoon lover in us all","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jim Carrey lets it all out in `The Mask', and he hasn't stopped.  The role seems to be perfect for Carrey, who is famous for being the `rubber-faced' comedian of Hollywood.  In his true breakout role, Carrey plays bank teller Stanley Ipkiss.  We all know people like this so friendly and nice that they become nothing but doormats&#133; and then are too nice to even ask us to stop.  However, after being tossed out of a nightclub one night (and being humiliated in front of his dream girl, played by Cameron Diaz), he finds a mysterious mask floating in the river.  It may seem like an ordinary mask for now, but when Ipkiss puts it on, his inner-self is released.  Finally, he's able to be as free-spirited and cartoon-like as he's always dreamed (we learn early on he's a huge cartoon fan).  He now has the power to do whatever he wanted&#133; but not before taking some revenge on those who make him miserable.     I watch this movie for two main characters Ipkiss and his faithful dog Milo.  When the Mask is on the screen, the audience cheers.  When Milo is on the screen, they cheer even louder.  When Milo puts on the Mask&#133; well, you get the idea.  As usual, Carrey is an utter delight, letting loose in this role and bending it to his will.  It's this type of comedy that die-hard fans fell in love with, not to mention creating future roles including `Liar Liar', `Me, Myself and Irene', and `Bruce Almighty'.  I still laugh like crazy when Ipkiss puts on the mask.  For the record, if a person is not a fan of cartoons, then they are not going to like this movie.  It includes plenty of references to classic cartoon characters (not to mention a fitting tribute to Tex Avery's Wolf).  I'm an avid cartoon fanatic, so this was a movie that was right up my alley.  If you're an fan of the old animated slapstick, then I recommend this movie with 5 neon stars!  If not&#133; well, best try your luck somewhere else.  "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is based on the ultra-violent comic book of the same name. In themovie, Jim Carrey plays a nerdy guy who discovers a mask with magicalpowers. The movie is basically a live-action cartoon, and gets corny at times, but  it's really not all that bad if you want to watch a neat little comedy-action film.  "},{"Title":"This movie is SSSSSSSSMMMMMOOOKIN!","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is very entertaining and hilarious! If you have kids that like Jim Carrey they will love This one.Peter Greene played a good role(the villain like always)and Cameron Diaz was good also..You gotta love both of them in The Mask.There isnt a part in the movie that you dont laugh at.It is funny all the way through!It is a great movie to watch when your bored and looking for a good laugh.The Jack Russel dog is so cute! I give it a 10/10* "},{"Title":"PART.....Y?  Because I GOTTA!","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a really big fan of Jim Carey and this movie is one of the reasons why.  He has such a kinetic energy in all his funny movies.  And, that is especially true in this movie.  The story is a little overdone, but that is the point, it's supposed to be.  Another thing about Carey, that green mask is very nice.  It really allows Carey to show his face. Now on to Diaz.  She is a KNOCKOUT in this movie.  I have rarely seen anybody so beautiful.  She was even more beautiful in There's Something About Marry.  But, this was her debut.  That long red dress in the first scene is just outstanding.   "},{"Title":"Entertainin' and Hilarious","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Mask, w/ jim carrey, was a fun movie w/ some hilarious moments. Jim Carrey is a bank clerk and one night, he finds a mask in a lake and puts it on, he can do anything. His charecter acts very silly as the mask and it's pretty funny. Cameron Diaz plays the hot girl that jim carrey wants in the movie. It is her first role and it's interesting to see how she acted in her first film.overall Fun! ****(out of five)PG-13 contains some violence and a couple swears. It wasn't a very bad PG-13.Iv'e seen worse. "},{"Title":"It isn't easy being Green.","Date":"25 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The legend of 'The Mask', exits for fun on the screen, but was for real for Jim Carrey. 'The Mask' is all Jim Carrey, and in my opinion at least, shows Jim Carrey at his most talented best. Carrey has made many films since 'The Mask', but nothing 'unleashes' him as this film does. Cameron Diaz ('the girl'), Peter Green ('the bad guy'), Peter Reigert and Jim Doughan (Bumbling Detectives) all support Carrey in this highly imaginative, comical, special effects loaded (Oscar nominated) totally fun movie.See it for sure, and you'll see that Chuck Russell (Director) , Michael Fallon and Mark Verheiden (writers) have earned a place in cinema classic comedy with 'The Mask', a comedy for all ages.   "}{"Title":"Jim Carrey at some of his best","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As you might have read in my Liar, Liar review, I really like Jim Carrey comedies. I'm not sure if this outdoes LL or not. Anyway, it's a really good movie. It was the film debut of Cameron Diaz. I especially adored the funny Tex Avery cartoons homages they did with the fine CG effects. The mask seems just like the kind of person Jim Carrey would become. It was cool how they would have the shy Stanley Ipkiss at one point, and then he would turn into the zany, funny, wise-cracking mask guy. He is by far, one of the funniest movie characters I've ever seen. There was no stop to it!! My brother used to do impressions of him all the time. Whether it was Somebody stop me!! or Party! P,A,R,T,Y? 'Cuz I have to!!.Anyway, it's full of memorable gags, like the part where the dog gets the mask and such. This was probably one of the earliest PG-13 movies I remember seeing. It's the same with Liar, Liar. You just can't miss it. I personally think Jim Carrey has kind of lost his good humor in his latest movies, but I'm looking forward to Bruce Almighty. Anyway, a 9/10, or a 10/10, I'm not sure. The Mask (dying) Tell Oliver I won't be coming home this Christmas! Tell Scarlett I do give a damn! (gets Oscar and applause from audience) "},{"Title":"crap!","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I hate this film. I don't care how much it made I hate it. The MASK fails and in this era of hollywood still taking itself way too seriously still fails. There aren't enough good B movies like ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK to flush out the stink of this tird.  "},{"Title":"P.A.R.T.Y. coz ya gotta!","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a great movie that does exactly what it should, makes you laugh. Heck, even my Mum & Dad enjoyed this one. It's got something for everyone. I'm a big fan of Jim Carrey, he's an entertainer, pure & simple. The film as a whole stands the test of time, the SFX still enhance the film even if it is nearly 10 years old now! Also, the moment where Cameron Diaz makes her entry is Cinema gold! She looks gorgeous! See this movie today! "},{"Title":"It's Smokin'","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a fun movie.  It seems like it would be the type of movie you could let your little ones see, but this movie doesn't use the best language and some things are a little too graphic for them.  Could be down right scary for little ones.  But since it is PG 13, I think that 13 and older is the right ages to see this one.  If you aren't a Jim Carrey fan, I doubt you would like this movie.  I am not a big Jim Carrey fan, but I did enjoy this movie.  This is Cameron Diaz's first movie --- ever.  And she does a great job in this movie.  She looks like a seasoned pro at acting.  Jim and Cameron have some great chemistry together in this movie, making this movie funny with a twist of romance.  I think one of my favorite characters in this movie was Milo the Dog, played by Max the Dog.  He was cute, spunky, and had some of the most memorable times on screen.  I really liked it when he put the mask on.  Much laughs.  It's a fun movie because the mask makes whoever is wearing it turn into what they feel deep down inside --- whether that be romantic and suave or mean and violent.  And when Jim wears the mask, expect lots and lots of humorous facial expressions and cartoon like imagery. "},{"Title":"Still Smokin'","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sad news first the Mask is destined to go down as the OTHER live-action/animated tribute to classic cartoons.  Roger Rabbit looms too large.  While Rabbit has better special effects and is, admittedly, a more fun ride, Mask is much darker and funnier.  Somewhere, Tex Avery is nodding apreciatively. "},{"Title":"it's still smokin'","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you want to see a lighthearted and fun movie then you could do a lot worse than see this. Jim Carrey is excellent in his dual-role as mild mannered bank clerk and mischevious super hero. The animated special effects are great fun and in her debut performance Cameron Diaz is absolutely stunning. There's no deep story here but there is plenty of entertainment... and a great catchphrase! (7/10) "},{"Title":"THE NEW KIND OF HERO","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the best  movie of JIM CARREY  i ever  seen. full of comedy entertaining and amazing and CAMERON DIAZ looking so charming in her first movie A MAN TURN FROM ZERO TO HERO "},{"Title":"Carrey's best film","Date":"16 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't get me wrong; Carrey's an excellent comic. However, he has made a habit of appearing in terrible movies and almost saving them. This is the exception.The Mask is a comic book movie, something many people are unaware of. Carrey was perfectly cast as the main character a boring no-name who discovers a magical mask that makes him invulnerable and extremely extroverted. Most of the jokes are directed at teenagers; this is a really funny film for about age 14-25 or so, plus other people who remember the horror of puberty. The humour tends to focus on Ipkiss' attempts to reintegrate the extroverted character into his own life, while trying to clean up the mess that the Mask character tends to leave lying around, and avoid getting killed.If you're a Carrey fan, watch this movie. If you're not, maybe you should anyway. If you passionately hate him, including his standup, then avoid it like the plague. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Im a huge fan i Jim Carrey and i loved this film it was very silly but very very funny. Jim Carrey does very well as the Green Mask and as Stanley Ipkiss. It was also Cameron Diaz first ever feature film and she did well and as always looking fine. I think the story is very good and i recommend this to anybody looking for a laugh. it's hillarious 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey is amazing!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Sure there's tons of funny men in all sorts of comedy movies but Jim Carrey is above all of them! In a class of his own and this movie proves why. Yes it has special effects, tons of em great ones that make the movie great but when the effects aren't there and Jim plays the Mask he makes the facial expressions and voices make the Mask such a great character. I really wish a sequal to this would have been made cause this is too good! Plus it's the movie that made the very hot Cameron Diaz a big star.  "}{"Title":"smokin' JIM CARREY film","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is the best movie I have ever had the honor of viewing.I agree that SFX have degraded over the years but this film pulls it off.the reason being that the SFX are used as enhancements for Jim Carrey's unique comedy. "},{"Title":"Positive review by non-Jim Carrey fan.","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Altho' Mr. Carrey is a fellow Canadian, I have not enjoyed any of his other roles in Hollywood movies. This is a notable exception. There is no question in my mind of Mr. Carrey's abilities, he just seems to have starred in movies I was not interested in. Hats off to Jim Carrey.  "},{"Title":"the way the mask speaks to me in july 2002","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Looking back at a film largely forgotten by the general moviegoing public years ago, I notice there is something about the mask that really represents a different style of creativity when it comes to the art of computer generated special effects. A critic of movies should take another look at this movie and notice the drastic ways the use of computer generated special effects has spiraled out of control. Films nowaday have muddled the true entertainment of special effects with lavish overproduction. When an entire city is digitally created and zoomed through with a free range 3d camera it is not the same as when 3D effects and live action play off of each other naturally. In The Mask Jim Carrey becomes a god, he can do anything he wants to do, bend the true elements of reality around him, and his insanity is brought to life with the use not even MILDLY TASTEFUL visual effects. These special effects are over the top, but they are not RIDICULOUS. Reality is getting cheapened by computer generated graphics. Any movie can have good special effects. Mortal Kombat, Annihilation had great special effects, so did Lost in Space. Those are horrible, horrible movies. Take me back to the days with movies were tasteful, subtle, subversive, extreme, calculated. Movies like Road to Perdition and the upcoming Gangs of New York are looking interesting, but still there is a flood of mainstream brainpan droppings that start sucking out your lifeforce as soon as you start to stare into their idiot void and don't stop until you're out 8.50 are contaminating the market and putrifying American cinema. Look at a movie like this, and then hope for the future. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I watched this movie in the theatre with a group of friends in 1994.   It was hilarious then, and it is hilarious to this day.   The plot was about a banker named Stanley (Jim Carrey) discovering a mask cursed by a Norse night god of mischief, and a local crime boss Dorian discovers this mask he wants it all to himself. "},{"Title":"I Love this movie!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  God I love this movie! It's a great comedy about a man who finds a magic mask, and he's life is about to change... Every time he using the mask he changes to another person, with a green face! He tells lot's of practical jokes. (They R very fun). The actors is great Jim Carrey and beautiful Cameron Diaz, (Did U know that this was the first movie for Cameron Diaz?) R doing the leading roles very, very good.  So, I truly recommend this picture, it's damn good. And fun. )   -Smokey!... "},{"Title":"My favorite Jim Carrey movie.","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jim Carrey plays a shy bank clerk with a boring life, but when he finds a mysterious ancient mask makes him becomes another person. The mask makes him into wild man with super powers and wild desires. He meets the woman of his dreams who is a girlfriend (Cameron Diaz) of a mobster and gets in trouble with the mob and the police. Carrey and Cameron Diaz in her debut film performance did an excellence job of acting in the movie. I like especially the dog Milo who steals the movie in every scene that the dog in.     "},{"Title":"How An Ancient Mask Changed the Course of a Man's Life","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS          Jim Carrey is back. This time he's Stanley Ipkiss, a meek banker. He's also a nice guy, but bad things just keep happening to him, until a gorgeous blonde walks into his bank. Her name is Tina, and she's played by Cameron Diaz. In her purse is a camera taping the safe. Her boyfriend, Dorian Tyrell, is a no-good crime lord. He and his men plan to rob the bank.           Later on, Stanley goes to get his car from the mechanics. Turns out, despite the fact all he wanted was an oil change, the car is gonna need an overhaul. Not to worry, they give him the Loaner, which is a junky, 1954 Studebaker (like Fozzie's in The Muppet Movie). Stanley was going to join his friend Charlie at a club called the Coco Bongo. But when he got there, they threw him out, and out there he met Tina and they talked, Stanley tried to cover up his obvious situation. Then he chugged home. En route, the car broken down. Stanley looked off a bridge and saw what looked like a floating man. Stanley dashed down to save him, but it turned out to be trash. He found a wooden mask on the pile and took it home. He was yelled at by his landlord, Mrs. Peenman. In his apartment, he watched cartoons (he is a cartoon nut. If you look closely, animation cels of Daffy Duck and Porky Pig are hanging over his bed). Stanley decided to try on the mask. As soon as it's applied to his face, he starts spinning in a Taz-like whirlwind. His dog, Milo, is amazed. When he recovers, Stanley is wearing a green cartoony-like mask. He also talks and acts every Ace Ventura-like. The Mask entertains a street gang, and even give his mechanics a taste of their own medicine.           Next morning, Stanley Ipkiss wakes up in bed and thinks last night was a dream. He's visited by a disgruntled cop, Lt. Kellaway. This makes him 40 minutes late to work, which his boss declares is the same as stealing. Later that night, Stanley learns that Tina will be singing at the Coco Bongo club. He decides to put on the mask and go as that. The Mask is all hyped up to go, but he can't make the scene if he doesn't have the green, so he stops off at the bank, just as Dorian's men are about to rob it. The Mask busts out of the bank and twirls away with the money. He arrives at the club in a long, long, long limo. Mask watches Tina's performance in awe. His heart is literally beating out of his chest, then Mask really swings with a swingin' song of his own. Dorian sees Mask dancing with HIS girlfriend, which angers him. He shoots his pistol at The Mask. To dodge the bullets, he transforms into a bull fighter, Elvis, and a cowboy. He's hit and dramatically dies. He wins an Academy Award for his performance and does a Sally Field-like speech.            Next night, Stanley was to meet Tina at the park. He went as himself, then as The Mask. He soon meets up with the cops, but then sings Cuban Pete which really get's the cops dancing. Stanley is soon home free, but then Dorian and his gang catch him. Dorian takes the mask and put's it on. Dorian transforms into a hideous green-faced beast. They go to Stanley's apartment and take the bank money, then give Stanley over to the cops. Dorian also has a plan for the charity party at the Coco Bongo club that night. Stanley is the only hope of stopping the bad guys, but he's in jail. Tina tries leaving town, but Dorian catches her. It's Stanley's dog, Milo, to the rescue. He jumps into Stanley's cell, snatches the cheese, then the keys, from the guard. Stanley is free, he takes the guard's gun, but then he runs into Lt. Kellaway, so he makes it look as if Kellaway was taking the prisoner out; at the charity ball, Dorian, as the Evil Mask, arrives and causes havoc. Stanley arrives and a big battle ensues. Milo even put's on the mask and transforms into a beast dog. Stanley then put's on the mask, rescues Tina, and sends Dorian to a watery grave.        The ending is happy for Stanley Ipkiss, because Tina chooses him over The Mask. I wonder if there will be a Mask II. There could be! And because The Mask was such a zany guy, Jim Carrey's Stanley Ipkiss character was mellow. I guess so he could save energy and not play two crazy guys. -- "},{"Title":"typical Carrey film","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nobody else brings the energy and insanity that Jim Carrey does to a film. Packed with terrific visual effects, hilarious wisecracks, and the always sexy Cameron Diaz, The Mask is one you shouldn't miss. May be too violent for the youngest children but others should enjoy. 3/4  "},{"Title":"My favorite Jim Carrey movie!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Mask has been the funniest movie I have ever seen. I laughed at the part when Jim Carrey turned into the mask by putting it on. Funny isn't it? The dancing scene with Jim Carrey dancing with Cameron Diaz is funny. See this movie because it makes you laugh really really hard. **** out of **** stars and 10 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"Jim & Cameron dazzle!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all, I'd like to say that Jim (Carrey) and Cameron (Diaz) dazzle. You guys are great! The first time I saw it, I didn't even know it was Cameron Diaz portraying Tina Carlyle. When I saw THE MASK again for the first time in five years, I was surprised to find out that it was her. I practically cheered when Stanley/The Mask (Jim Carrey) beat the daylights out of Dorian (Peter Greene). I thought The Mask was a funny guy. Another thing that I liked about the movie were the songs that were performed at the Coco Bongo. I especially loved the swing piece that was performed. The song that made me laugh the most, though, was Cuban Pete. In my opinion, Tina (Cameron Diaz) sounded good when she sang Gee Baby, Ain't I Good To You? You go, girl! The special effects were very intriguing in my opinion -- Especially the transformations from man to Mask. In conclusion, I HIGHLY recommend this smash hit to all you Jim Carrey or Cameron Diaz fans who have not seen it.   "}{"Title":"FANTASTIC, SPECIAL EFFECTS-LADEN MOVIE ROLLERCOASTER!","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"    I saw this for the first time at the cinema in 1994 when I was 10 and I just loved it! I bought the video as soon as it came out and I watch the movie regularly. It's not Jim Carrey's best movie (Dumb And Dumber is lol), but it was one of my favourite movies for ages! The animated effects are genius and the storyline is also endeering. The way plain old Stanley Ibbkiss (Carrey) finds an old, ancient mask and puts it on and becomes a rowdy, crazy, cartoon-like happy maniac is just so classic! This was Cameron Diaz first proper movie role and she's great as well as Tina Carlisle (who stanley's attention is immediately attracted to lol) and what a movie to be involved in. THE STORY IS CLASSIC, THE ACTING IS SPOT-ON AND THE EFFECTS ARE EYE-BOGGLING! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Good taste and originality make this kiddy tale a winner","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A must for all people between 10 and 14 years, the mask is the ultimate story of the dream come true. But although this movie could have been buried in a shallow and not so interesting story, this one manages to stand out from the rest. Why? First of all, when I saw this one I thought that I was seeing something new. The main title is dazzling, with Randy Edelman's rousing music score (I would give anything to have the cd) filling our ears, and a heavenly theme accompanying the mask in its ascent to the surface. Edge city is a crime-filled place, but manages to be a beautiful sight. Cameron Diaz is a revelation. The humor is out of this world. And when I saw this one as a kid I wished to have that power to be whoever I wanted to. Jim Carrey has in Stanley Ipkiss an even better role than Truman Burbank. The same goes to Cameron Diaz, who is the perfect bombshell. The CGI is also jaw-dropping and eye-popping (literally). I loved all those little touches that made this movie a great ride. And I would love to have that movie score, Randy Edelman please release a cd!!! A question, however what the hell happened to the sequel? Cartoon Network was having a contest and the prize was seeing the shooting of The Mask 2, but many years later, not a sequel in sight... why does this happen? I really think a sequel to this movie would be great. "},{"Title":"should have been more like the comic","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Mask is a light version of the great comic but works because of the Tex Avery cartoon animation styling. Carrey stars as a naive cartoon loving banker who stumbles in the lucious Cameron Diaz's plan for her boss to get inside the bank to rob it. One night while jumping into a river he finds a mask which transforms him into a fun loving character. The mask goes crazy stuff that he couldnt do as the banker and stirs interest from an annoying cop. The boss finds out about the Mask and tries to get the mask himself. Dazzling special effects and sexy Cameron Diaz dancing are highlights. The dog's cuteness is overused. *** "},{"Title":"Carrey. Diaz. Perfect","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am quite a big fan of Jim Carrey's work, as he has the ability to put on a smile on my face at the saddest of times. And The Mask shows Jim at his very best.Carrey (Man On The Moon, Ace Ventura, Liar Liar), plays Stanley Ipkiss, a complete loser in life who works at a bank. But one night, he finds a mask that beholds great powers that can act out your deepest insecurities.Enter Tina Carlyle (Cameron Diaz from There's Something About Mary, My Best Friend's Wedding, and more recently, Charlie's Angels), a singer for the Coco Bongo - a new hip club downtown, who's control-freak boyf is into robbing banks etc.However, Tina starts to fall for Stanley and his wild counterpart The Mask. Next we have annoying reporter, Peggy Brandt, played by Amy Yasbeck (Problem Child, Problem Child 2, Splash Too). Peggy is determined to get the scoop on the town's biggest mystery - The Mask.Jim and Cameron, are obviously the stars of the show, but Amy's portrayal of Peggy is pretty damn good, too! Another note-worthy actor is Max, who plays Stanley's dog, Milo.Fast-packed from start to finish, this cartoonish comedy will leave you in stitches, and doin' the conga! 8/10! "},{"Title":"Wacked out special effects (SORTA SPOILERS)","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't care much for Jim Carrey, since his acting itself seems like his own personal mask, but I was able to sit all the way through this with out throwing anything at the television.  Overall an average movie with a couple of highs like the dog, and the extravagant dance numbers.  Good for a boring day. "},{"Title":"My number 151 movie","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Mask ( 1994 )  has great special effects, a quite original idea and good action + humour + actors. The story  Jim Carrey finds a mask, and then he puts it on and is someone he has not been before, who can pull every single face. Jim Carrey fits in this role, and Cameron Diaz does a good job , too. This film is full of visual astounding FX. It has great humour. All in all, i rated this movie 8/10. I recommend it to Jim Carrey fans and to fans of the comedy genre. "},{"Title":"A Lighthearted Comic Strip Movie That Proved to Be Ground-breaking in the Special Effects Department","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I remember watching all the hype before this film came out.  So much attention was plowed into the fact that the special effects made the movie and that you should RUN to the cinema just to see them.  But what they didn't say was that it's a highly entertaining film.  Yes, it's based on a comic strip, and yes Jim Carrey goes looney in it.  But even if you don't like Jim Carrey and hate Cameron Diaz at her gorgeous best, it's still definately worth a look.I saw this film again on DVD 6 years after it's release and I have to say the special effects still are impressive.  That's going to be the thing in the future, whether the special effects can stand the test of time, compared to the old style which you tend to watch now and cringe.  I sit there sometimes at some old films and think god I thought this was amazing when it came out.  I'm happy to say, after my hour of waffling that this is a very enjoyable film.  Go on, rent it! "},{"Title":"Smmmmokin'!","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jim Carrey stars as Stanley Ipkiss a romantic at heart who is having trouble with the ladies until he discovers a ancient relic, a mask that allows the wearer to express his innermost emotions..He meets Cameron Diaz at his work at a bank and immediately falls for her (who wouldn't!) and while the Mask he makes quite the impression. This is one of my favorite movies and I watch it whenever it is on..I wasnt a fan of Carrey's Ace Ventura movies, but this is a great role for him and he does a great job in it..Cameron Diaz is stunning of course in her debut although she doesnt get to do much..The effects are good and the laughs are plenty Definitely a must see!! on a scale of one to ten..8 "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey doing what he's best at","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another movie which showcases Jim Carrey's ability to elicit laughs with comic antics and bodily contortions. Whether special effects were needed is questionable, given Carrey's apparent ability to twist and turn his body and face into all kinds of positions. Even disregarding Carrey's comical talent, this movie stands on its own. The special effects and dialogue, though crass and cheesy sometimes, are a big hit in this kind of movie. Add in Carrey's performance, and the whole show is a riot. "},{"Title":"10 out of 10 is my rating","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Mask is my favourite Jim Carrey movie, as it has all the ingredients of a good movie plot, continuity, editing, acting, etc.  The dog Milo, and the girlfriend Tina (Cameron Diaz), both help our hero Stanley(Jim Carrey) foil the bad guys.   Jim gets to sing, and proves he has quite a good singing voice.  The cartooning aspects blend in well, and the whole film is engrossing from start to finish. From zero to hero. "}{"Title":"Entertaining, Funny, great Special Effects","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this movie was pretty cool.  It had a decent story line with good acting, and lots of humour.  Carrey was great!  He did a real good job of being both a 'nice guy' and a wacko 'greenface'.  This movie isn't the best movie I have ever seen, but it is memorable, and I thought the Special Effects in it were great.  Things looked really cartoony and funny, along with some more realistic special effects.  This movie kept my attention, and will probably keep yours. "},{"Title":"Great Carrey vehicle","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fantasy star vehicle is good clean fun, as meek Carrey finds mask that gives him extraordinary abilities.  Cameron Diaz (in her first movie) is an absolute babe.  Carrey getting to act wild and Diaz at her finest is good enough for me.   "},{"Title":"Funny, nice effects  that's enough !","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A sympathic loser (Jim Carrey) discovers a mask which will allow him to do what he wants, revealing his personnality. The story, after a comics, is ok but this film is not for script analysts ! It's funny, visual effects are really wonderful and a true tribute to Tex Avery. Don't miss the first appearence of the superb Cameron Diaz (she was an Elite model before this movie). The jazzy soundtrack also contributes to keep this movie entertaining, and that's exactly what it is made for. "},{"Title":"Funny as heck","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is  as funny as heck. The special effects are really neat. The plot was really good. The first time I saw this movie I laughed so hard at some scenes. Some material in this movie is sort of gross. But it was still funny. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good comedy, and likes Jim Carey. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's best movie ever!!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This has got to be the best film Jim Carrey has ever been in.  The story of a man loser who spends most of his spare time watching cartoons, and, after finding a Norse mask imbued with supernatural powers gains the ability to warp reality is a wonderful escape.  Special effects aren't bad, and the plot stands up, but what really makes this movie for me is just the way that he bends reality to his cartoonish mind.  If you haven't seen it, rent it now, it's on my top ten, and I'm not even a Jim Carrey fan! "},{"Title":"NO, IT WASN`T ME! IT WAS THE ONE-ARMED MAN!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yes Mr. Carrey it was you that made us die laughing in this delightfully entertaining film not the one armed man. This is a very unique movie and could be Carrey`s best work (but i will leave it up to you to decide that). Although i don`t think the Mask is quite as good as Dumb and Dumber, but it is very close. As i watched this movie i saw myself in the mask character. Come on hasn`t every guy felt like the mask after seeing a beautiful girl walking by or maybe after downing a few beers or perhaps a combination of the two! So their may be a bit a a wild man in all of us, but that is what makes this film so entertaining! And i liked watching Stanley and Tina deal with his wild side which all of us must do at some point in our lives. At any rate this movie is worth a look and does have high entertainment value to it, and i do recommend it to Jim Carrey fans. rating (best of 5 stars).....3..... "},{"Title":"A Great Comedy","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Out of all Jim Carrey's comedies this is definitely his funniest one. The Truman Show is still his best film but this is his best comedy, he really gets to showcase his talent here, he is a very funny person. Also keep an eye out for an early Cameron Diaz, SMOKIN!! "},{"Title":"Smokin!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jim Carrey, Jim Carrey. Isn't he just the coolest actor? Well I think so anyway, he did such a great job in The Mask the enthusiasm the face impersonations I thought he did such a great job and I give all the other actors credit for their great job too but it was Jim Carrey that was the most enjoyable in this film. I give it 8/10 and I also Recommend The Pest , Dumb and Dumber and The Matrix "},{"Title":"The best Jim Carrey movie ever made","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was the funniest, and most entertaining Jim Carrey movie I have ever seen. The Mask was none stop fun from beginning to end. I love the way Stanley Ipkiss acts once he becomes the mask. This movie is brilliant, end of story.My rating 10 "},{"Title":"Wild, cartoonish fun with Jim Carrey","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know how anyone could see this film and not love it. Much as Michael Keaton did with Beetlejuice, Carrey maniacally brings alive the role of Stanley Ipkiss, a down and out loser, who is transformed into a cartoonish superhero once donning a magical mask. Ipkiss uses his newfound powers to woo the heart of Tina (Cameron Diaz) and save the city from an evil gangster. Although Diaz is totally overshadowed by Carrey, his dog and the wild special effects, she still makes an impression. The clever story line is a perfect fit for Carrey's off-the-wall humor. The movie moves at a nice clip with lots of funny little moments to keep you smiling.  "}{"Title":" a future classic","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the way the producers laid out the movie version of the mask,will definitely make it one of the films people will buy/rent for quite some time.jim carrey basically plays himself to a degreespontaneous,wacky and a pure clown of a comedian.cameron diaz shines bright in her first major role of her budding movie career.max the dog(milo) should also see plenty of work after his faithful and fearless performance.the soundtrack also deserves praise when most are a big letdown,not this time folks. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can watch this movie so many times! Great lively comedy, superb special effects, amazing performance by Jim Carrey and a very entertaining story. I don't know much about Oscars but in my opinion Jim Carrey was terrific, worth an Oscar nomination at least. and for sure the amazing special effects deserved an academy award. Carrey was superb both as the green guy and as the nice suited up guy. Cameron Diaz looked stunning! In fact i cannot remember when she looked this hot and this pretty ever. and boy, what a stupendous performance by the dog, Milo. respects! My review (10/10) for a complete entertainment. "},{"Title":"Iconic if only because it's funny","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey scored a home run with this film. I have to say, The Mask was one of my favorite Jim Carrey movies if only because he gets to bounce around the screen like a cartoon character. He was made for a role that's literally a cartoon. Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is a foil to his alter ego in the mask, who is almost a character on his own. Not only does it show the regular character growth that comes in a movie like this, it presents more comedy than some comparable works like Stranger Than Fiction from Will Ferrell. Tina Carlyle (Cameron Diaz) is the perfect unattainable girl for Stanley hot, almost oppressed, and may actually be looking for a nice guy - even if she doesn't realize it. Though that may be a little cliché, it works because Stanley gets the girl in the end.I think the real shame was that they couldn't get Carrey for the sequel and that the Son of the Mask turned out to be such a flop. "},{"Title":"By far Carrey's Best","Date":"27 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" As it says, the best film Jim Carrey has ever starred in.I absolutely love this film. I first saw it when I was about 5. But now I'm old enough to understand and appreciate the plot, comedy and effects it's a lot more enthralling experience.The effects are absolutely mind-blowing. Especially when Carrey's in the club during Cameron Diaz's song when he turns into a Tex Avery like hound.Above all it's the quick one-liners and physical comedy that shine through. I was hysterical with laughter in the park/ Cuban Pete scene.Those of you that have seen the film will probably agree, if you've seen it for the first time recently... what the hell took you so long. "},{"Title":"Truly Jim Carrey's Finest Work","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" First off, let me say that Jim Carrey is probably my favorite actor of all-time. I've enjoyed him in a lot of his movies, like Ace Ventura, Dumb & Dumber, and Liar Liar, but none of them are quite like The Mask. This brilliant script has everything, 1940's gangster movie suspense, silent film slapstick, and classic Looney Tunes inspired antics all thrown into a blender. The CGI effects, make-up, and costumes are all fantastic, but what is also amazing is that Jim Carrey is pretty much playing two separate characters in the same movie. He does his usual wacky shtick as The Mask but he also plays a sympathetic hero as Stanley Ipkiss. The beautiful music is just icing on the cake. Without a doubt, The Mask is a comedic masterpiece. This will always be my favorite Jim Carrey movie. "},{"Title":"Just hilarious and wonderful","Date":"2 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can never get why some people say things about this movie like it's a great movie, but average. Man, this movie is a masterpiece! Why? Because this is THE movie where it really seems like Jim Carrey feels home. And when you watch it, you get like a crossing between crazy and very happy when he puts the mask on. And I don't say this like a personal view of it. It is a wonderful movie. It got something really important all movie elements. You know; such as love, drama, humor (especially), action. But not horror, thinking about it... Anyway; if you haven't seen this movie, you should. The most important thing about when you watch the movie is to try to look at it from the right perspective.And even if it is PG-rated 11-13 in several countries, kids can enjoy this movie SO much. I remember I sure did... I was only 6-7 years old the first time I saw it. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey's Best Year","Date":"31 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The mask is about Stanley Ipkiss, a social bank worker loser. Being thrown out of a new club, his girlfriend tricking him so she wont have to go to a concert with him and hated by everyone, his life is turned around when he discovers a mask floating in the river on a dead scuba diver. Once putting it on, he turns into a cartoon like man who only has time for jokes. With this mask he can seek revenge on his enemies. This movie was one of my all time favorites for Jim Carrey was very funny and the music was great. My advice go see it for you'll have a great time watching it over and over again.Who wouldn't like this movie The Mask 10/10 "},{"Title":")","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" There are a lot words that i can say, but for this movie i only can say that this is incredible! Such an awesome movie with the greatest actor ever! This movie is so wonderful that there is NO superfluous frame! It's ideal films! I love it so much that i know all quotes from movie, i play music from film and try to be like Jim in this movie! And it was my first foreign movie i've seen. And since that time i know the ideal script. for 1994 year effects used in this film were INCREDIBLE! No one movie can fight with Mask for really usefull effects that are needed in movie. I'm Russian, and i can't explain this well, but i know such words as incredible, awesome, amazing, beautiful, fantastic... But the Mask is FILM! not comedy or drama, thriller or fantastic... IT'S SUPER FILM!!! MOVIE FOR EVERYBODY! AND THE MOST Wonderful ACTOR - JIM CARREY with the MOST Beautiful ACTRESS - CAMERON DIAZ!!! Oh My God, I LOVE THIS MOVIE more than everything in this world! "},{"Title":"8/10 or 10/10 if you're a Jim Carrey fan!","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great movie which doesn't take itself too seriously. As a slapstick comedy, it is simply fabulous, add to that a bunch of hotshot actors (including Cameron Diaz in her very first real role!!). Jim Carrey gives his best over-acting, hysterical performance since The Cable Guy, as the great special effects in The Mask gives him the ability to fly, transform, dance around like a madman, pop out his own eyes, become a whirlwind a lá Tazmanian Devil, and kick bad guy ass in true cartoon style. If you have any humor at all, you have to like this comedy. If you're a fan of Jim Carrey...then you better fasten you're seat belt, or you might laugh so hard you fall of your chair!! Go see this movie!!! SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSMOKIN'!!!! "},{"Title":"Smookey!!!","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"   This is an hilarious movies of master of facial expression Jim Carrey, is so mad funny, i have seen this film many times and every time i see it i laugh a lot.  This is his funniest movie, the way he does his stuff, his facial expressions are mad funny.  Of course this movie was mode just for one think, make us laugh, it has not social critic, it has not lessons about life, this film was made with the only purpose of make us laugh.  Here we can also Ms Cameron Diaz in her debut, i know it sounds crazy but this was the only time i actually found Cameron attractive, yeh i know it sounds crazy but is true, i think in the film Cameron looks drop dead gorgeous but i see her know and... i don't know i just don't like her.  So that's it, if you just wanna laugh and don't worry about anything else, them this movie is for you. "}{"Title":"You know what, I didn't like it!","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I was about 12 years old when this arrived into our world's and I just didn't join the masses who loved it! I remember in the playground everybody doing there P-A-R-T-Why? Cuz I gotta <--- whatever the saying was, impression. I loved Ace Ventura back then and in idea and execution The Mask was probably worlds better, but my maturity and comical taste preferred Carrey's first film.The story of Cameron Diaz not realizing how big this movie was going to be by asking Will my parent's be able to watch this? If so where? (something like that!) is priceless!The Mask... I liked the 80's cartoon M.A.S.K much better (m-m-MASK!)Ha Ha Ha Ha Ha "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Mask is great funny movie that star Jim Carrey and he was the perfect choice to the Mask!Petter Greene was very good and played a good villain like he always does!Amy Yasbeck and Nancy Fish were good.Cameron Diaz was good in her debut and I would liked it if she kept on to this day looking like she did in film.The film is very good and it has some great scenes and boasts some of the funniest things ever and I don't spoil it for you so if you like the cast I mentioned and really silly stuff and a very entertaining movie then watch the Mask! "},{"Title":"A movie that is.....NOT....funny....But is Boring.........","Date":"8 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have never watched The Mask. Made in 1994, this was quite a big thing...in its day...so I keep being told by my...not so bright friends. After watching it ,,,for the first time...I have to say , it is garbage. The whole thing is ridiculous...and never funny. The pedestrian ...special effects...are not really special. Jim Carrey made a mistake when he got involved with this rubbish. Later in his career he did better work...like Liar Liar..and other funny and also serious movies. The people who enjoy this type of movie...are the kind of hombres...I never want to meet. If one can laugh at this drivel ...one may be dangerous. (in a psychiatric way.) Some things work.......The Mask does not work............ "},{"Title":"Movie Schitzo's Review of The Mask","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey is one my favorite actors of all time. He is great and very funny and has made a lot of great films and career choices. One of them was The Mask. It is one of the movies that got Carrey started in the acting business. The plot is simple and outlandish. Stanley Ipkiss is a too nice pushover bank clerk in Edge City. After one of the worst days of his life he comes across a mysterious mask, owned by Loki, the God of Mischief. So now when he puts on the mask, he becomes a crazy romantic. When he starts to fall for the girlfriend of the local mob boss (Cameron Diaz, in one of her first roles). The mob finds out about the ancient mask and are out to find it. The group, which is led by Dorian Tyrell (Peter Greene). So Stanley has to save the day and get the girl. The acting and visual effect are all very well done and probably some of the greatest at the time. Jim Carrey heads the movie very well with supporting help from Cameron Diaz and Amy Yasbeck. All in all, a great comedic classic that should go down into visual effects history.3 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"It's the wackiest movie on earth--great family fun!","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I encourage everyone with a sense of humor to pull up a chair and watch this movie--again and again!If you don't laugh at this movie, you must be legally dead--or need to have your funny bone surgically replaced.This movie has everything--except it really needs a bit more naughty language and a booby or two (they usually come in twos).Respectfully submitted to the Internet Movie Database community by Justice Shellan, the film critic extraordonaire of Palm Springs, California. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the perfect Jim Carrey role","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Rubber-faced Jim Carrey lands a role where the character's face undergoes amazing motions and expressions, etc., via special effects. What could be a better fit?When Stan Ipkiss (Carrey) finds a Mask, he finds that when he puts it on at night he is transferred into a rubber-faced superhero. Hang on for a wild ride! (and I do mean WILD)Watch for Ben Stein (Ferris Bueller, clear eyes commercials, etc.) as the psychiatrist who writes a book about how we all wear masks, metaphorically speaking. And the beautiful Cameron Diaz is worth the watch too.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Good film for Jim Carrey.","Date":"19 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Tis is a great film vehicle for Jim Carrey and a nice little film to boot. Sure it isn't very original, but the special effects help compliment the story and the leads are well cast. Jim Carrey is terrific in 2 roles as the Mask and Stanley Ipkiss. Cameron Diaz, in her first picture, sets the screen on fire as the women of his dreams. The film is a total cliche, but I enjoyed it very much. Oh yeah, the dog was cool too.  "},{"Title":"A Jim Carrey Masterpiece!","Date":"4 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is another reason why Jim Carrey is a comedy legend. It is about a nerdy guy named Stanley Ipkiss who works as a banker and loves his dog named Milo. Then one night he finds an ancient mask derived from Loki (Greek god of mischief) that brings his innermost desires to life and turns him into a wisecracking green superhero that's basically a real-life cartoon character before our very eyes. This movie has everything from groundbreaking special effects, references to cartoon characters such as Tazz (when he puts on the mask, he spins around like a tornado), the Roadrunner (he dashes) Tex Avery cartoons, a great climax, and blonde bombshell Cameron Diaz (her first film role). This is a movie that I have, and if you like Jim Carrey, go out and buy it. I have watched it several times, and if you haven't seen it yet, please do. If you are looking for a movie to watch with your whole family, go rent this one. It's great fun for the whole family despite its PG-13 rating (should've been rated PG and you'll see why). My rating for The Mask10/10! "},{"Title":"SSSSmokin'!!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  THE MASK (1994) ***1/2 Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz, Peter Riegert, Peter Greene, Richard Jeni, Amy Yasbeck.  Carrey is SSSmokin' ! as meek bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss who finds an ancient mask that transforms him from zero to hero -  Fred Astaire on Acid -  in this rip-roarin' cartoon come to life.  Eye-popping Oscar nominated special effects and inspired lunacy with slapstick makes for a dizzying diversion.  Waycool song Hey Pachuco! by Royal Crown Revue. "},{"Title":"A Lively Cartoon.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask (1994) Dir Chuck Russell / Cast Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz, Peter Riegert, Peter Greene, Amy Yasbeck Spellbinding visual extravaganza that addresses our inner person. Jim Carrey plays a bank clerk whose boss is difficult, his landlord is critical, and the woman he got concert tickets for turns him down. After his car breaks down on a bridge in the rain, he sights what he believes is a person in the water but upon diving in he retrieves only a wooden mask. Putting it on spins him about in mass energy becoming a human cartoon. He drools over a beautiful dancer at a nightclub leading to an outrageous dance number. Exquisite visual feast with Carrey's face shifting into various shapes. Terrific concept grows repetitious until it hits a grand slam finale. Director Chuck Russell references old cartoons and film noir. One major issue is that it is not given why the mask is in the water or how it got here. Other than that, Carrey embodies the role right down to the final showdown. Cameron Diaz is fetching as a dancer whose introduction is mysterious until she becomes a damsel. Peter Riegert is cardboard as an idiot police inspector. Peter Greene as the villain is also flat and conventional. Amy Yasbeck plays a double crossing bimbo who befriends Ipkiss and then sells him out to the villains. Its genre analysis is inventive and in a class of its own. Score 6 / 10 "}{"Title":"Oh dear","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" 90's cliché comedy. I saw this when I was young and remember not laughing at all, I mean I was 12 and I was bored by it. We've been watching it on TV tonight hoping for some sarcastic giggles. Even from a sarcastic viewpoint this movie offers nothing. I'm embarrassed for Jim, somehow people think the Cable Guy is his worst movie, well they're dead wrong. The only reason they would enjoy this over Cable guy is if they're 15months old or intellectually challenged. But why Matty? Why do you hate this movie so? I hear you screaming from your pews, well, the reason I'm watching right now is that he's tying a balloon into a gun and firing it upon gangsters. It's not just that every shred of humor up until this point has been impotent but the fact Jim Carey's doing it and I'm thinking why get the guy who was Ace Ventura and try to put a mask on him? Was this Jim's ideal? Liar liar has me thinking maybe he likes doing these kind of movies, if it's for fun then good for him, if- oh look the movies over! What happened? I don't know I wasn't paying attention, I think maybe the blonde girl was vapid or using the loser for her own interests or something, some more silly looney-tune rubbish ensued and Jim Carrey gets paid. Then he's fished by some dimwit for another soulless comedy vehicle, draining his soul just a lil more until one day he has to do a decent film and redeem himself in his own eyes, lest he stick his head in the oven from shame. Why do I hate this movie so much? It almost made me hate, HATE, Jim Carey. I was bored of him for a portion of my young life, and that's not right. Copy and paste into Mr Poppers Penguins.In short, skip this one. "},{"Title":"Unbearable","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Watching 'The Mask' is a lonely experience, like being the only sober person in a room full of maddening drunks. It revolves entirely around Jim Carrey's rubber-faced antics as the title character, which wouldn't be so bad if the movie wasn't a comedy wasteland, if Carrey once - just once - stumbled across a single entertaining moment during his desperately hyperactive flailing, or if the supporting characters had anything to do besides look on as the visual effects romp around in devastatingly unfunny fashion. I like Carrey a lot when he's actually acting ('The Truman Show', 'Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind') but when he's like this I just squirm with embarrassment. Cameron Diaz is the sole bright, likable oasis of warmth to be found amongst the dead weight that makes up the rest of this unbearable racket. "},{"Title":"Decent, but not as good as I remembered","Date":"18 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Have you ever watched a movie when you were a little kid and thought it was awesome and then watched that same movie as adult and thought it wasn't as good as you remembered it being? Well, that's exactly how I felt about The Mask. I watched it recently after having not seen it in probably ten years or better. I was expecting to like it just as much as I remembered, but I didn't. I was pretty disappointed in that fact. I mean, I guess the movie is OK, it's still watchable, but it just leaves a little something to be desired.Jim Carrey is likable enough in his role, and he is entertaining to watch, but the movie just seems a little silly, and not necessarily in a good way. I'd recommend watching it only if you're wanting a mindless little distraction from the burdens of everyday life. If you're looking to find anything of substance here, you're probably going to find this to be a letdown.I'd compare this movie to what it felt like watching episodes of the old 1960s Batman TV show as an adult. When you're a kid, you don't realize how cheesy or stupid it really is, but when you're an adult, it's just impossible to overlook. "},{"Title":"When I wear this mask, I can be whatever I want...","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A quite important number of movies paid a tribute to Tex Avery's cartoons like who framed Roger Rabbit?. The Mask ranks among them and is a great success, although this movie takes back some characteristics suitable to American movies and particularly this one the transition for a character from a low level to the degree of hero. Here, the main protagonist (Jim Carrey) is introduced as a clumsy person in the beginning. But the discovery of a weird mask will turn his life upside down and make him become the hero of Edge City. This mask will also allow him to conquer Cameron Diaz's heart and to triumph over a gang who wished to take the city under control.As a consequence, the movie uses a globally thin and convenient screenplay but fortunately, it's compensated by the funny moments where the Mask tops the bill and this is the occasion to intervene a fanciful, but efficient humor that finds again the devastating tone of the cartoons from the forties and the fifties. It also doesn't hesitate in parodying the gangster movies from the thirties and even gone with the wind.Jim Carrey's performance remains one of his best to date. He's well directed and never hams it up unlike the silly Ace Ventura in Africa. Let's add an amusing description of the Kellaway cop (Peter Riegert).A movie eventually entertaining enough to sustain the interest in spite of its weaknesses.      "},{"Title":"A lot of fun...but exhausting","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nerdy bank clerk Jim Carrey (playing Stanley Ipkiss, perhaps in a nod to The Ipcress File) runs afoul of gangsters; luckily, he has recently acquired an ancient mask which, when worn, turns him into a whirling dervish of a super-hero. Live-action cartoon is best left to younger audiences, with unsubtle humor, formulaic plotting, and in-your-face mugging from Carrey, who busts many moves for the length of the picture. Carrey is actually fairly agreeable here, particularly as clerk Stanley, and he's paired wonderfully with saucy Cameron Diaz, making her debut as a torchy gangster's girl. The special effects are initially quite colorful, but they wear out their welcome, as does this exceptionally slim plot. Followed by a Carrey/Diaz-less sequel and an animated TV series. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Mindlessly silly but not very funny","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You gotta ask yourself one question. Do I feel lucky? Well, do ya? The answer is not really. At least, I could have felt a lot luckier if this film was a lot better. Jim Carrey plays Stanley Ipkiss, a nice guy who can't stick up for himself. One day, he finds a mask that transforms him into the man that he wants to be but doesn't have the courage to do so. The mask even makes his crush fall for him. Although this all may sound creative, which to me it does, this movie was disappointing. I expected more from Jim Carrey and despite being amusing at times, it should've and could've been a lot funnier. There were only a few scenes when I genuinely laughed and when you have Jim Carrey in a comedic role with a story as wacky and creative as this one, it is no doubt there should be more. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey stars in this somewhat amusing flick that is reminiscent of Saturday morning cartoons.","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Starring Jim Carrey, Cameron Diaz, Peter Greene So, you should have been tipped off by the fact that this movie stars Jim Carrey that it's not really high on the intellectual scale plot-wise. Sure, it's amusing, but it gets less amusing as you get older. Fortunately my maturity level seldom increases dramatically, so I can unashamedly say that I do like this movie. It's just not great by any stretch.Stanley Ipkiss (Carrey) is a low-key quiet banker who keeps to himself for the most part, watches cartoons, and is a doormat for the general public. Then one night Stanley thinks he sees a body floating in the water beside a bridge, only when he gets to it he finds that there is no actual body. He does, however, find an interesting mask. A green mask made of wood. So he takes it home, not thinking too much of it.Then when he's home, he goes to try the mask on, only to find that it's more than a piece of wood. It sucks onto his face, leeches onto his personality, and brings out the wild side of Stanley Ipkiss that nobody ever thought existed. His character is not unlike watching a Saturday morning cartoon as far as the antics he gets into.Then when Stanley is The Mask he commits a few crimes, like robbing the bank he works at, vandalizing his auto repair shop, stuff like that. The police start looking for him and figure out that The Mask and Stanley are one and the same. Eventually a crime lord kind of guy finds Stanley and takes the mask from him, and it turns him into a very powerful, very evil being, capable of practically anything. Then of course Stanley has to stop him, blah blah blah, and that's about it plotwise.Like I said before, it's hardly an intellectual movie. It's semi-amusing and worth at least one watch, provided you don't have to pay more than three or four dollars to do so.Bottom line 2.5 out of 4 (maybe a renter) "},{"Title":"Explosive and funny one-man&mask show","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's rare that actors get wider recognition and a hit in a single film. Even Tom Cruise needed Top Gun to become what he'd promised in Risky Business. The Mask is Jim Carrey's second stage rocket following Doolittle-on-drugs Ace Ventura and it's an almost unique example of animation finding it difficult to keep up with an actor. there's the same film-animation melange that characterised Who Framed Roger Rabbit? and the same simple, mad energy. There's nothing to appeal beyond the virtuosic visual shtick (and of course a host of now-famous one-liners being coined before your eyes). There is the first movie appearance of Cameron Diaz though - I'm sorry to say that whilst her appeal is unarguable and her role is prescribed, her performance tells you all you need to know about her subsequently average career. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A deeply  flawed film - which children should not see.","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came out. It was hyped and it delivered - I enjoyed it. For it's time it had a lot of very good special effects. It left us with the immortal Smokin'! and Somebody stop me!Carrey is average as the nerky bank clerk, but as The Mask Carrey is terrific and very funny.Over the years I've grown to regard The Mask as a kids' film - but here's the big problem; The Mask is most definitely not a children's film!!!I sat down and properly watched The Mask for the first time in years and was really quite surprised and disappointed at what I saw; It's very violent. For example; The Mask/Ipkiss (a good guy????) goes for revenge on the garage workers who humiliate him, and one character is hospitalised with an exhaust pipe clearly stuck up his rectum. He then goes on to rob a bank! There is some pretty ripe language - short of swearing, but only just! Pretty much all of the adults, including The Mask/Ipkiss, are BAD role-models who do pretty bad things to each other. The comic-like setting is not comic like enough, and children will only see the nastiness, not the irony.So - Despite its billing, The Mask is not a kids film. What does it offer adults then?Well, there's Cameron Diaz, who is very easy on the eye, reminiscent of Jessica Rabbit in Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1988). In fact Diaz even strikes very similar poses to Jessica, probably deliberately. She does quite well with a silly character and script, a very good first outing in a big movie for her.But that's about it! There's nothing of substance here for adult viewers. The film is cartoon like on all levels; The story is weak, dialogue silly and infantile. The setting - Edge City might as well be New York, don't know why they called it Edge City. There's lots of pointless stuff like this, which isn't funny. Also not funny is the epi-centre of the film; The CoCo Club - which is guarded by nasty bent thugs and in spite of the glamorous dressy people outside all fighting to get in is not a place to aspire to. Not good for any children watching, not good at all. Worse still - the Hero Ipkiss/The Mask is desperate to gain entry in order to chase after Diaz. Not somewhere a Hero should be looking to go - not something children looking for a Hero or adult role-model in general should see.There are lots of bad guys, bad guys working for bad guys, working for bad guys - and they all smoke! Even Diaz works for a bad guy - which makes her a bad guy too. The cops are silly and seen to be so. Then there's The Mask who seems to be a good guy but is a bad guy quite a lot of the time. He takes the Mickey out of the bad guys, but then he robs the Bank that his alter ego Ipkiss works in! The Mask packs lots of weapons too and in one scene uses a 'balloon' machine gun to shoot up a knife gang which come after him to try and mug him. Not for children! Sure - The Mask is funny - but he is NOT a classic goodie, not a Hero.There are plenty of scenes with overt violence which are much too strong for children under the age of 11-12. The worst one is the huge shoot up at the Club near the end; there is plenty of blood, plenty of holes in chests. Not good for children, not good at all!So - this film fails to be kids classic, which is really what it should have been. It fails to entertain adults on anything more than a simplistic level. I've given it 6 because Carrey is excellent as The Mask. The film very occasionally shows the viewer the humour in what it might be like if you could really do what your inner self tells you you should do. But so what? "},{"Title":"Films Like This Cannot Mask Obvious Problems From Me.","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Cartoon-styled live action mess has goof-ball banker Jim Carrey becoming the owner of an exotic tribal mask. The mask is that of a Norse god of mischief and soon Carrey becomes a wild and crazed character when he turns into his alter ego. Soon he upsets crime syndicate Peter Greene and has to dodge pesky police detective Peter Riegert (who had a substantial role in Traffic). The movie only really comes alive and gets off its sugar rush when the shady Cameron Diaz (in her introductory role) comes on the screen. Diaz' beauty and hot performance is the only real attraction in this moronic outing. A silly, disgusting and stupid movie that could induce nausea and migraine headaches. 2 stars out of 5. "}{"Title":"Utterly pointless","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jim Carrey is widely known for a select few movies that he did in the mid to late 90's, along with a couple in the early 2000's. The Mask is one of the most well known of these films. Carrey stars as Stanley Ipkiss, a lowly bank clerk who stumbles upon a mysterious mask that turns him into a maniacal green faced nutcase who has the ability to do anything. The first thing he uses this mask for is to rob a bank, which sets off a whole series of events involving a ruthless band of gangsters and a beautiful night club singer named Tina Carlyle, played by Cameron Diaz in her very first feature film.Now, despite this being a well known Jim Carrey film, it's also a very bad film. This is where physical humor blows up in your face and becomes unbearably moronic and not funny in the slightest. I honestly feel sorry for the talented and actually funny Jim Carrey for being subjected to such idiocracy in this film. He can't even save the overall pathetic attempts at comedy. The jokes and physical humor in this movie range from absolutely atrocious to almost worth a chuckle, but the latter is far and few between. The majority of this film is just dull and lifeless dribble that wants to be funny but can't find the right chords to stroke. It misses the mark again and again as it becomes more ridiculous and stupid as the film goes on. Needless to say, about ten minutes into the film I couldn't wait for it to end.The problem with a film like this is that it knows its all about the comedy. It only seeks to deliver funny jokes and entertaining gags, rather than a deep and intellectual storyline and skillfully woven character development. The Mask obviously has neither of the aforementioned things, but it doesn't have the funny to replace them. The only way to really put it is that this is just not a funny movie. It isn't even painful to watch bad, it's just so dull, so lifeless, and so sloppily made and poorly constructed that I can't think anything of it.I don't want to give the impression that I possess a searing hatred for The Mask, I only want it to be known that it is just not a good film and not something worth watching. It's a waste of an hour and forty minutes, not because it is the worst movie ever made, but because it is so underwhelming and so forgettable that you accomplish absolutely nothing by watching it. There are plenty of other Jim Carrey movies worth checking out before you waste your time with The Mask. "},{"Title":"I Just Didn't Get It","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I just didn't get this movie, and its humour seemed to go straight over my head.Plot In A Paragraph Bank clerk Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) is a very nice man. Unfortunately, he is too nice for his own good and is a pushover when it comes to confrontations. After one of the worst days of his life, he finds a mask that depicts Loki, the Norse night god of mischief. Now, when he puts it on, he becomes his inner, self a cartoons romantic wild man. This movie is filled with some awful actors and the humour in the movie seemed to rely solely on special effects turning Carrey into various cartoon characters. A massive plus point was Cameron Diaz (in one of her early roles) who looked incredibly hot. "},{"Title":"Hmmmm","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" i watched this film when it first came out so that would of made me about nine or ten years old. i really liked it and if i was nine or ten now i would of rated it eight or nine out of ten, but now i'm grown up....... and i give it a four. it isn't a bad film, its a kids film really. Jim Carrey is a little too stupid. i'm so glad these days he's in more serious films because he is very good in them.i think everyone knows the story to this. Stanley Ipkiss (Jim Carrey) works in a bank. living a very boring life until one night he finds an ancient mask and when he wears it he turns into a...... i guess a super hero.its not terrible, just isn't great either. not Jim Carreys worst but no where near his best....... 4/10........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"Not smokin'","Date":"18 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Mask is a movie which certainly has some positive things going for it. But there are plenty of things working against the movie too. In the end it all balances out to leave us with a movie which isn't great but isn't terrible either. There are some good things to appreciate but not enough of them to prevent the movie from ultimately being somewhat disappointing.The story follows shy, luckless, dorky Stanley Ipkiss. An ordinary guy. Ordinary that is until he finds an ancient wooden mask which when he puts it on transforms him into a wacky, green-headed superhero. He's a crazed whirling dervish with all kinds of wonderfully exploitable powers. He's got speed, he's got strength, he seems indestructible. And he can conjure anything he wants out of thin air. Stanley's luck is about to change. Now he can exact revenge on his tormentors. And he can get the girl. Yeah, there's always a girl.This is a seemingly perfect movie for Jim Carrey, enabling him to just go nuts. A guy like Carrey can have a lot of fun with something like this. Which makes the fact that the movie so often seems devoid of fun rather puzzling. Oh, Carrey surely has his moments. But somehow, even with the bundle of energy that is The Mask at its heart, the movie often is a little dull. Too much dead space between Carrey's best moments. And while Peter Greene does fine in playing the movie's main villain Dorian Tyrell the rest of the bad guys leave a lot to be desired. You don't expect the actors playing the thugs in a movie like this to all be little Brandos and De Niros but is it so much to ask that the actors at least be competent? No such luck, it's strictly amateur hour with these guys. Some truly cringe-inducing acting. Everyone involved, from Carrey on down, is not helped by a script heavy on puns which are very hit and miss. Carrey is so manic that he can make most things work and at least extract a mild chuckle from the audience. Other performers aren't so fortunate.The film has its good pieces. The visual effects are undeniably terrific, the film looks great from beginning to end. Carrey does an admirable job bringing his crazed character to life. And there is one thing about the movie which is indeed Smokin! That would be Cameron Diaz. She plays the aforementioned girl for whom Stanley longs. To say Diaz is a jaw-dropper in this, her film debut, doesn't even begin to do her justice. And besides looking ridiculously, impossibly gorgeous she shows she can actually act too, so that's a nice bonus. You've got Carrey, you've got Diaz, you've got a decent lead villain and those dazzling effects. But it doesn't all quite add up. The story lets down the movie. It's not consistently funny enough and there are times where the story really struggles for any momentum at all. At times, too many times, things are rather mundane. And mundane is not what you're looking for when you turn Jim Carrey into a whirling dervish superhero. "},{"Title":"Not very good at all.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film really didn't work for me. Though you can tell that Jim Carrey tried hard and I think it's only fair to say his performance is not too bad, the rest of the film is nonsensical and a bit of a waste of time despite some funny moments. In hindsight, that was Cameron Diaz, was it? Very forgettable performance from her. And it may be just me, but that bald green head actually freaked me out more than amuse me. 4 out of 10 at most. "},{"Title":"Disappointment.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was looking forward to this film so much before it arrived. And I was so disappointed as soon as I saw that all the brutality that made the comic series so good. The movie was transformed to a totally kiddie movie and all the fun was gone. A better idea would be that The Wachowski Brothers would do it instead, they sure know how to do a perfect movie. "},{"Title":"Jim Carrey And Not Much Else","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Jim Carrey is - as always - excellent in this movie that features little else to commend itself to viewers. Carrey plays Stanley Ipkiss, a shy and awkward bank employee whose life is changed when he finds and dons a mysterious mask that brings out all of his innermost feelings and desires. In short, he becomes everything he wishes he was - and finds that he's better off as who he is. Perhaps a good lesson in life for all those who wish their lives were different. But this movie didn't go for any serious message. It went for laughs, and in doing so featured - at best - sophomoric humour (which is sometimes hilarious and sometimes painfully bad.) Combined with lacklustre performances from the rest of the cast, what emerged was a mediocre film which broadly resembles a big cartoon. I watched this movie with my 8 year old niece. She thought it was great. That should tell you something right there. This is definitely a movie for the younger set. If you don't have an 8 year old to watch it with, I frankly wouldn't bother. "},{"Title":"Where´s the fun?","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well isn´t this just great? A whole movie based on special-effects. This movie originates from a comic-book and this really shows. While watching the movie I caught myself thinking Where´s all the fun stuff that my friends told me about, where are all the great scenes and fun jokes? The only reason to see this movie is Jim Carrey and Cameron Diaz, who´re both superb in this film. "},{"Title":"Stupid and ridiculous.","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I can't imagine how can so many people watch this movie. Honestly, there are a lot of better comedy movies out there that make you think twice before watching this. I read in a lot of papers that this movie was a piece of garbage, so I didn't watch it in the cinema, but I've watched it today in a friend's pad because there was nothing else to do.Yeah, this movie is a waste of time. Not that it's as bad as the papers said but with so many better movies out there why would you watch this one? I mean... it's not funny, the special effects are a pain in the a** and the story, like in all other comedies of the 90's is garbage.The Mask's facial expressions are too artificial and his jokes are old and unoriginal. It's not violent like the comics and make the original Mask look like a goofy... probably because Jim Carrey casts him. Or maybe because his jokes are very, really childish.Hmmm... well, these are all my gripes. On the positive side, very, really few scenes are funny and the final scene was cool. But that's all. I guess that young children may find this movie funny anyway, so I give it a 4. See, I'm Bloody John but I'm generous! "},{"Title":"Unmasking the wasteful ideas from other movies.","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  THE MASK was not very good. Jim Carrey tries too hard to be funny, and seems to be the perfect role model for a guy with the green face. Wasteful are the references from vintage Hollywood movies and cartoons. Remember the old M.G.M. cartoon about a wolf who falls for a bombshell singing Oh, Wolfie? That's among the plentiful you'll discover here. I also remember how this film was marketed. Why would THE MASK attract very young audiences with its killer display of tornado animations when it has enough violence to keep 'em away? This is definitely no ROGER RABBIT, and not what you're expecting!  "}{"Title":"The most silly movie ever.","Date":"24 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Maybe it is because I don't like Jim Carrey; maybe I don't understand this type of movis; and maybe I am wrong but The Mask proudly becomes the first movie which gets the lowest possible rating 1/10. Certainly, there are movies with worse acting that this, but although those movies at least offer something to be entertained by, The Mask fails to deliver in all departments. The film was so silly I couldn't believe anybody had the courage to make it. But I guess my opinion is in sharp contrast with opinions of most people, as I heard my friends saying how great and funny it was and as I see the movie's high rating. "},{"Title":"Painful doesn't come into it!","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" One question. How is it that Jim Carrey became a household name producing garbage like this? Director Chuck Russell's Nightmare on Elm Street 3 was not nearly as scary as this is stupid.Pathetic plot concerns a drop kick bank clerk's change in fortune when he stumbles upon a mysterious mask which alters and enhances the personality while controlling one's actions. Soon Stanley Ipkiss (Carrey) finds he's the most popular guy in town, not only chased by a knockout blonde (Cameron Diaz) but also the cops and a nasty gangster.Mask is simply a no rules, slapstick gone mad flick which relies entirely on the manic Jim Carrey and some wacky special effects. Carrey fits the bill and the f/x team do just fine, but absolutely none of it is ever funny, and isn't that the idea?I can honestly say I was tempted many times to halt the tape and give up, but I persevered for some inexplicable reason. My reward was seeing out the most baffling box office hit of recent years. Painful doesn't come into it!Saturday, November 23, 1996 - T.V. "}]