[{"Title":"Long Live The Hud!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"90 out of 97 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Another fascinating piece from the Coen Brothers, 'The Hudsucker Proxy' is an homage to the films of the 1930s. From the grey faux-Gothic cityscape to the over-the-top acting and rapid fire dialogue to the subdued colors to the stark sets, this film hearkens back to an earlier era of films. The plot is simple enough. When company president Waring Hudsucker commits suicide, the board of directors, led by the deliciously evil Sidney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman) determines to devalue the stock by putting a 'shmoe' in charge of the company so that when the late Hudsucker's controlling interest in stock hits the market in 30 days, Mussburger's cabal can snap it up on the cheap. Enter shmoe Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins). Jennifer Jason Leigh is the newspaper reporter who infiltrates Hudsucker Industries under the guise of secretary, and is Barnes' love interest in the film.Robbins performs more than adequately but is outshone by terrific performances by Newman and, in particular, by Leigh, who absolutely nails this role. Her saucy, lilt of the tongue is wonderful; she simply oozes sensual sass, and all in the very decent parameters of decades gone by in Hollywood.Other highlights of the film include - the wonderful sets, where less is more; the usual Coen cinematography, which makes the film a visual delight above and beyond acting and plot; the clock (an unbilled role, in a sense). Curious characters pop up and return &#150; Buzz the Elevator Operator, the Clock Maintainer, and many others. And, of course &#133; that clock!As will all Coen brothers films, this one calls me to see it again, as I always seem to discover new elements when watching their works for the second, third, fourth times, and beyond. A very worthwhile film &#150; enjoy!7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"This film gets better with each subsequent viewing","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"96 out of 122 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first time I saw this film, I enjoyed it. No doubt about it.I wondered why some people didn't like it. What's not to like?I saw it again, and paid more attention to some of the finer details, realizing what a rich, full textured film it was.And yet again I saw it. Still more revelations.In fact, every time I see it, and I'm sure to see it again, I enjoy it more and more with each subsequent viewing.This film's narrative is nearly as perfect as the Hula Hoop itself, despite the albeit fictional account of the invention of said dingus.But it strikes me as odd and unfortunate when I encounter someone who's seen this and not enjoyed it.All I can say is, have you tried it more than once? It isn't exactly what I'd call an acquired taste, but when you see how rich in detail and humour it is, you may begin to appreciate it for what it truly is; a great film that deserves a second chance. K. "},{"Title":"You know.. for kids!","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"81 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have to admit, there aren't many movies that warrant a 10 rating from me, but this is absolutely one of them.Something about the film just works. The Coens are geniuses when it comes to making movies that I really can enjoy. I admit, I first saw O, Brother, Where Art Thou? and loved it so much. I had no idea this was by them too, and had I not seen a Making of on a show on Discovery years ago that showed how the scene where they fall off the building was done, I probably wouldn't have ever decided to TiVo this fine film.The direction technique, acting, jokes, everything just works. This is the kind of movie that stands out in the crowd, makes me want to buy it on DVD and show it to everyone I know just to make them see what people miss when they read reviews by people like Siskel and Ebert, who gave it two thumbs down, but don't give a reason on their site.Other movies I would recommend are O, Brother (Also directed by the Coen's) and Army of Darkness, which, maybe coincidentally, stars Bruce Campbell who plays a reporter in this movie. Bruce is his same old self. he has a presence, and is great in the few scenes he's in.Tim Robbins is wonderfully cast as the lead in this role.The elevator operator lent a wonderful character to the movie.The two Cab drivers in the Café who perform the I got gas Bromo commercial type bit, were great narrating Norville's encounter with Amy.The guy in the News room creating the Crossword puzzle with a Scrabble set asking people questions for clues. The guy's a real moron, as in a five-letter word for Imbecile.The music, oh, the music is wonderfully suited to the film.There isn't one part of this movie I didn't like, honestly. I could watch it quite a few times before I got sick of it, then take a break, then come back and watch it again.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"In my opinion, this is a very underrated movie.","Date":"22 August 1998","Score":"76 out of 99 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot understand why this movie has not earned the respect it deserves.  Norville Barnes represents high hopes and bright ideas, and when he starts out his intentions are pure.  But when money makes him lose his focus, only love can put him back on the right track.  Tim Robbins and Jennifer Jason Leigh are masterful in this movie, which is one of my personal favorites.  "},{"Title":"The comic and fantastic overflow in this joyous romp","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"61 out of 80 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the exception to the rule when they say, They don't make 'em like they used to. Because the Coen Brothers and Sam Raimi sure did top them all with this one. Tim Robbins, along with the rest of the cast, is pitch perfect. From the first second of the movie to the last, my eyes are glazed over with utter fascination. Composer Carter Burwell is the next John Williams in my book. His score accents brilliantly every emotion witnessed. This movie is funny, romantic, perverse, and whimsical. It says a lot that after years of not making movies, Paul Newman chose to make this one. "},{"Title":"A small masterpiece","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I don`t think that I`ve enjoyed a movie so much for years. The film is beautifully shot ( the opening pan over a snow laden New York skyline is breathtaking). The acting is uniformly excellent (Jennifer Jason Lee gives one of the best female comedy performances of the last decade. She`s outstanding!) and the film is directed in that warm but sharp-eyed manner of previous US social comedy directors such as Frank Capra and Preston Sturgess. I first saw the film in the cinema. I`ve since seen it again on television, and the photography doesn`t impress so much on the small screen.If you haven`t already seen it, try to see it on a big screen. Sadly the movie got a very small release in the UK and is almost unknown over here.I am so very glad I caught it. It`s terrific. "},{"Title":"A perfect film.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"52 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Deftly mixing elements from Sturges, Capra, and yes, even De Palma, the Coens along with Sam Raimi have fashioned a modern masterpiece.  As with all Coen films, they invite you into their jokes, and if you don't get them, they just don't seem to care-- and that's a good thing. A huge flop, film lovers with a sense of history and humor will be gushing about this one for a long..long..time.  Bordering on a musical version of Brazil at points, it is as deliberately studied a critique of contemporary American capitalism as it is a searing stare at Hollywood.  Paul Newman like all of the Coens' and Raimi's meticulously selected actors seem literally born for their parts.  Using the most classical of Hollywood stylistic techniques in the most seamless manner, but with added auteur hyperbole they show us who we are through the comic lens of the camera, always reminding us that it is just a movie.  Listen for the title of Amy Archer's Pulitzer prize winning article. Favorite line  the people look..like..ants.  "},{"Title":"Near-divine Capra spin","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"40 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Coens do Capra, with their inimitable style and wit. More specifically, this is the innocent hick in the corrupt big city thing of Mr. Smith, Mr Deeds and Meet John Doe, complete with Tim Robbins as a suitably lanky substitute for Jimmy Stewart and Gary Cooper, and a wonderful fast-talking tomboy journo turn from Jennifer Jason Leigh. Paul Newman is similarly fantastic as the evil corporate bigwig, and the tale of a patsy turning the tables on his manipulators through his own naivety and innocence is perfectly packed with inspired moments, wonderfully fantastic set design, nutty dialogue, great music and that streak of brilliant lunacy running through all of the Coens' magical oeuvre. Makes my top ten of the decade for sure, this beauty can only mature and grow in stature over time. "},{"Title":"Don't like black & white films? Read on...","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"61 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As I have seen this film more times than I can count, I could just describe it to you in the minutest of detail, but that's been done on here many times already. What I will say is this If you've never been interested in those 'old' films (i.e. anything before 'Police Academy 5'), then please read what I've got to say, and then watch this film.First though, a (very) brief history of film comedyIn the beginning, there were silent films. Charlie Chaplin made some, and generally speaking, they were rubbish.Then came 'The Talkies', and comedy films began to include - you guessed it - talking. However, they were mostly still just people getting hit on the head by pianos, and as such, they were funny, but not exactly thought-provoking...Then there was 'screwball'; an awful description of some of the finest and funniest films ever made, which used fast-talking, wise-cracking characters to devastating effect. Preston Sturges did them better than anyone else, and suddenly, films were funny AND clever.This film then, is the Coen Brother's tribute to their hero, and it is staggering. It has loads of the hallmarks of your typical, great Coen Brothers film - stunning to look at, great voice-over, funny looking fat-faced people, etc, but best bit of all is the dialogue, which easily stands up to to comparison with that of any of the 'classic' screwball comedies, and therefore, with the best of all time. A word of warning, though - don't expect to be able to sit back and take in everything this movie has to give without concentrating. A lot of the talking in it is FAST, and the gags come so quick that if you're not careful, you WILL miss some perfectly-crafted little vignette on life, and you'll have to use the rewind button.As you can probably tell, I really can't describe how good this film actually is. All I will say is that I highly recommend watching it on Christmas Eve, like I do every year, as seeing it will fill your heart with so much joy that the impending fights with close relatives will seem a million miles away...  "},{"Title":"You do need double stitch if you don't want to fall down!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"25 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Like several of the Coen brother's movies this one pays tribute to an era of cinematic achievement long past. And as always it is more than just a plot or an idea but an inspiring search for the meaning of life. In this case the story is maybe a bit too much like a Cartoon, and somehow I feel the Coens fell into a kind of a nostalgia trap here. My suspicion is they just had a little too much money at their disposal and fell in love with the wonderful equipment, the real and virtual set design and the wardrobe (technically and aesthetically the movie is as masterful as any of Coens&#145;s movies). So maybe someone should tell the Coens&#145;s investors Give them less money and they will turn any idea into a timeless feature that will bring in profits for decades.Movie buffs might enjoy comparing Hudsucker Proxy with Capra movies or John Farrow's The Big Clock. It seems the makers of Hudsucker wanted to charge every scene with symbolic meaning. It is too much the overall story is simplistic and rests on spindly legs. The heavy set design and the opulent epic style bring it to its knees. I felt a little sorry for Jennifer Jason Leigh. Her performance is terrific, but the script gives her only few good moments. She talks like a machine gun in the manner of the most sophisticated Screwball comedies.What makes this movie worth watching are small episodes that contain grains of wisdom. Best of all is the unforgettable double stitch incident (I will not give it away), a kind of a filmic parable that proves the Coens's brilliance. The use of a conference room table as a jumping board is an equally beautiful and very well directed scene, the repetition of it with an alternative ending really had me in (double) stitches.  "}{"Title":"Blue Letter from Capra","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The Coens are not the basis of my life in film, but they sure make it a lot of fun. Its like a crossword puzzle that dances through your memory by teasing you with clues that you use to assemble a pre-engineered interlocking marvel.I believe a Coen project has three elements and they build it that way. They begin with a major problem in narrative. These are well known; most have to do with the identity of the narrator, specifically names or roles. For this film, it is the fated role; for `Lebowski,' the name; for `Man who Wasn't,' it is recognition; in `Brother,' we had fate again but this time targeted on opportunity (rather than vehicle) for narration.The second element is the selection of the cinematic cloak to wear. I believe this is wholly unrelated to the first, in fact the arbitrariness is part of the fun. In `Man' it was noir; `Brother' adopted the indigenous narrative song (which led to both Homer and Teebone Burnette); here it is screwball. And not just today's screwball. When these guys mine, they go to the source lode and in this case it is Capra. In fact, I believe they started with Capra's original screwball, `It Happened One Night.' There, the man is a fast-talking news reporter who attaches himself to a popular phenomenon as a personality. The woman is successful (in terms of being rich anyway) and she masquerades as a `regular' girl. Turn that inside out and you get the outline for this. Add some other Capraisms and the gods in the machines and this is what comes out.Oh, and the third element pure cinematic experience. Visual metaphors, extreme images, manifold quoting, almost distractingly detailed sets. Here, all the actors support these three elements, and that is the marvel of Coen projects. Many other films really do believe that the story and the `quality' of the actors in making it real somehow carries power. This is much better, being rooted in intelligent inquiry and love of visual imagination.Robbins and Newman support this type of acting well. They have done so before. But there is always one actor at least that the Coens use as the white space the actor that only knows about one dimension of the project. Here, that is Ms Leigh. Even though she is being goofed on, she does the best work of her career.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Hudsucker Proxy is a brilliantly entertaining movie from possibly the greatest writer/director partnership ever. The film is so engaging and whacky that many unfamiliar with the Coen's style may be turned away by it. However, the Coens are filmmakers who know what they are doing and this film is a perfect blend of reality and surrealism. Reminiscent of a classic movie from the 40s or 50s The Hudsucker Proxy has an atmosphere and look to it that we seldom see anymore. Part of this is due to the fabulous set design and costumes. But also, the Coens' direction and dialogue are top notch. One particular scene (near the beginning of the movie, so don't worry about spoilers) concerning a newspaper, a coffee cup and a heavy wind fills you with magical glee and perfectly sets the scene of this fantastic fairytale-like fable. Some may be disappointed by the ending but on close inspection it is a brilliant metaphor in a film that says so much about success, failure and how people cope with both. Paul Newman, Tim Robbins and Jennifer Jason Leigh are superb and are backed up by a cast that all gleam with their own wonderful persona including Steve Buscemi (sadly not in it enough), Bruce Campbell, John Mahoney and Charles Durning. So, If you want to see a film that will fascinate you, make you laugh and fill you with that magical joy that only the Coen Bros. can supply then The Hudsucker Proxy is the film for you. "},{"Title":"A Fun Homage to Capra","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a fun film - very lighthearted with beautiful sets, fast paced dialog and caricatures at every corner and turn.It seems to pay homage to old Capra screwball comedies - and it's pretty much old fashioned farce right from the beginning.The film is far from perfect. Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance is labored. She tries to squeeze every last snicker she can with her character. She misses the mark in my opinion, moving and talking with so much effort and pace - just to get a laugh - that in the end, she gets none.Paul Newman goes the other way - he understates his character and when contrasted to the lunacy of both the environment and the story around him - it makes for some great scenes. He makes a great villain in this movie - and for me, he's a large reason why the movie works.Tim Robbins does a good job, especially at the start of the film. His best moments come when the story and the environment overwhelm his character.There's great moments, like the ridiculous Muncie fight song, the Monty Python-esque mail room, Charles Durning with wings and the grim, faceless board members - with their inane questions and so frightened to lose their authority that they agree to virtually anything.This film isn't genius or anything, but if you enjoyed the antics of something like 'Arsenic and Old Lace' then this is worth catching. It's delightfully silly - and has some interesting visuals and symbolism along the way. "},{"Title":"Weird?  Yes!  Confusing?  Yes!  Entertaining?  Very!","Date":"25 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Just hearing the title The Hudsucker Proxy confuses people.  I told my mom the other day, I got 'The Good, The Bad and The Ugly'; 'The Big Lebowski' and 'The Hudsucker Proxy' from the library today.  You know what she said? What was that last one?  Uh-huh.  Not many people know what a 'proxy' is, and Hudsucker sounds a lot like 'sucker', so it really freaks people out sometimes.That's a reason why it's so good!  From the moment it starts - with a 'comedic' suicide scene no less - the audience is left saying, Huh?  It stars Tim Robbins as a dimwitted mail room worker for a large company.  On his first day, the president (Charles Durning) kills himself, leaving Sydney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman) with a plan to elect a moron for the new company president so that their stocks can go down and they can sell.  Naturally, Robbins' character is picked.  After that, he gets barraged by co-workers, stocks, the press, and undercover reporter Amy Archer (Jennifer Jason Leigh).  Naturally, Robbins and Leigh fall in love.Sounds rather normal doesn't it?  Well, when you watch and meet characters like the immortal Clock Man Moses (Bill Cobbs) and the evil Aloysius (Harry Bugin), and even get a surprise visit from Durning's ghost, you'll change your mind.Of course, it's still no Godfather, but if you have nothing to do and feel like watching an interesting Coen comedy, pop in The Hudsucker Proxy, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Wonderful, Bizarre and Optimistic.","Date":"15 January 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A mind bending film that puts a warm glow in your heart.  It's like watching Turner Classic Movies in some type of crazy fever dream, making all the colors brighter, and plot twists stranger.  If you love classic films this is a great tribute, poking gentle fun, and showing deep respect  at the same time.  I just want to watch this one over and over again, it is very close to being perfect, with 10 times the creativity of most comedies. "},{"Title":"The lighting, the sets, the colour, that clock!","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one good looking movie and has many Coen recognisable signature quirks to make it worthy of a comparison to their earlier and later works. I will come back on those quirks later.I love the way the Coens always combine high-brow subtlety with  low-brow slapstick which makes it so accessible.  This movie is not heavy on subtlety but there are some genius moments in it to make it watchable again and again.  Newman for one is great in this movie and having the best of times. He makes minimal acting an artform.  Really, he could act anyone of that screen with his eyes closed.  Jennifer Jason Leigh is a contrast with her hand waving,her Katherine Hepburn- affected-ballsy way of speaking and general overacting but I guess she sets the scene quite brilliantly to complement the decor and general 30's feel of the movie.  You see, apparently the Coens have a penchant for the 30's movies style(and so they should.. Many a great movie was made in that decade) but the story in which an imbecile's dingus, against all odds became a total Fad and all the rage, doesn't quite fit that decade.  I can't think of any Dingus which became all the rage in the thirties (life was too hard for thingamabobs then, I suppose) and the earliest example, the hoolahoop, was definately a brainchild of the 50's (Life was good and spendable income to buy doodahs was more readily available ).  I don't mind that at all but I was confused to find out that it was set in the 50's because of all the visual and audible references to the 30's.  If Mussburgers office wasn't an art-deco Love-fest (that clock!)I don't know what is.I guess this review is definitely style over content but you know what? That just doesn't matter because plot is secondary to the visuals, and dialogue in this movie.  And that is just alright by me.  It is the reason why these movies are so good for repeat viewings.  Once you know a plot, you are not likely to watch it again just for the plot's sake.  It is the sights, the sounds the dialogue that makes you want to watch a movie again and again. Oh you don't believe me?  Name your favourite movie (not the one you tell your friends is your favourite but the one you watch again and again). What makes you want to watch it repeatedly?  Is it because you want to know what happens for the 100th time?  Ofcourse not!  You want to watch it for the 100th time because of the dialogue, the fun, the special effects the object of your desire etc. etc...Now I am not saying that plot is not important but I am saying that what makes Coen Brother's movies so good is that they think about their viewer/audience who wants to watch their movies until they can repeat every line in the movie(and becoming sad anoraks in the process).  I actually know people who watched the Big Lebowski half way and walked out of the cinema only to find them Lebowski addicts after one more viewing.  I am not naming names but you know who you are...I liked this movie the first time round... I know I will love it later...Now for the Coen parallels between this movie and the Big LebowskiJennifer's way of speaking was similar to Julianne's Maud. They were both feisty Brunettes who fall for the main character(I wouldn't call 'em heroes)The voice over to remind us that it is a fairytale at the beginning and end by guardian-angel-types. (Sam Elliot in Big and Bill Cobbs in the Hudsucker) Bizarre Dance Dream Sequences that have nothing to do with the plot but are hugely enjoyable. Blond Bombshell (Anna-Nicole Smith in Hudsucker and Tara Reid in the Big Lebowski)Who want to seduce the hero. Steve Buscemi. Memorable Lines...So all in all I guess I recommend it!**** "},{"Title":"Did the title kill this movie?","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  That's the only reason that I can think of that explains why this movie wasn't more popular. Or maybe it's because this movie is more heart-on-your-sleeve sweet and uncynical than other Coen brothers movies. Indeed, the co-star and love interest, Amy Archer, must overcome her cynicism in order to see that she can love Norville. But like all Coen brother's movies, the atmospheric strangeness is really the star of the show.      "},{"Title":"Coen Corn","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The most stylish and innovative American filmmakers of the late 80's and 90's were the brother writer, director team of Joel and Ethan Coen. Blood Simple, Raising Arizona and Barton Fink all displayed an energy and panache that had been missing from American film since the early seventies. The Hudsucker Proxy followed and it was the brothers most ambitious film to date. Steeped in fifties nostalgia the film deals with corporate greed and the invention and success of the Hula Hoop. Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins looking very much like Dagwood Bumstead) is in search of a job in the big city. Optimistic and filled with idealism he gets in on the ground floor of a big company and rises quickly only to be used as a pawn by a scheming board chairman Sidney Mussburger (Mr. Dithers?). Instead he turns the tables and makes the company millions with his invention. Enter a female reporter who attempts to expose the company's duplicity but instead falls in love with Barnes while Chairman Mussburger plots revenge. Proxy's first hour is filled with typical Coen imagery and fine tailored editing. A boardroom suicide is grand theatre and a montage of the Hula Hoop's accidental success is masterful. But once achieved Hudsucker becomes sluggish and uninteresting. Robbins' transition from the mail room flunky to board room tyrant is unconvincing while Paul Newman as Mussburger is too healthy looking an octenagerian whose passion in life is all consuming greed and power. Jennifer Jason Leigh is downright grating, lost somewhere between doing Hildy Johnson and her version of Dorothy Parker. The film is Capraesque (shades of John Doe mixed with Wonderful Life) and that's a bad fit for the acerbic, dark comedies the Coen's excel at. Visually Hudsucker is a good looking film but like the Hula Hoop in 59, it fades fast. "},{"Title":"Absolutely magical","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a massive fan of the Coen Brothers, Miller's Crossing and The Big Lebowski being two of my all time favourite films.  As such, when I got round to watching The Hudsucker Proxy on video is was expecting it to be a well made film, if not quite up to the heights of those other films considering its poor box office.Having seen the film I was delighted to admit that I (and most of the filmgoing public) were spectacularly wrong.  To put it simply, The Hudsucker Proxy is an exceptional movie, and even stands out in relation to the other Coen Brothers' films.  There's just so much to like in this film.  Tim Robbins' performance is great, as is Jennifer Jason Leigh.  Paul Newman is also a stand out.However, these performances would be for nothing if it wasn't for the marvellous script- witness the boardroom scenes in which the directors discuss how many floors it was that Mr Hudsucker fell (not including the mezzanine) or the scene in which they interrogate Norville about his new invention.  The script is also responsible for the fantastic line Y'know, for kids! which means nothing if you haven't seen the movie but now always makes me laugh whenever I think of it.A few days after seeing this, I also saw Fargo on video.  What I find difficult to believe is that Fargo won Oscars and was highly popular while The Hudsucker Proxy passed by relatively unnoticed (personally, I think Fargo is one of the weaker Coen Brothers' films).  If you're put off by the fact that you've never heard of The Hudsucker Proxy, don't be.  This is an absolutely fantastic film and I can't stress enough how much I would recommend it.  If you see a copy, buy it.  This is film making at its finest.   "},{"Title":"Double stitch","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Tim Robbins is The Hudsucker Proxy in this 1994 Coen Brothers film, quite different from the pared down Fargo or the dark Barton Fink. Though like Fink, The Hudsucker Proxy has its roots in old Hollywood, it's a different old Hollywood, that of Frank Capra and Preston Sturges.One of the first scenes is perhaps the most stunning - it takes place at a boardroom table, and that's all I'll say. To get on with the story After the death of Waring Hudsucker (Charles Durning), a nobody from the mailroom, Norville Barnes (Robbins), is chosen by the second in command, Mussburger (Paul Newman) to become President of this huge corporation, Hudsucker. Why? Well, it was Hudsucker's wish that the company go public. Mussburger figures if he can drive down the stock price, he and the board can afford to buy 51% and retain control. Thus the lowly Barnes, who walks around with a piece of scrap paper that has a circle on it. It's his invention - you know, for kids. A reporter (Jennifer Jason Leigh) realizes what Mussburger is up to and gets into the company as Norville's secretary. Poor Norville wonders who's trashing him in the press. Meanwhile, he goes to work on his invention.The sets in this film are huge, to emphasize the smallness of anyone who works at Hudsucker. The company is a slight exaggeration over a normal company - only slight - your pay is docked for just about everything, including a moment of silence for the late Hudsucker, and there are some things that are sacrosanct - like a blue letter. That's so important that when one secretary sees it in Norville's hand, she screams. The most obvious thing in the company is an enormous clock - an homage, perhaps to The Big Clock, and it figures into the story.The acting in The Hudsucker Proxy is good, if a bit frantic, probably another homage to early fast-talking films like The Front Page. The film is set in 1958, but the style is more '30s and '40s, particularly in the performance of Jannifer Jason Leigh, who does a Rosalind Russell in His Girl Friday and sounds at times like Katharine Hepburn.The Coens manage to throw everything at The Hudsucker Proxy from old movies, including an angel, so it will keep film buffs pretty busy. There are some hilarious scenes, and the result is overall a fantastic movie with some great people, including the above-mentioned and Bruce Campbell and John Mahoney. Great fun. And make sure you get a double stitch. "}{"Title":"I Fell In Love Again For 44 Stories (not Counting the Mezzanine!)","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I had seen this movie (in part) on TV some years ago, and I returned to it after seeing and owning many of the Coen Brothers movies such as Barton Fink, Fargo, O Brother, Where Art Thou?, The Man Who Wasn't There, and No Country For Old Men. I simply just had to get this one too! Especially for the music, (Khachaturian's Adagio of Spartacus And Phrygia as the main and love theme, Saber Dance, and others), the comedy of the story, the Art Deco set design and props such as the board room table that resembles an airstrip or runway for CEO's, that clock (reminding me of the one on the old Williamsburgh Savings Bank in Brooklyn), Barnes' invention (y'know, for kids!) which may have been a parody about WHAM-O INC., (except that WHAM-O really started with the sling shot, but the Hula Hoop came next). I also appreciate Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance, (though many only think that only Hepburn could have done that correctly)...JJL did a fine job! So did Paul, Tim, Charles and other principle cast members, and Roger Deakins (cinematographer) and Carter Burwell (music). A Coen Brothers masterpiece! "},{"Title":"What makes you think it's a game?  Is it a game?  Will it break?  It better break eventually!","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Any audiences familiar with the work of oddball geniuses Joel and Ethan Coen could hardly have expected their latest labour of love (excitedly billed as this time it's a comedy!) to be conventional or play to expectations, but in 1994, the Coens were greeted with their first box office flop, scorned by baffled critics and audiences alike. Upon retrospect, it becomes clear that due to faulty advertising or otherwise, audiences were simply not approaching The Hudsucker Proxy from the right angle, perhaps expecting a less subversive, more straightforward laugh-fest. And while the film in question is often hysterical, its sole intent is not to make people laugh - The Hudsucker Proxy exemplifies the Coen brothers' tendency towards judiciously applied weirdness in the midst of profundity, but with a more channelled focus, the final product being a side-splitting, occasionally frustrating but consistently remarkable film, easily one of the strongest in the Coens' consistently impressive body of work. Almost as much a throwback to classic science fiction as the period screwball comedies it emulates, the Coens take influence both visually and thematically from the dystopian visions of Fritz Lang's Metropolis, Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times (the film's most obvious influence) and Terry Gilliam's Brazil, as the monstrosity that is Hudsucker industries grinds its dank, perpetually moving gears to the same nihilistic grind of the capitalist machine, its continual churning in and spitting out of new ideas proving a snidely introspective jab at the nature of the film industry itself. The utterly brilliant screenplay (written by the Coens and fellow quirky genius Sam Raimi) proves a superb send up of the ludicrously fast paced flurry of the business world, as moments of sublime silliness and slapstick comedy are juxtaposed with cutting social commentary without ever slowing the movie's continual breakneck pace. The screwball influenced dialogue exchanges and clever one liners are contemporary classics, (the continual banter between Hudsucker executives or coffee shop patrons narrating the romantic encounter between Barnes and Archer are hysterical) the film making its mark as one of the Coen's most consistently hilarious films, but also one of their most shrewdly intelligent in the midst of all of the trademark oddities and wit. The film's saccharine ending is the most obvious source of contention, borrowing unapologetically from It's a Wonderful Life, and while the sudden shift into Capra-esq soaring jubilancy does feel distinctly out of synch with the tone of the rest of the picture, its ironically wholesome feel does seem oddly subversive enough to merit debate over its quality. However much of an oddity the ending may seem, its inclusion can hardly be considered a creative misfire in such a uniformly whip smart work, and while viewers unwilling to supply their own justification or meaning for its inclusion may become frustrated with the jarring change in tone, the unexpected finale does shake up the film with a dose of irreverent cheerfulness much in the same way Barnes' influence is shown to be a blessing to the cold efficiency of Hudsucker Industries. Either way, Carter Burwell's music boosts the film's quality like none other, not a single note failing to perfectly encapsulate the mood of the scene, whether an operatic grandeur complimenting a faux dramatic sequence showing the arrival of a blue letter (straight to the boss, very important) or a plucky string orchestration keeping with the lighter, more irreverent tone of subsequent scenes. Similarly, Roger Deakins' pitch perfect cinematography as usual effortlessly blends the classically stylish with quirky innovations, making for a consistently visually sumptuous work. Similarly, the film's 1950s costumes, props and locations are similarly laudable (and Gilliam influenced), blending period realism with fantastic, dystopian touches, leading to an impressively envisioned outcome.Tim Robbins gives a delightfully madcap performance as Norville Barnes, the earnest corporate cog consistently bewildered through his struggle to keep up with the inexhaustible machine he has found himself swept up by. Robbins perfectly essays the spirit of the film, always silly and irreverent enough to raise a laugh, but with just enough pathos to incur moments of thoughtful reflection when necessary - a masterful comedic feat. Paul Newman is an instant classic as Sidney J. Mussburger, the gravely voiced, machiavellian corporate shark willing to dispose of any possible obstacle, human or otherwise. Newman launches himself into the role with a particular shameless vindictive glee, and few boss from hell performances have proved so hysterically memorable or enjoyable. Jennifer Jason Leigh is flooring as an ambitious reporter attempting to get the goods on Barnes - her continual machine gun delivery of lines rattling off at breakneck speed without missing a beat is jaw dropping, while she also fills the character with exactly the right quantity of muted warmth. John Mahoney similarly raises many a laugh as Leigh's newspaper's fast talking editor, willing to do anything for a splashy headline, and Charles Durning is consistently hilarious given his moments to shine as Waring Hudsucker, whose suicide incites Barnes' promotion to president. Bruce Campbell is also a wonderful presence as a sleazy reporter, his tremendous charisma making the most out of a tiny role, as does Steve Buscemi in an amusing cameo as a beatnik bartender.Deliriously funny, quirkily chaotic but always with a firm sense of directorial intent and control, The Hudsucker Proxy proves one of the Coen brothers' most inventive, subversive and stylistically enjoyable feats. While the final act will inevitably divide audiences, the sheer volume of innovation and coy blending of influences on display is enough to cheerfully carry the film through its few such storyline quivers. For any fans of the Coens, the film should be considered a must see, and for anyone unfamiliar with their eclectic body of work but seeking an offbeat, intelligent and masterfully crafted comedy, such a gem of a film should prove just the thing - you know, for kids!. -9/10 "},{"Title":"The Hudsucker Proxy is an astounding example of film making at it's finest","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Coen Brothers' Hudsucker Proxy is an obvious tribute to many of the 30's and 40's era comedy/noir films which inspired them as film makers, yet still manages to succeed in standing alone as an original work of art.I'm sure if this film weren't so directly correlated with comedy, it would be much more highly respected, however, most film connoisseurs seem to unreasonably look down on comedy films. Hudsucker Proxy isn't just a comedy. To some it could be considered epic considering it's grand visual elements, and Greek form of storytelling. (That being of a lower class man finding his way into the royalty that all lower class men dream of).The Hudsucker proxy also has a great theme surrounding on the topic of corporate corruption and the mindset of those who are responsible for such acts.From Beginning to end, this film is flawless. It flows across the screen at a perfect beat. If you haven't see it, do so. It will raise your standard, and change how you look at films forever on. "},{"Title":"Genius & madness.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What kind of madness, or genius, or both, could make a movie as quirky & great as The Hudsucker Proxy?  I think I'm a pretty smart guy; but I submit that a monkey sitting at a keyboard could type out a manuscript for Hamlet in its entirety before I could ever come up with a movie as good as this one.  esh.  The extent & limitations of my talents, compared to that of the Coens (or anyone else, for that matter), quite frankly depress me.The video box for this movie should have consisted of plain brown paper, instead of what it does consist of.  The cover gives away the significance of the circle with which Robbins' character is obsessed for the first hour or so of the movie.  When I rented it, I either didn't notice before I took it from the shelf, or I merely forgot after I left the store, what was on the cover of the box.  This turned out to be a blessing, because it was all such good fun trying to figger out why Robbins was so obsessed with it! The casting was, as is typical of the Coens' movies, superb.  Having Robbins play the role of Norville Barnes would not have occurred to me. However, he pulls it off magnificently.  (I guess this is why I'm counting beans here in Winnipeg, Canada instead of making my mark on Hollywood.) Jennifer Jason Leigh's Amy Archer is wonderful.  Her accent/dialect is perhaps somewhat exaggerated, but none-the-less enjoyable.  The Pulitzer Prize scene is a standout, in my opinion.  Paul Newman plays the role of the nefarious Sidney Mussburger with a twinkle in his eye & his tongue in his cheek.  We get the feeling that he is quite aware of the camera, but unlike Mel Gibson who is also always aware of the camera, Newman is still convincing.  The movie would have been much worse off without him. The They dock ya! scene near the beginning of the movie is great. Robbins plays it for all it's worth.  Simply brilliant.  The scene wherein the steel ball stops in motion is also brilliant in its simplicity & effective in its portent.  I swear, only the Coens could conceive of it. And the preceding scene with the water bottle & trash can fire pays homage to Marx Brothers slapstick; again, Newman & Robbins are superb.  I howled with laughter. The Hudsucker Proxy is devoid of sex, profanity, drugs, car chases & explosions.  Definitely NOT mainstream Hollywood.  It has a kind-of Gotham City feel to it, a la Batman.  IMDb indicates its genre to be Comedy/Romance/Fantasy.  I think this, while not important, is misleading. The element of romance is weak.  And to suggest that it is fantasy is dubious, because most of what happens in the movie is plausible, except for a few scenes. Roger was, in this scribe's opinion, a little too harsh on it He gives it only two stars.  Yet he says This is the best-looking movie I've seen in years, a feast for the eyes and the imagination.  The art direction and set design are breathtaking, re-creating the world of 1930s screwball comedy in which towering skyscrapers and vast boardrooms were the playing fields for the ambitions of corrupt executives, ambitious kids, unsung geniuses, and lady newspaper reporters with nails as sharp as their wisecracks.  Huh? That hardly sounds like the preamble to a two-star movie review.  I think he should watch it again, maybe when he's in a better mood. What more could you expect from a comedy/faux drama?!  The only present I wanted for Christmas '02 was The Hudsucker Proxy on DVD & my girlfriend had to search high & low in my home town to find it, but find it she did. It's amazing, the s**t you can find on DVD these days.  But trying to find a modern masterpiece is a crap shoot.  It makes you wonder about how fickle the consumer is & how unimaginative some movie studio executives are. This movie is crammed with pearls & I could go on & on describing the smorgasbord of wonderful scenes in this movie.  Just rent it & learn for yourself what a great movie this is.  I suggest that you won't be disappointed.  Then eat your heart out in contemplation of how most mere mortals can only marvel at the handiwork of the brilliant Coen brothers. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I absolutely love this movie. I can't understand why it's so underrated. The wit, humor, and symbolism tied up in the plot make it great to watch over and over. I'm a big fan of the Coen Brothers in general, and I'd say this movie shows their film-making style at its best. "},{"Title":"I don't understand why...","Date":"5 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  In 1994 The Hudsucker Proxy was released to indifferent reviews and failed box-office. It failed to get a single oscar nomination. After watching it several years ago, and again tonight, I can only come up with one question Why? Everything in this movie clicks like the huge clock that towers over NYC from the Hudsucker building. Tim Robbins has rarely been better and provides a worthy successor to the clueless but ultimately endearing Capra heroes of the 30's, like Gary Cooper and Jimmy Stewart. Jennifer Jason Leigh, who has been so good in many movies, provides a winning cross between the professionalism of Rosalind Russel's character in His Girl Friday and the archetypal Katherine Hepburn character (she even gets the voice right!). Paul Newman makes an ideal villain, and Charles Durning has a memorable cameo. The cast is not even the best part. The movie is visually stunning (where were the cinematography and art direction oscars on this one?) and adds all the more to the storyline. The direction flawlessly invokes the madcap comedies of the 30's with a plot that is heavily influenced by Sturges and Capra but has some now-typical Coen twists in it as well. However, the best part is the screenplay. A true american original, it exceeds especially with the hula-hoop plotline. This movie flopped in' 94, but hey--so did Vertigo in '58 and The Magnificent Ambersons in '42. Some genius takes time to be appreciated--lets hope time appreciates this true Coen masterpiece. Makes a good double bill with the similarly screwball but more over-the-top Raising Arizona "},{"Title":"I wanted to like it.  I loved Fargo, didn't I?","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Gosh.  Golly.  What is it?Take the sets from the Batman movie, let a comic book be your guide for dialogue, and cast Tim Robbins (what's not to like?) as your naive leading man; let Jennifer Jason Leigh do an imitation of young Kate Hepburn while using the body language of the young Barbara Stanwyck.  What could be wrong with that?  Oh, and add a very short Paul Newman (they should never let him stand next to Tim Robbins), Yes, yes, he says, and flicks his major cigar, doing a passable Groucho.Look, I loved the movies of the thirties and forties with Jimmy Stewart or Gary Cooper playing the honest (if simple) common man who wants to make good.  It's a familiar plot -bring him to Town from Hicksville, pit him against the most cynical business world possible (this is sometimes a political scenario). Meet him up with the sharp-as-a-whip Career Woman (usually an undercover reporter out to get the Scoop).  He realizes, too late,that he has told her his hopes and dreams with an open heart, and all the while she has been sticking the knife to him.  She realizes, nearly too late, that she is in love; it rolls downhill, with delicious suspense, sometimes a full five minutes of conflict that seem like forever before the clinch  and the closing credits roll.It could have worked (it's worked before), but nobody here cared about the characters. The writer, the director - one assumes they conspired, the brothers Coen, as they have in the past.  Who to blame?  No matter.  We are left with caricatures, badly presented and badly treated.  The Tim Robbins character IS an imbecile; he has no original likability for us to return to; we do not know him and so we do not root for him. Tim Robbins' natural charm is inclined to buffoonery, and so he needs a script,and some (dare I say it?) direction). He can act, you just need to give him some clues. When one moment of true feeling, of human contact, occurs, it is because Jennifer Jason Leigh makes it happen, working against bad dialogue and somebody's misconceived Bryn Mawr accent.  I like her, she keeps trying new things, but unfortunately, curiosity value does not a movie make.I pay my dollar, I expect to be entertained. If this is a comedy, it isn't funny.  If it is a return to Mr. Deeds, there's no resemblance.  You can't count on the audience's collective consciousness to provide EVERYTHING.I liked Fargo.  I liked Saving Arizona.WHAT HAPPENED? "},{"Title":"I couldn't believe the Cohen's were behind this bag o'crap!","Date":"4 November 2007","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Wow, what a spectacular example of all surface and no substance. Actors we love and directors we admire come together to create a train wreck of a film.I first saw this as it was running on a cable channel like HBO, in mid-movie, not knowing what it was nor who had produced it. I had to see it from the beginning so I rented it and lasted about 20 minutes before hitting eject on the remote. Gaaaa.It's big, it's huge it's loud, and... not the least bit funny, interesting, or believable. Who cares about these characters? I know people who tend to like a certain actor-turned-politician (the one who is running for the presidency in '08) probably will also love this movie. If image is everything, this movie has everything for you.Please let's not make another one of these. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful, knockout of a film.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" My first ever viewing of the Coen Brother's The Hudsucker Proxy tonight left me enchanted. It's such a raucous explosion of absurd and hyperactive characters in surreal, cartoonish synergy I couldn't take my eyes away the entire time. Such is always the case with Coen fare, and I should have expected to be wowed, but every time I see a new film of their's I'm flabbergasted like its the first time discovering their work. Such is their magic; they're a once in a universe creative force that you either get, or you don't. If you aren't already cursed (or blessed, depending on how you look at it) with a really bizarre, abstract sense of humour, then chances are you just won't tune in to their wavelength and be as tickled as hardcore fans. They just have such a wall to wall comedic gold within every screenplay they tackle, a willingness to sit down with the weird, exaggerated side of life and find the uproarious elements in the most mundane of exchanges. Here we see them take on bustling late 50's New York, particularly the cutthroat corporate arena. This is also another chance to display their trademark attention to gorgeous production design and urges to poke fun at the cultural idiosyncrasies of whichever time period they are dwelling on, adding all the more personality to the piece. The ancient Waring Hudsucker (Charles Durning, making compelling work of a silent, puzzling cameo) CEO of mammoth Hudsucker Industries, has hurled himself through the boardroom window, plummeting forty four stories to the pavement below, leaving the throne vacant and prompting his vulture shareholders to circle the monarchy. Second in command Sydney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman, eagle eyed, growling evil in every frame), sets his mind to hiring an utter imbecile to run the shares into the ground, in order to prevent the stocks from going public, a ditch effort of spectacular greed. Enter Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins), a naive small town boy, shunted up from the mailroom straight into Mussburger's awaiting paws, and from there into the CEO's seat. Things look well for the scheme, until Barnes, an opportunistic golden boy, unwittingly invents the newest thing, the... well I won't spoil it for you. When the J. Jonah Jameson of 1950's New York (a rabid John Mahoney, always at the top of his game in Coen land) sends his top reporter, Amy Archer (Jennifer Jason Leigh) to snoop out the company's new 'idea man' CEO, things get wild and weird in true Coen fashion. Leigh is an actress of uncanny ability. In this film, everything is cardboard cutout, cartoonish and emotionally detached, the characters mere cogs in the hyper- real story as opposed to feeling, human people. Leigh most of all is a blustery, shameless stereotype of the mile a minute speech patterned gal that everyone's image of the 50's is like, and in a film full of pseudo real characters, she's the craziest. What amazes me is that even through that sheen of period gloss and chortling melodrama, she's still able to be the only performer to convey any emotion through her work! And emotion she shows, giving poignant little moments that the film hardly has time to acknowledge, but are there for the viewer's discovery all the same! Talk about a paradox. Such is Leigh's unequalled talent though, which I've been preaching for years, and which looks like will get a fresh track to run on with Quentin Tarantino's upcoming The Hateful Eight, and the much anticipated new Twin Peaks season. Just a consummate actress and a delight to behold in anything. This film is one of the most 'Coen' Coen Brothers flicks I've ever seen, and I'm surprised it took me so long to give it a watch. It's got deliberately over the top, quirky people, relentless social and class satire, zany screwball elements and overall, intangible charm that only they can bring us. I've always thought that the energy you get in a Coen Brothers film is so insane and unique that it's equal to those moments on the night before Christmas, a minute before 12am on New Year's Eve, or when the entire neighbourhood wakes up and trundles outside to see why there's ten ambulances down the block, maybe the final seconds of hesitation before taking a risky lakeside cliff jump; there's a palpable dose of giddy adrenaline and undefinable, primal strangeness to anything they produce, a lightning in a bottle, one in a million quality that I've only ever felt with one other filmmaker, David Lynch. Suffice to say, never a dull moment in Coen land. There's an epic supporting cast including Mike Starr, Peter Gallagher, Bruce Campbell (Sam Raimi is a co writer, bless his heart;)), Jon Polito, Bill Cobbs, Joe Grifasi, Noble Willingham, Anna Nicole Smith, John Goodman, Richard Schiff and Steve Buscemi. Fanatics and film lovers alike owe it to themselves to take a trip to this utterly nutty, deliriously stylish, endlessly funny province of Coen land, a place where you never quite know what you're going to get, never quite know what you've just watched when the credits roll, but always know you've had a good, funny bone and brain stimulating time at the movies. "},{"Title":"A Bright, Absorbing Historical Adventure That Follows its Own Broken Compass","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This Coen Brothers classic often gets overlooked amidst the rest of the duo's daunting catalog, which is a shame because it would be a shining beacon in almost any other director's portfolio. Tim Robbins, Paul Newman and Jennifer Jason Leigh don their roaring twenties accents and breathe in boatloads of snappy dialog as the centerpieces of a closed-doors corporate scheme that never seems to quit escalating. Though the climax is a bit of a cop-out, the rest of the film works magnificently as an allegory for the sins of capitalism, the failures of an impartial press and the temptations of glamor we all stare down sooner or later, while managing to be cute, creative and charming the whole way through. Excellent stuff. "}{"Title":"You know, for kids (not really)...","Date":"13 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" With hindsight, it's almost impossible to understand how The Hudsucker Proxy was given the cold shoulder by critics and audiences alike upon its original release. Okay, so the Coen brothers had pitched it as an homage to Frank Capra (you, know it's superficially similar to It's a Wonderful Life in places) and the few people who bothered to see the movie in theaters were appalled to see it was anything but. Then again, why expect something conventional from the Coens? The Hudsucker Proxy is a lot like their other films clever, unpredictable and occasionally downright insane. Three good reasons for a re-evaluation.The brothers' first proper comedy since Raising Arizona (though some argue Barton Fink qualifies as humor of the darkest kind) opens on a typically (for them, that is) sad note Waring Hudsucker (Charles Durning), head of Hudsucker Industries, decides to take his own life right in the middle of a board meeting and does so by running across the table and jumping out of the window. At this point, the company votes to replace him with a real doofus so that they can get away with an industrial scam. Therefore, while the idiotic Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins) is left in charge of Hudsucker, the manipulative Sydney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman) is actually pulling the strings. It all goes well until a fast-talking reporter (Jennifer Lason Leigh) decides to uncover the truth about what's going on.Leigh's character is obviously modeled after the female protagonist of His Girl Friday, seemingly confirming the Coens' intention to revisit the screwball comedy genre. And even if the scenes where she deals with her narrow-minded male colleagues (John Mahoney and Bruce Campbell - always a welcome presence) are, without a doubt, hilarious, there is very little to laugh about in The Hudsucker Proxy, at least in terms of immediate reactions. On paper, this might look like a broad, traditional comedy; in reality, it's an ingenious satire on industrial society, owing more to Gilliam's Brazil than anything by Capra or Hawks. Sure, it's less creepy and surreal (to a degree) than Gilliam's masterpiece, but the intent and sharpness is a match.Furthermore, this film can be seen as a lighter companion piece to Barton Fink and its reflections on Hollywood. Of course, the Coens are too clever to openly show that, but the film's most successful joke is that before Norville, played by an endearingly dim-looking Robbins, comes up with the famous hoola hoop (You know, for kids!) there's no mention of what Hudsucker produces. It's industry for its own sake, much like those film studios who deliver empty products favoring business over art. And what is Newman's character if not a God-like film producer/studio head, a cynical version of Harvey Weinstein, Jerry Bruckheimer or Joel Silver (who coincidentally produced the movie), handing the job to talentless people for profit's sake?Granted, most people didn't get that the first time around, but that's no reason for damning a film; on the contrary, such a strong metaphorical resonance ought to be revisited, again and again. How is it possible not to love such an accomplishment? "},{"Title":"Well I'm for it!  Whoafully underrated!","Date":"27 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Wareing Hudsucker is a man who has everything going for him, his company, Hudsucker Industries, is going through the roof, the board are enjoying the benefits of the companies success, however, the window at the end of the board room is a big temptation for a man that is secretly unhappy. Getting on the table Wareing hurls himself out of the window, plummeting 44 floor's (not counting the mezzanine) leaving the board with a problem, the company's prime stockholder that possesses 87% of of the shares in the company has become pavement pizza and in 30 days time, the shares will be open for sale to investors, and even worse than that, the general public, so Sidney J Mussberger, Hudsucker's right hand man, decides that they need a pawn, a proxy, to run the company into the ground.Enter Norville Barnes, as a young hopeful who seeks to change the world with his inventions but cannot get a job in the big city due to his lack of experience. Entering Hudsucker industries as a lowly postal worker he gets the chance to be the new boss after he sets fire to Sid's office and knocks him out of the window. Seeking to impress with his new ideas, Norville comes up with the hula-hoop (You know? For kids!) and whilst the board are less than impressed, Sid sees the potential failure in the hoop and they proceed to move into production. After initially failing it soon takes off and Norville becomes lazy and disenfranchised after his success, seeking to enjoy the fruits of his success. His secretary Amy Archer, who is an undercover reporter trying to see if Norville is actually a fraud, seeks to restart his fire and love for business and invention.This smart comedy carries with it themes about the state of business, the treatment of employees, businesses lack of ability to spot the people who can help it develop quicker and how success can be easily taken for granted. Tim Robbins is great as Norville, brilliantly combining the youthful exuberance and invention with a naivety that is charming and disarming, Jennifer Jason Leigh does a great job as Amy Archer, doing her best Katherine Hepburn impersonation, with Charles Durning, Bruce Campbell and john Mahoney all providing great support with Paul Newman in excellent fettle as the insidious, plotting Sidney J.Mussberger.The Coen brother's do a great job as the script is bizarre, funny and strangely clever. Sam Raimi's direction is always spot on, with a variety of clever camera uses employed to create the proper mood, with some shots being simply gorgeous. This, for me, is an underrated classic, that is too clever for most people, who will simply not get the strange humour in the film, hopefully as the Coen brother's rep continues to improve, this film will gain the status it should have had years ago. "},{"Title":"Another Interesting Factoid","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film is frequently mentioned in college film classes for its interesting use of a door or window framing nearly every scene in the movie. I adore the art deco detail that encases the film from the doors, to the cars, to the clock machinery, it's a real beauty visually. There is something giddy and whimsical about watching it. I think critics of films are often scratching for a profound meaning when none is intended. There is a particularly wonderful scene where an adorable little boy picks up the hoola-hoop for the first time and begins swinging it around his waist. I think I replayed the scene several times just for the expression of the boy's face.Its theme song, Adagio of Spartacus and Phrygia, was composed by Khachaturian. The theme song has a majestic, soaring orchestration that stays in your head for hours. "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  My dad is somewhat of a Coen brothers fan; he saw and liked 'Raising Arizona', the classic 'Fargo', and 'O Brother, Where Art Thou?'; so when I heard about this movie, I thought 'Finally! Another Coen brothers movie I can actually see!' But enough about that. Let me say that this is a wonderful film, with great performances by Tim Robbins, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Paul Newman, and there's a neat little cameo by Coen brothers regular Steve Buscemi. My favorite part was when Tim Robbins' character finally redeemed himself. And, of course, the obligatory 'happy ending', but this time I was glad to see that sort of ending. To end with Norville splattered on the street would be too dark. All in all, this is a great film, and it celebrates it's 10th anniversary this year. Go rent it! "},{"Title":"Mr. Deeds II?","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Am I the only one who noticed the similarities between this and the ORIGINAL Mr. Deeds Goes to Town? (Not the stupid remake)Most of the usual Coen players are missing, but the style is not.Tim Robbins is a bit goofier than Gary Cooper, but it's one of his best roles, and Jennifer Jason Leigh as Jean Arthur doing her best Kate Hepburn impression is another treat. Paul Newman is another very pleasant surprise, as is the always great John Mahoney.Look for Bruce Campbell as a wisecracking reporter. (When will someone give this great actor a real role?)The Coens doing Capra... an interesting combo indeed! "},{"Title":"Just beautiful!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is gorgeous.  The Coens work with Roger Deakins all the time, and he makes all their movies look original and beautiful.  This one is no exception.  These guys use tricks from the 20s (and some new stuff they thought up too) and make them work seamlessly.The dialogue absolutely flies.  It pops like a firecracker, word after word exploding in a stream of nearly indecipherable metaphors and one liners. It could be really terrible if the actors mumbled at all, or if the editors didn't capture each syllable distinctly, but none fail (or fall) and it has the most unique dialogue I can remember in a film.  An example of lousy fast talking exists in Miller's Crossing (another Coen Bros. flick).  It's not rampant, but when it pops up, it sucks the character out of the movie.What I really love about this movie, though, is its heart.  Norville Barnes is a lovable character, played lovingly by Tim Robbins.  He fills the screen with sincere, wide-eyed enthusiasm, and he always makes me smile.  I love that he succeeds without losing himself, and I would like to think that I have a little Norville Barnes in myself somewhere. "},{"Title":"Beautifully done, wonderful performances...","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Definitely underrated and underappreciated, this fantastic homage to Capra, Welles, and many others, including the writing and acting styles of the glamorous thirties, warms your heart.A deceptively simple story and plot taken from It's A Wonderful Life and its ilk, but in my opinion, done without the cloy, and framed by beautiful cinematography, set, costume design, and musical score that hearkens back to the glory era of Hollywood, if it were filmed in color.Great performances by Newman, Jennifer Jason Leigh (who does a dead on Roz Russell and Hepburn), and Robbins (who grows on you throughout the film). Not many modern actors could deal with the script requirements, and they all do a brilliant job, Leigh in particular somehow fuses her modernity with the mannerisms of the past great actresses in a way that still seems heartfelt.I am continually amazed by the Coen's generosity and inventiveness, and while some critics may say they steal to the past filmmakers disadvantage, I heartily disagree, as I can only walk away from this film with a smile on my face, whereas I want to grimace at It's A Wonderful Life.A great film worth your time. "},{"Title":"doesn't get the credit it deserves","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  hudsucker proxy has most of the offbeat nuances you'd expect from a coen brothers movie but i think overall it is a little more lighthearted. the story is creative, there are a lot of memorable characters and paul newman is great as the ceo. after many viewings i find myself liking this better than the big lebowski. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Superb dark fairytale","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  To me, the best Coen brothers' so far. It's a close, close thing however, when I find 99% or so of their work absolutely brilliant. This one seemed to have the perfect balance of black comedy and fantasy. For me, Barton Fink, for example, was almost (just almost) too black. Absolutely brilliant, but it made me feel more sick than anything else. But that's just me. This is perfect. Magic. "},{"Title":"A homage tribute to classic screwball, Sturges and Capra~","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I've always admired the Coen Brothers and their films. THere's always a 'wicked' blend of clever writing, mayhem, noir and the Coens' uncanny sense of dark humour. And thanks to their frequent collaborators like cinematographer Roger Deakins, you can always expect a work of impecable quality. Yet that seem to be problem, because of all the good films that they have made, despite their individual merits, none of them seem to stand out on it's own.THat is untill I came accross 'The Hudsucker Proxy'. I can't agree more with other reviewers who feel that this is an underrated film. And the film's title, though relevant to the film itself, doesn't strike as a piece that you'll wanna check out, unless you are a Coens' fan.Coming to the film itself, despite the 'impecable quality' that I've seen in previous Coens', I was nonetheless astonished by the 'look' of it. From the opening alone, with the almost surreal recreation of New York 1958, the very beautiful and communicating cinematography that goes very well with the design, for the lack of a better word, I can only say it's 'Magical'.Many scenes really stand out and demanded attention, and that includes the two-cops conversant narration of the 'entry' of Jennifer Jason Leigh's character first meeting Tim Robin's Norville Barnes...the two cops serve as a metaphor to the two Coen Brothers writing the scene itself.ANd this leads to the main point I'm about to make - This film is made up of classical screwball references, namely the films of Preston Sturges and Frank Capra. The above-mentioned scene is already evident as a Sturges' style in 'Lady Eve. The plot, characters, ideas and execution are taken from Sturges and Capra. A intelligent 'Puilitzer' and conniving Amy Archer falling in love with the imbecile but 'rich' with a heart Norville Barnes - once again it's Lady Eve. The sucidal Barnes who got rescued by angels during Christmas/ NEw YEar Merry season - Capra's It's a Wonderful Life. An innocent and naive man from small time town making BIG TIME by a twist of fate, with a twist of irony, and bucking the system - Mr SMith goes to WashingtonAdd in some biting satire that includes feminism and cut-throat corporate life to the screwball adn Capraism, and you'll have this new blend from the Coen brothers...something different from what I coined as 'Coenism noir', and still very good and satisfying.MY guess is Sam Raimi's contribution in writing credits does add on to the differentiating factors. But nevertheless, this is a Coens' film, and without doubt the best I've seen. As a fellow film buff, I can picture how the brothers are trying to pay a fitting tribute to their idols and the genre. I take my hat off them and maybe someday in the near future, it will be the Coen brothers turn to be placed on the pedestal.9/10 from me. "}{"Title":"A witty, fast-paced, Coen-perfect comedy.","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I love the Coen brothers' films. All of them have a higher level of comedic film-making which is unsurpassed by any other director/screenwriter today. The Hudsucker Proxy is the pinnacle of their comedy achievements. It presents us with a exaggerated view of the 1950's business world and media. With the fast talking characters by John Mahoney and Jennifer Jason Leigh, we cannot help but laugh out loud at how stereotypical they seem to be. Let us also admire Tim Robbins, in probably his best performance to date, as the idealistic (and dimwitted) mail room boy who becomes the unlikely president of the company on his first day. And of course, who can forget the brilliant villainy brought to the screen by our favorite Paul Newman. With beautiful set direction, out of this world designs (like Robbins' fresh idea, you know, for kids), this film deserves more praise than it has been given. If you are just getting into the Coen brothers' collection, this is easily one of the top three which is a must see (the other two being Fargo and O Brother, Where Art Thou?). Let's also note that J.K. Simmons' portrayal of J. Jonah Jameson in Spider-Man (2001) was clearly inspired by John Mahoney portrayal of the editor in chief in this movie (Sam Raimi, who directed Spider-Man, co-wrote this film with the Coens). "},{"Title":"Capra meets Kafka","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Only the Coen Brothers could take a tired holiday format and inject into it a measure of surrealism and a large amount of humour. People who found this too arty or the comedy too black really missed the point - it is in fact a traditional family Christmas movie, and above all it's FUNNY.Not nearly so dark or difficult as their other films, this is especially one to watch if you're not yet sure you're in the Coen Bros fanclub. Should be standard yule-tide viewing. "},{"Title":"The best Coen film to date","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film is a classic , it didn't find an audience at the box office as it was marketed very badly . Its simply one of the most imaginative and magical films made in the last 30 years , the Coens did a fantastic job and made me an instant fan . I first saw this film in 1995 and had never seen anything as quirky or creative , the Hudsucker Proxy simply has its own style and attitude . You instantly get pulled into the Coens world , a place where fate and karma are everything , a place where two janitors control time and space in a battle for the life and death of a former mail room flunky made good .A place where two taxi drivers with intestinal gas can read every human beings soul whilst giving an up to the minute commentary upon the action that ensues. Its an incredible film that just begs to be watched and enjoyed by all , if you fancy something different watchable and creative this is the ticket . The Hudsucker Proxy should be proclaimed as the Coens master work but unfortunately never will be as it was badly reviewed upon release and people don't forget , I simply believe that the critics didn't know what to make of it . All in all if you want to see a master class in creative and quirky with a hint of Buddhism then this is a must . "},{"Title":"Coen's Brothers Homage To The Golden Age Of Cinema","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There is a little story behind how I was able to watch this movie. Basically I saw this movie, due to a befriendment of a mature student, who was an avid movie fan. He was quite amazed and pleased that I had a good knowledge of movies and yet completely flummoxed that I have not seen Hudsucker Proxy, (A major favourite of his). To cut a long story short, I watched this movie with the knowledge of Coen Brothers only consisting of Fargo and Big Lebowski. So I was hoping character based stories, with great lines and some beautiful scenery and I was not disappointed. POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEADThe movie starts of with a suicide committed by a CEO of Hudsucker Industries. This leaves money grabbing egotistical businessman, Sidney Mussberger to take over. He has a brilliant plan to make loads and loads of money. He wants to get an idiot to become president of the company, making the prices of the shares to down, causing a domino effect in the stock exchange, and therefore the shares can be obtained in a very low price. He appoints Norville Barnes, a mailroom worker who has aspirations to make it big in the world with his simple idea of a circle. Barnes' ideas has made the creditability of the company go down. It looks like Mussberger plans are going to work, yet the intervention of the circle idea comes into play and seems to make more and more money for the company. In the midst of this as well, a pushy investigative journalist believes that something is not quite right in Hudsucker Industries and goes and finds out about it.This movie has been shot to perfection. The lighting and scenery makes you feel that you are transported to the 1950's. The costumes looked like pure authenticity. The actors are brilliant in the roles; from Tim Robbins happy go lucky role as Norville Banks to Paul Newman's role of the money hungry wicked boss Sidney Mussberger. Jennifer Jason Leigh's role was very good as Amy Archer, yet it seemed like she was over acting a little bit and also her character's voice was grating to the ears. I do believe that she was trying to recreate the role of Rosalind Russell in `His Girl Friday'.This should lead me to my other point, that the Coen brothers made this movie to pay homage to the golden age of cinema during the 1950's, yet in their own style. Those who like feel-good movies where the everyman person wins at the end should enjoy this movie. However it should not just become limited to only those people. It should be watched by anyone who actually likes movies in general, and to see a different side to the Coen Brother's eclectic directing and writing. Overall, this is and entertaining and enjoyable movie.       "},{"Title":"Fantastic, my top pick for Coens' work","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is easily one of my Top 10 favorite films of all time.  Robbins is brilliantly vacant as Norville Barnes, Jennifer Jason Leigh as Amy Archer delivers a performance disgracefully overlooked by the Oscars and Paul Newman is more than noteworthy as the scheming Sidney Mussburger.  The biting script, the satire on corporate power, the fast-paced, 50s, art deco feel, the symoblism all combine to make an unforgettable experience.Many say this film's publicity problem was its title, claiming the public didn't know what it meant until they saw it and that it just sounded like a weird title for a film.  To these I pose a question  Without seeing the film, who knows what Raising Arizona means?  What about Fargo?  The Big Lebowski?  Barton Fink?  Even O Brother, Where Art Thou is ambiguous as to what the film's really about.  Even non-Coen films' titles can be confusing without seeing the film  The Green Mile, The Hours, Far from Heaven, etc.  No no, I blame this film's tragic and undeserved lack of success on less publicity and possibly poor timing, releasing it alongside bigger titles.All in all, a spectacular film.  Watch it, you won't be disappointed, unless of course you don't like great films with brilliant scripts and acting beyond compare.10/10. "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jason Leigh Steals This Film","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Normally, I'm very wary of watching a Coen brothers film. They're usually very good (Raisin' Arizona, Fargo), or very bad (O' Brother, Where Art Thou, The Ladykillers). But the only film I had never seen from them after all these years was The Hudsucker Proxy. Unfortunately for me, I wish I had seen this much earlier. I thought it was very clever, and I'm surprised Jennifer Jason Leigh wasn't nominated for her role. As someone earlier noted, I thought this performance was more in homage to Katherine Hepburn than Rosalind Russell (as one of the bullets in the Trivia section noted that Leigh was given Russell as her inspiration). Sure, Russell's role in His Girl Friday might have been the inspiration, but accent, mannerisms, delivery of lines etc. is definitely more Hepburn than Russell. Or should I say more like Cate Blanchett from The Aviator? Finally, I felt I needed to comment on Mr. Moo's message on June 24, 2004, where he says, among other things, In the beginning, there were silent films. Charlie Chaplin made some, and generally speaking, they were rubbish. That is perhaps one of the dumbest comments I've ever seen made on an IMDb board. I couldn't finish reading his comment...there was zero credibility at that point. "},{"Title":"Where has this movie been all my life?","Date":"6 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Where has this movie been all my life? It is basically about a newbie mailroom boy who gets promoted to the president of a company because the CEO wants a proxy to help crash the stock into the ground so that they can buy it cheap and have no outside public investors. But the mailroom boy played my the amazing Tim Robbins has a circle drawn on a piece of paper and etc, etc, etc go watch this movie. It is a larger than life comedy meets film noir meets art-deco meets whatever it wants to be. What a tour 'de force when it comes to world building! The script does drag towards the end and the end itself is a pickle of a problem but all is forgiven because most of this film is brilliant. "},{"Title":"fast-talking screwball comedy from the Coens","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's almost 1959 New Year's Eve and Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins) gets out on the ledge of a highrise ready to jump. A year ago, he's a bright eye recent graduate arriving from Muncie, Indiana looking for a job. He starts work in the successful Hudsucker Industries' mail room. Owner Waring Hudsucker jumps to his death and his shares are up for sale on Jan 1, 1959. Sidney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman) comes up with an idea to drive down the stock so they could buy up the shares. Norville is given the dreaded blue letter to deliver to Mussburger and he makes the clueless Norville the new president. Chief (John Mahoney) berates his reporters to investigate the new Idea Man and fast-talking Pulitzer-winning reporter Amy Archer (Jennifer Jason Leigh) thinks he's a phony. She takes him for a sucker and he hires her as his secretary. Only he has a great idea... you know, for kids.I really love two aspects of this. I love the awesome unique Coen visual brilliance. They fill this with very specific details. The other is the lovely JJL. I laugh at her non-stop monologue which is reminiscent of the old 50s screwball comedy. I guess it's not everybody cup of tea. Tim Robbins is sincere. It's wacky fun which may cut Coen fanatics the wrong way. "},{"Title":"The best film i've seen from the Coen Brothers.","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I was ready to pass this movie off as just another average film. I didn't expect it to be great, or even good. I thought it was going to be average. Boy was I wrong. This isn't one of the best comedies I've seen, it's one of the best films I've ever seen. The acting is great. Especially from Tim Robbins, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Paul Newman (as always). The characters are all great. My favorite being Leigh's character. The plot is great. The imagery is great. I love this movie. The plot is that Norville Barns (Robbins) has just graduated from business school and needs a job. He get's one at Hudsucker Industries in the mail room shortly after founder Warring Hudsucker (Charles Durning) commits suicide. But after meeting Hudsucker's right hand man, Sidney J Mussburger (Paul Newman) he makes it to the top and presents his idea, the hula hoop. It is an immediate success. Meanwhile newspaper reporter Amy Archer (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is hired to write a story about Norville. She gets a job working for the new president of the company and writes that he is naive. But soon realizes that she was wrong after getting to know him better. Meanwhile Mussburger who only hired Norville because he too thought he was an idiot realizes the popularity of the hula hoop and discredits Norville by saying that elevator operator Buzz (Jim True-Frost) had is idea copied by Norville. As people start to turn against him he becomes increasingly sad and depressed. Soon he too decides to jump out the window. But Moses the clock man (Bill Cobbs) stops the clock allowing Norville to speak to the ghost of Hudsucker. After learning that one fail can not let you down he overcomes his depression, reconciles with Amy, and goes out to succeed once more with the Frisbee. I find it to be like Mr. Smith goes to Washington (1939) which I believe was the Coen Brothers idea. I highly recommend this movie to everyone. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Hudsucker Proxy is a great movie that is incredibly entertaining and funny while at the same time being a totally different movie watching experience than almost any other movie I have ever seen in my entire young life.I think the acting is better than most other movies I have seen. Tim Robbins is really great in this and so are Jennifer Jason Leigh and Paul Newman.I can't say too much without giving away vital story or plot lines or ruining any of the great scenes and surprises but if you like the Coen Brothers you will love this movie! It is really an overlooked (by many) gem that belongs in any movie collection. "}{"Title":"A Perfect Film","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen The Hud a half dozen times and it never gets old. From the opening sequence to the closing musical score this film keeps me enraptured.The art directing, the costumes, the music, the script all work together to make a movie of unprecedented beauty. Tim Robbins is perfect in this role and the supporting cast all come off the screen as unforgettable characters I proudly tell anyone who asks that this is my favorite film of all times.Sure, sure, art is subjective and some people do not care for such films. I feel sorry for them.This is a perfect film. "},{"Title":"wow, that's just awesome)","Date":"2 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It fills me with really great satisfaction to see such an excellently made and acted movie. Every word, scene, prop, and symbol are perfectly blended into one great awesome package. It's incredibly funny, a as matter of fact it has one of the longest funny scenes I have ever seen in my life, and not a word is spoken in it. Kudos to everyone in this film, directing is amazing, the visualization magnificent. It's hilarious, yet thoughtful, morally uplifting, educational, proves a very valid point, and was released in 1994. I want to thank my friend for watching it with me immediately upon learning that I had not seen it before. Simply, wow and a whole lot of whohohohohohahahahahhaohohohoho!!!!!........ "},{"Title":"Amazing piece of art","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I am not really sure what is it about this movie that makes it so addictive and lovable. I've seen it many times and sometimes I just listen to it and always enjoyed it. I believe this is a kind of movie which only can be made by ones who really love cinema, you know someone like Tornatore, and I think Cohen brothers are those kind of people. The movie seems so perfect to me that I can't find even one negative point.It really makes me wonder how come a movie which didn't grab much attention and was considered a box office bomb could be otherwise a master piece.This movie is certainly among the top 5 best movies I've ever seen! "},{"Title":"Funny Coen bros","Date":"11 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Tim Robbins is a mailroom clerk at Hudsucker Industries when the president of the company jumps out the window to his death. Norville(Robbins) is the chosen successor by way of the maneuvering of a board member, Stanley Mussberger(Paul Newman). Stanley is looking to depress the stock price for an easy takeover and Norville is his means of accomplishing this.Norville shocks everyone by inventing the hula hoop which becomes a huge seller with kids. Stanley continues to plot against his naive young man and the Coen boys turn to fantasy for the second half of this 1950's style screwball comedy in the tradition of Preston Sturges. It is a worthy entry which I would rank a notch below the masterpiece, Fargo, my personal favorite. "},{"Title":"A major effort","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This under-appreciated Coen classic is a real cinematic gem -- a comically twisted, surreal take on a Capra-esque screwball comedy, fronted by Tim Robbins as the canonical naive but passionate and good-hearted hero, and Jennifer Jason Leigh as the tough girl.I won't go into detail about plot, but rather mention what's truly remarkable, and that is the visuals. The camera work, the editing, the acting, the production design are all in perfect sync it's stylish, Gothic, with performances that are near Looney Tunes-like at times, and kinetic cutting, as in the sequence of hula hoop's inception, which was truly fascinating, pure cinematic bliss. Coens basically develop their Raising Arizona style further in this picture, finding purely visual means to communicate comedy. "},{"Title":"87% of the stock","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Coen Brothers broke some new ground with The Hudsucker Proxy. I had never seen populist films like the ones Frank Capra satirized so well since Preston Sturges did it in his golden years at Paramount. But Sturges was hemmed in by the Code and the Coens had far more freedom of expression to act. The reason that this film is set in an idealized version of the Fifties so that a popular fad of a simple product could be worked into the plot as an integral part of the story line. With no more worlds to conquer after a report that his company Hudsucker Industries is richer than ever, President and founder Charles Durning takes a running start out of the board meeting and plunges 44 stories to his demise. A spectacular exit to say the least.But it's left the board who are just yes men with a real problem. Durning owned 87% of the stock so his word was law. And his will specified within 30 days that 87% was to be put on the open market and sold to any and all on the Stock Exchange. That leaves these guys in a real jam.But second in command Paul Newman has a Capra villain solution to the problem. Find the biggest schnook around and make him president and then the market will lose confidence and the stock value will crash and the inside boys can buy it up dirt cheap. The schnook Newman finds works in the mail-room at Hudsucker Industries, new employee Tim Robbins who's newly arrived from the Muncie Indiana College of Business.Newman looks like he's having a great old time playing Sidney J. Musberger in the role Douglass Dumbrille would have had in those old Capra Films. Tim Robbins is the innocent Gary Cooper/Jimmy Stewart type Capra hero. Robbins is great, but if this had been done thirty years earlier Jerry Lewis would have been perfect casting. I'm sure if Jerry saw the film he'd think so too.Playing the Jean Arthur/Barbara Stanwyck is Jennifer Jason Leigh who is appropriately a snoop and scoop Lois Lane reporter. But who could not resist a charming oaf as Robbins is? Robbins does happen to invent a popular Fifties fad and Newman's plans are foiled, but eventually get back on track. If you are fans of those Frank Capra classics you know how this all turns out though the Coen Brothers used another popular fantasy film Stairway To Heaven for a surrealistic type ending.I think the chance to see Paul Newman get a great comedy part like he finally did in Slap Shot and do some great work with it is reason enough to see The Hudsucker Proxy. And this review is dedicated to that canny observer of the American scene, Preston Sturges. "},{"Title":"As much fun as a bottle of French champagne and a naked blonde","Date":"6 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Long before The Coen Brothers were a household name and racking up little golden statues on a regular basis, they were obscure geniuses who made movies that true cinephiles hoarded like Easter eggs. The Hudsucker Proxy was the brothers' big commercial debut. It was supposed to make lots of money but for some reason it disappeared from view with barely a murmur. Which is something of a mystery as Hudsucker is a tremendous entertainment, no matter how you slice it. Possibly the Coens' most upbeat film tonally it features several superb performances, notably Tim Robbins as lovable goof Norville Barnes, Paul Newman as the villain and a crackerjack turn from Jennifer Jason Leigh (furiously channeling Katherine Hepburn) as Amy Archer. The script sees the Coen boys at their most playful and the yucks flow fast and furious. The sets are superbly realised and the spoofing of the 1950s is a sheer delight. Multiple viewings are a must to reap the full benefits of this little known wonder. "},{"Title":"it takes you away","Date":"12 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe with the exception of Blood Simple, probably most of the Cohens movies needs more suspend of disbelief then other directors of these kind of movies (non-scifi, non-summer blockbuster types...etc).And Hudsucker is no exception. But it has one more hook on me that I am not sure why. Evertying time I see this again, I kind of expect something different. I want the movie to change, surprise me more, cause the first time, I didn't see the ending coming - like that - kind of suspended.Of course the movie have a bit of a theme but is more of an exercise in style. You are either dumb-founded or mesmerized by the amount/style/nuances of the dialogue, the gags, the over the top delineations. Just like Raising Arizona, or Brothers, or Miller's xxxing.Probably best movie for a new year's eve. Probably best opening voice over that is with a purpose and backdrop. The first 15 min is tight, and so is the last 15, everything in between is .. loose... pretty loosey goosey - like a marsh mellow roasting above a campfire. But you need to watch it again. Just to be sure. "},{"Title":"Excellent...","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Perfect I consider that The Hudsucker Proxy is the BEST movie of ALL TIMES. And I do not exaggerate with nothing when I say this. Great story, great effects, great playing. And I also thing this is an underrated movie. But my comment could be subjective because I love this movie.In just a few words, as one of the characters described the Hula Hoop, I can describe the entire movie Brilliant, Genius! It's exactly what Hudsucker industry needs at this juncture, please read Film Industry instead of Hudsucker industry. And this comment is very up to date to 2008 because I can't name one really good movie for this year. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"15 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've seen a lot of of *ank descriptions hereto, but I think this is one of the best Coen Bros films. That is better thanFargo Raising Arizona TB Lebowski OBWAThouI'm off to show this to my 12 yr old as an example of what can be good about films. Its funny and clever simultaneously (never a bad thing) and manages to resurrect a lot of (old) good ideas He's going to have to age 3 yrs before I let him see Millers Crossing. My 9 year old may have to wait 10 minutes or so until I complete the 10 lines of text that I need to in order to submit this critique before I let him watch this masterpiece. May I recommend the soundtrack to OBWAT if you haven't heard it - it's ace. Regding this film Paul N is great, Tim R is great, Jennifer JL is great The Coen bothers are masterful - Watch it !!That * is a W btw ) "}{"Title":"The Most Underrated Coen Film","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Hudsucker Proxy is perhaps the Coen Brothers silliest film, and also may be their most underrated. Although the structure of the plot is fairly straightforward as far as Coen movies go, drawing a lot from Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, the dialog and character interactions are absolute madness. It's just as clever and maybe more bizarre than anything the Coens have ever done. Tim Robbins does an excellent job, although I am not sure he was the best choice for the role, but Jennifer Jason Leigh unexpectedly steals the movie, and is captivating to watch from beginning to end. Some of the best material in the movie comes from the smaller parts, such as Bruce Campbell as a newspaper reporter, Bill Cobbs as Moses the clock man, and Jim True-Frost as Buzz the elevator operator. For some reason this film slipped under the radar, and tends to get pushed aside by the rest of the Coens' impressive repertoire, but this movie is not one to be missed.3.5 stars (out of 4) "},{"Title":"the best coen film ever","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" as a fan of the crazy coen films, with 'Oh Brother' a recent favorite, i felt that i had to comment on your site. The Hudsucker Proxy is one of my favorite films of all time, visually stunning, with a touch of fantasy, but appearing like it has it's feet on the ground at all times. You can really lose yourself in the excellent narrative, and fantastic set pieces, and you can really suspend your disbelief for a couple of hours and believe what you are seeing. I agree with everything the others have said that it is not only an under-rated Coen film, i also believe it is an under-rated 90's film, and will be looked on in 50 years time as we see 'Casablanca' or 'It's a Wonderful Life' "},{"Title":"A mix of a highly individual plot twisting though possibly lacking the usuall sharpness of the lines","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A mix of a highly individual plot twisting and memorable lines. Having said this, the lines are nowhere near as quotable as in films such as 'Fargo', or 'The big Lebowski'. It has its own charm about it, typical of a Coen movie, yet the influence of another writer obviosly changed the writing and in my view improved it, as the coens were in dangour of;- dare i say it, being 'samey'. The film is impressive and I rate it as 8/10 "},{"Title":"Flawed, but too charming not to like a lot","Date":"2 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Coen Brothers' fifth film. It's well liked today, but was a disaster when it opened, grossing less than $3 million domestic on a budget of around $25 million. It also didn't do that well critically. It's not hard to see why. It's a film of all style and no substance. It's often easy to get lost in its labyrinthine production design and forget about the rather forgettable characters. Not to mention that it has the most forehead-slapping deus ex machina outside of Greek tragedy. Oh how I wish the Coens and co-writer Sam Raimi would have re-read the script one last time and realized how poor that whole climactic sequence really was. The characters may not be as interesting as they are in any of their other films, but they deserve better than that. Despite its massive flaws, I must say that The Hudsucker Proxy is so extremely enjoyable that it's pretty close to impossible to dislike. I for one enjoy getting lost in the art deco New York City the Coens have created. And there's something magical in the clockwork way the film runs, the mechanical dialogue and editing. It's strange, and it's not always successful, but it's so wholly original that I have a lot of affection for the picture. "},{"Title":"The Einstein of Enterprise. The Edison of Industry. The Billion Dollar Cranium. Idea Man.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Waring Hudsucker, President of the booming Hudsucker Industries, sits at the far end of a board meeting. An employee has just finished reporting that profits are way up and that they are now loaded. Suddenly, Hudsucker (Charles Durning) clears his throat, stands on top of the table and dashes down its length, hurling himself through the glass window ahead. In the fast-paced, hustle-and-bustle world of 1950s New York, there is something almost beautiful about the man's extended descent to earth. We follow him as he falls, and observe the look of pure exhilaration upon his face.Just seconds after the esteemed Hudsucker strikes the pavement, most of the board members have already overcome their grief, moving on to address more important matters. Why did he do it? Maybe the man was unhappy. Why didn't he just open the window first? Waring Hudsucker never did anything the easy way. They bicker over how many floors the man plummeted 44, but 45 if you include the mezzanine. Sidney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman, Road to Perdition) confidently rises to his feet, informing his colleagues that Hudsucker's entire portfolio &#150; 87% of the company stock &#150; will be converted into common stock and sold over the counter on January 1, in one month's time. In order for them to buy this stock themselves, they must beat down the stock price as much as possible. They intend to do this by hiring a moronic pawn as President &#150; Some jerk we can really push around.Meanwhile, an enthusiastic young Muncie graduate, Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins, 'The Shawshank Redemption'), arrives in New York to make his fortune. However, having no experience, the only job he can get is in the mail room at Hudsucker Industries. When he is recruited to deliver an all-important Blue Letter to Mussburger, Barnes tries to propose his brilliant new idea for a kid's toy (signified by a perfect circle drawn on a piece of paper), before setting Mussburger's office on fire and nearly sending him out of a 44th storey window (or 45th, if you include the mezzanine). Having found his moronic pawn, Mussburger appoints Barnes the newest President of Hudsucker Industries.Joel and Ethan Coen are two writers known for their snappy, quick-witted dialogue, and here is no exception. Jennifer Jason Leigh's character, Amy Archer, a Pulitzer-prize winning journalist for the Manhattan Argus, is the perfect caricature of a fast-talking, no-nonsense reporter of the era, spewing forth dialogue more rapidly than you could possibly register it. Tim Robbins is the likable, if a bit dim-witted, ambitious young man who is eventually consumed by his unexpected success. Paul Newman is the masterfully cruel and sleazy company executive who finds his well-laid plans crumbling beneath him. 'The Hudsucker Proxy' is yet another weird and wacky screwball comedy from the Coen Brothers, and an enjoyable addition to their cinematic palette. "},{"Title":"My karma squashed your dogma","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Hey, what gives?This is so good it__has__to be fattening.  Thank you, Coens!  I find this one of their best (despite that it was their lowest on IMDb until lately) because it shows invention on both their part and on that of their participants.First things first, this is cinematic in ways that 'Raising Arizona' was not.  Instead of Nic Cage trying to be funny and falling flat, we get Robbins who lives in a world outside the movie.  Cage wouldn't catch on to this until 'Matchstick Men'.  We also get the gutsy Ms. Leigh, I doubt many others could've pulled off what she did.  More importantly, we get Paul Newman.Newman really didn't do that well before this period in time.  'Butch & Sundance', 'Sting', and 'Luke' all show him as mugger.  We lived by his face alone.  Redford still tries this so I prefer avoiding him now while Newman can still draw my attention.  Compare 'Road to Perdition' to 'Last Castle', you'll see what I mean.We also get very competent crews here.  I'm doing more studying of Deakins' work since this and 'O Brother' were so elaborate.  We also get an editor who's dealt with Truffault, Weir and Scott.  Lastly, the designer does 'Brazil'--and it works in the glossy retro way.The Coens, speaking of which, put their usual entwined heads together to make an equally entwined story.  I usually don't care for this sort of thing, but they make it so interesting.  We once again have the god substitute that serves as narrator.  Bruce Campbell is illustrator--there's lots of images here (photos, paintings, aged film, doodlings and, of course, the movie itself).  Very similar to 'The Game', only slightly more advanced.  Ugh, too rich for me.Final Analysis = = Learn from this... "},{"Title":"Frank Capra on Crack","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 'Hudsucker Proxy' is early Coen Brothers, paying a hypertensive homage to the films of Frank Capra and Preston Sturges, in an over-the-top film that very nearly works. When Waring Hudsucker (Charles Durning), founder and president of Hudsucker Industries, inexplicably hurls himself from the 44th floor of his wildly successful company, the fatcats in the boardroom are faced with a dilemma because Mr. Hudsucker has no heirs, the company will go public on the next January 1. Unable to collectively procure the high-priced stock themselves and thus losing controlling interest, a fiendish plan is devised by company Vice President Sidney J. Mussburger (played with delightfully evil glee by the great Paul Newman) &#x96; promote a know-nothing nobody into the role of president and watch the stock price plummet. Enter Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins), a gangly, wide-eyed optimist with a dream in his back pocket, and Hudsucker has its 'proxy.' Everything proceeds as planned until Norville surprises everyone by introducing his idea to the world, and the stock prices soar upwards. Mussburger encounters a new challenge &#x96; how to rid Hudsucker Industries of Norville, its new shining star. Visually eye-filling and impressive, when 'Hudsucker Proxy' is working, it's laugh-out-loud funny, which is much of the time. Tim Robbins brings great warmth and gentle naiveté to his role as Barnes; on the flip side is Jennifer Jason Leigh as the Pulitzer-winning reporter who ultimately falls for Norville, affecting a poor, ill-conceived imitation of Katherine Hepburn, ultimately coming off as shrill and unlikable. Regrettably underused is Bill Cobbs as Moses the Clockman, who helps ground the story and keeps it from becoming too silly. Otherwise 'Hudsucker' is a mad romp that moves quickly and is genuinely heart-warming. I gave it 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Too much overblown art, not enough comedy.","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I know this is supposed to be a classic and classy comedy, but for me, it was just trying too hard and doing too little for almost the whole film, using long contrived set shots that are nicely cinematic, but don't do anything for me as a viewer. The whole premise is a sound enough idea, and opens well, but after almost an hour into the movie I still felt I was somehow still trapped in the introduction - despite early sparks it took a long time to get going, and then never seemed to really move with any pace.Charles Durning added a special touch in his near-cameo role, and there are a decent handful of funny moments from Robbins in particular, but overall I found the film predictable, sluggish and ultimately disappointing, as I'd expected so much more. A shame. "},{"Title":"it would have worked better as a children film.","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The story of this film is simple. Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins) who is a fresh faced college graduate gets a job in the mail room of the hugely successful Hudsucker Industries. On his first day on the job the chairman of the Hudsucker industries commits suicide. Board of Directors led by Sidney J. Mussberger (Paul Newman) decides to lower the companies stock by installing an idiot in his place, then taking advantage of lowered stock price. Barnes is the innocent idiot.This film is simply loud and annoying; every thing is overdone. For example,the scene where Barnes has to take the blue letter to the office was so annoying at one point I thought about turning off the damn thing. The bullet fast dialogue is unfunny and not as clever as it tried to be. Every single shot and dialogue is overdone to a point that it becomes unwatchable. This film feels like a parody sketch on a comedy show or a children's film.Tim Robbins and Paul Newman did a pretty good job (as usual). But Jennifer Jason Leigh's character is more annoying then nails on a chalkboard. Surely she has got to be one of the most irritating movie characters that I have ever seen. Every time she was on the screen I felt like shooting my TV screen. Her portrayal of a fast talking career women who thinks she is one of the boys is painfully unfunny and simply stupid. I had to put the subtitles on to get an idea of what she was talking about. And that elevator boy? Just don't get me started. All I can say about him is that annoying piece of &^%^&$%^.The only positive about this film is the set deign. It is one of the better looking films that you are likely to see. I liked all the other Cohan brothers' films. But I cannot believe that they were behind this piece of £$£!$£$.Over all I give this movie a 4/10. "},{"Title":"In my opinion, Mr Deeds (2002) stole a bit from this movie","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In terms of the situation where the female newspaper reporter gets close to the man she thinks is an imbecile only to eventually discover he is not the moron he's depicted to be in the papers. And like in HP, the female reporter in Mr. Deeds claims to be from a small town like him. Amy Archer in HP pretends to be from the same town as Norville. Winona Rider's character pretends to be from a different small town similar to Longfellow Deeds. Like in HP, Mr. Deeds falls in love the female reporter, despite the fact that she lied to him about her identity and did him wrong. The difference era wise was that HP was set in the 50's whereas Mr. Deeds (2002) was set in present day. "}{"Title":"Fun, Fun, and More Fun!","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Hudsucker Proxy is a fun screwball comedy that pays dear homage to all the comedies in early cinema history from the 20's, 30's, and 40's. This film style reminds me of Frank Capra and Howard Hawks. The film, another glory film by the Coen Brothers, has a magical, Christmas-like feeling to it and that makes it all the better. Plus this film has some fun physical comedy, sharp gags, and very beautiful visuals.The Coens Brother's film is about some business school graduate who is installed as president of the Hudsucker Industries after the suicide of the previous President. This is all part of a grand scheme by Sidney Mussberger and the Board.The acting is very good for the most part. Tim Robbins is quite funny as a goofball. Paul Newman is great as always and quite menacing. Jennifer Jason Leigh was so-so, but she did have some memorable scenes.Overall, this is a funny, wacky, and pretty magical film that is the result of a quality effort by Joel and Ethan Coen. I can't believe how people are hating on this film, but I find it purely enjoyable. The visuals are great and so are the set designs. I loved this picturesque view of 1950's New York City. This is a fun film and I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"When the Coen brothers reinvent the wheel ...","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After watching The Hudsucker Proxy again, and reading Roger Ebert's review (again), I lamentably admit that I'm totally out of words. The film is so incongruously appealing that I feel my review should match the same level of creativeness and wonder it brought on the screen. But seriously, what more can I say about the Coen brothers' The Hudsucker Proxy that it's one of the best-looking comedies ever. There are many moments in the film, (in fact, quite every time) where I felt myself wondering if I had to keep track on the story or my eyes on the dazzling looks it offered from the beautiful panoramic shots of majestic and creepy Babel-Tower like skyscrapers or the sumptuous recreation of the Big Corporations' inside rooms with never-ending tables as vertiginous as the buildings, from a horizontal perspective. Roger Deakins' geometric cinematography is absolutely breath-taking and rather than being put for the only 'eye-pleasing' purpose, works as the setting of some spectacular scenes.The most notable one is the opening where the respected President, Waring Hudsucker, played by the late Charles Durning, decides to make the big dive, fed up of all that business mumbo-jumbo he had to endure his all life. That long jump and long is an understatement (Hudsucker even finds time to tell people on the ground to move away), is weirdly convincing and hilarious through the anticlimactic slap at the end, the obligatory fat-ugly woman screaming and the verbal aftermath carried by heartless board members and their ruthless leader, Sidney Mussburger, played by Paul Newman. The jump scene sums up the film's appeal it looks great and makes you laugh. And naturally, if you're a fan of Frank Capra's classics where greedy corporate businessman use a naive and idealistic schmuck to fulfill some evil schemes, and all the subsequent archetypes spinning closes-up on newspapers headlines, nosy and noisy journalists and the snappy wisecracking workaholic female who'll get infatuated on the goodhearted fool she investigates on (Tim Robbins is perfect as the well-meaning Norville Barnes), comic-reliefs sidekicks and all that stuff, well, if you look at Hollywood Golden Age with nostalgic eyes, The Hudsucker Proxy will be familiar territory for you. And that Capraesque touch clearly helps to appreciate the film.Indeed, that half-homage and half-parody approach constitutes a solid platform on which the improbability of the story can efficiently evolve. And for some strange reasons, to which the Coen brothers only know the secret, each actor, by playing his character in the required over-the-top way, gave them that touch of believability for the film's bizarre poetry. I concede it takes time to get into some characters, I for once, thought Jennifer Lason Leigh was unbearable as the journalist, now, I can't see how her performance could have worked differently. The point is not that she impersonated Katharine Hepburn or Rosalind Russell well or badly, but that she was 'impersonating'. It's a film firmly aware of its 'cinematicality'.Naturally, the film isn't beyond criticism for all that. Many would argue that its very attention to great designs and magnificent looking details give a touch of seriousness inducing more serious expectations regarding the plot. My agreement with Ebert concerns the way the poster spoiled what would have been one hell of a middle-plot twist. I'm talking of course of the circle that would be revealed as the hula-hoop. That basic circle, Norville Barnes showed to everyone, adding the repeated line You know, for kids as if it was supposed to give a clue, could have been the film's McGuffin since it's the very device that triggers Mussburger's desire to hire Barnes as the proxy, in order to depress the stock and buys all the company's interests, but what a great surprise it would have been to have that revealed in the middle of the film.Apart from that missed opportunity, the film works and never leaves any hint of a dramatic evolution of the story. And when drama, there is, it only plays as set-ups from some screwball situations, the opening with Norville Barnes trying to jump from the Hudsucker's high clock is a reminiscence of John Doe's character (Gary Cooper) in Meet John Doe, but I defy anyone to claim that he saw the resolution coming. Not to say that it would satisfy all the viewers, but still, it fits the film's surrealistic touch to the film, with all flash and style, but not without substance. Granted The Hudsucker Proxy isn't Metropolis, The Crowd or Brazil but by its stylistic recreation of these iconic setting, leverage our thoughts to the more satirical material. Maybe it's too far-fetched, but I didn't think the film needed to speak explicit statement against savage capitalism; the point is smoothly made without distracting from the slapstick and screwball material. The assumption of 'all flash and no substance' isn't totally irrelevant but with such flashy brilliance and such great dialogs, the film can't be branded as unsubstantial. It's classy, surrealist, and funny and much more, it succeeds to put all these qualities together, something a few films can pretend to achieve. And on a more basic level, the film is so damn funny. I laughed, I laughed a lot. Maybe not as much as in the first act, but the laughs were equally combined with true satire and a dazzling photography, served by superb performances.The film works both on the surface and its content. I wish I could say more, I wish my vocabulary would be richer, but all I can do is summarize the film by paraphrasing its repeated line you know, for laughs That's what it is, a movie made for laughs, and the rest is just a delightful cinematic experience, something fresh made out of familiar material. Basically, the Coen brothers did the same than Norville Barnes they reinvented the wheel. "},{"Title":"Reversal of fortune, not a kidding manner","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It is two weeks before the New Year of 1959. Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins) has arrived in New York City looking for a job after his graduation from college in Muncie, Indiana. With no working experience, he found himself working at the mailroom of the Hudsucker Industries. On the same day, the company's founder and president Waring Hudsucker (Charles Durning) unexpectedly committed suicide by jumping off from the top-floor window despite the company had been doing well financially.Back at the mailroom, there is the arrival of the 'Blue Letter' which Barnes had been assigned to hand it personally to Sidney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman), a member of the board of directors. When Barnes did eventually meet Mussburger, he would forget about the letter he was supposed to deliver and began talking about the new invention he had for the company. Mussburger would eventually decide to let Barnes become the replacement for Hudsucker, acting as the proxy where the company's stock would deflate at the appointment of an inexperienced and incompetent president.Across town, Amy Archer (Jennifer Jason Leigh), the Pulitzer Prize- winning journalist for the Manhattan Argus had successfully gone undercover working as a personal secretary for Barnes, pretending to be another desperate graduate from Muncie. In actual fact, she was assigned to do a profile of Barnes. Along the way, she would come to see how Barnes had been transformed as a person after his idea of the hula hoop take off across the country, going against what Mussburger and the board had thought the invention would depress the company stock.This can be seen as a film of about reversal of fortunes, of how Barnes went from the mailroom clerk to the company president and how he nearly went back to how it all started for him before being saved by an unlikely source. It is what would happen towards the ending which brings one full circle of what happened at the beginning of the film.Overall, it is a fairly enjoyable film, if one likes to root for the underdog which in this case is Barnes with the exception of what happened when the hula hoop invention changed his fortune. "},{"Title":"A visually inspired and funny flick","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I love the Coen brothers, and being a lesser Coen brother movie is hard, because all there others are so dang brilliant. The Hudsucker Proxy is a prime example of this. It's a good, funny movie, but watching it in the line-up the most the Coen brothers' other work, it's just a little weak. There are some great things about this flick though, for example the cinematography and visual look of the movie is totally awesome, and I really liked the film's premise/themes. The only thing I really didn't care for in this movie was Jennifer Jason Leigh... her character was annoying to me. The Hudsucker Proxy is definitely worth watching, and if you're a hardcore fan of the Coen brothers like myself, I think you'll enjoy and appreciate this underrated gem. "},{"Title":"The Hudsucker Proxy","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Silly of me, I was so possessed with the thought that this is a Robert Altman film until the end- credits rolls! It's a Joe Coen's film! Then I checked on internet and it became clear that I was taking for THE PLAYER (1992), Altman's inside Hollywood satire which also stars Tim Robbins. For me, the film is an amalgam of Capra's IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE (1946) and Terry Gilliam's BRAZIL (1985). A futuristic surrealism is a tentative stab for Coen brothers but a diverting treat for their fanboys. The free-falling scenes are devastatingly jaw-dropping and the time- stopping clock backdrop is a brilliant tactic. About the cast, what a stroke of luch to be a post-graduate rookie at the age of 35 both physically and mentally. Tim Robbins' chubby baby-face does the magic like the hoola-hoop does to the Hudsucker enterprise in the film! Maybe overshadowed by THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION at the same year, Tim's performance is more accurate than impressive. A Pulitzer winner reporter Jennifer Jason Leigh and the legendary Paul Newman are the goldmine here in my opinion, especially for the former, she could embody herself with eruptive vehemence and wide-eyed ingénue in the same scene! God, I love her bullets-blasting wrangle with John Mahoney and Bruce Campbell (sticks like glue to Sam Raimi, who is the co-writer of the film).All in all, I cannot say it is Coen brothers' best film largely due to a slightly frivolous script and an overexposed ridicule, I'm more in favor of their later works, namely, NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN 2007 and TRUE GRIT 2010. "},{"Title":"Hoopla for the friends","Date":"30 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Coen Brothers had to go to the Wall of lamentations of Hollywood and remake Orson Welles' Citizen Kane. How can you inherit the greatest fortune in the world and know about it when you are going to hit the sidewalk falling from the fifty-fifth or fifty-fourth floor, according to you counting or not the mezzanine. At this moment your life is suspended in mid air by one blonde hair of your ideal love affair, or love targeted prey, ,and that hair is the broom stick of a black janitor, which is niggardly indeed, and the denture of an old spook who refuses innovation in stock exchange managing. The whole film is a hoopla about nothing, a hula hoop or a budsucker straw. The whole film revolve around a conception of the press that is quite Kanesque, scandal, hidden secrets, false accusations and true insinuations, in one word pulp pulp and pulp again. And the newly made rich man is living his accident &#x96; becoming rich out of no logic &#x96; as if it were natural and did not require any thinking, pondering and brain exploration if not surgery, like in some cuckoo's nest of fame. And it even ends up with a marriage. Isn't it funny? Are the Coen Brothers growing romantic? Probably not, but sentimentally sarcastic for sure.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, CEGID "},{"Title":"If you don't laugh, they'll dock your pay!","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" From the outset with the rich music and texture of the film, you know you're in for a treat, and you are. The quality of the acting (Paul Newman for example), the evocative mood of the 50s (all the more enjoyable if you had older brothers who lived through them and can relive those stories). It's just an outstanding, fun film that will have you laughing in spite of yourself sometimes. (You might not think seeing someone commit suicide is funny, but trust me on this one...)The ending makes no sense at all, and is in fact impossible but considering how wacky the rest of the movie is, oh well. I was going to deduct a point for that, (you know, for the kids) but I was afraid they'd dock me. "},{"Title":"Amazing allegory","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film is beautiful on several levels. Tim Robbins plays the wide-eyed rube, Norville Barnes, to a tee. Paul Newman's evil Sydney Mussburger is a capitalist-baiting treasure as he leads his bumbling board in a twisted ruse. As befits the Coen's allegorical style, every character is over the top both in personality and plot relevance. But the most perfectly played role in this film of great roles belongs to Jennifer Jason Leigh as a fast talking news reporter out to expose the Hudsucker scam. It takes a little bit of viewer effort to keep up with her, but you know it's clearly worth it from the moment she takes command of the scene.The deliberate, baritone narration and the evocative, enveloping sights and sounds take you back to a vintage era both in film-making and in American life. The Coen brothers use their superb writing skill to give us that bygone era's whiplash banter (think Preston Sturgis) behind that veil of a modern, satiric sensibility that characterizes all of their films. And, of course, they give us a great story.Of the hundreds of movies I have seen, less than a dozen merit a perfect 10 from me. In the interest of full disclosure, the Coen brothers merit three of them, so you can see my bias toward that combination of great writing, transporting cinematography, perfect acting, and the kind of music that could easily stand alone as a luscious orchestral event, yet fits perfectly in the movie for which it was scored. This is one of those films that looks just right the first time you see it, only to make you realize on each subsequent viewing just how much you missed before. (10) "},{"Title":"100% Brilliance","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This absolutely wonderful yet vastly overlooked film remains one of the finest instalments in the Coen Brothers cannon to this day. Part affectionate homage to the fast-talking movies of the 1940s (most notably 'His Girl Friday'), part playful satire on the cutthroat worlds of business and media, and a winning, immensely enjoyable metropolitan fantasy all-over, I fell in love with every single aspect of 'the Hudsucker Proxy' when I first came across it, and subsequent viewings have only left me even more convinced that I'll never be able to say enough good things about it. Certainly, there isn't a bad word to be said &#150; with its ingenious set-up, lovable hero, ravishing scenery and breath-taking score, this is a buried treasure trove of a production, well-worth digging out. The film-making siblings are as keen here as ever to demonstrate their knack for fusing the macabre with the mirthful, with an impressive 44-storey suicide leap forming one of the earliest scenes (and it is expertly done, so as to feel sad, horrific and, thanks to the reactions from various onlookers, hysterical all at once) but on the whole I'd say this rates as the most whimsical, even magical, of their efforts thus far, playing almost like their personalised take on the films of Frank Capra. It's warped, wacky and unorthodox, with their trademark Coen anarchy written all over it, but with genuine warmth and feel-goodness always nuzzling at the centre. The blend is so perfect, and with so much on offer for everyone, I have no idea why this movie has had so much trouble, since its neglected release, achieving the mass appeal it was built for.Far removed from the disquieting grittiness of 'Fargo' and 'Blood Simple' (the two Coen flicks which, incidentally, would be right up there with this one in my Top 3 list of all their output, so you know my tastes are assorted), not only is it brilliantly comical and laugh-out-loud hilarious on a consistent level, it also tells a charming and irresistible underdog tale in its most basic and effective form. Tim Robbins is at his topmost endearing (very, very high indeed) as Norville Barnes, the naive young business school graduate who makes up for what he lacks in canniness with bright ideas and guileless innocence. Arriving in New York City in the late 1950s with hopes of making it big, only to wind up toiling at the nadir of the occupational food chain in the mail rooms of the aggressive Hudsucker Industries, thanks to sheer fluke in circumstance he finds himself promoted to the top of the company in a matter of hours. There, he gets the chance to live out his personal dream of bringing his revolutionary design for a new children's toy, the 'Hula Hoop' (or, as it could just have easily been branded, the 'Wacky Circumference', amongst other possible monikers) to the world, unaware that it's all just part of a devious stock-holder ploy, and that he's little more than a puppet, or indeed, 'proxy', in the hands of the scheming Paul Newman.At the bare bones, it's the familiar saga of a good-natured man wrestling, if unwittingly, with impersonal corporate greed, the odds stacked firmly to his detriment, but leave it up to the Coens to make that feel refreshing and resourceful. The abundance of clever dialogue and snazzy scenes, in the form of everything from a dream sequence to a vintage news bulletin, to a brief commentary provided on one encounter from a pair of jaded onlookers, keeps things ticking along very smoothly, while Carter Burwell's musical score is a scintillating audio treat, splendidly structured with the on-screen action. The results of this are truly uproarious (try getting through that Hula Hoop production sequence with an entirely straight expression on your face &#150; I swear, it can't be done). But what really brings this movie to life, and one of the key reasons why I've no hesitations to award it full marks, is the sheer pull and appeal of its cast of characters. For all their exaggerated, embellished quirkiness, each and every one of them comes complete with the essential bona fide qualities needed to engage us in the story &#150; the unsuspecting, genial Norville is a charming, fascinating character you can readily warm to, his sneaky but sensitive romantic interest, journalist Amy Archer (a wonderfully dynamic Jennifer Jason Leigh), likewise, while Sidney J. Mussburger is appropriately menacing as well as amusing. They're also complimented by an unforgettable collection of support, including Moses the Clock Guy (who provides intermittent narration and addresses both the audience and the characters alike, a technique which would later be repeated in 'the Big Lebowski'), Buzz the staggeringly voluble elevator boy, a creepy, wordless janitor and, last but not least, a tee-totalling beatnik bartender played by the phenomenal Steve Buscemi (a small role, but worth a mention), all of whom have their own distinctive flavour and sparkle to add to the picture, each helping to make it that extra bit more terrific.To sum up, 'the Hudsucker Proxy' is a comic masterpiece, a laugh-riot that touches, dazzles and delights, and without doubt one of the sharpest movies to come out of the 1990s. And that's something which the general indifference of the movie-going public at the time can never take away from it. Of course, it wasn't the only film starring Tim Robbins to be denied the recognition it sorely deserved on its initial release in 1994 &#150; fortunately for 'the Shawshank Redemption', success may have taken its time but it got there eventually. I only hope that the same can be said of 'the Hudsucker Proxy' one day. Lord knows, it deserves it.Grade A+ "},{"Title":"A Coen classic","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was not a hit when it was released. It's hard to know why. This is classic Coen stuff. The basic story is simple, yet appears as a metaphor in every moment. Brilliant cinematography gives it an amazing freshness. And there are a number of interesting side characters such as the elevator guy, the clock guard, the newspaper editor or the first boy using the hoop. Even the large clock becomes personified in Coen's visionary.The allover acting is above average. Tim Robbins is quite good as Barnes. Perhaps it is no match for The Shawshank Redemption but I think it should be counted as one of his top five. Jennifer Jason Leigh is just awesome here. It is no doubt her best performance so far. Her accent just stole the show (Remember the monologue containing 5 Shut up!s before she resigns from Hudsucker Industries?). She brings the classic sensual female character of the fifties into herself. Paul Newman, with his stone-cold personality, is also fabulous. "}{"Title":"Just beautiful!","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is gorgeous.  The Coens work with Roger Deakins all the time, and he makes all their movies look original and beautiful.  This one is no exception.  These guys use tricks from the 20s (and some new stuff they thought up too) and make them work seamlessly.The dialogue absolutely flies.  It pops like a firecracker, word after word exploding in a stream of nearly indecipherable metaphors and one liners. It could be really terrible if the actors mumbled at all, or if the editors didn't capture each syllable distinctly, but none fail (or fall) and it has the most unique dialogue I can remember in a film.  An example of lousy fast talking exists in Miller's Crossing (another Coen Bros. flick).  It's not rampant, but when it pops up, it sucks the character out of the movie.What I really love about this movie, though, is its heart.  Norville Barnes is a lovable character, played lovingly by Tim Robbins.  He fills the screen with sincere, wide-eyed enthusiasm, and he always makes me smile.  I love that he succeeds without losing himself, and I would like to think that I have a little Norville Barnes in myself somewhere. "},{"Title":"Great Movie J.J.Leigh was outstanding!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie that people either love or hate. Nobody says It was O.K. So if I am talking movies with someone I will ask them If they liked this movie. And that tells me if I should listen to their opinions about other movies. The pace, The style, The acting GREAT, GREAT, GREAT! YOU KNOW, FOR KIDS? "},{"Title":"Mr. Barnes Goes to Town","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This charming screwball comedy from 1937 stars Gary Cooper as NorvilleBarnes, a small-time business school schlub who comes to the big cityand is selected by de-facto boss Lionel Barrymore as a proxy to helpplummet the price of Hudsucker Industries stock so it can be bought bythe board of directors. Jean Arthur stars as a tough gal reporter wholatches herself onto the big new man in town disguised as a poor smalltown girl. Chaos and hilarity ensew when Barnes invents the Hula Hoop.Actually, this film is from 1994 and stars Tim Robbins, Paul Newman, andJennifer Jason Leigh, but it fits perfectly into the mold of the classic'30s populist farce done so well by Frank Capra. The Coen Brothers M.O.has increasingly become luxuriation in an antique time while subvertingthe genre at the same time. I haven't been this blown away by a filmsince I saw The Usual Suspects. With Peter Gallagher, surreal in a cameoas a mix between Dean Martin and Elvis P "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not my favorite by the Coen brothers, but it is still pretty good.  The story is good, but I found Tim Robbins and Jennifer Jason Leigh's characters kind of annoying.  But that was part of the story.  The film is technically perfect, like all Coen brothers films.  See it if you like the Coen brothers films, and see it even if you don't like the Coen brothers films. "},{"Title":"Yeah yeah, sure sure","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The characters in a Coen film are always fun to watch. People are frantically flailing their arms, with their eyes darting across the room, making as many faces as they can. Here we've got the rhyming, giggling bellhop, the wicked man behind-the-scenes, the wide-eyed schmuck, etc., etc.We follow the dough-faced Tim Robbins, the unknowing patsy, on his rise to the top of Hudsucker Industries after an unexpected vacancy leaves a spot open in the company. Paul Newman, with his raspy voice, is spot-on as the man behind-the-scenes. His famous ice blue eyes add to his psychotic, unpredictable nature and he somehow remains dignified throughout the film. There are lots of familiar Coen faces here John Mahoney, as a newspaper editor; Bruce Campbell, as a reporter; Peter Gallagher, as a singer; Steve Buscemi, as a beatnik bartender; and what sounds like John Goodman's voice all make guest appearances.Out of the major actors, Jennifer Jason Leigh, as one of John Mahoney's workers who's sure Robbins is as phony as a three-dollar bill,  is the only one not up to the task. The Coens require their eccentrics to be walking cartoons in a cartoon world -- with faces that look like they've been molded out of Play-Doh -- but Leigh can't tap into their style and as a result, is left behind.One of my complaints with the film is that for a work filled with so many fantastic ideas, they're often not all that surprising. When Charles Durning steps up onto the table, we know what he's about to do, so the suspense is lost (but made up for later). Similarly, many people have noted how much more effective and fun the early part of the story would have been, had the hula hoop not been shown on the film's box cover. In the final part of the movie we have a pretty good idea of what will be Robbins' saving grace as well (but, again, there are some more goodies here). A few of the incidents -- no matter how ridiculous and seemingly inventive -- we somehow see coming.There's no point in even addressing the whole all-style no-substance condemnation the Coens always get -- Fargo is their only movie with a genuine heart. But no one goes to see a Coen movie for an emotional ride anyway, we go for style, cleverness and jokes. It's their most elaborate movie to date, with inflated sets and an outdoor view that looks somewhat like Gotham City. The music is certainly some of the best for Coen regular Carter Burwell (he re-arranges or borrows some from Aram Khatchaturian). The camera is always engaging from the great Roger Deakins, who knows how to give the camera an aerobic workout without distraction.For anyone who is allergic to the mean-spiritedness and grotesque, off-putting violence of some of the other Coen films (Blood Simple, Miller's Crossing, Fargo), The Hudsucker Proxy is a welcome carnival of enjoyment -- not a trace of highfalutin nastiness here. There's no guilt in finding pleasure here, either, the way that you may be disgusted with yourself for laughing in Fargo, for instance.No modern filmmakers use dialogue and verbal gymnastics in such a fun way as Joel and Ethan. My favorite line A battery option for the lazy or the spastic.*** "},{"Title":"Terrific movie - Terrible title","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd seen and enjoyed this movie a couple of times before, but just happened upon it again recently as a late night TV movie, and I realized how this is one of those rare and wonderful films that you find more and more things to enjoy each time you watch it. (One of the other few films that I'd put in that category also features Tim Robbins and also came out in 1994 - The Shawshank Redemption. Good year for Tim, eh?)Hudsucker Proxy is inventive, funny, full of wonderfully drawn characters and vignettes, and even hits some nice dramatic chords amongst the comedy and business satire. So why did this film fail so miserably at the box office? As others have pointed out, it can only be one thing- the title. The Hudsucker Proxy? Gosh, who would want to see that? As I recall, I didn't want to see it on video, either, when I heard that title, but my father, who rents just about every movie that comes out, highly recommended it. I'm glad he did and I'm glad I gave it a chance. But whoo, what a stinker of a title, and though this film is perhaps not of the style that would have made it a big hit, regardless of the title, I really think that the fact that it only grossed $3 million is definitely because of that. With a better title, I think it might have been a sleeper, as more people would have given it a chance. But that's irrelevent now. It's certainly a great movie, so if you haven't seen it because of the title, give it a chance anyway!9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Don't forget Howard Hawkes.","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There seems to be a tendency in a lot of folks who like the Coen brother's films to dismiss criticism with a derisive you just don't get it, something that has rubbed quite a few others the wrong way. I can see merits in both sides. On the one hand, the Coens seem to be steeped in film history, write lots of jokes that are grounded in allusion, double entendre, subtlety and arcane references. As such, it is not all that easy to get the Coen brothers without having watched a lot of film and read a lot of books. On the other hand, quite a lot in the films is accessible to the point of transparent. For instance, their quite a lot of the humor in almost all of their films is bawdy, jocular and pretty straightforward.All this leads me to the Hudsucker Proxy, which is my personal favorite of their films. I like their other offerings very much, but this film seems to grab the elements of screwball comedy, modernist photography and good guy-finishes-first plotline in a way that hearkens back to His Girl Friday and The Philadelphia Story. The writing is razor sharp, the casting is superb, the editing is seamless, the acting is top shelf and the gags are great. For anyone who likes the comic sensibilities of Capra, Hawkes, and even Wilder, then this film is for them. Ignore the rubbish about how dumb this film is; suspend judgment and take it all in. Immerse yourself in the visuals, the tommy gun banter and the whiz bang plot. It will definitely be worth your while. "},{"Title":"Funny as any other film I've seen.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I can imagine Jimmy Stewart as Norville Barnes. The film is (on some levels at least) a sugary-sweet feel-good christmas story. It's incredibly arch by times, but manages to accomplish this without any bitter post-modern tang. It's brilliant fun.On other levels though, it's a scathing satire on corporate mentality (a lot of the set design has a distinctly fascist feel to it) and a slightly-too-complex to totally fit the genre lesson at the end. These layers shouldn't work together, but they do. Very well. Excellent film. "},{"Title":"A very upbeat and truly unique comedy-- definitely Coen Bros.","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a very upbeat sophisticated movie that truly has the Coen This is a very upbeat sophisticated movie that truly has the Coen Brothers unique touch of comedy and style.  More than merely a comedy it is in reality a satire directed at the American (or now world) corporate structure. It is very well done and Jennifer Jason Leigh is delightful. It shows a side of her acting ability that too few of her performances feature.  Tim Robbins is also excellent and seems to be perfect for his role.  Personally I feel I know exactly what the Coen Brothers were trying to do here.  Keep in mind this movie was created in the early 1990's.  When you realize the changing attitude of women in the modern corporate structure one truly appreciate Jennifer Jason Leigh's ability to satirize it to such a sophisticated degree.The Coen Brothers also did something different here. They gave this movie a flavor of the way movies were done in the late 1930's to mid 1950's.  They created a sense of what I like to call a fantasy of reality.  Watch this movie and you will understand what I  mean.  "},{"Title":"One of my Favorites","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of the Coens and I will never understand why this generally seems to be one of their less appreciated films.I'm actually having a hard time now finding words for why exactly I like this movie so much. Is it the wonderful Brazil-like set pieces and props? The one-liners that never seem to lose their punch no matter how often you watch the film? The way the plot touches major themes so lightheartedly?Maybe its also the excellent cast and the great job all actors do. Above all, Tim Robbins obviously has a great time playing Norville Barnes. Some of the moments he delivers are totally priceless.Anyway, I think the Coens are geniuses and this film proves it at least as much as their more highly regarded works (like Fargo or The Big Lebowsky).10/10 "}{"Title":"Don't look at the cover!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ask a friend who has already seen the movie to go rent it for you, so you don't see the MAJOR SPOILER on the cover! Then again, if you got here via the main page for this movie, chances are you've already seen it. *sigh* Why, oh why did they give it away?!?Hudsucker Industries is a vasty wealthy corporation with a bright future... until the CEO, Waring Hudsucker, unexpectedly commits suicide one month before the end of the year. The company bylaws state that in the event of Hudsucker's death, all of his stock would go to the open market on January 1st, turning control of the company to the public.The board, headed by Sidney J. Mussburger (Paul Newman), decides to destroy consumer confidence in the company by getting an imbecile to be the new CEO. The value of the stock would be depressed to the point where the board could afford to buy up more than half of it, thus keeping control of the company. Then they'd fire the nitwit, put in a real CEO, and bring the stock back up.It's not long before they find their idiot Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins), a naive graduate of a business school in Muncie, Indiana, who just started work in the mail room. He can't believe his good fortune, rising so quickly to the top of the company, but a reporter from a local newspaper, Amy Archer (Jennifer Jason Leigh), doesn't buy it, so she goes undercover to find the truth behind the top twit at Hudsucker.The dialogue in the movie is absolutely brilliant, fast-paced and rapid-fire, especially coming from Leigh and John Mahoney. Tim Robbins is convincing as the naive Norville, and Leigh plays an excellent fast paced career gal. The cinematography alternates between breathtaking and brilliant, and in one or two places, it's both. Great pains were taken to give you the impression that Hudsucker Industries is HUGE. I'd have to say one of my favorite parts is the Development of the Dingus sequence.What can I say? You just have to watch it to really appreciate it. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully different...  (SLIGHT SPOILERS)","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ... and I realise with the above summary that I've just about described every film in the entire Coen canon; but to me there's more to this film than mere originality. It's that quintessential example of the kind of defiance the brothers have that says Darn it, we're going to make a movie that we and a few others will like, and we don't need your inflated budgets to do it!. The Hudsucker Proxy is small, quirky and at times downright WEIRD. By rights it shouldn't have been made in the American cinema industry climate; but get made it did, and by golly, I love it!It was my Media Studies teacher at college who first introduced me to this. I was pestering him for some new films to see, since it was obvious that he had a pretty offbeat, but cool, taste. Once I heard he had Taxi Driver, I begged him to lend it me. He also came back from the storeroom with this. I was not impressed. I had never seen any Coen movies before this one, and it had an unwieldy title and what sounded like a less than interesting plot. You wanted my advice, he said, Just watch it...  I stubbornly wasn't so sure.Then, lo and behold, I was left bed-bound by a bout of flu and bored out of my head. I figured I had nothing to lose by popping it in the video and watching it. From the opening shots, I began to forget that I hadn't wanted to watch it at all, and by the end I was left with a warm glow that suggested that, while the movie wasn't spectacular, I could find little to quibble about and it was VERY entertaining.This movie is my definition of 'chicken soup for the soul'. If you're ill, as I was, watch it and you might feel better. It's extremely churlish to dislike this movie, almost like kicking a puppy. It's so eager to please and affectionate in its pastiches that I couldn't help but get swept along. Case in point the Jennifer Jason Leigh character. Many people found her annoying, but I took it as a loving tribute to the stars of the '30's and '40's, and found the whole idea hilarious. Same goes for Paul Newman's Sidney J. Mussberger big business mogul parody. Perfect. As for Tim Robbins as the hapless young ingénue (by accident more than design) Where do I start... ?It's a perfect Christmas movie, and goes well with films such as (of all things) A Muppet Christmas Carol. Even themes which would normally be distressing are lent an absurd comic brilliance by the sheer verve of Joel and Ethan's style. Want proof? How about the suicide that sets up the plot? The way it is shot is just brilliant. As another user has said, I could watch him going out of that window a hundred times... ! As I type this I have a goofy grin on my face when remembering classic moments, and I've only watched the film once! If you need any more urging to see it after my efforts above, I'm tempted to give up, because I'm probably preaching to ones that don't and will never understand. It was crushingly unfair that this ingenious film was all but ignored on release, and all I'm doing is trying to redress the balance. Thanks Nick (Media Studies Teacher) for introducing me to this, it was a real find!And no, this isn't even my FAVOURITE Coen bros film at the time of writing. That would have to be The Big Lebowski... "},{"Title":"The blockbuster that never was","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an amazing film. A holy film. An epic. In fact, for a few hours of my life, I thought it was perfect and could never be bettered.  If there was any justice in the world, it would be in the top ten blockbusters of all time and everyone would know the title of Coen as much as the do Spielberg or Lucas.  But as we know with the Coen's repeated failure to 'crack' the box office, there is no justice in the world.There are just too many great moments in this film.  Too many good things to say about it.  The cinematography, the script, the acting, the set design (Mussberger's office with the clock), the special effects, the one-liners.... i could go on.  The Coen brothers will one day be recognised by the public for the geniuses that they are, rather than just by film nerds and critics.On the other hand, the love of cult films like these bring people together- something which mass loved oscar winning contempory films such as Gladiator or Titanic could never do.  Thank God for the Coen brothers. "},{"Title":"One of the best unknown films out there","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What a gem.Part absurdist corporate-dominated reality (think Brazil) and part 1950's comic book characters (think Superman, especially the parts about The Daily Planet), this film is likeable, funny, moving, and at times even meaningful.A mailroom employee, half dreamer and half dolt, improbably gets promoted to CEO of Hudsucker Industries.  However, the movie does not make fun of him as he fails, rather, it cheers him on as he succeeds beyond anyone's wildest imaginations.  Tim Robbins plays the comedic version of his introverted, thoughtful Andy DuFrane from Shawshank Redemption (another must-see), and he plays it perfectly.  Despire being the CEO, he is at the center of a maelstrom of people trying to take advantage of him, and he has neither the personal nor the political resources to survive.It very much has the spirit of other corporate-conglomerate-evil movies such as Office Space and Brazil, but is much lighter, funnier, and more likeable than either of those two.  And, most importantly, despite being light humor, it is a moving portrayal of a small-town boy out of his element atop a giant corporation.See this movie with no preconceptions (no, it's not like Raising Arizona or The Big Lebowski).  Just enjoy it for what it is -- pure, clean fun, mixed with a wide variety of strong and subtle messages. "},{"Title":"Screwball revival","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Coen brothers attempt to revive the screwball comedy genre with some success. Tim Robbins enjoys himself immensely as the gormless mailroom boy promoted to company President in the space of one day as a patsy to allow boardroom creeps to gain control of the Hudsucker company. You know it's a comedy because it just has to turn out okay.Standout performance is Paul Newman as the cigar-chomping gravelly company V-P, and he looks like he enjoyed himself too.Hats off for a good attempt. Not a masterpice, but worthy of attention. "},{"Title":"Words cannot describe the brilliance of this film.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a pretty hard review to write because mere words cannot describe the brilliance of this film. I mean how on earth can I tell people they might like this film, on paper the plot sounds so boring, Man Invents Hula-hoop... Oh and there's some romance and fantasy in it too. Okay, how many people will want to watch a romantic fantasy about the invention of the Hula-Hoop and the fall of dim-witted Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins). To quote John Goodman in the Coen's Barton Fink (1991), I can feel my but getting sore all ready.Well, one things for sure, I know I love it. This film is so funny and warm, rarely is a film so simply beautiful but the Hudsucker Proxy is. It's also full of really smart references to the films of Frank Capra, Howard Hawks and Sturges, screwball comedy with a touch of romanticism. The acting is also impeccable, one of the greatest actors ever Tim Robbins is brilliant as the mugging goon Norville. And then there's beautiful Jennifer Jason Leigh as Amy Archer, with her great spin on the Katherine Hepburn roles of the forties and fifties.This film is a true original, clever, inventive, funny, romantic, stupid, just a pleasure to watch from start to finish and a must see for any fans of the Coen Brothers. I'd also like to point out the fantastic performance by Jim True as the elevator operator; he should definitely do more comedy. So this review is probably of no use to anyone, but trust me, give the film a try and you might just find it one of the best romantic screwball comedies ever made.God bless those Coen's 9/10  "},{"Title":"This movie is sheer genius","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Hudsucker Proxy is a fond satire of 50's hollywood that is both incredibly funny and deeply movie.  What I don't understand is why everyone and their mother isn't praising this movie!  The acting is great with Tim Robbins in the lead and the beautiful Jennifer Jason Leigh playing a sort-of double role.  Paul Newman is great, too!Visually, the movie is a marvel to behold.  The scene transitions are reminiscent of 50's era hollywood and are used very effectively.  Some of the events are so truly bizarre, that if anyone other than the Coen Brothers (with help from Sam Raimi) were handling it, it would be totally ridiculous.  But it's not.  It's ingenious!  This would have to be one of the Coen Brothers' best films, up there with Big Lebowski and Fargo.Funniest moment (I won't give away too much, I promise) Tim Robbins finds out the Jennifer Jason Leigh is also from Muncie, so he comes out of the bathroom doing.... well you have to see it!!!Stop reading this, go out and see the movie now!  You will not regret it.  10/10 "},{"Title":"Weird Title, Great Movie","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is rare in that I can watch it over and over again and still enjoy it. Don't put off seeing this because of the weird title or because you don't like Jennifer Jason Leigh. I only saw it because I realized it was a Cohen film and Tim Robbins was in it. That alone should entice most to see it. I watched it, I was amazed. The pace is brilliant, everything about this film is just plain fun to watch. The scene where the kid finds the hoop, is probably my favorite 3 minutes of film I've ever watched...seriously. Buy this dvd and keep it around for a rainy day. "},{"Title":"A few amazing moments in a bizarre film.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has more than enough priceless moments to make up for the its meandering attitude.  A fairy tale about capitalism and innocence in America, this film can be counted among the greats of the century.It feels like a cross between Brazil, a Christmas Carol, and Swimming with Sharks.  More heart warming than Swimming with Sharks. Overall, it is a moving experience for those of us who realize the value of a buck and want to live in a magic kingdom anyway. "},{"Title":"a film of wonder","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is probably the only Coens film so far that almost all of their fans hated. But, I saw it twice. When I first saw it, I thought these fans were right. It was a film that annoying and somewhat stupid but when I watched it the second time, boy, did I miss out. True, their are some annoying parts but overall, I thought it was a great movie by the Coens. The set design was dazzling and the cinematography was excellent. Tim Robbins gave a funny performance as did Bruce Campbell. He was hilarious in that film and quite funny too. While I was watching this film, I was overwhelmed by the atmosphere and the tone. I heard it cost $25 million dollars to make and I believed it. For one thing Paul Newman and the other, the special effects. I don't care. The movie wad great and the Coens have created another masterpiece. Oh, the music was great too. If any of you hasn't seen this movie, see it. Recommended. "}{"Title":"A bafflingly underrated film...","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Why Hudsucker was creamed by critics who generally gush over the Coen's films is beyond me - this is one of their best.  If you're a fan of 1930's screwball comedies you'll love it - Jennifer Jason Leigh's amalgam of Katharine Hepburn/Rosalind Russell/Jean Arthur is priceless... "},{"Title":"A Fine Capitalist Fable","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I think the latte drinking set who poo poo this film mercilessly should sit down and relax.  Hudsucker, stylized and self deprecating at the same time, is for me an incredible post-modern tale.  It takes the 50's feel and rehashes to create a timeless tale of greed, ambition, love and ultimately the embodiment of America -- THE FUTURE IS NOW!  It is, as I said above, a fable, with a moral and clear delineations b/t good and evil.  If you don't get it, as is always with Coen Brothers films, you just don't get it, then. So quit whining about how it doesn't stack up to Miller's Crossing and Fellini or whatever.  Appreciate it for what it is.  I most certainly do. "},{"Title":"There are better Coens to explore...","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, somehow I don't feel that comfortable about writing this comment, especially since the Coen brothers are - in my humble opinion - some of the biggest stars in my personal movie sky, but somehow this movie isn't as cool and great and simply astounding as their other classics like Barton Fink, Blood Simple, Fargo or Lebowski (being all all-time faves of mine). Don't get me wrong - it's not bad, it's definitely. fun to watch and for sure - since the Coens plain and simple ARE some of the best filmmakers up to date - better as your normal average mainstream movie BUT this movie surely isn't the best try to show someone who NEVER saw a Coen film before since he (or she) won't fall in love with the Coen brothers (or at least with their pearls on celluloid). It's more of an average (although intelligent, of course) comedy movie than the typical Coen genre mix and the little typical Coen gimmicks that make their movies non-mainstream (although covered mostly in the mainstream press/cinemas...that's what I call subversive!) can't be found that much in this movie as in others... good movie, for sure, but not excellent! "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie of All Time","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the coolest movie of all time. If you disagree you are obviously very stupid. The entire cast is dead on. Especially Tim Robbins. This, Shawshank Redemption, The Big Lebowski, and Hamlet are the greatest movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Once is Not Enough","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a masterpiece that defies easy description.I know, critics regularly review this with puzzlement, but each time I see this film, I'm drawn to the sheer planning that was involved in its creation.The music is beautifully matched to the action (I especially enjoy the music for Norville's arrival in the city). The visual styling is great. The colors used throughout are mostly dark tones keeping in theme with the dark humor found throughout.  The humor is delivered entirely straight, yet a split second after you hear a line, you realize the absurdities.Try not to read too many reviews before your first viewing all too often, reviewers will give too much of the film away, including its single best joke.All three principles, Tim Robbins, Jennifer Jason Leigh and Paul Newman give inspired performances leaving you to wonder why do some people dislike this? "},{"Title":"Finesse above Force","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you want brutality and vulgarity in your comedy, look elsewhere.  For sheer intelligence and brilliance beyond measure, listen carefully to the lines spoken in the Hudsucker Proxy and learn something about yourself.Everyone, and I do mean everyone, is an imbecile, a genius, a snake charmer, a person longing to be happy with one's self and with others. And the truth is everybody deserves a second chance-- which is the underlying theme of Hudsucker.Crisp, clean, visually captivating from shot to shot (from the costuming to the lovely lines that make up Jennifer Jason Leigh's neck in the dinner party kiss close-up) weave a masterpiece work of art for everyone to enjoy. It can be compared to a modern-day Shakespeare, with humor on all levels (I'd say sprinting out a window and becoming one with the earth is pretty darned funny in this case) to the sharp exchanges or constant verbal barrages constitute the upper echelons of comedy that everyone-- not just royalty-- could understand IF THEY TRIED.As someone else in the listing here stated, this movie is a masterpiece, through and through.  "},{"Title":"for fans of 30s screwball comedies","Date":"27 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Although set in the 1950s, this film is mostly a tribute to the greatest of screwball comedies like His Girl Friday and Bringing Up Baby, but fused with Terry Gilliam's Brazil.  Of course, because it is the Coens it isn't quite like anything else, really, which is what makes it their least understood film to date. Gets better and better with repeat viewings. Lots of fun with elaborate art-deco sets and the acting by Robbins, Leigh, and especially the wonderfully deadpan Paul Newman. Sure, sure.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, if not overly silly.","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Not the Coen film you were expecting. This screwball comedy has plenty of well acted actors, well directed scenes, and a very decent setup, but doesn't take any of it seriously in the slightest.A simple minded mailman (Tim Robbins) gets hired on as the president of the Hudsucker Proxy corporation after the old president (Charles Durning) commits suicide, not realizing that he's being used by board member Sidney Mussburger (Paul Newman) to scare the stock into becoming more cheap.The style that's going on in this movie is so goofy and so out there, that it's hard not to be entertained. The performances are directed in such a fashion that they're going out of their way to drive every single stereotype into the ground that they can. Tim Robbins as a likable goof ball that screws everything up, Jennifer Jason Leigh as a fast talking news reporter, and Buzz, the elevator guy go to show how this film is kind of making fun of itself. It's clichéd, but I think it's trying to be.Even though it has sentimental moments, it is not a film to take seriously in the slightest (you'll know what I mean in the climax). It's not that it's badly directed, it's just directed very strange. This is a film that the Coen brothers bet somebody that they'd make. I could not believe a film like this exists, but either way it's really entertaining, so if that's what you're going for, have at it. "},{"Title":"Not Flawless But Certainly Incomparable.","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Khachaturian's Adagio from Spartacus and Phrygia is put to effective use here by the musical director Carter Burwell, whom I'm beginning to think is pretty good, not just in constructing a mosaic of existing pieces but in composing as well. The adagio's sweeping chords neatly blend melancholy with something resembling hope. But who knows from Khachaturian? The Sabre Dance and that's it. Maybe he'd have gotten more play if he'd changed his name to something easier to spell and remember. Something like UScuzzbagUX.Basically it's the story of Tim Robbins, a nonentity in the lower bowels of the giant Hudsucker organization in 1957. Robbins has an idea based on a simple circle but the president (or chairman or high panjandrum or whatever), Paul Newman, dismisses him despite the contrary advice of Jennifer Jason Leigh. Robbins' idea turns out to be the Hula Hoop. He rises to the top, displacing Newman, but then gets lazy and turns mean to subordinates. Full of himself, as they say.The fad dies and Robbins is fired and turns into a suicidal drunk. In a hilarious scene, Steve Buscemi is the bartender at one of those Beatnik coffee houses popular in the late 50s. He impatiently explains to Robbins that no alcohol is sold here. Okay, okay, mumbles the befuddled but resigned Robbins, then just give me a martini. With the help of one or two angels, Robbins comes to his senses just before he offs himself. He inherits the majority of Hudsucker stock, Newman is sent off to Sunnyvale Farms, and Robbins then invents the Frisbee. Happy ending.The fantasy is stretched so far by special effects and stylized situations that an extraordinary load is placed on the actors. They do their best and, for the most part, succeed. I guess it's intended to be an outrageous comedy with dramatic overtones (or undertones) along the lines of Frank Capra. Sometimes, though, the funny effects are sillier than they are amusing. The Coen brothers are best at comedy when they don't try so hard. Fargo's laughs come from situations rooted in reality, not from a body taking five minutes to fall from the 45th floor of the Hudsucker Building while having an argument with itself.Paul Newman has never been successful at comedy per se. He came closest to success with The Prize. But here he excels as the growling, ruthless, cigar-chomping head of Hudsucker Enterprises -- hoarsely barking out orders in his gargling voice to fire somebody or cut someone's throat. Robbins, on the other hand, is often slightly comic, sometimes whether he wants to be or not. There's something slightly ludicrous in his over-sized and shapeless appearance. He gets the job done here. Jennifer Jason Leigh -- whoever told her to do her Katherine Hepburn impression? Her snappy lines and wisecracks are funny enough, but through the whole movie? In any case, some misjudgments in the writing and direction aside, I enjoyed it. The Coen brothers have an ambitious imagination the size of Minnesota. They should keep it up for a long time. "},{"Title":"...you don't happen to remember the plan I outlined for you the day I set fire to your office?...","Date":"12 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Don't be put off by the title, The Hudsucker Proxy makes perfect sense very early into the picture. There are two proxies actually, Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins) as the 'schmoe' replacement for Waring Hudsucker, and Amy Winehouse as his secretary, operating undercover as a reporter for the Manhattan Argus. The film took me back to those great screwball capers of the 1940's; His Girl Friday comes readily to mind, complete with snappy dialog and fast talking newspapermen. Those who don't 'get it' so to speak, can't appreciate the parody of the over the top acting, perfectly nuanced to mimic movies of more than a half century gone by. I guess I discovered the Coen Brothers a lot later than many of their fans, having never seen their earliest films when they first came out. Catching up now, I see how recurring themes show up in their stories regularly. Here I'm thinking about the use of circular objects, notably the coffee stain on the Hudsucker Want-Ad, Norville's grand design that he'd been honing for years, and the eventual production of the extruded plastic dingus. I thought maybe Norville might have had a little help from Forrest Gump, both pictures came out the same year. I was surprised to see Paul Newman in a large support role here, excellent as always. Steve Buscemi makes his mandatory appearance in a Coen film once again, and as a quick reminder how fleeting 'Entertainment Tonight' celebrity can be, I actually had to think quite a while to come up with Anna Nicole Smith's name. Still, you have to give credit to Jennifer Jason Leigh as Norville's conflicted nemesis. One has to wonder how long it took for her and John Mahoney to memorize their lines well enough to rip them off as quick as they did - whew!The Hudsucker Proxy is a film that just begs to be seen more than once, there's no way to catch all the dialog the first time around. There's also that great scene in Mussberger's (Newman) office when Norville gets his foot stuck in the waste basket. It's not something I would usually find to be all that funny, but for some reason, the whole thing just struck me how absurd the whole situation was and I just couldn't stop laughing. Here in true Coen Brothers fashion, you have the makings of a real rumpus. "}{"Title":"Who the heck is Mona Lisa? And who cares?","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you can look at the Mona Lisa and think (or ohmigosh say out loud) Who cares how this picture was painted, I mean what's the story here? Who's this woman? Are those ruins in the background? Is there a war going on? And if so why the heck is she smiling? This is a stupid painting, I just don't get it! then you'll hate Hudsucker.Yes indeed, the storyline is outrageous, and suspension of disbelief is one thing but this is ridiculous. Especially the ending.But you have to accept that a movie is not the evening news. A good picture doesn't HAVE to make sense, in fact the best ones don't. I mean they don't have to put in a yellow brick road for you to know fantasy when you see it, right? The 300-foot (or so it seems) Board Room table, and Mussburger's cathedral/office do as well, right? So Hudsucker is to be viewed as a tall tale. Or a satire, whatever. But I prefer to call it a masterpiece of acting, lighting, set design, musical score and of course direction. IMHO, Hudsucker is the cinematic equivalent of Mona Lisa. Don't ask questions, just relax, and take in those awesome moving pictures. "},{"Title":"You know, for kids.","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Come on now! Even the movies are claiming that it's for the children. That line doesn't get every law passed, and it doesn't make every Coen brothers movie a hit.Sure, I like the Coen brothers. Fargo is a big favorite, as is O Brother, Where Art Thou? I liked Blood Simple, and even The Big Lebowski was good after I watched it twice. Like many people, I am anxiously awaiting No Country for Old Men.But even with Sam Raimi's help, I just don't think this is one of their better works. Sure, the cinematography was brilliant and I loved the art deco style, but art deco is 30's, not 50's. Jennifer Jason Leigh is not Hildy Johnson, and there just didn't seem to be a lot of story behind all the flash of the picture.There were a lot of interesting actors in the film Tim Robbins, Paul Newman, Charles Durning, John Mahoney, Bruce Campbell,Steve Buscemi, and even Anna Nicole Smith. That makes it worth watching - once. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film that rewards subsequent viewings","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Although few people I know have actually seen this film, it was a quiet masterpiece from the Cohen brothers. The film combines elements of Frank Loesser's musical How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying (the college fight song, mailroom atmosphere, and quick rise of an unlikely and under-qualified protagonist, etc.) with a brilliantly written screenplay of the caliber of the Princess Bride. Paul Newman, Tim Robbins, and Jennifer Jason Leigh perform brilliantly in lead roles in the movie, while the supporting roles and bit parts are almost perfectly played. Bill Cobbs and John Mahoney are absolutely stellar, while celebrated actors Bruce Campbell and Steve Buscemi perform admirably in limited roles.The thing that really makes this movie tick (and you can quote me on that) is how rewarding it is each time you watch it. While many movies today are hardly worth an initial viewing, the Hudsucker Proxy is so brilliantly subtle that each time you watch it you pick up on something new, whether it's in dialogue, cinematography, time references, anachronism, or some of the more obscure jobs that require experience, you are bound to be entertained and to think a little. In a day when comedy has lost its intellectual edge and satire, wit, irony, have gone the way of logic an rhetoric in education, Hudsucker provides a refreshing break from the puerile, sophomoric sex and drug reference humor that any junior high class clown could write. If physical comedy is you cup of tea, there are also a couple of brilliant scenes (Bumstead contract, Plexiglas) in this film. With the exception of a dream sequence where Norville Barnes dances with an immodestly clad woman who represents his success, the film is family friendly with mild language and little violence.Overall, Hudsucker was one of the best motion pictures of the 1990s, perhaps eclipsed only by the Shawshank Redemption (also with Robbins), Schindler's List, Forrest Gump, and Braveheart.  "},{"Title":"This baby celebrates it 10 year anniversary, catch it.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Ok, I'll admit it. I wasn't the biggest Coen's brothers' fan. Sure, O Brother was pretty visually pleasing and the Big Lebowski had a few laughs, but overall I never saw what the big HOOPLA was about (see the movie, you'll get that.) That was until I saw Hudsucker!! My god, what a brilliant movie!! It reminded me of Terry Gilliams Brazil, only not so bleak, but with the same hyper-reality, the extreme caricatures, and all very engaging. The opening scene with Hudsucker hopping out the window is awesome!! What an opener.  What I really enjoyed though was the theme of circles through the entire flick, and not just the obvious Hoola-hoop and so on but the subtle nods like the huge clock, the merry-go-round line, the karma speech, the halo, and Paul Newmans Sure sure kid, you've re-invented the wheel who was also great. Also, Jennifer Jason Leigh really showed her acting chops and it's a wonder she's vanished into obscurity. This is one of those oddities that really need more recognition and I'm making it my one-man mission to spread the word; WATCH HUDSUCKER PROXY TODAY!!! The best Coens bros movie EVER!!! !!! "},{"Title":"One of the Top Dogs","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I wish the public would give these movies a chance but unfortunately most of the sales and votes come from children 13-30 who walk into these movies expecting special effects, explosions and stupid jokes.  One of my favorite scenes is Tim Robbins arriving at Paul Newman's office, attempting to hand him a Blue Letter.  Well, the comic approach and style of the Coen Brothers is something to note as well is the play between both Robbins and Newman. Man is this movie a classic!Take a hint.  This movie is playing on AMC.  Where's Lord of the Rings? 9.0 my arss!  Let's talk real Filmmaking!  Thanks brothers! "},{"Title":"Works well, until it starts to take itself seriously","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The first two-thirds of this movie work very nicely as a cartoonish satire of 1950's business. Too bad it starts to take a melodramatic turn and try to get us to care about Norville...who, like everyone else here, is after all only a cartoon character. Do we really care when Wile E. Coyote has an anvil dropped on his head?Jennifer Jason Leigh tries hard, but can't measure up to Rosalind Russell in His Girl Friday or to Kate Hepburn. And though accents don't normally irritate me, hers is atrocious.Still pretty good overall. Would have been much, much better though if the spirit of the first half of the movie had been preserved till the end, and if Leigh hadn't butchered whatever accent she was attempting to mimic. And, unfortunately, it has a hokey /deus ex machina/ resolution (emphasis on the machina). "},{"Title":"Mush","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Fitting together screwball-style verbal comedy with Jerry Lewis slapstick is a dangerous proposition, and this Coen Brothers comedy--an expensively stylized Joel Silver production--goes awry from the first scenes. Tim Robbins is a dimwit mailroom boy sent to the head of the class by a scheming executive (Paul Newman), and Jennifer Jason Leigh is the fast-talking reporter who smells a rat. For all the lavish set pieces, for all Carter Burwell's ingenuity with the march music of Aram Khatchaturian (copped from Billy Wilder's ONE, TWO, THREE), the movie has the clammy, Ph.D.-thesis feel of the Coens' MILLER'S CROSSING. Robbins condescends to his goofball character, and Jason Leigh tries on another of her garish accents; only Newman's wry, cigar-puffing understatement scores. (The movie rips off, or quotes, innumerable thirties and forties movies, most prominently MEET JOHN DOE and HIS GIRL FRIDAY.) "},{"Title":"A rare thing - Style and content!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Highly stylised, yet affectionate reworking of the 50's screwball comedy. Tightly plotted, cleverly scripted, beautifully acted by some of the best talent. Nice to see actors who really 'get it'. The direction is sometimes disjointed as the film seems to have been prepared in 3 acts which occasionally lose their way but soon pick up speed creating a masterful rollercoaster of comedy and visual excellence.Quite sedate for the Coens - but a real treat. "},{"Title":"Towering foul home run","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Those Coen Brothers have the power and the swing, but Hudsucker Proxy winds up curving past the foul pole and out of play - but about 600 feet!  All those things working for it to give it that launch - the production design (amazing!  worth the price of admission alone), witty, clever banter, the terrific performances, a quick, nitro-fueled script - get wasted by the fact that the Coens just don't take their characters seriously, and in turn we don't take them seriously.  So when the hero falls from grace, we feel so what?Nonetheless the Coens do give actors opportunities to create engaging, unforgettable characters.  Special credit goes to Jennifer Jason Leigh as the disillusioned Bryn Mawr-bred journalist out to discredit the hero - and unwittingly becoming attached to him.  Some of the supporting and cameo roles are done so well you want whole movies about the character alone - Charles Durning's Waring Hudsucker, Bruce Campbell as the wiseass of the newsroom, and so on.  Tim Robbins is earnest in his role, but part of the film's failing is his failing - I never really cared that much about his character.  He fell into success and then fell out again.Like Barton Fink, this one comes off the rails a little less than 2/3 of the way through, when events begin to occur too quickly and without emotional resonance.  But for what it's worth, this movie has some of the best montages and set pieces in memory, especially the creation and sudden success of the hula hoop to Khatchaturian's sabre-dance.  The scene with the 'idea guys' (three silhouettes in an office) trading potential brand-names for the 'extruded plastic dingus' is a definite highlight.This is a don't miss movie, but it's greatness is balanced by its weaknesses.  Or is that vice versa? "},{"Title":"Not the best Coen brothers, but solid.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was surprised at the lacklustre reviews this film received. While it's not the best Coen brother's film, it's quite solid and enjoyable. I believe most people missed the point that the film is basically a live-action 1940's cartoon (think Bugs Bunny). Within 10 minutes I thought this is like a 40's cartoon, and with that thought in mind I thoroughly enjoyed the film. And Tim Robbins is just so talented, you can't help but enjoy the film. "}{"Title":"Madcap comedy given too-sane a treatment from the Coen Brothers...","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Although relative renegades in Hollywood, the wildly improbable Coen brothers (writer-director Joel and writing partner Ethan) tend to think out situations too literally for their material to spin out into another sphere. That is precisely the problem with their old-fashioned, screwball outing The Hudsucker Proxy; while it looks smashing, and has a good cast, the Coens can't help themselves from keeping everything grounded--even some of the nutty plotting and outrageous set-pieces are held in check with nary a tongue in cheek! Shady Manhattan corporation in 1958 promotes a mailroom clerk to the position of company president in order to lower stocks and keep investors from staging a takeover; unfortunately for them, the neophyte takes his job to heart, creating a sensation with the Hula-Hoop (!). Production and art-design are gorgeous, masterfully emulating the big business comedies of yesteryear, but the handling is all on one note, and the story drags its tail in the third act. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The Enron Failure Is Funnier","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I've always liked the off-center vision in the Coen Brothers' movies but after the collapse of Enron and other boardroom scandals, The Hudsucker Proxy seems torn from the headlines with little ornamentation. There are some clever touches, of course Paul Newman playing against type as the bad guy behind the scenes, Jennifer Jason Leigh (with only slight exaggeration) as the ruthless investigative reporter who will do anything to get her story, and Tim Robbins as an innocent schmo who wandered on to Wall Street from Muncie Indiana with the next big idea the hula hoop. No actual pensioners seem to have been injured in the making of this movie. However, the Coen Brothers have fallen a long way short of the reality in this case. The greed displayed by Newman and his fellow members of the Hudsucker Board is nickel and dime stuff compared to what's been going on the past few years.I came back to this movie accidentally almost five years on and didn't remember having seen it. That may say something about my memory but it also says something about the movie. The Enron scandal is long past but The Hudsucker Proxy is no better the second time around. This isn't the only Coen Brothers movie to fall short, but I don't remember another movie by the duo that I found less interesting or less amusing. And on second viewing, it seems less torn from the headlines than just plain ordinary. "},{"Title":"Even the great ones slip","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Coen brothers are an acquired taste, but even their devoted fans have to admit that they don't always get it right. Raising Arizona, Blood Simple, Miller's Crossing, The Big Lebowsky and even O Brother Where Art Thou are gentle giants of movies. Stylized, inventive, literate and literary.Hudsucker blows it, and blows it badly. The humor is shrill, the dialog is scattershot and worse Paul Newman is utterly wasted. Jennifer Jason Leigh is almost unwatchable in her parody of gal Friday roles. Probably the worst thing I can say about a Coen brothers movie that it's boring, and that certainly is the case here. "},{"Title":"Ohmygod!  Her Voice!","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't comment on how good or bad this film really was.  I've really enjoyed every other film they have made, but this film was flawed - fatally.Not having spent a lot of time in the US, I can't say for certain that there aren't whole communities who speak like Jennifer Jason Leigh does in this film.  I would, however, suspect that this is not the case.  My reasoning is that if people *did* speak with her vile accent in real life, they would be beaten to death by the very first person they met.I can honestly say that, apart from this case, I have *never* stopped watching a film because of someone's accent, appearance, acting ability, odour... never.It was simply a choice between leaving my girlfriend to watch the rest of it herself, or electrocuting myself by putting my head through the television screen.I went for a pint. "},{"Title":"Yawn........ is it over yet?","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What a disappointment.  After enjoying Fargo and seeing how highly rated this movie was in IMDB ratings, I sprang for the $1.60 rental.That would have bought a cheap hamburger.Paul Newman, one of my favorite actors, does NOT make a menacing or sinister character.  It apparently isn't in his genes; he's meant to be the lovable cad 'Luke' or even 'Hud'.  About the only redeeming quality this movie has is sets, which remind one of Fargo or Batman.Save your money or get the hamburger instead.   "},{"Title":"A must-see for any serious film buff","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Like other users, I am shocked when I see negative reviews of this film... The characters are one-dimensional, but that is part of the charm of the film - the characters blend seemlessly with the imagery.  It plays out like a fuzzy, spinning dream about the noir images of the big city.  The Coen brothers were the perfect creative team to bring that to the screen, and the cast was perfectly chosen.I've got it on tape and watch it frequently - if you're thinking about watching it, you know my recommendation - just this word of advice  don't go into it looking for a life-changing experience or an insight into the dark soul of mankind (for that go to your priest, not the movies) - look for a charming story that will leave you with a grin on your face, and you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Ersatz","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Set in 1959, The Hudsucker Proxy has the feel of a 30s comedy, or it seems to be trying to have that feel. There are some great visuals, but the whole thing left me cold. If this was supposed to capture the fun and repartee of the 30s comedies, it failed miserably for me. Lots of those old comedies had some unbelievable stories, but the character development was such that you had some identification with the people. And the actors had such grace and charm (think Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn) that you couldn't help but be captivated. Here the story and characters have no basis in reality whatsoever. And you have Tim Robbins giving a performance that looks like he just got out of acting 101. Paul Newman goes through the motions and Jennifer Jason Leigh does a Katharine Hepburn imitation that made me weep with longing for the real thing. Charles Durning is wasted in his two absurd appearances.There were so many things in this movie that made me physically cringe that it took some time after it was over to recover my equilibrium. There is a guy who does a parody of Dean Martin in a scene that comes out of nowhere; I asked myself why that scene was in there, and I found myself asking that about most of the scenes in this movie. There is a bellhop who is a Red Buttons clone and is every bit as irritating as the real person. A scene in a beatnik bar is so clichéd that I feel ashamed to have seen it. The Hudsucker Proxy did serve one purpose for me and that was to make me realize that those old 30s and 40s comedies are special. They come from a time and a place that can never be duplicated, with actors for whom there is no replacement.A quote from Paul Newman in this movie summarizes my reaction, This is embarrassing. "},{"Title":"Not up to Coen brothers standards, boring and cliched.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As a huge Coen brothers fan, this movie was a disappointment.  While I respect thier effort to experiment stylistically (a sort of Burtonesque gothic zaniness), it simply does not work.  The characters are one -dimensional and annoying, the plot is predictable and slow, and the dialogue is cliched and irritating.  I like the weird fantasy-tinged climax , but it is too little too late. Perhaps I expect too much of the Coen brothers, but this movie does not hold a candle to any of their previous or later work.  "},{"Title":"Would have made a better play than a movie","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's about as campy as high school theater with an ending as satisfying as a sharp stick in the eye.The movie itself is a farce. It borders on utterly ridiculous at times even by the standard of farces. There are enjoyable story arcs and a bit of workable humor, but the few redeeming elements (namely the love arc) of the movie are completely crushed by a rushed and largely unresolved ending. It's the most unsatisfying satisfying ending to a movie I'll ever seen.I won't pretend that there's no entertainment value to the movie, but it can't be taken seriously on any level and it ultimately ends up being an overall let down.If you like fantastical Broadway-type entertainment with no value placed on story, then you will probably like this movie. Otherwise, skip it. "},{"Title":"Why I didn't like","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Indeed this movie is a visual feast in most of its part.It is an attempt to reproduce the feeling of the old and famous Hollywood screwball comedies.However both the charm and smart humor of these films are lacking here.I think true humor is out of the Cohens's capabilities.It's a pity to waste the talent of such brilliant actors like Newman, Robbins and Jason Leigh in a such a fool film like this one.  "}{"Title":"Star-struck and bible-bleak","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  _Hudsucker..._ is a joyless, overdone three-way star vehicle. It views more like a bad copy of a Coen film than the most expensive and heavily-backed film they'd shot to-date. Newman, Jason-Leigh and Robbins chew scenery and step on one another's lines, overshadowing thoroughly professional and properly modulated performances from journeyman players.The star-power principals -- all of whom I normally respect -- are terrible. The film could have been saved either by casting relative unknowns (here's a good lineup Judge Reinholdt in the Tim Robbins part, JT Walsh in Newman's role, with maybe Elizabeth Shue or Sarah Jessica Parker standing in for Jennifer Jason-Leigh), or more strenuously reigning in the senior players they had. Maybe the egos were too big to control -- but then again, this is the duo that effectively deployed veteran scenery-chewers Holly Hunter and Nick Cage to produce one of the most brilliant bizarro comedies ever made, Raising Arizona.My vote (not by proxy) Just don't bother. "},{"Title":"can be compared to watching PBS for entertainment purposes.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was such a boring movie.  It had nothing interesting to convey to the audience viewer(in my 9th grade English class).  The acting of a B movie is better than the acting done in this movie.  It would have been a perfect type of movie for Chris Elliott or Kevin Nealon. The elevator operator really was fake with that stupid suck-up attitude.  This movie really does hudSUCKer. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever made","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Whenever bad movies are mentioned in our house, the night we rented this pile of crap from the video store always comes up. Jenifer Jason Leigh is just painful and even Paul Newman looks bored. Have to confess that we fast forwarded the last 15 minutes just to get to the end of the film.  "},{"Title":"plainly horrible, even embarrassing...","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" There can be only 1 conclusion, The Coens are aliens from planet KzOrp and drugged mankind with a substance that makes people like, no love! their movies. Unfortunately, I must have been hibernating somewhere in a deep cave when they did so.I got annoyed by the boredom I felt watching The Big Lebowski, Fargo made me want to strangle newborn puppies and after 20 minutes of the rampaging not funny dialog in Hudsucker, I simply felt depressed.This is in-the-face parody at it's worst, everything is overdone from acting to scenery to story. I absolutely despise movies with Jim Carrey but compared to this movie, they are actually quite passable. You know which movie came to mind watching this? > The original Charly and the Chocolat factory. Mind you, that is a children's movie.Who in their right minds can endure movies like this? No character is likable for it is not a character but a cartoon-figure, every turn in this so called story can be seen coming miles away and slapstick really had its highpoint way before even my former life started.I live for humor, it's what keeps us going right? - a deep big sigh for completely failing to see how so many people find this amusing.1/10! "},{"Title":"You know, for kids!","Date":"16 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This may be the closest the Coens ever came to making a movie, you know, for kids! Not for all kids, maybe, but still. The use of classic slapstick humour, the enchanting settings (even if they are in a city, inside a giant building and a factory) and this endlessly optimistic (sure, he nearly hits rock bottom near the end, but a happy ending can not be far away) Norville Barnes make this a truly exuberant, over the top event, one that could be enjoyed by all.Or so you would think, but actually, the role played by Jennifer Jason Leigh became pretty annoying at moments (as did some others, like that elevator man), even if she did a great job of what she was supposed to do. At the heart of things, there is a sympathetic and heartfelt story perhaps, but it hardly came across with all the tomfoolery and what not.Well done, but hardly my cup of tea these days. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Looks great, but morally awful","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First, it looks great and for moments, the architecture is awesome like Batman or Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow.The main character seems to be nice, but is he?He has given one task, which he won't do. Instead of giving the blue letter, he start to promote himself and his big idea. He has also double standards as he fires the piccolo for doing the same thing. Note that piccolo did his own works very well. And finally, he overtook the company by using the letter he has stolen.He wont care much about people around him. Saving the beautiful lady and giving her a job? Well, he seems to be more interested of what his 'secretary' does on her free time than on her 'job'. Also, he threats people when drunk.And the moral lesson No matter if you are competent or work hard, some lucky idiot will take it all. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great","Date":"17 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As most of the Coen brother's movies I've seen, I came out of this one confused and still unsure if I had liked it or hated it.It's a good movie, it's fun and makes you laugh in some ways that might be considered dumb. But after a few minutes you realise that it has a great history, and you end up surprised about how good it actually is.What I enjoyed the most about this movie was the environment created. An environment filled with stereotyped business man, with enlarged characterised faces and behaviour, which I simply found marvellous. Followed by the non-surprising surprising twists and turns, again, typical of every Coen Brother's film, this movie came out as a good but not great movie.I do recommend it for the story and environment created. So watch it, you'll be pleased, surprised and amused. "},{"Title":"I love the circle motif","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Watch this movie and notice how often the circle appears as an element, and when it appears...not just the dingus, but all over...the coffee ring around the want ad, the clock face, the spinning halo, it goes on and on... even the dialogue is circular...this film is awesome! I saw it when it first came out and liked it, but I recently bought it as a used VHS for 2 bucks...I'm sorry I haven't seen this thing twenty times...it is a movie that anyone can watch...more than once...it is in my top five now for sure...I noticed on another thread that someone objects to the idea of anyone having a favourite film...I would agree if the film was something lame like 'Ernest Goes to Camp', but this film is rich and absolutely rewards multiple viewings...if you haven't seen it, do so...if you have, watch it again...and again...(and keep an eye out for the circles!) "},{"Title":"Another bizarre Coen Bros. film.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is the second Coen Bros. movie that I bought for my DVD collection. It's a very enjoyable film, although I don't think it's on the same level as Miller's Crossing. Great performances from Tim Robbins and Paul Newman (Sure, sure), although I'm ambiguous about Jennifer Jason Leigh. There's a very fine line when modern actresses try to imitate Rosalind Russell/Katharine Hepburn in fast-talking' 30s/40s films. Genuine success (IMO) is Cate Blanchett as, well, Katharine Hepburn in The Aviator; Gwyneth Paltrow in Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow is a lot weaker, although her dialog isn't as rapid-fire as Blanchett's or Leigh's. There were some scenes where Leigh was very good, while others she was quite obviously ACTING. Also, that ending as totally messed up, and awesome. In the weird cameo department, we have Peter Gallagher as a singer. "},{"Title":"WHEN was this film set?","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This one I like but I was troubled trying to figure what era it was trying for.  It definitely did not feel like 1958 at any point in the movie other than in the beatnick bar or when the hula hoop hit the stores.  Maybe they were trying to make the Hud feel a little older and out of touch but the film felt very 1940s and the extreme art deco touches felt like the 1930's.  I just felt like no one cared about the details--just make it look old.  Contrast this against the minute attention to detail in 'O- Brother' and you'll see where I'm coming from.  Jennifer Jason Leigh does a good 'Philadelphia-Story'-Katherine Hepburn imitation but it gets on one's nerves just the same.  The other thing that bugged probably me and no one else was the giant clock that was obviously electric (see the smooth sweep hand?) had giant, weight-driven, mechanical works.That said, I love all the rest of the film!  See it on New Year's Eve.BEST SCENE  The Hula Hoop kid! "}{"Title":"Ode to Hollywood class stumbles but makes it to the finish","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Lovingly photographed comedy/drama concerning the Man from Muncie (Robbins), a yokel brought into the presidency of Hudsucker Enterprises through the machinations of its ruthless VP (Newman) in order to drive company stock down to a purchaseable level.  A tough-gal reporter (Leigh) is out to prove him a fake but ends up falling for him instead.Virtually a remake of Meet John Doe -- Robbins and Leigh fit just a bit TOO closely into the Cooper/Grant and Stanwyck/Russell character types given to them.  Good music and photography embellish the usual witty script from the Bros. Coen.  Might've been better if they'd tried a little LESS hard.Newman's performance is the standout, because he's the only one doing something really original (at least, in terms of his catalog of roles), and he seems to be relishing the chops the script has given him.   "},{"Title":"Stylish but...","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ...It's really not that good of a movie. The beginning of the film is pointless. And the movie didn't really get interesting until Tim Robbin's character invents the Holla Hoop. After that the movie actually gets pretty good. While the movie has A LOT of flaws in the plot the look and performances are very good. 3(***)out of 4(****)stars  "},{"Title":"Triumph of Style over Substance","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The primary attractions here are the art direction and photography, as you would expect with a film from the Coens.  But despite some good running gags (the hula-hoop invention and 45 floors counting the mezzanine) this is screwball comedy that doesn't quite screw enough. As a satire on American business it works OK, especially in today's post-Enron world. But maybe that's the problem - it can't make up its mind whether to be satire or screwball, and in the end it finishes up suspended in a vacuum between the two. Paul Newman, as usual, is excellent as indeed are most of the cast. Jennifer Jason Leigh does well with a difficult role. She starts out as a fast talking brash over-confident reporter, but about halfway through mysteriously evolves into something completely different, becoming very concerned about Barnes's (Tim Robbins) well-being. In fact the whole relationship between these two seems to have been forcibly manipulated in order to suit the overall plot.See it for the visual treat it is, but don't expect too much in terms of message or belly laughs. Incidentally, British viewers might see a likeness between Tim Robbins and comedian Harry Enfield - surely Norville Barnes wasn't the prototype for Tim Nice-But-Dim?! "},{"Title":"A Creative Spin on Classic Movies","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I was fabulously impressed with this movie. I thought it was a great send up of those old black and white movies with Jimmy Steward or Carey Grant. This is the story of a newcomer to the big city who gets promoted from the mail room to being the president of the company in a day as part of a scam to drive down the price of the company's stock, but he unexpectedly comes up with an idea that sends it through the roof. The casting in this movie is absolutely perfect, from Tim Robbins down to the guy who watches the clock tower. I definetly loved the sets which totally immerse the viewer in 50's art deco fantasy. Just a little heads up, the ending is a tad unconventional, but suprisingly effective, and hey, its a Cohen Brothers movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie (ya know? for Kids!)","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Coen Brothers did it again! Last week I saw FARGO. The next day I saw BIG LEBOWSKI. The day after I watched FARGO again. From there I viewed Raising arizona, not the Coen's best movie but still good. two days ago I saw OH BROTHER in the theater. And now, HUDSUCKER! The Coen Brothers have sucked me in . I'm just mad I didn't discover them sooner.This movie is a masterpiece. The camera angles, and direction are incredible, and could stand there own in any art museum. The coens take you into the 50's, but it's their 50's, in their world... It's like an alternate dimension, Coen style. The dialog almost makes the movie by itself. Ya Know? FOR KIDS!? Very Funny, Very different...Don't go into this movie expecting a normal comedy. Don't go into this movie expecting a normal movie. Don't go into this movie if you don't want to own all the Coen Brother's DVDs. Trust me, you'll be sucked in, and you will own them all... or may-be that's just my experience!Pete's Movie Rating (out of 10) 9 "},{"Title":"The Coens make a Frank Capra's movie, with questionable results","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  With The Hudsucker Proxy the Coen brothers have made a Frank Capra's movie, with questionable results. It is not even clear whether the Coens intended to make a cheeky parody of the Italo-American master's works, or just wanted to pay a homage to his incomparable style. The main source of inspiration for The Hudsucker Proxy  is plainly Meet John Doe, with many hints from other Capra's films.The movie has remarkable merits. The whole part about the hula-hoop and its commercial success is pure genius. The photography, sceneries and visual effects are magnificent. The wisecrack of the script is good, though we expect much more from the Coens. The scenes at the newspaper are generally brilliant. The ironic design of the character of the journalist Amy is beautifully made, yet... in a head-to-head between Jennifer Jason Leigh and the great Barbara Stanwyck, well, there's no match.However, The Hudsucker Proxy has terrible defects, too. But for Leigh, the whole cast act in a farcical, clown-like way (Newman and Durning included, alas!). There's no evident reason in doing so it's just annoying. Several scenes are slow-paced and boring, others are irritatingly superfluous. An instance for all Norville's dream, with the female-dancer and the music from Carmen. What for? The whole finale is just awful. What's this stuff? A satire of the American way of life? A shabby, poor parody of Capra's films? An unpretentious farce which tries to be funny, with excruciating results? Too bad!Balancing praises and faults, I think that The Hudsucker Proxy deserves a 6/10. At any rate, perhaps for a true Coens' fan it would be better to avoid this movie he could be disappointed by this questionable outcome of their enormous talent. "},{"Title":"What A Great Movie!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While I can understand that this movie is not for everyone, I certainly thought it was great.  The sets, music and acting were all first rate.  I am a huge Coen Brothers fan, and this movie is right up there with Fargo and Raising Arizona.  It is interesting reading the comments on this film. Alot of people don't like Jennifer Jason Leigh's acting in the film, but I think it was perfect; she was supposed to be over the top and a parody.  If you don't see it that way then her character will drive you crazy.  It seems you'll either love Hudsucker or hate it; there's no middle ground. I love it and have seen it over and over again.  It gets better each time. "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not the sort of person who would wax lyrical about afilm,unless it it was particularly memorable. This film IS particularly memorable it's a couple of years since I've seen it and it still strikes me as top-notch. All those of you who appear to regard yourselves as Halliwell's film guide in human form really should stop banging on about Katherine Hepburn impressions and this film not standing up to the rest of the Coen Brothers' oeuvre, and just sit back, relax, and bask in the all-round loveliness that is The Hudsucker Proxy. This film makes fantastic use of detailed sets, intelligent dialogue, wonderfully appropriate music and. above all, some killer performances, to conjure up an atmosphere that you could eat with a spoon (there, is that pretentious enough for you?) I think this film is fabbo if you don't like it, I don't like you, so there. "},{"Title":"Robbins brilliance shines through","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Tim Robbins was absolutely superb as the man who had been brought in to replace the head of the company who commits suicide in this film.Robbins' job is to make the company fail so that the investors - led by Paul Newman - can buy in when the share price has crashed, but he is under-estimated as he has an excellent inventive mind -- he comes up with the hula hoop after all!Jennifer Jason Leigh is surprisingly good as the love interest and journalist investigating Robbins' character, and this is a well crafted tale that has the stamp of the inventive Coen brothers all the way through it. "},{"Title":"The Hudsucker Proxy (1994)","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Although set in the late 50's, this is really the Coens' tribute to the Hollywood urban/screwball comedies of the 30's and 40's. Such a milieu is appropriate for their love of regular schmucks and off-beat, rapid-fire dialogue. And it's a pretty good story, one that would be right at home among the works of Capra, Hawks and Sturges. But the Coens have a tendency to go big, and when working in an idiom that already calls for big performances, it's a case of overkill. From the exaggerated design of the corporate machine to Jennifer Jason Leigh's ridiculous attempt at a period dialect, it all screams trying too hard. The tone is just too tongue-in-cheek, it needs a little more sincerity and a little less winking. The gags get smothered by all the stylistic choices, and consequently the film just isn't very funny. But it does have heart, in the same way that similarly goofy pictures like RAISING ARIZONA and O BROTHER WHERE ART THOU? (another Sturges tribute) do. Leigh might be a disaster on every level, but Robbins pulls off his smarter-than-he-looks-but-not-by-much character very well. Not as bad as I feared, but definitely not one of their best. "}{"Title":"Say, What Gives ?","Date":"25 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Waring Hudsucker, the president of a wealthy corporation, mysteriously takes a swandive off the forty-fourth floor of his skyscraper. His sneaky executives quickly hatch a scheme to make the company's stock plummet so they can buy it all up cheaply. They install a greenhorn kid, Norville Barnes, as a puppet president to inspire panic in the investors. Norville seems pretty dumb, but he has some surprises up his sleeve ...I adore this movie - it's hilarious, wonderful, romantic, incredibly stylish and completely unlike any other film. The premise is just terrific; the greedy executives' plan backfires in grand style, Norville and Amy not only find love but learn amusingly opposite life lessons and the ever-present circle of life theme is one of the best visual/subtext ideas in all of cinema. As with many of the Coen Brothers' films, it is the unique gel of intriguing characters and dazzling style which combines to produce such a rich, memorable picture and this is one of their best (along with Raising Arizona and Miller's Crossing). I guess there are some elements of this film which aren't for everyone - the performances are extreme, the set-pieces are insane and the dialogue is so fast and screwy that it sometimes feels as if your ears are being pulled off - but if you really love cinema you have to like this film. There is a six minute sequence, scored with Sabre Dance from Khachaturian's ballet Gayane, detailing the conception, creation, marketing and boom-popularity of the Hula-Hoop, which I can only describe as simple perfection - film-making at its best. But the movie is just stuffed full of such scenes (Waring Hudsucker's demise, the Blue Letter, Amy's scam in the diner, Doc Bronfenbrenner's presentation to the board, Norville's angelic encounter) and the cast have a ball with their nutty characters. Robbins and Newman are nicely matched as goofy nice guy and corporate killer but the showstopper is undoubtedly Leigh in an amazing, no-holds-barred, half Rosalind Russell, half Katharine Hepburn, dialogue-blatting hellspitter of a performance, which is one of the funniest and most inventive I've ever seen. The rest of the cast are terrific, notably Cobbs as the other-worldy timekeeper Moses, Mahoney as the wacky editor, Campbell as the newsroom heel, Darga as the psycho mailroom orientation guy (Wrong colour voucher, and they dock ya !), Buscemi as a beatnik bartender and Durning as the eponymous cause of all the shenanigans. Somehow they all manage to work their way around the loopy dialogue (Ze dingus is qvite simple really. It operates on ze same principle zat keeps ze Earth spinning around ze sun and zat keeps you from flying off ze Earth into ze cold reaches of space, where you vould die like a mizerable schwein.) and the result is a glorious celebration of fifties slang, filled with delightful comic exchanges. The Three Stooges meets His Girl Friday. The script, by the Coens and Sam Raimi (they also wrote the underrated Crimewave together) is simply one of the best ever written. What else can I say about this movie - Carter Burwell's dreamy score is one of his very best (only surpassed by Miller's Crossing), and Roger Deakins' photography, Dennis Gassner's production design and Michael J. McAlister's visual effects are all gorgeous. This movie is not all that well known, which is a shame, because it's an absolutely unique experience and a definite must-see. It's one of those films born purely out of love, good humour and artistic endeavour and it never fails to make me smile and feel giddy. Magic. "},{"Title":"surprisingly great","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a joy to watch. It's totally engrossing, and it frequently surprised me with moments that are deeply and strangely satisfying.Tim Robbins gives a performance that is radically different from any other performance that I've seen from him; it is much more broad, more naively comical. His character is a bit cartoonish, but in a way that is endearing, and at times extremely funny.The rest of the cast is perfect. Paul Newman is great as the bad guy, Jennifer Jason Leigh is great as the dame. Also noteworthy is Bill Cobbs, who really pulls the film together as the narrator and prescient maintenance worker, a kind of semi-divine figure who may represent a kind of humanity that can overcome the tragedy of blind causation.I noticed some plot similarities to Meet John Doe, in which a small town guy is put on the top of the world by a conniving boss character, only to come crashing down (disgraced and accused of being a fake) when he doesn't fulfill the boss's expectations. In Meet John Doe, the finale comes as the protagonist contemplates a jump from a high building on Christmas Eve, and his love interest is an apparently hard newspaper writer who quickly reveals a soft side when she falls for him. Most likely this was consciously done, and as a kind of revival of Capra-style narrative put into a zany Coen-style prism, this movie is very successful.The movie also draws on Brazil to some extent in its visualizations of a psychedelic and grandiose bureaucracy, although it is much less dark than Brazil, and much more of a comedy.In short, this movie is funny, unique, uplifting, and very well acted; a classic. "},{"Title":"one of the Coens best","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" this movie is one of the most overlooked movie from the Coen brothers. No one I know has ever heard of it. This movie is great. The movie stars Tim Robbins as a small town guy who just moved to the city to make it big in business. The whole plot thing is the chairman of Hudsucker Industries steps down (literally) the greedy executives want the stock of the company but in order to do that they will have to hire a joe schmo to be president so that stocks are low enough that nobody will want to buy the stock and the bad guys can take over. Norville has big ideas and when placed as president (in the most odd way) decides to pursue them when the stocks begin to plummet. The invention of the hula hoop makes Hudsucker the biggest thing. Light hearted comedy that also stars Paul Newman as Sydney J. Mussburger, Jennifer Jason Leigh as Amy Archer. Also stars John Mahoney and Anna Nicole Smith(small cameo no need to worry) Good Movie. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"absolutely loved it","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Well, there aren't many movies that I can say made a lasting impression on me. I love quirky off-the-wall out-of-the-mainstream movies like this one. I've bought it an never tire of watching it. Tim Robbins, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Paul Newman ... what a great cast. Tim Robbins is the epitome of a man who gets to where he wants to be out of sheer determination. Jennifer Jason Leigh was masterful as the fast-talking reporter/girlfriend -- I was mesmerized by her. Paul Newman can afford to be self-deprecating, and he was the perfect person for the role of cad. Thank you Cohen brothers for one of your first and best films, and please keep making more. I want your style of movie-making to be passed on from generation to generation. I'm still trying to get my kids to appreciate that style, and someday they will if I have to pound it into them! EILEEN "},{"Title":"The only film that always makes me cry with joy...","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, so a few of the conceptual elements of The Hudsucker Proxy are no more than loving homages to the screwball comedies of 30's...which might at first make this film seem like something less than the new cinematic worlds seen in the other Coen movies....but the levels of sheer cinematic detail and brilliance displayed here perhaps exceed any of their other work, and indeed (almost?) all other modern American cinema.This is a visually lush, gorgeously seductive film with giant sets and beautifully constructed comic set-pieces. The gallery of memorable characters and quotable dialogue certainly exceeds anything I've seen from the last 20 years. But most of all the movie brims over with an extraordinary joy, comedy and wonder without ever being remotely sentimental.The almost wordless scene which starts with Tim Robbins' introducing his invention to the boardroom and extends through its naming, manufacture, birth, near death and resurrection, is, to me, THE most brilliant and utterly cinematic scene ever filmed.Masterpiece. "},{"Title":"An underrated over-the-top film","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The funny part about this movie is, Norville Barnes indeed represents high hopes and bright ideas, and when he starts out his intentions are pure...But he's pure schmuck.  He becomes the CEO of the company because the Chairman of the Board KNOWS he can push Barnes around.  And sure enough, he IS pushed around.  Even Barnes' attempts to entertain his own money-making schemes (you know .... for kids !!) are thwarted because he's such an idiot. Leigh's character knows this too, and SHE pushes him around, too just when she thinks she's been had, he proves to her that he's an idiot (one of the big laughs of the movie).The argument could be made, too, that Father Time can barely save Barnes because he's so stupid (instead, Barnes becomes the anti-climactic hero, clumsiness and all).There are so many implicit thematic jokes here, one has to view it just to believe how unbelievable it all is !! "},{"Title":"Fellas! I got something!","Date":"12 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The one talent in film-makers I truly admire is the ability to make an entire movie To craft every line of dialogue, every performance of every actor, every set and camera angle, and every aspect of the plot. The Hudsucker Proxy, in my view, is the finest example of this in the history of film. And to beat Terry Gilliam's Brazil, that is really saying something.The strangest thing for me about this film is that, while it is most definitely a comedy, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who wanted to WATCH a comedy. It amuses, sure sure, but it isn't the jokes which will bring you to tears, it's the never ending barrage of style. And the ending will blow you away.My favourite film of all time. 10/10.One thing though... why did they use the theme tune from the BBC's 'The Onedin Line'? ) "},{"Title":"Bravo!","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While complaining to a friend about how much I'd like to see Jennifer Jason Leigh play something else other than a strung-out, depressed, neurotic, whacko character, he suggested I rent Hudsucker Proxy. I did! I loved it. JJL was amazing doing Katherine Hepburn down to the last flick of the wrist. Robbins also showed the breadth of his range -something I always like to see. Another Coen Brothers success! "},{"Title":"They do make'em like they used to!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I finally saw this film, after avoiding it for years because friends had warned me off. After seeing it, I was forced to decide that I need some new friends... What an incredible film. Absolutely beautiful sets, rapid-fire screwball comedy dialogue, and one of the great performances by THE best actress of our time, Jennifer Jason Leigh. I don't know what to say to the nitwits who dislike her virtuoso turn as newspaperwoman Amy Archer... Don't they recognize Katharine Hepburn when they hear her? I am always sickened when I hear people attacking Leigh in Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle, which is THE best film of the nineties, if you ask me, and now I can get queasy over this one too! She is so outrageously good that I can't do anything but throw bouquets! The rest of the film is almost as good. It's clearly an homage to screwball comedy, and to Frank Capra in particular. As a student of Capra, I have some quibbles, but it was beautiful to see plot, character, and visual elements from films like Meet John Doe and MR. Deeds Goes To Town resurrected for our time. I don't believe that the Coens actually made a Capra film (Norville Barnes is not grounded enough to be a Capra hero, although he bears quite a few similarities to John Willoughby, the aimless oddball in Capra's oeuvre), but they have done something almost as good, they've made a genuine, personalized contribution to the screwball comedy tradition, and that is something to be lauded for. Screwball/romantic-comedy is America's greatest contribution to the art of film (along with film noir) and it's good to see directors who appreciate this fact!    "},{"Title":"Great movie. Shame about the middle.....","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There is a point in The Hudsucker Proxy where I genuinely believed it was going to be the greatest movie ever made. All the auteurish Coen moments (the coffee-cup ring on the newspaper, Hudsucker's jump from the board room, the blue letter, etc, etc) had thus far combined seamlessly with the gigantic scope, the unforgettable music and the phenomenal storyline to produce an epic comedy blockbuster like no other. Then, for the first time in the movie, the action relocated outside the Hudsucker building, into the newspaper office and... to Jennifer Jason Leigh. Now don't get me wrong, her performance is quite some achievement and the film doesn't entirely lose it's way at this point - after all, we have the Hula Hoop set-piece; but it's just that on every occasion I watch this movie I begin to fall asleep during the middle section.Perhaps it's my fault. Perhaps I am typical of a generation brought up on brainless visual stimulation and therefore I can't fully get into the slow-paced relationship development between Norville (Tim Robbins) and Amy. Whatever the reason, fast-forward me any day to the phenomenally inventive end sequence and the re-swelling of that music...To conclude then, I may consider this a frustrating case of 'almost' but I would still be the happiest man around if all blockbusters included a 'Brazil' style landscape, a Bruce Campbell role and a random dream sequence. "}{"Title":"An uncompromisingly good movie!","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Most of the big movies that have come out in this decade have had this amazing quality You have nothing more to say or think about the movie than you did when you first saw the 90 second trailer.  (The example I'm thinking of is Independence Day). But the Coen Brothers (in contrast) reinvent themselves with every movie they make.  If you never saw the credits, would you ever guess that Raising Arizona, The Hudsucker Proxy (I'll get to it in a second!), Fargo, and The Big Lebowski were made by the same team? Fargo and Lebowski, possibly.  But the others?  No way! It would make a person think that there are three or four extremely creative persons out there, where there are only Joel and Ethan Coen. The Hudsucker Proxy is the best example of thier versatility and inventiveness, not to mention their charming-yet-aggrivating reluctance to explain themselves. But for all the skill involved, there is only one thing to do -- watch, enjoy and laugh at every minute of this movie, knowing that there ARE a few people who just won't get it. "},{"Title":"Really fun little homage to screwball comedies of the 30's","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Norville Barnes comes to work for Hudsucker Industries he has high hopes but finds himself in the mailroom.  When the CEO, Hudsucker himself, throws himself out of a window on the top floor, the board find out that he has left no will and that the stock will come up for public sale within a month. With stock too high for a board buyout, Mussburger decides to drag the stock downwards enough to buy by putting a terrible CEO in place to panic the market - that's when mailman Barnes arrives in his office.It is a real shame that this film flopped at the box office, for it is tremendous fun for those who actually get the joke.  To really appreciate this film you need at least a basic knowledge of the fast-talking, smart mouthed screwball comedies of the 30's and there about.  However it is still be easily enjoyed without this reference, as long as you are in the mood for an exaggerated comedy that exists in it's own world, albeit one that is familiar.  The plot is yet another wonderful bit of imagination from the Coen's - the hula-hoop subplot merged with the fast talking journalist stuff is just really breezy and fun.  The film has all their usual larger than life characters and even their usual smaller roles of characters representing good and evil (the 2 maintenance men).The gags are a mix of slapstick, referential gags and witty dialogue - I didn't laugh out loud consistently but I was amused thoroughly and did laugh a real hatful of times at the dialogue (not counting the mezzanine). Aside from some very sharp and funny dialogue, the overall feeling of amusement comes from the exaggerated world and the larger than life characters.  The world of Hudsucker is gothic and imaginative, buildings are impractical but impressive, the world of the mailroom is a busy hell while the accounts dept is a never-ending row of desks.  The characters are great whether it is good/evil, the angry editor, the doubting board members right down to Hudsucker himself and that wonderful opening board meeting.The film benefits greatly from a cast that is as famous as it is deep. Some of it is fortunate casting at the time but there are a lot of stars here. Robbins is good in the lead role but I wished his character had been a little savvier, allowing him to be wittier if naive rather than being a bit clueless.  Leigh plays the role pretty well, doing a reasonable impression of screwball actresses.  Newman has a great support role and is enjoying himself.  However it is in the smaller roles that I found myself amazed at the sheer number of famous faces who were given one or two good lines each. A mix of Rami & Coen regulars as well as many others, this includes Durning, Mahoney, Bill Cobbs, Bruce Campbell, Peter Gallagher, Steve Buscemi, Anna Nicole-Smith, John Goodman's voice, Mike Starr and Rami himself.Overall I found this to be a really light fun little film.  It has a few moments where the light tone dips a little to it's detriment but it never lets this happen for too long.  If you are familiar with the genre and enjoy the Coen brothers slightly twisted version of the world then you will love this.  If you aren't up to speed this film is still amusing enough to please you if you are in the mood. "},{"Title":"The best 'Coen'","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  As a big fan of the bros., having watched all their (mostly brilliant) movies, Hudsucker stands out for me. Brilliant photography and acting, a funny and moving story, the many great movie connections (I love His Girl Friday and other screwballs, and what about the fantastic beginning with the winks at Metropolis), the fantastic ending... I can't really explain it, but this is one of the movies why I love cinema, and therefore one of the reasons life is worth living... Brill! 10/10!!! "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  Too dark & arty","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Some people see a film, hate parts of it, but love the costuming, or the editing, or the music.I'm not arty enough to separate out parts like that. If the plot isn't interesting, it just isn't an interesting film to me. I'm an action lover. I like it when stuff blows up.Nothing blows up in The Hudsucker Proxy. In fact, the whole movie is a parody. Some will say what a great parody of the 1930s. But to me, because the characters were all caricatures, I couldn't identify with anyone, didn't really care what happened. A good parody will reveal hidden themes in the parodied subject and inflate those themes in a witty manner to make a point. That didn't happen in this film. It reminded me of Spaceballs, in which scenes from Star Wars are merely repeated with no cleverness to what aspects were inflated or made fun of.There's a theme, all right, it just didn't engage me. Nice to see Jennifer Jason Leigh do some real acting, though.Who should see this film-- people who like dark comedy-- arty people who will get it and have seen lots of 1930s films-- anyone who is mad that I said something bad about SpaceballsI gave this film a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Home come everybody thinks this is so good?","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What is it with you? Why did you make me have to see this movie?If it weren't for all the A perfect film, underrated, Genius and more kinds of comments, I wouldn't have seen this movie. Not that I don't like flat stupid jokes, satire, intelligent humor, this just isn't it. I didn't think so. Apart from the scene where Tim Robbins tells the reporter that he has thoughts about the company's future and shows that circle. But him then saying For the kids... you know that just breaks the joke. Yeah, it's like someone else here commented, the people who directed and wrote the manuscript for this movie took it seriously, and they want viewers to take it seriously.I would have preferred if the circle Tim Robbins had made on that piece of paper wasn't so perfectly circular. And why did Tim Robbins have to get that stupid blue letter? How come did that reporter lady always know at which bar he was. If you want to make me take a movie seriously don't have so irritable shortcuts in your script. Inviting Steve Buscemi though into a 10 seconds role as barman near the end, that is fun but not specially original if they just paid him good money to be in that little role.I didn't take this movie seriously, I never like to take any movie seriously, I like when you see gangsters walking around and shooting each other once in a while in a Tarantino movie or when you see Jim Carrey in Me, Myself and Irene being schizofrenic, now that is funny.So Me, Myself and Irene is rated 6.0 and this stupid Hudsucker Proxy is rated 7.3? Now that suddenly makes me wonder if there isn't something wrong with imdb.com, which I admired so much until now for guiding me quite well with movie info and often guided me in choosing the right movies to rent..This movie is way overrated, I rated it 5 out of 10. And seeing it is from Joel Coen and Ethan Coen, now I wonder if I really liked Fargo and The Big Lebowski that much.. As it was so many years ago I watched those two film I might just look at them one more time and see if the Coen brothers might just have been in some Hollywood big-money kind of mood at the time they decided to make this Hudsucker Proxy happy ending piece of cheese. "},{"Title":"Rare Misfire for Coens","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" In what is perhaps the Coen Brothers' worst film, the directors of a company hire an imbecile as president in the hopes of driving down the stock price so that they can buy back the stocks cheap and regain control. Robbins is well cast as the idiot president while Newman is fun to watch as a manipulative Board director. Leigh gives a curious performance, seemingly channeling Katherine Hepburn as a fast-talking newspaper reporter. While there are some amusing moments, the characters are essentially caricatures and there isn't enough flow to the narrative to sustain a feature length film. Also, it goes on far too long at nearly two hours. "},{"Title":"Dud, sucks, poxy","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  There's one good joke in this film, about musicals. Otherwise it's as arch, smug, and soulless a comedy as could be expected from the Coen brothers, the charm of whose oeuvre entirely escapes me (yes, even *Fargo*). Just because these nerds can claim to be 'auteurs' doesn't mean that what they create is any good. Tim Robbins mugs his way through the central role, but is infinitely more watchable than Jennifer Jason Leigh, whose excruciatingly mannered performance could give anyone a migraine. All the satire about capitalism is overegged, Steve Buscemi puts in a predictable cameo, and the whole experience left me sympathising only with those characters who lost the will to live.  "},{"Title":"My fave filmakers, but this one sucks!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What a disappointment, I loved all the other Cohen brothers movies. I watched about half an hour of this debacle and that was all I could take-it was like nails on a chalkboard! They way overdid the satire thing. It came across as extremely melodramatic, as every single move, every single word was an exaggeration of some satire-extremely annoying and thus unwatchable! But the plexiglass part was funny, I admit. The only bright spot in this turkey! "},{"Title":"Chinese Water Torture","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It is beyond me how this movie could've been rated so high. If you like melodramatic drivel, then perhaps you may want to see it. If you don't want to see a movie that doesn't quite know if it is a cartoon, a morality play, a comedy, or a drama, then check out something else, anything else. The only thing that kept me from taking the tape out was the semi-serious idea the movie tried to advocate that time is precious and should be utilized to it's fullest and that priority in our lives should always be the people around us we care about. Having said that, now you can save the rental fee, write the idea into your collection of proverbs, and go see another movie. Don't say I didn't tell ya so. "},{"Title":"Unadulterated Stylishness, and Not Much Else Really","Date":"30 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a banquet for the eyes. The art direction and set design are awe-inspiring, reconstructing the cosmos of 1930s screwball comedy in which immense skyscrapers and immeasurable boardrooms were the playgrounds for the determination of crooked executives, go-getting kids, unsung masterminds, and lady journalists with strategy as rapid-fire as their repartee, but it is also imbued throughout with the Coens' inimitable mark of genre fine-tuning and crafty, mugging humor.However, the movie's hindrance is that it's all facade and no theme. Not even the least endeavor is made to indicate that the film takes its own narrative into account. Everything is technique. The performances feel self-consciously slanted as lampoons. Yet those performances are right on track. Tim Robbins stars, as a mailroom clerk who finds himself propelled into the administration of the massive Hudsucker Corporation. Paul Newman is the aged distinction behind the curtain, who coaxes Robbins' power as he supposes the kid is utterly bungling, and will push the stock price down, just what Newman wants. The over-romantic tenor of ordinary men as heroes is cheerfully predisposed by films of Frank Capra like Meet John Doe and It's a Wonderful Life. And Jennifer Jason Leigh has been scrutinizing Rosalind Russell in His Girl Friday with shades of Katharine Hepburn, and has the part down faultlessly...to a fault.But who cares? Is there anyone in this movie to actually be concerned about? Regardless, most of the film's majesty is at the very outset of this, well, screwball comedy by proxy, which establishes its verve in the opening sequence, as an executive crashes out of a skyscraper and the camera paves his way in a diving plummet down what seems like a couple of hundred stories of a petrifying drop. It and the surrounding goings-on are invigorating.But to what aim but unadulterated stylishness? And isn't there a problem between the movie's look and feel, which are unmistakably 1930s Art Deco, and its assertion that it's set in the 1950s? I doubt if many viewers cares about that, especially since setting it in the '50s permits the Coens to have oodles of merriment with the inspiration of the Robbins character, who creates the hula hoop and makes incalculable billions for Hudsucker.And the hula hoop, sequentially, affords a reason for a montage showcasing rhythmic gymnastics spreading across America, a filmmaking device which the sibling duo in some way are able to manipulate and tease simultaneously. The hula hoop centerpiece is also something that Robbins necessary must invent that at first glance is absurd that would appear, by any kind of logical gauge, to be destined to bomb, yet something that conversely we're already aware is going to be an extraordinary sensation. The entire circle pattern seems worked into the style of the film, the conflict between these soaring buildings, then these circular echoes in the structure of the story itself. It begins with the end and harks back to the opening, not to mention also Bill Cobbs' opening monologue, the Hudsucker Clock, Mussburger's wristwatch, the the hula hoops and frisbees, and even a conversation about Karma.But all in all, isn't there something numb at the core of all of this? Don't we exhaust more of the film appreciating the visual highlights than caring about them? That's the tired, and now completely obsolete crack against the Two-Headed Director, that they're all style and no spirit. Most movies reprocess jaded old blueprints. Here's one that makes no bones about its doing so and indeed sumptuously embraces that intention. It screamingly evokes Safety Last with its country boy coming to the big city and ending up hanging from a giant clock. The mechanistic monstrousness of the mailroom contrasted with the angular gigantism of the corporate offices perfectly matches the boss-labour split of Metropolis. There's even a blatant nod to Hitchcock's Saboteur in the splitting of Newman's pant leg as he dangles out the window mimics the Statue of Liberty sequence.One fine cause to go to the movies is to indulge the eyes, even if not all of one's head is indulged. And this quite funny and potentially incisive lampoon of big business is a spectacle to behold. Unless you desire something further. It's a minor work, yes, but still another verification of the Coens' status among America's most ambitious, able and exciting film-makers. "}{"Title":"A Coen brothers comedy winner","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The hand-wringing first. This Coen brother movie is, like all Coen brothers movies, a little too long by about 15 mins. There just isn't enough film in the idea to sustain both the story-telling and wacky shenanigans that they shoot in trying to tell it.That said, the Hudsucker Proxy is a thoroughly entertaining matinée painted in almost comic-book like broad strokes. Tim Robbins' super performance combines slapstick that suggests Harold Lloyd but a sharp understanding of the gags and ironies in the script. Where he gives the picture energy so Paul Newman's grizzled schemer Mussburger is a broody husk of cunning and malevolence. The two balance each other out nicely, along with the typewriterly dry delivery of Jennifer Jason Leigh's Amy Archer. Heart warming, bonkers and, as I say, slightly over-cooked. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A MUST See Movie","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is like a unique Persian rug. The older it gets the more you realize how precious it is. I have seen this movie at least 100 times and every time I watch it, I find something new and funnier about it.The acting is perfect. The lines are great. The flow is magnificent. The only other movie I can recall where so much attention was given to the details, and the lines is Amadeus. This is one of those movies that people come to truly appreciate it as years go by. I read the box office for this movie, and it seems it made only $2 million at the box office ($40 million total budget production). If they release this movie today after 14 years I am confident it will be a hit at the box office.I am not going to spoil the movie for those who have not seen it yet except to tell you that if you are in a mood for a real comedy then you MUST see this movie. "},{"Title":"Big Sets. Big Business. Big Laughs!","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Coen Brothers are never afraid to tackle the machinations of everyday life. And in the case of The Hudsucker Proxy, they choose to skewer the corporate world of boardrooms, politics and office rivalries. And it has to be said they've done quite a superb job. This is a much better film than Wall Street. For the simple fact The Hudsucker Proxy is a true original, and quite unlike anything I've ever seen.In one of the most breathtaking opening shots I've ever seen in a film, the camera glides over the New York cityscape on New Years Eve, 1958. It closes on the Hudsucker Building, a tall skyscraper with a clock face that looks like a cross between the Empire State Building and Big Ben if such a thing is possible. A man climbs onto a window ledge and contemplates suicide. The film than jumps back a month and tells the story of how this man, Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins), the President of Hudsucker Industries came to this decision.When Norville arrived in New York, he was a recent business school graduate from Muncie, Indiana. A man with tall ideas but short on common sense and experience. When he learns a vacancy has opened up at Hudsucker Industries in the mail room, he applies, and sees this job as working his slow way to the top.But as Norville's on his way in, another Hudsucker employee's on his way out. On the 45th floor, the current President, Waring Hudsucker (Charles Durning) takes a dive out a window. And quite a scene it is too. We follow him all the way down to the pavement. You actually feel exhilarated. Until reality hits home with you about what's just happened.Since Hudsucker left no will, company shares are available to buy on the open market. But the Vice President, Sidney J. Mussburger (a cigar chomping Paul Newman) has other plans. He has his eye on becoming the new President, but bides his time. He instead hits on the idea that if he appoints a new President, but one intended purely as a proxy, someone who is a complete incompetent, Hudsucker stock will devalue, Mussburger can buy it back, and take over as the new President. And Norville is the lucky schlub to be picked.His appointment shocks New York, and piques the curiosity of Amy Archer (a snappy turn by Jennifer Jason Leigh), a tough as nails reporter with an accent as clipped as her prose. She goes undercover as Norville's secretary, wanting to get to the root of this situation, and engages in a little romance with Norville at the same time.The Hudsucker Proxy is not your standard film about big business. But that may be where its appeal lies. As is usual with a Coen Bros film, its made up of a lot of different elements. Politics, fantasy, romance, black comedy. Because it has such a wide variety of clashing styles it may account for why THP was a box office flop. Even though the Coens' do an admirable job of compressing its different plot points into a successful package.But another reason is how expensive the film must have been to make. One thing that strikes you right away is how grand the sets are. The Hudsucker Building is one of the most astonishing set-pieces ever constructed. Offices are the size of sound-stages. The sorting office is a multilayered cocoon of chutes, whistles and sirens. And the clock face on front of the building is so vast it casts an ominous shadow over Paul Newman's office whenever the minute hand is on the move.Its a testament to the cast that they're not swallowed up by the somewhat intimidating nature of the sets. Tim Robbins is likable enough as Norville. Its interesting watching his transition from someone with initially good intentions. After he markets a circle that emerges as the Hula-Hoop, and it becomes a nationwide craze, his success starts to go to his head. Its quite a long journey he's on that eventually takes him to that window ledge. And its fascinating to see how he gets there.But its in the supporting cast where the film really shines. I've come to realise that in any film made by the Coen Bros, there is always one actor that gives the film its life. Frances McDormand in Fargo. M Emmet Walsh in Blood Simple. But in The Hudsucker Proxy, we have two, Paul Newman and Jennifer Jason Leigh.Their characters are like two sides of the same coin even though they never actually meet. Newman knows Norville is an idiot, waits for him to make a mistake, convinces him its a good idea, and calmly sits back and watches as the world falls out from under Norville. Paul Newman has never had so much fun in a part.Amy also knows Norville is an idiot, but despite her better judgement develops faith in him that somehow he'll pull everything together. Any scene with her is a delight. She storms into rooms and takes charge. When she speaks, people fall silent. She's a haughty, no-nonsense gal. And strangely sexy all at the same time.Things start to fall apart of course for Norville. An escalation of events that lead to his decision to kill himself. But salvation presents itself from beyond the grave! And its satisfying to see Mussburger get the comeuppance he was planning to inflict on Norville.The Hudsucker Proxy is just as impressive as anything else the Coen Bros have produced. Its a film that should be appreciated by everyone. A fun, witty and occasionally extraordinary glimpse into the world of big business. Shame that its expensive production values precluded the possibility of it turning a profit. Because this is first rate, ultra classy entertainment. "},{"Title":"So much love for a movie so in love with the movies!","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Here is a movie that has been born again, thanks I suppose to the miracle of digital video, or as bright exception--the rare revival screening. If you were lucky as me, to see it on the glorious big screen, then you may have realized this is one of the Coen's most beautiful efforts. Not to say it's as loving and multi-layered a pastiche as Barton Fink, The Big Lebowski, or, Miller's Crossing...and nothing compares to Fargo in depth of wit, and intelligent use of violence in . But there is so much to love in the Hud. One need'not have a personal knowledge of the cannon's of such estimable comic filmmaker's as Sturges, Capra, Hawks, Tashlin, MacKendrick, Farrow. You don't need to see Metropolis, or Citizen Kane, or dozens of other classics the Coens rip off explicitly. All good artists are brazen thieves, it's the ones who claim they're original you must look out for.The fact is, Hudsucker is a brilliant homage, and it's about time people learn to accept great entertainment at face value before they go looking for signifiers to everything. And is'not it about time for a Rediscovering of the pleasure of another brilliantly made divertimento of the Coens --Intollerable Cruelty? "},{"Title":"my kingdom for a hoop","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Coen Brothers, those masters of the twisted, take a look at corporate bureaucracy in The Hudsucker Proxy. It portrays the board of a New York business appointing a random employee (Tim Robbins) CEO after the original CEO (Charles Durning) commits suicide. They expect the business to then collapse so that they can then collect the last profits, but this guy has his own set of tricks up his sleeve (hint it's a perfect circle).It's always great to see people poke fun at the corporate world. And set as it is in 1958, this one has the feeling of classic flicks. Aside from the aforementioned cast members, Paul Newman is great as ever as the slimy executive, and Jennifer Jason Leigh is hilarious as a tough gal reporter not letting anything stand in her way while investigating a story. And there's even Ash himself, Bruce Campbell (no mention of boom-sticks here). All in all, a great movie.When it's Waring Hudsucker. Ha! "},{"Title":"Is it style or substance? Either way, one of the Coens' best.","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The critic Ebert has a review worth reading. Basically his angel tells him this ultimately stylish film, beautifully filmed and impeccably acted, deserves the highest rating, while his devil tells him it is all style and no substance, and deserves the very lowest rating, a zero.  So he compromises.To me, it is all style and no substance, and that's exactly what is called for. Highly entertaining look at corporate life, and what do you do if your company's stock is valued too high?  Watch it and see.SPOILERS follow, you may decide that you want to read no further.The borad is meeting, the news is all good, the company's image has never been better, and the stock is at its highest ever. At precisely noon, Mr Hudsucker himself gets onto the long table, runs its length, and dives out the window, 30 seconds later he is on the street, dead. With no will and no heirs, the company rules say stock valued at his equity has to be sold on the open market beginning the next January 2nd after the death. As the next in line, expertly played by Paul Newman, he hatches a plan -- if we get a proxy president who is incompetent, it will drive down the stock and we can pool our money to buy up 51%, to keep ordinary people out of our company.Robbins plays the recent graduate who isn't very assertive nor very bright, and it looks like their plan is working. He pushes the idea he had brought with him in his pocket from school, a simple circle.  It became the hoola hoop, and the new rage made the company stock shoot up again. However, he gets discouraged, and at midnight New Year's eve he too jumps from the 44th floor office, but half-way down he stops in midair. The old clock-tender had stopped the machinery, and stopped time, activated once again, he fell to withing one foot of the street, when the clock stopped again. Then, when it started he simply fell one foot, rolled to the ground and was all right. Whimsical film, great entertainment. "},{"Title":"the title is the problem","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  this actually is a great movie in any decade of movies - it's visually beautiful, clever, sardonic, brilliantly acted - it would be hard to find a flaw - except one critical one.  several people have commented on why this film did so poorly in its original release and why people sstill have not picked up on it.  it's the title - the Hudsucker Proxy is an incredibly bad title - one doesn't know what it means, it's sound weird and just doesn't fit the movie at all.  if this movie were re-issued under another name, one that rolled over the tongue more easily and gave people some idea of what it was about, it would do very well indeed. sometimes, it's that simple. i rate this 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Genius","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Reading over the comments below, it appears that some people find this film absolutely brilliant, and everyone else doesn't get it.  In my not-so-humble opinion, this film is a classic.  On my first viewing, I thought it was pretty clever.  But it is so well-thought-out, each scene and exchange is so exquisitely planned, that I catch more detail (and laugh even harder) each time I see it.It is, at the same time, a great comedy, an archetypal myth, a howling spoof of a love story, and ... gosh, it's got everything.  Those who think the ending turns too melodramatic, I have only to point out the fervent go eagles hand signal that precedes the final passionate embrace in the beatnik bar--I think that summarizes the silly, ridiculous, absurd, wonderful tone of the entire movie.  It's engaging on many levels, with simultaneous themes of mortality, innocence, deciept, justice and redemption.  (Gee, with that list you'd think I was describing the Bible or something!)Now, I've talked to my share of people that, on their first viewing, didn't like the movie.  They didn't catch much of the humor, and were confused about what the movie was even trying to do.  If you fall into this category, I recommend watching the movie again, and again, until you get it.  "},{"Title":"There need to be more movies like this one out there","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Tim Robbins delivers a hilarious performance, and Jennifer Jason Lee is perfect as a fast-talking career gal.  But my favorite thing about the movie is the intense atmosphere.  For example, when Norville's boss is yelling his orientation at him while coworkers dump mail on him and whistles are blowing and people running around--it is great!  Plus the comical intensity with which Hudsuker employees react to the sight of a Blue Letter!  And then there is the brilliant struggle between good and evil, embodied by the wise clock technician and the sign painter, respectively.  Don't miss this "},{"Title":"ya know, for kids","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I have never seen a movie quite like this one.  When I watch movies, I usually think, Oh, this movie is a cross between movie x and movie y. The Hudsucker Proxy is an originally funny and smart movie.  Never predictable at any moment, and I loved Tim Robbins and Jennifer Jason Leigh in their roles. A must see!! "}{"Title":"Halo","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I am not gonna say that this movie is brilliant, which it clearly is... Cause what do you care what someone else though about it, right? I've wasted enough of yer time already by the blathering I've just done, so lets get to the point.Symbolism When Waring jumps out the window, Tim Robbins walks into the joint. It reminded me of something The Stranger said in the Big Lebowski,k about that being the way that's the way that whole darn human perpetuation works, one man dies, the other is born; one man resides the CEO position, the other accepts it... Resemblance notice that Waring's Halo is really just like a hula hoop. What's a hula hoop but an overgrown halo? you, know, for kids...RAISING ARIZONA Hudsucker Industries is the company where H.I. McDonnough works.all right, I'm gonna say it anyway, I THINK THIS MOVIE IS BRILLIANT! "},{"Title":"Exceptional Performance from Jennifer Jason Leigh","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance gave me a flashback to the character Hildy from His Girl Friday.  The cinematography was also very sheik and the set design was great.  I really liked this film.  I'm also a very big Tim Robbins fan and loved him in Shawshank Redemption.   "},{"Title":"Incredible movie.","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Hudsucker Proxy is one of my absolute favorite films.  Everything about it seems to work.  Tim Robbins plays Norville Barnes innocently and with naivete, and Jennifer Jason Leigh is fantastic.  The movie is great visually, with a very art-deco-ish feel, and the clock-keeper and door-painter even work out as a metaphor for the battle between good and evil. "},{"Title":"Wrong Newman","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This has got to be the worst performance I have ever seen of Paul Newman. If they had used this for the recipe of his spaghetti sauce, ugh.I think this movie might have been better made in the 1950's as it seems that far out of touch with the 1990's. The want ad in the newspaper says it all when it says want a job where you slave for hours on end with no little or no pay? Work at HudsuckerActually it might take that much work to like this movie. When Robert Osborne introduced it on TCM he mainly mentioned the big names in the cast and the fact that the Coen's got their start with 8MM films. Think they were still doing that when they wrote and filmed this one. They were obviously too big for their britches here as this film falls far short of what they were trying for.There is a rumor that the real movie was put in a port-o-john on the film location by mistake and this is the out takes? "},{"Title":"Overlong, overacted and overdone...","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie starts off pretty good... we get a few introductory scenes that are quite entertaining, and the film moves very fast... then, at about half an hour into the film, it drops tremendously in quality. Every single character suddenly speaks as if he/she only had a minute left to live, and wants desperately to say everything he/she can in that minute. We get a scene or two of Zucker-style 80's spoof-like scenes of background shenanigans. And then, just when you think it couldn't possibly get any less serious, any more ridiculous and lame, they throw in a romantic subplot and a bunch of fantasy stuff. The first half hour is pure genius, everything from that point just gets lower and lower. The plot is OK, but it never seems to take off. The pacing is awful, the film seems to stand perfectly still from the moment Tim Robbins' character is made director of the firm. The acting ranges, but most of it is terribly over-the-top. The characters are somewhat well-written but they hardly have a shred of personality, are mostly clichéd and stereotypical, and none of them are particularly likable or interesting. The dialog is at times well-written, but mostly it's just as overdone as the acting. The script just has so many scenes and parts written into it that seem to be there for no reason. This film holds a few funny scenes, but most of them are during the first half hour. Want my advice? What do you mean, no? Well, here it is anyway watch the first half hour. If you like it, but think it could be better, watch on. If you love it, stop the film. There's nothing like that from that point on, and you don't want to see how this ends... trust me. The ending is as lame as they come. However, if you find the first half hour to be anything less than great, your expectations might be low enough to tolerate what happens from that point on. I'm just surprised that the Coen's could put together a film like this... I mean, they made The Man Who Wasn't There and Intolerable Cruelty. I don't know, maybe I just needed to be in an entirely different state of mind to enjoy this film any more than I did. I recommend this to fans of the Coen's, as they should enjoy it. I'm not sure who else would, though. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Cartoon and cardboard.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Someone needs to inform the makers of this film that they needed to do more research. Folks who were around in 1958 know that fashions for men and women did not resemble those of the WWII era. Also, cardboard characters who spout clichés and gesticulate like Looney Tunes do not make for great film entertainment.  The defense of the makers of this film might be that this isn't a documentary. Quite right.  But it helps not to insult the intelligence of your audience with myriad anachronisms and lousy acting. Tim Robbins makes a pretty poor imitation of Jimmy Stewart or Gary Cooper. He comes off like no-talent 'actor' Keefe Brasselle in the title role of the B biopic The Eddie Cantor Story. Jason-Leigh tries to imitate Katherine Hepburn and comes across like Marjorie Main imitating Tallulah Bankhead. How Paul Newman got here we'll never know. But his talent is wasted in this epic. Leave the Capra classics to Frank Capra. Capra had talent. This film is a travesty.  "},{"Title":"Tries to hard and is sometimes irritating, though it has its charms","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Hudsucker Proxy is such a stylized movie - the cigar-chomping, greedy executives (of whom Paul Newman is delightfully evil), the tough, fast-talking reporters, the silly-but-nice young hero, the somewhat magical cityscape, the crazy humour - that it will divide most viewers into two camps those who love it and those who hate it. The film looks good - the scenes where the camera swoops down the skyscrapers and the giant, chaotic mailroom are particularly well done, and there are some very funny moments, but too often the film feels rushed, forced, unnatural. Some of the character's voices (the female reporter and the elevator boy in particular) are teeth-grindingly irritating, and there is a mysterious black man who provides an almost literal deux-ex-machina (for those who don't know the term it means 'the god in the machine', a term used for a powerful figure who suddenly enters the story at its climax and provides a resolution) who is too obviously a plot device. While the character is likeable and I can understand that he is supposed to represent some kind of angelic figure, as the bald man does a demonic one, but we don't see enough of him to really believe in his character.Flawed, but enjoyable.6/10 "},{"Title":"what is wrong with you people?","Date":"25 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is so underappreciated.  The Coen brothers tie everything together so perfectly.  So the characters might be one-dimensional.  It was MEANT to be that way.  Do you really think that the Coen brothers would have just messed up by choosing terrible actors and allowing poor acting in one of their films?  I think this is definitely different than Fargo per se, but people need to realize that they are filmmakers, not just dark comedy makers.  The versatility of these guys is what makes them brilliant!  The ever present circle (in the great tradition of the Coen motifs) is evident in the sets, the props, the costumes, the dialogue...and even in the narrative structure.  It's a masterpiece!  You can't expect  true artists of their trade to make only one type of film, and always stick with that. All you sadists out there who swear by Fargo and Big Lebowski and Raising Arizona (all great films too, of course) really need to give this one a second chance. "},{"Title":"My favorite flawed movie of all times","Date":"8 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The only acting more annoying than Jennifer Jason Leigh in this movie has to be that done by Lorraine Bracco in Medicine Man. I get what Ms. Leigh was trying to do--the whole Hepburn thing--but holy cow, it doesn't work. She nearly ruins the film.But she doesn't ruin it, and the rest of the movie is so, so, so incredibly good and inventive and funny and hip and clever that The Hudsucker Proxy has been at the top of my favorite movies list for five years now. I have seen it well over ten times and would love to see it again right now. I constantly quote from this film Sure, sure. You know, for kids. Wait 'til you get aload of this sweet baby. A little more giddy, a little more gay. And if someone says they like this film, I immediately respect them, because I know they are intelligent. If you get the movie, you'll do OK in life. If you don't, then I'm worried about you and maybe we should not be friends.There are so many great scenes--Buzz, the patter-happy elevator boy, The marketing department's naming of the dingus (one of the wackiest brainstorming sessions ever), the showdown between the janitor and the maintenance man, the rolling dingus and the boy who first puts it to use. Omygreatgoodness, what a wonderful film.20 years from now, when the Coen brothers are both hit by a truck, reviewers who originally panned this film will realize that it is a great masterpiece of originality and sheer cleverness. It is absolutely flawed, but who wants perfection. Perfection is boring. Perfection is for saps. This is a great movie. Sure, sure.  "},{"Title":"You know... for kids!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  That right there must be what's wrong with this movie. When I was finished watching it for the first time I found myself confused. I didn't know what to make of it. And after thinking about it for a while, it hit me It's too PG!. That's the problem. The Coens are brilliant when it comes to writing about evil characters and twisted, gruesome murders. How brilliant? Hitchcock brilliant. But this is so... wholesome. It's so nice and happy they could show it on the Disney channel... uncut. No woodchippers, no fat maniacs yelling I'll show you the life of the mind!, no nihilists and their marmots and no cursing besides one use of hell and crap. At least that's what I thought after the first viewing. I had to see it again. And then I realized that deep inside, this film was pure Coen. The snappy one-liners, the familiar faces, the music, and the visuals... my God! the visuals. I could see Waring Hudsucker jumping off that building forever and never get tired of it. It shows us what the masterful Coens can do with a fairly big budget. This is a very good movie that could have been fantastic. Some very unnecessary, cheap scenes, like the flashbacks Mussburger has about his pants and the corny flying teeth. Very childish humor. Other weak spot is the last line and fade to credits. It doesn't leave a smile on your face or sends chills down your spine as all of their movies' last scenes do. You know ...maybe it was Utah. Two more months..., Say partner, got any of that good Sasparilla?, or the mysterious final scene in Barton Fink. It's unfunny, confusing, and turns you off after seeing that awesome ending. Really bad line, too bad it's the most important one since it's followed by Directed by Joel Coen. Other than that, this movie is really good. Flawed, but good. Great performances, great special effects, great scenes, a great score by Carter Burwell, and great use of Bruce Campbell. Terrible last line, but what are you gonna do? I give it three stars out of four (not counting the mezzanine). The lowest score for a Coen Brothers film, which speaks good of the Coens. I still consider them Gods.  "}{"Title":"This may have been a good movie...","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  but I'm not sure. So much of the dialogue was bullet-fast, we could only make out about half of it. If only they had slowed down everyone's speech, I might have liked it.We saw the film because John Mahoney is one of our favorite actors. His speech was the fastest of all. When style gets in the way of clarity, something is terribly wrong! "},{"Title":"How sad.","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  First off, this film has great art direction and looks great. But that is the only good thing I can say about it.  Tim Robbins acts like Jim Carey, horrors. (See Bob Roberts for a good performance)  The writing is a heavy-handed misunderstanding of classic films. The Cohans have shown them selves able to produce great films, Fargo and Oh brother, but this flick is a pain to sit through. The reviews here make me think that many people have no understanding of the work of Preston Sturges, just as this the makers of this show they do not. "},{"Title":"Sturges Homage Becomes Shrill Parody","Date":"19 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Coen Brothers' reputation for stylistic excess was never as well earned as here. Obviously aiming for the feel of a Preston Sturges classic comedy, Hudsucker Proxy is a stridently acted, indifferently written display of cinematic excess.Norville Barnes (Tim Robbins) lands in New York City just off the bus from Muncie, Indiana, looking for a job. Just as he gives up hope, a job literally falls from the sky, that of chief executive of cash-loaded Hudsucker Industries. Its CEO/Founder Waring Hudsucker (Charles Durning) merges with the infinite by taking a header from the 44th floor, leaving his board with a lot of precious loose stock to claim. Board member Sidney Mussburger (Paul Newman) decides the best solution is to bring the stock price down, quick, and grab up what the market dumps.Waring Hudsucker is abstract art on Madison Avenue, Mussburger sneers. What we need now is a new president who will inspire panic in the stockholder. After Barnes nearly sets fire to Mussburger's office, the old snake figures he's found just the guy.Newman's unique here in that he doesn't spit out his lines rapid-fire out of the side of his mouth like William Demarest with lockjaw or any of Newman's castmates in this movie. He kind of growls and barks instead, offering terrific Newman presence but working against the little comedy there is, which mostly centers on how rough the business world is and how it victimizes the little guy. It's a Sturges story that way at least.Except when Newman's on the screen, Hudsucker Proxy is a kind of movie that can give you whiplash just from the subtitles. Most egregious in this regard is Jennifer Jason Leigh, who plays an undercover reporter by cross-channeling Rosalind Russell-meets-Katharine Hepburn. It's fun to watch her for a minute or two even with her lines obviously dubbed in at points, but watching her flap her hands around and rant in what might as well be Esperanto for minutes at a time gets tired.Hudsucker itself seems to work with the idea the faster it moves, the more clever it is. Or maybe it's just trying to bull you though a sketchy plot. Once Barnes plays his and the movie's one ace, revealing this invention which he has been touting since the opening credits, he becomes a heel and a bore. Barnes should offer an engaging center, but doesn't because of both a lacking script Ethan and director Joel Coen wrote with horror-film legend Sam Raimi and because of Robbins' overly broad performance.By the time the movie gets to the end, you can feel the writers shrugging their collective shoulders. You got a better idea? a character asks us directly at one point, a funny moment but also an admission that they did not.Stylistically, Hudsucker Proxy is fun to look at, with its stereotypical 1950s production design run amuck. Engaging piecework from Bruce Campbell and John Mahoney as a pair of hard-case journalists and Peter Gallagher as a thinly-disguised Dean Martin mean good things turn up now and again. The Carter Burwell score plays off the melody of Stormy Weather before launching into some engaging thematic material of its own.Hudsucker is ultimately a film that exists to show off its influences, and be judged by comparison. That these guys love Preston Sturges is clear here; that they picked up on his screen economy, witty dialogue, and razor-sharp characterizations is better demonstrated by their other movies. "},{"Title":"Trading Places","Date":"25 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" You know? For kids! &#x96; Norville Barnes The Coen brothers homage the works of Preston Sturges, Howard Hawks and Frank Capra (as well as John Landis' Trading Places) with The Hudsucker Proxy. The plot Tim Robbins plays Norville Barnes, a Capra inspired everyman whose very ineptitude gets him hired by evil corporate heads, all of whom are determined to lower the value of Hudsucker Industries stock. But Robbins simplemindedness has the opposite effect. He lifts Hudsucker Industries out of near bankruptcy and makes the company millions by selling circles over and over again to kids. Meanwhile, the shady manoeuvrings of the Hudsucker company are investigated by actress Jennifer Jason Leigh, who does a rapid-fire impression of Hawks favourite Rosalind Russel.Like most postmodern films, The Hudsucker Proxy depends entirely on nostalgia. It is the very pastness of the past, its inaccessibility, that accounts for nostalgia's power. But this is rarely the past as actually experienced, but the past as imagined and idealised through memory, forgetfulness, distortion, reorganisation and desire. In this sense nostalgia is always less about the past than about an inadequate present. It is a historical inversion, in which the ideal that is not being lived now is projected into the past. In this regard, Hudsucker Proxy even has a giant magical clock which has the power to pause, preserve and rewind time.There are, of course, many ways to look backward. You can look and reject, learn, critique etc. Or you can look and linger longingly. In its yearning backwardness, postmodernism is thus not only a recovery project, but an attempt to defy the end. To evade movement. As cinema collapses, nostalgia may also be particularly appealing as a possible escape from what Lee Quinby calls technological apocalypse. Or, as Linda Hutcheon says, if the future is cyberspace, then what better way to soothe techno anxieties than to yearn for a Mont Blanc fountain pen?Today, capitalism and postmodernity no longer need to rely on individual memory. Instead, thanks to technology, digital, audio and video reproduction, nostalgia can be fed forever and ever and ever by an ever accelerating circle, a hyper-access loop to an infinitely recyclable past. Under postmodernism/capitalism, everything is then sold as change, but nothing does, and pleasure is falsely ascribed an emancipatory potential. Today's art is just one symptom of this deadlock. And if the Coens are one of its chief purveyors, each film a self-aware, self-conscious photocopy for those who can't remember, then Hudsucker's Tim Robbins' character epitomizes them best, the guy continuously re-marketing and re-branding the circle. You know? For kids.The Hudsucker Proxy has the lowest joke quota of all Coen comedies, and its screwball antics mostly all fall flat. It's not only that the Coens too often mistake convoluted word-play for wit and humour, but that this verbose brand of screwball was long diluted by TV and sitcoms. Alone among the cast, Jennifer Jason Leigh shines, with her pitch perfect resuscitation of Hawksian damsels. Altman would use her to similar effect in Kansas City. The film's production design is expensive but claustrophobic, though there are two heavily storyboarded, visually striking sequences.6/10 &#x96; See Trading Places. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"The Prodsucker Huxy The Rise, Fall & Salvation of The American Dream","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Nevermind that little anagram there in the summary. It's just an inside joke and I guess you have to speak Dutch to fully grasp it. Yes, we Belgians have an offbeat sense of humor, and so do the Coen Brothers. And I have the feeling that it's because of that, this movie seems to be a bit more appreciated over here in Europe then it is in America. Anyway, this is the Coens their take on the ideology of The American Dream. The result is one truly magnificent and funny movie, and I consider it to be as some of their best work to date, even though it took me 12 years to finally see it (I have no excuse for that, except there are so many movies to watch, you know).Simply everything about this film, from writing over set design to acting & directing is superb. All the sets (incuding the highly detailed miniatures of the city buildings) are a lust for the eye. Tim Robbins really goes all the way in portraying Norville Barnes, an ambitious yet naive young man who is mistaken for an imbecile in his climb to success. Jennifer Jason Leigh is amazing and really proofs what a versatile actress she is in this one. She got that 40's acting style going on there, which is a highly contradicting and a welcome change to some of her other more dramatic rolls, like in RUSH (1991) and more recently THE MACHINIST (2004). Paul Newman is devilish good and there's a notable supporting role for BruceAshCampbell (who gets slapped in the face quite a lot in this film). The writing of the dialogues is excellent, complex and highly enjoyable. One of the most funny lines is spoken by John Mahoney (as Chief Editor Manhattan Argus) Yeah, well, if a frog had wings, it wouldn't bump its ass while hopping!. I just had to rewind that one, never heard it before. That's extremely witty writing there. However, I must admit that on some rare occasions the movie does tend to get a bit sappy (Go eagles in the Beatnik bar). But still, the Coens can get away with that, I guess. Other pretty outrageous scenes generously make up for that. Now, this movie does not get as crazy as, for example, Terry Gilliam's BRAZIL, but it does feature some of those surreal, fairy-tale-like touches, although in a much more friendly and charming way.So, THE HUDSUCKER PROXY simply is a must-see film. It's a Coen-masterpiece and an excellent movie in general. I even have this feeling that when I'll see this one a second time, I just might come back here and give it 10/10. "},{"Title":"A Wonderfully Delightful Film... For Kids!","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The story of a man from Indiana who stumbles across some crooked businessmen, only to get promoted to president in a scheme to crash the company's value. With a nice romantic subplot.This film will not be remembered as a masterpiece in the sense of Citizen Kane or Psycho. I don't think a lot of new ground was broken here. But what you have is a sweet little tale with some of the most talented people in the entertainment world.Writing, directing and producing you have the Coen Brothers and Sam Raimi, who combined have made a plethora of dynamite films. Fargo, The Big Lebowski, Darkman, Evil Dead... some of the greatest cult classics of the past decade or two.Starring we have the greatest actor of our time (Tim Robbins) alongside the greatest of all time (Paul Newman), accompanied by one of the greatest actresses ever, Jennifer Jason Leigh. Leigh went above and beyond her normal limits (even her best work such as The Machinist) and adopted a really snappy His Girl Friday accent that suits both her and the film to a T. And although I've always had a crush on Ms. Leigh, I can't say I've ever found her more breath-taking than in this role (and working under the dad from Say Anything no less!).The Coens have their pets along (John Goodman and Steve Buscemi) and Raimi brought his hetero life-mate, Bruce Campbell. Has there been a bad Bruce Campbell film? I don't think so. The only man missing here is Philip Seymour Hoffman (and maybe Jeff Bridges).The comedy is great, the timing is excellent. The cartoony backdrops that scream both Superman and Dark City at the same time are very entrancing. If I was going to live in a cartoon version of New York, I would want it to be this one.Another gold star for the Coen brothers! I hope this intensity can be kept when I watch Raising Arizona and Barton Fink... "},{"Title":"The best thing the Coens have made to date","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I already know I will be in the vast minority on this film. SO many people I talked to about this movie were completely unimpressed by it and it has definitely been overshadowed by the Coen's other films. So, this COULD mean that I am 100% wrong about how great this film is or it could mean this film struck a chord with me and may with you as well. If you are a fan of old films, I think it's more likely you will love this film.I've got to mention that this film at times seems like a straight drama, at other times a mild comedy and others completely surreal. I loved the strange and surreal moments--they really worked to give this movie a lot of charm. In fact, the surreal moments were woven into the story throughout the entire film. While this worked so well here, I hated the surreal aspects of Barton Fink (also from the Coens) because instead of being interwoven, the story went from an excellent and perceptive drama and then abruptly became completely surreal. I really DON'T want to go into what all the weird little scenes were, as it would spoil the film in some ways, but they are both cute and greatly enhanced the film.A few of the many great aspects of the film would be the great set design--a combination of the early 50s and Art Deco throughout, snappy pacing, great acting (I particularly liked Tim Robbins, Paul Newman and Charles Durning) and excellent and inspiring music. The Coen brothers are simply at their best. This film is even better than Raising Arizona or Brother, Where Art Thou? "},{"Title":"Quite amazing..","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Hudsucker Proxy is a film that can be watched and enjoyed over and over again.  Tim Robbins and Paul Newman are on top form in this bizarre feel-good tale from the Coen Brothers, which is hilarious, moving, and never dull.  Jennifer Jason Leigh has never been more gorgeous. "},{"Title":"nice...","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  the coen's second best film, i reckon, their trademarks all in place (shouting fat guys and so forth). their accomplished use of internal symbolism (the hat in miller's crossing, the box in barton fink, facial hair in the big lebowski) is made evident again, as is their ear for idiosyncratic dialogue and their collective eye for detail.it isn't until you've seen this movie a good five or six times that you realise how meticulously well crafted it really is. everything is perfect, from the squeak of hudsucker's leather chair as he stands on it to the scratchy sound as the bald fella scratches hudsucker's name off his door is detailed in their fine screenplay.but, you cry, surely most of the film's impressiveness lies in its surface. the plot summary sounds alarmingly similar to the flintstone's movie and the characters are all so shallow!not true. the story is a model of quality structuring (see robert mckee's book 'story' if you don't believe me), no scene is wasted on exposition alone, and Norville Barnes goes through more changes in the course of one movie than a whole host of normal characters do in two or three.rent it. "},{"Title":"Coen Brothers are Geniuses!","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  An enormously entertaining, distinctive and flavorful brew. Sounds like a coffee review, but dang this is a great movie.  Every minute is something vastly different from any of the pap being thrown on American movie screens (remakes of awful TV shows), yet at the same time, it's a clear tribute to the great comedies of the '40s. Jennifer Jason Leigh's perfect rendition of an old Katherine Hepburn voice is one of the high points, along with Paul Newman's ever-present cigar (even during a massage), and some of the most amazing visual effects I've seen in years.These guys know how to make *movies* -- not just TV shows on a larger screen, but utilizing all the possibilities inherent in the medium.  Great, funny, eye-popping movie. "}{"Title":"All comes down to taste","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This film all comes to personal taste. Some will hate the fast talking characters while some will adore it . Costume design is perfect and so is the art design. Like many of the Coen brothers films , you will need to watch it at least two times to fully appreciate it . The story is interesting but after a hour , it started to be chore to finish. The film is capable of making you laugh and there are some great scenes. But overall , it just comes down to taste and personally , i'm not a massive fan of this screwball homage. The setting is great, costumes are great and so are the actors especially Paul Newman. I suggest you give it a try and if you end up not liking it, then a second viewing will most likely change your mind, just like many others of Coen's films "},{"Title":"Sure, sure... it feels like a carbon copy.","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Hudsucker Proxy is a would-be screwball comedy disguised with beautiful set design and cinematography but in the end it turns out to be almost exactly like the predecessors it so obviously admires but fails to live up to.Lit and shot beautifully, capturing the dark edge the Coens so love to put in their films, this feels like a hit, looks like a hit but it is not a hit. I still cannot quite figure out why, but perhaps it has to do with the fact that the Coens were unable to produce a script original enough to stand on its own. While it certainly makes its homage known, it feels almost as if the story could not stand without the classic comedies from the 1930s an 1940s. This film pays due to several of the great screen comedies including Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, His Girl Friday and The Great McGinty. And while you have to admire its spirit and ambition, I can't say I loved this film if only because it wasn't as fresh and exciting as those other movies.Furthermore, the storyline lacks significantly, at least compared to other Coen films like Miller's Crossing and Barton Fink. It really is just a retread of a cross of Mr. Deeds and His Girl Friday and that is the basis of the positive material. Unfortunately, the look upstages the story and that is almost never good in a movie. If you know any of the classic comedies, you know where this is headed and that is disappointing given the great talent at work here. Certainly not a movie to hate, but it is a bit sad knowing that these filmmakers could have touched greatness in going back to the classics and they fell short. "},{"Title":"the ultimate screwball/Frank Capra comedy, done over like no other by the Coen brothers","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" For a while I didn't really feel a need to check out the Hudsucker Proxy, probably for a childish reason (the name sounded like a pharmaceutical company), especially strange since many of the films by Joel and Ethan Coen are some of the greatest made in the past 25 years of American cinema. But somehow, like the hoola-hoop, as shown in this film, it came around to me and I have to profess how amazing it all works so completely as a hysterical and hyperactive stylized comedy and as an example of homage going through a blender to come out with a fresh vigor. Its interesting this was in competition at the 1994 Cannes festival against Pulp Fiction, as the two of them carry a similarity (albeit the film that did win did deserve it) in the total lack of abandon for adhering to normal conventional storytelling, but at the same time staying rigidly controlled in how to USE conventions to a delirious advantage of making it more outrageous and infused with the best brio possible from the actors.For the Coen brothers, it's taking a big leap from the 44th floor- or is that 45th, with or without balcony- and it one's ready to go for the ride it's a lot of fun while having a small but effective point made about people at work. The premise is pure Hollywood farce an average dim-witted schmo named Norville (Tim Robbins) becomes the president of Hudsucker industries after unwittingly saving the life of Sidney J Mussburger (Paul Newman), and even has a good idea for a big product for, you know, the kids, which is a hoola-hoop. But it sounds fishy to news reporter Amy Archer (Jennifer Jason Leigh), who goes undercover in a not-too-hard way into his office (You're a Muncie girl?!). In the typical Capra fashion- matter of fact very much a mix and match of It's a Wonderful Life and Meet John Doe (right down to the attempted suicide by jumping off a building ledge)- we're given the naive innocence of American optimism, and then the layers shown clear as day of the cynicism, and more crucially the ugliest side of capitalism, undermining the more optimistic aspects possible.But there's always the goofy wink and the very fast and wacky nod of little things going on in a scene adding up to a lot (don't drink that so fast while getting your ear chewed off by Archer, Norville!). And then there's the direction and cinematography and production design and music and so on and so forth, given the jolt of eight cups of coffee and a rigorous reworking of how to go through montage (through photos as well as in progressing the narrative, like Norville's transformation into an uncomfortable egotistical president from humble schmuck). If it weren't so spot-on in its efforts to make pure absurdity at about a five-second rate, then the style would probably become *way* ahead of the substance quick. There's just so much going on with the 'vision'- ironic considering their hero's simple genius in creating practical things- that the filmmakers are about as ambitious, if not more so, than they were later on with O'Brother, Where Art Thou, and going a step further than Raising Arizona in how every character, to a minor degree or keyed to 11, is zany or self-conscious in some respect or another.But they pull it off not simply because all of the departments are rich in pulling all of this together, it's also the cast too. It surprises all the time to see Tim Robbins when he's given a wonderful character to tackle, but it's even more amazing to see how not only is it such a 180 turn from his other well-known role from 94 (the Shawshank Redemption), but that (very) arguably it might even be better and at least matching the range that the Coens go for in their work. He's perfectly clueless and imbecilic in the early scenes as a foil, and then as he goes through his transformation he embodies a Capra hero and, as dumb as he continues to be (can one feel bad for an obnoxious elevator operator?), one can't help but root for the fool to win and stay alive. Meanwhile, Paul Newman plays such a dastardly one-to-two note heel that it's just dazzling to see him play it with just a touch of irony to the old villains of old movies and to still make it his own. And Leigh, adopting the Russell speed from His Girl Friday, is also amusing when she gets the chance (watch her reactions to the reincarnation dialog with Norville during the party), and holds her own against Robbins. And per usual, the Coens flood their film with recognizable faces Charles Durning (his re-appearance in the climax is a laugh riot, fake halo and all), Steve Buscemi (beatnik), Bruce Campbell (newspaper stooge, oddly enough not the funniest side character even with the doodle he draws), John Mahoney (typical newspaper publisher, matching Leigh's vocal speed), and even Peter Gallagher as a pop singer! Filled with enough little visual gags for two movies, the various jokes ranging from nuanced to just plain bad puns, and many of the most obvious in-jokes to old movies told with (semi) straight faces I've ever seen, it's a wondrous work of parody; even if the film won't really strike the viewer too hard, it's hard to deny the love for the films the Coens are lightly yet swiftly skewering. The Hudsucker Proxy was not worth waiting so long, quite the opposite, it pains me to think how long I wanted to see this for such an unreasonable reason. Then again, there's always second chances. "},{"Title":"Looks Good, But Tastes Bad.","Date":"6 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  An elaborate scheme develops by Paul Newman and some other high class executives to hire a young moron (Tim Robbins) to run their corporation after the head honcho (Charles Durning) commits suicide. Newman and his fellow cronies do this so the company's stock will go down so the bigwigs can buy the stocks at a fraction of their original costs. Of course this could mean millions for those near the top of the corporation. Reporter Jennifer Jason Leigh suspects that something is not quite right and gets close to Robbins, but her plan may backfire as she strangely begins to have feelings for him. Very disappointing dud from the Coen Brothers that just never does generate any interest from its potentially promising premise. Robbins and Leigh are too annoying to help and Newman acts like the only performer with any talent. Beautiful cinematography and excellent art direction get overshadowed by confusing techniques and scattered messages. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"one of the greatest","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  absolute favourite, you'd be a fool to miss it and an even bigger fool not to enjoy it. rent the video. pity the fool. pimps don't pay tax. "},{"Title":"Can't believe anybody didn't like this film.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Why is it that the only widely acclaimed Coen brothers movie is the boring, pointless and grotesque Fargo?  Their best movie is clearly The Hudsucker Proxy, one of my favorite movies of all time.  Hudsucker is truly a movie that does it all; it is hysterical while at the same time political, fun, while at the same time thought-provoking.  No other movie comes close to combining comedy and philosophy so well, and the surreal cinematography is extraordinary.  Movies today typically don't bother to be as complete as Hudsucker - every element of this movie circles around and works together. I give Hudsucker the highest compliment I can possibly give a film every time I see it, I find new intricities and new reasons to love this film.  "},{"Title":"Underapreciated movie...?","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I got to half the movie and lost my interest. I tried to follow,to keep going hoping the best part of the movie was yet to come. Very disappointing and frustrating.I was about to have a heart attack. I'm sorry i gave money to see this movie.I guess the acting is -okay- but the fast-paced conversations of this comedy,if you can call it that,is irritating to say the least.The story is very predictable and boring. Avoid at all costs. Movies are supposed to be entertaining and relieve you from your daily stress,whilst this picture does anything but that. "},{"Title":"a bit too silly for me","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I usually like the Cohen brothers movies and I know how they like to make unusual screw ball type comedy but this one was just too over the top for me. I know if was supposed to be that was and it was supposed to be campy but just not my style. Its like a serious movie thats made for little kids it almost seems. It seems a like a movie on YTV or something.This movie is about a college graduate on the lowest end of a huge corporation. The copration hatches this plan to hire a new CEO and make sure hes very dumb so the company stock falls. They want to do this so they can afford all the stock to themselvs.This movie was not all bad but one of the worst Cohen brothers movies and that pains me to say because I am a huge fan of Big Lebowski, O brother where art thou and No country for Old men. If you like quirky comedies this one you will like or if you just love the humor of the Cohen brothers and if you do you know it. "},{"Title":"Overproduced at Times","Date":"1 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a bit more than I expect from the Coen brothers. This is truly a big movie. It must have cost a great deal to get to the theaters. There is so much eye candy that usually doesn't exist in their more sparse movies. This doesn't make it bad. It's as if too much detracts a bit from the underlying ideas of characterization. Tim Robbins is used as a caricature. Jennifer Jason-Leigh is a Katherine Hepburn recreation. She even embraces her speech patterns. I know this was an effort to do a parody of one of those fifties gray-flannel-suit movies. It's so over the top. Throw in a little Frank Capra and even Fritz Lang and you have this. The corporate world is seen as an island unto itself and Hudsucker Enterprises is in the center of that world. Forget motivations. These guys call the shots like it's a game. It works sometimes, but sometimes parody become so obvious that it diminishes its own point. Still, this is watchable and creative and deserves some accolades. "},{"Title":"Hudsucker Stinks","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" What really bothered me about Hudsucker Proxy Capitalism is the wonder of the world providing food and subsidence to everyone, even Communist slaves and Fascist toady's under a democratic people; yet, Hollywood insists on blasting Corporate Culture, when the overwhelming majority of businessmen are not only honest, they are exemplary.So much Hollywood talent and money wasted on a bad idea, so what else is new? The Coen's have jumped the shark with this take off of the American Screwball Comedy of the 30's. I cringed every time Jennifer Jason Leigh tried to imitate Katharine Hepburn's classic gargle. The poor actress may have destroyed her career with this stinker.I can't stand Tim Robbin's politics, but must admit that he is the best actor to play a fool in the movies. He almost carries this farce. Paul Newman; however, is collecting a check. He's been collecting checks since the 50's. His salad dressing stinks too.I'm amazed at how much money the Coen's command in Hollywood on such flimsy pitches. I loved Fargo and enjoyed The Big Lebowski (not as much as some cult fans), but this film, why did they bother? "}]