[{"Title":"So bad it's bad","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"80 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When this film showed up on the cable listing, I had a sudden urge to see it even though I knew it was probably going to be terrible. The original was such a staple of my childhood, yet had such an incomplete ending, that I was intensely curious to see what they would do with another sequel. Besides, I knew that it could not possibly be worse than The NeverEnding Story II.Boy, was I wrong.The NeverEnding Story III has rightly earned its place among IMDb voters as the 79th worst movie of all time. It is so bad that, in writing this review, I risk making it sound like it's worth watching, sort of like Plan Nine from Outer Space. I assure you, this film is in no way in the Ed Wood category of being so incompetently done that it becomes enjoyable to watch. Those moviegoers who take pleasure in seeing cinematic disasters should be forewarned about this one, lest they never again be able to erase from their memory Rockbiter's gravelly-voiced version of Born to be Wild, played in a video sequence early in the film and again during the end credits.No, I am not joking.The second film does have its admirers, and as much as I hated it, I sort of understand where they're coming from. At least that film had a legitimate purpose, to tell the second half of the novel which the first film had neglected to do. But now the story is finished, so the third film has to make up its own reason for being, with an even shabbier budget than that of the second film. So it concocts a story that allows us to see as little of Fantasia as possible. Here, a series of magical mishaps causes a bunch of creatures from Fantasia to be transported into the real world. These include Falkor the luck dragon, a baby rockbiter about the size of a fountain statue, and a talking tree. (Falkor, who must have gotten a lobotomy sometime between the second and third film, will chase after a dragon at a Chinese festival.) What we do see of Fantasia makes the place seem a lot smaller than I had ever imagined. Almost all of the scenes there take place in the empress's chamber in the Ivory Tower, though there is also one sequence where we get to see Rockbiter's home (just what I've always wanted to do!) with Mama Rockbiter and of course the previously mentioned Baby Rockbiter sitting in front of a large stone TV set. Needless to say, the inhabitants of Fantasia seem to possess quite a bit more knowledge of Earth than they did in the first film. When the gnome describes Bastian as not exactly Arnold Schwarzenegger in the muscle department, we're reminded how much more enjoyable the film would probably be if Schwarzenegger were actually in it.The cause of these events is that a gang of school bullies steals the book and discovers that it gives them the power to wreak havoc on the inhabitants of Fantasia. Strangely, these modern kids never seem surprised that magic exists. Think how long it took in the first film for even imaginative, ten-year-old Bastian to become convinced of the book's supernatural qualities. These bullies, much older and more concrete, never go through such a skeptical period. And later, when the Auryn falls into the hands of a teenage girl, she treats it with about the same level of awe as if she got hold of her parents' credit card.There are actually some familiar actors in this mess. Mr. Koreander is played by the British character actor Freddie Jones, Bastian is played by the kid from Free Willy, and the main bully is played by a relatively young Jack Black, who now probably would like to do with this film what George Lucas wants to do with the Star Wars Holiday Special. "},{"Title":"An insult to the series","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"60 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The first movie was great. The second wasn't so great, though it's not quite as bad as you've heard. Especially with there now being an even WORSE entry to this series - this being it!Someone questioned why Warner Bros. didn't have the distribution rights to this entry. Well, at first they did. I remember reading a (very negative) review of this movie in Variety magazine, and Warner Bros. was set to distribute. It's quite obvious now that Warner Bros. threw away its distribution option (probably after seeing how horrible this movie is), and Miramax picked it up for a tiny release that lasted 5 minutes. (In my city, it only played for a few weekend matinees).Oh yeah, what did I think of this movie? Quite frankly, it sucked. What were they thinking when they decided to jazz up the movie with contemporary rock 'n roll???? And most of the movie actually takes place not in the fantasy world, but in this world. The characters are especially obnoxious (especially the rock baby), and suffer from stereotypes. Plus, the movie seems to have forgotten a lot of what happened previously - the hero's dad knew about Fantasia, so the hero didn't have to hide anything from him - but for some reason, the hero keeps the incidents he was involved in a secret. The low point comes where the climax is not solved with magic or intelligence - but with karate. Yes, karate.  "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"45 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I don't understand why they bothered to make this one. The first Neverending Story really put you in the feeling of a fantasy world. The second was not quite as good. This one? Good Lord! Super trendy, with people in Fantasia watching MTV type television. Falcor wasn't the same voice or personality. It always ruins a good children's movie that is attempting to take you to another world when they try to make it hip. The beauty of these films was that they weren't hip; they were a true departure from the everyday. Isn't that what going into the book in the first place was supposed to represent? When will film makers learn to leave well enough alone? "},{"Title":"do not ever watch this horrible film","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"49 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In the beginning, there was The Neverending Story. It is the best film ever made.Then, there was The Neverending Story II. I'll vent my spleen over that mess later.And then, there came this waste of film and effort. Hold on a minute while I go throw up.While it is a clean, safe film in terms of subject matter, the third NES should never have been made. And I mean NEVER. The first two movies covered all the wondrous things within the original book, so I don't understand why this film was made at all. It is just cheesy, stupid, abysmal, and an absolute disgrace to the idea of The Neverending Story.First of all, what's going on with this stepsister of Bastian's that has somehow appeared? Wrong, wrong. . . Then, what happened to good old Falkor? And most of all, where is Atreyu? If you are bold enough to see this film, that is the one thing you will distinctly notice if you've seen the other two- no Atreyu.The boy who played Bastian was not nearly as obnoxious as the actor from the second film, but he just doesn't hold a candle to the original actor, Barret Oliver. I have only seen this movie once, because I was informed of how awful it was, and just had to see for myself. It was a waste of my precious time. I hardly remember the plot line or anything important like that because it just didn't stick with me. One gets the impression that this was made as a sort of kid/family-friendly approach to The Neverending Story, because it is just so simplistic, and sacrifices the charm of the original characters and settings for the sake of being funny and entertaining. But trust me, it is NOT funny and it is NOT entertaining. Any NES fan worth their salt would be appalled by this film. If however you are not familiar with the Neverending Story, see the original 1984 movie and read the book and be contented with that. Do not subject yourself to the torturous nightmare that is the Neverending Story 3, I implore you. As for a star rating out of ten, I give this film nothing. Nil. Zip. Nichts. "},{"Title":"In A Class By Itself","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie does belong in a class by itself Even worse than utterly terrible. I have been an aficionado of 'bad' movies for quite a long time, adoring those movies which only a group of friends and many drinks makes enjoyable. This movie was in fact so amazingly bad that I could not watch it past the first half hour or so. I only watched the rest via fast-forward the next morning. I've seen many films worse considered classically bad, this one beat them all hands down. I even had to start referring to possibly similar bad movies by saying They may be in the NS3 category. There are those bad movies that are MST3K fun and then there are those that make you wish you had a sharp object to commit suicide with, this one is the latter.This franchise went from excellent original fantasy, special effects for the genre, and well written characters to bad acting and writing in part 2, to movie of the week actors and rubber puppets in part 3. It's amazing how a film franchise that had such good promise sank faster than Lips Manless after taking the bath. Especially if you're considering getting this for the kids, at least treat them to the original movie or something like the Peter Barnes inspired fantasy miniseries' from the late 90s. "},{"Title":"Simply Put? Bad.","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Sadly, the running joke of Engywook and Urgl having to go to the bathroom, but being unable to do so, is one of the entertaining things about this film. But it does get tiresome. And the baby rock-biter is cute, if incredibly stupid. But if you have ever seen the first movie, or read the book, you will most likely not care for this movie at all. The plot is poor, Falcore looks extremely cartoonish as do the Rockbiters, and the Nasties...well, they just aren't that scary. Give me Gmork any day, please!This is a tolerable children's movie ONLY if you have no other knowledge of The Neverending Story. "},{"Title":"Did the producers even pay attention to basic points?","Date":"4 December 2003","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I thought Bastian's real mom died?  Now his real mom is alive and his dad (except his new stepdad) is gone.  Did I miss a step between NES 2 and 3? Then, all the fantasy characters (Falcor, Rock Biter, etc.) change looks (and in some cases, even names)!If I could rate this negative #'s, I'd rate this a -10.  However, Jack Black showed how he could actually act (in a rather early appearance before he became the likable guy he is/plays now), so I think I'll give it a -5. "},{"Title":"Huge disappointment","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I cannot begin to describe how awful this movie is. I watched the first Neverending Story when I was 7 or 8 or so, it came out in 1984, the year I was born, and I was absolutely fascinated with it. A few years later I had the pleasure of watching the second one, and although not as good as the first one, I have to say it is one of the better movie sequels I have seen (the people who comment on it give it too harsh criticism) It was still as imaginative and beautiful as the first one, and kept all the main characters. I saw the third one in the movie rental part of our grocery store when I was 14, and I got exited. I immediately rented it and brought it home and popped it in our VCR (you remember VCR's don't you?). It was not much longer after that that I was popping it out again. NES3, for lack of a better term,... sucks. The storyline was as unimaginative and vapid as you could hope for, it takes place in the real world, and not(as the title would have you believe)in Fantasia, and I get the feeling that it is because creating a fantasy world was a little out of their budget. This movie has low budget written all over it. The childlike empress isn't even blond! they get some brunette chick who looks nothing like her to play the role. After the fart jokes and potty humor commenced, I just couldn't take it any longer. My advice is don't wast your time and ruin your childhood memories with this piece of refuse. "},{"Title":"Poor, Poor Neverending story","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"28 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We have seen all the NES movies. The 1st was the absolute best!!!!! The second was sub-par. The third was the worst of them all!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Good News Jack Black Played his character very well. Bad News Where do we begin? First of all No atreau- Why, we don't know. second, the empress had BLOND hair. Defenatly not the beautiful girl in the first NES.She also looked very stoned. Bastion was an innocent kid with a big imagination. This one looked clueless. Changing his dead mother to his dead father is the worse, most noticeably fault with the story. YOU DO NOT CHANGE THE THE ORIGINAL POINTS OF THE FRANCHISE!!!! Now the fantasia characters. Falcor looked like an anorexic, crack head who must of lost all his knowledge with the pipe. We loved the rock-biter in the first film. But in this he shrunk and had a family (yes we know his son was in the second). If everyone grew up, why didn't didn't the baby? The elves looked horrible. It was good they brought them back, but they ruined the concept of them both. The oracle looked nothing like the first film and neither did the ivory tower.(stone?) They shouldn't started from scratch. The idea of using the real world as a premise was good, but the storyline sucked bad. Only Falcor new what the real world looked like. To try to make us believe that the other fantasia characters knew was laughable to say the least.Over all they should burn all copies of this movie and use a memory wipe to make us forget this movie ever existed. If we rated this on a scale of 1-10 we would give this a -1000.  "},{"Title":"NES III is a movie I really want to like...","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I first saw the first movie a few years ago. I loved it and still love it. I saw the second movie a while later. It was okay then. After two or three viewings I saw Michael Ende's name in the opening credits, and decided to find the book and read it. I can't remember whether I saw NES III before or after I read the book.The book was AMAZING. Probably the best stand-alone novel I have ever read. But the problem is After you read the book, the movies always look worse because it's not like the book. The first movie is basically based on the first half of the book. A few things were changed and/or left out, but it's still a great movie overall.The second movie is basically based on the second half of the book. A lot of things were changed and a lot of things were left out. This decreased NES II's score a lot, but it's still barely an okay movie.Now NES III is based only on the characters of the book. There's Bastian, of course, but in the book and the previous two movies, he doesn't have the attitude anyhow close to getting wild hair. No Atreyu, of course, which was probably one of the worst decisions made in the making of the movie. According to the first movie, Mr. Koreander doesn't like kids. But now he's school librarian, which doesn't make sense. Engywook and Urgl returning was probably a good decision, but their characterization was ruined when they were reduced to complaining about having to go to the bathroom the whole second half of the movie. The Bark Troll (there were bark trolls in the book) is not supposed to know enough about the human world to mention Vegas and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Bastian should not have been allowed to keep Junior at his house. Either Bastian would have said, No way! I'm not taking him to my house! or Junior would have wrecked his house down. Even the Childlike Empress was reduced to an idiot towards the end of the movie. NES III just doesn't have the feel that The Neverending Story was originally designed to have.Positive notes on NES III Well, the story was actually okay in my opinion. Jack Black is a likable actor. Mr. Koreander's line The story's not over yet, young man is the only time in any of the three movies where it talks about the NeverEnding Story's unendingness. I like seeing the Old Man of Wandering Mountain, but it's not the same part as the book. And the biggest positive note I liked it a lot better a few years ago, when I wasn't as much of a movie critic as I am now.5/10 "}{"Title":"THE worst film.  Ever.  (Small SPOILERS.)","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Rarely do I see a film that I can honestly say I absolutely do NOT like. This film, bar none, is THE WORST.Character rape abounds. Falkor, the wise, soft-spoken luck dragon we know and love, is transformed into a whiney, neurotic character who frequently makes lame complaints, a few concerning his back. Yeccchhh.Then, there's the tree-like character. HIS wisecracks are often related to the human world. (Call the fire department!) If there's one thing I despise, it's modern-Earth humor where it doesn't belong.And the Child-like Empress. This lovely, polite, wise young lady has been mysteriously transformed into the Pre-Teen Empress. At one point, she even referred to someone as old man. Can you imagine our beloved Stronach-version Empress doing that? Never!The ONLY characters who had anything done right with them were the gnomes. These were actually played fairly well.The story was horrendous. It didn't even feel like a Neverending Story movie at all. It didn't help that most of it took place in the human world.My rating? I big, fat, flat zero. >_<  "},{"Title":"Neverending Story Dies","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The box worried me since it said final chapter of the trilogy. But the 2nd movie was almost as good as the 1st (that's saying something; I rarely like sequels), so I tried it thinking it'd be OK. What a mistake! A trilogy ends when a character grows too old to adventure (Free Willy 3); his personality is off; an actor looks/sounds too different (Batman & Robin); or an important person is cut (Free Willy 3). This had all, & it wasn't SUPPOSED to end! Bastian's dad remarries, so he moves to a new school, where he's attacked by the Nasties. He escapes into the Neverending Story but leaves it lying around so the Nasties find it & plan to bombard the Nastiness on Fantasia (& thus Bastian) & Earth. (The reason isn't given; they just use nastiness like a theme.) He returns to Earth to escape Fantasia, but some characters travel too (don't know why; I thought the Story never went wrong). Now he has to get the book, & the Auryn which his jerky stepsister swipes. Richter doesn't look or sound like Bastian, who's bitter & demanding; Falkor looks like a dog & has less advice to give; the Emperess was cold. Even the Auryn didn't glimmer like the 1st, or whir and shine like the 2nd; just glowed & hummed! The Nasties look like they've been held back 15 years & aren't scary; they're more like poltergeists than bullies. The crustacean was a better villain; too bad it wasn't 1st. The bark troll & gnomes (weren't they large in the 1st?) knew too much about Earth - Call the fire dept! Good thing there's only 1 Bux in the phone book! We need to find Bastian's address! Falkor, the wisest, didn't know about planes or Chinese dragons. (The dragons scene was funny; gives the movie a 1, but didn't save it.) Atreyu wasn't even around! That explains why it was so hard fighting the Nasties, but the book predicted karate (of all things) & Falkor scaring them off - it never predicts! & if they heard, why didn't they fight, especially when Bastian admitted he only took 2 lessons? The weirdest thing was his dad - he'd seen the Story before, but was blank when he heard Bastian had been missing & stole it. Bastian didn't tell either. This had none of the magic of the 1st 2 - where the trilogy should have ended - probably because the setting & villains were in Earth. What a waste! If you have seen the 1st 2, don't look at this off-the-wall misfit. If you do, don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"What is this?!? I don't even.....","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this is pure crap! I swear the creator of the movie was drunk when he made this! I'm convinced! I saw the first movie,it was beautiful,the second one was not great,but it's A lot better than this,at least the second movie had better puppets and settings.The third movie just had no effort. The only thing I liked in this movie was Jack Black and thats it. But there are many things I hate about this!First of all,the characters are annoying as hell,Bastian,His step-sister,Falcor,the rockbaby,there are just too many characters to count. And Atreyu is not in it,but if he was, I bet they would just make him look like Macauly Culkin and turn him into a pussy But my BIGGEST problem with this movie is Falcor and The Rock Biter They turned them into idiots! Falcor was wise and brave in the first movie,but in this movie,he's now Patrick the starfish.and the puppet for Falcor,don't even get me started!Same goes for the Rock Biter! The Rock Biter now has a family! He's living in a sitcom now!and his family,they just sound so...so,well,the wife sounds like a man and the baby,oh god the baby..... But, when the rockbiter started singing Born to Be Wild,That's when i pulled out chunks of my hair!Just watch Neverending story 1 and 3 together and look at the difference This movie isn't even a 1,it's a -100,it's the worst sequel in cinema history! "},{"Title":"Daaaaaahhh... neverEnding negative points!","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Two guys who has nothing else to do in their lifes got together and was talking about making a movie...Guy 1 Duuuhhh... hey dude, hahaha, let's make a movie? Guy 2 (taking his finger off his nose) Duu-u-ude!! Yeah, let's make a movie... let's... ohh... nachos... hahahahah! Guy 1 So, hahaha, I saw Neverending Story... like... didn't understand the movie... but it's cool! Huhuhuh...Guy 2 Like... yeah... maybe we can... ya know... hahaha... change somethings and get a bang on Hollywood... huhuhu... like a sequel...Guy 1 Yeah... and that boy could be attacked by a bunch of bad guys like the ones who punch us in the head every day at school...Guy 2 These guys are nice... hahahahah... and hey... like... duuuhhh... the main character could learn to fight karate... It's cool! Chicks like these things! Huiaihaihahia...Guy 1 Yeah... cool!! Hahahaha! And like... the dragon could be more like us... and funny...________________________________ That was certainly the dialogue between the people involved in the production of this tragedy.I have nothing else to say. Everything you need to know about this was already been said by other reviewers. And good movies deserves good reviews. Not the case here.Stick to the 1st one. I mean, buy the 1st one, because it's certainly something that worths the money and a little space in your DVD collection. Rent the second one and watch only for the curiosity, it's not that good. As for this third one... don't even bother! Forget that it exists. Maybe one day the so-called producers of this mess will forget too. "},{"Title":"Absolutely disgusting.  The worst film I have ever seen.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember the first time I saw this waste of material.  The first NES movie is simply one of the best children/fantasy films ever.  The second wasn't as good, but it's still underrated.  But this...I saw it when I was nine and I still hated it.  Here's a list of things that make this no more than a cheap attempt to earn money with the NES nameThe plot.  Believe me when I say there is almost no comprehensible plot. I'm saying spoilers here because there's no point to seeing the film For some reason, it becomes Halloween in 5 hours.  Giant crustaceans appear in Fantasia for little reason.  The Childlike Empress goes insane.  Two elves try to get to Bastain by going to FedEx.  Bastain becomes a karate master against all logic and whups up on the cheap villains.  And that's just the most notable parts.The characters.  What a mess.  Atreyu isn't even mentioned, every single character is played by a new actor or actress that doesn't look anything like the previous player.  Even then, the characters are changed for the worse.  Rock Biter(Now called Rock Chewer, and a guy in a monster suit instead of a huge living mountain)has a wife, his son's a babbling moron, Bastain is a whiny ditz, the Nasties are unlikable jerks, and Falcor...Dear God, why did they do this to him?  Falcor has always been my favorite NES character; he looked so strong, yet he had the voice, wisdom and care of a loving grandfather.  In this, he looks very ugly, sounds like Homer Simpson, and is completely clueless.  He keeps saying during bad parts that he doesn't like this part of the story, and at the end, he says OoooOOoooh, this is my favorite part!  Absolutely disgusting.  Alan Oppenheimer must be ashamed.In general, this film remains the worst I have ever seen.  In my mind, there are only two NES movies.  This is a travesty, a massacre of a classic, and the worst piece of entertainment of the decade. "},{"Title":"The worst of the series no doubt","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Usually when a movie goes into its thrid sequel the second and this one stunk but there are a few exception (ex. Evil Dead, Indiana Jones, Star Wars etc). This is definitly not one of the examples. The thing that ticked me off most about this film was the childish humor it was going for. I admit at laughed at some of it, but then it got really annoying. Also what did they do to Falkor, they totally changed his physical appearance not to mention the way he acts. And if this movie was supposed to be based on the characters where was the main character Atreyu? Overall a big disappointmeant. See it just for Jack Black who is hilarious.5/10 "},{"Title":"DUMB","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Saw the original Never ending Story years ago, I loved it! Adults as well as kids will enjoy this first film. There were all manner of strange and wondrous beasts to keep the audience interested. It also had a great story line. Sequel to first film.... Ahhhm....This Third installment... Oh Dear. The set has moved to the modern day 'human world' of earth. Climax of movie is at the local shopping mall (during Halloween!). We have 90's music and mannerisms, and a bunch of pathetic bullies called 'The Nasties' are the antagonists. A motley assortment of Fantasia life forms romping about the boring local shopping mall not only looked cheesy, it reeked of the standard, well-used cliche. 'Non-human' characters were very poorly designed, they looked exactly like men in suits, lame-o borrowed from the 70s!Plot line was a very long, (boring) worn-out cliche, unlikely to hold your attention for long. There have already been countless movies done before with the same story line. One gets the feeling of 'made for the pre-teens only'. Unlike the first film, which appealed to all ages, this is a definite yes.CONCLUSION Not impressed.  This whole thing should have stayed where it was created - in the fantasy world the book was based on.  "},{"Title":"Stone characters reminded me of Jim Henson's 'Dinosaurs'","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm just trying to understand why this movie was made with so little effort. The plot could have worked but these filmmakers totally trashed the lovable concept of the magical Neverending story. The magic that captured me in the first two movies is non existent in this one.I cherished The Neverending Story 1 and 2 when I was a child, and I remember these stories being much more tragic and more magical. In this movie they made the characters a whole lot more silly than they had to be, and they have totally changed the looks of the characters. For instance the stone people were ridiculous and reminded me about Henson's TV-series 'Dinosaurs'. Falcor's looks have totally changed, I'm wondering if they did burn the Falcor puppet from the other movies? The only thing I loved about this movie, was Jack Black's performance. If it wasn't for him I would rate this movie with 0%. "},{"Title":"We must not give into the Nasty!","Date":"27 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, a few years ago I found at Target a package with all three Neverending Story films, also really cheap, so I picked them up. The first film is one of my childhood favorites and still holds up to this day. I'm not alone in this either, I didn't realize what kind of a following the film had and that others watched it as children too. I watched the second one when I got the package and thought it was alright, I also thought the title was pretty funny. Wouldn't it be hilarious if some person got a lawyer for false advertising because of the title of the Neverending Story? Anyways, the second one is just an alright film, a little below average but not terrible. Now, something about the third on gave me chills when I grabbed it, I think I should have listened to my instincts. I don't even know where to start with the badness. Now everything that was charming about the first film, throw it out! Everything that was trying to continue the story in the second film, throw it out! This is what was puked up from the two films and it's terrifying.Bastian Balthazar has begun a new chapter in his life. His father has re-married, and now Bastian has a new step mother, Jane, whose daughter Nicole is displeased at having a new family. Bastian has also started high school, where he has become victim to the Nasties, a quintet of bullies led by Slip. He manages to get them expelled by the janitor after they trap him in the boiler room. He flees to the library where he is surprised to find Mr. Koreander and The Neverending Story. The Nasties locate him, but he uses the book to escape to Fantasia. Bastian arrives in Fantasia, where he is reunited with old friends. However, the Nasties find the Neverending Story and use their cruelty to bombard the land with fireballs and a storm and now plan to steal the amulet to grant their own nasty wishes.See, normally I like bad films, however this was just bad. For God's sake, Valcor was this beautiful majestic wise dragon who spoke so wonderfully and made you feel special, this Valcor looks like a thrown out in the dumpster Chuck-E-Cheese costume. Not to mention the voice is completely different and sounds like some kind of ridicules Gilligan mook. Then the rock monster, who in the first film was the saddest figure, a giant who lost his friends to the Nothing and felt sorrow and spoke so beautiful now has a family, his wife talks like Arnold Schwartzenegger, he's now 1/5 his size and his kid wants to go on a motorcycle ride with him while he sings Born to be Wild. The villain is no longer an entity; it's a group of bullies called The Nasties being led by Jack Black (LOL).There is nothing redeeming about this film. The acting is terrible and the only decent enough performance is Jack Black who you can understand why he was successful because as much of a bad story as this is, he looked like he was having fun. The costumes are just terrible and don't resemble the first film by a long shot. In short, the story is just horrendous and the magic is taken away in this film. Please take my advice, stick to the first film, it's a wonderful fantasy film that is filled with beauty and wonder. The second film isn't bad either, it's worth checking out in some ways. Take the advice of the movie We must not give into the Nasty! 1/10 "},{"Title":"Easily One of the Worst Sequels Ever Made","Date":"18 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Imagine that you are reading an entertainment magazine like Entertainment Weekly or Rolling Stone, and you happen to look in the news section where they give you information about a movie that is in production. It is a children's movie distributed by Miramax, who has made dozens of Oscar-winning films over the last 30 years. It has special effects by Cinemagic and the Jim Henson Creature Shop, and Jack Black stars in it. You would want to see it, right? Well, not if it's The NeverEnding Story III.The NeverEnding Story III is disappointing in every sense of the word. It is by far one of the worst sequels ever made, and it does a disservice to the book by Michael Ende and the original 1984 film on which it is based (My review http//www.imdb.com/title/tt0088323/usercomments-250).This movie takes characters from the book and creates a new story that is full of plot holes, bad puns, and very little logic whatsoever. It helps very little that none of the cast members from either of the first two movies were involved in this film.This time, Bastian is played by Jason James Richter (Free Willy (1993)). Although Richter looks like a preteen model, he is still harassed by a gang at his new school known as the Nasties (or the Nastys) whose leader is Slip, played by a then-unknown Jack Black.As it turns out, Bastian's new school also happens to be where Coreander, the owner of the book store in the original story, works as a librarian. British actor Freddie Jones plays Coreander in this movie, and fans of the original may be disappointed not to see Thomas Hill reprise his role. I don't blame them.Anyway, Coreander happened to bring the NeverEnding Story with him to this school library. It's a pretty contrived way to bring the book back into the story after the main character has moved away if you ask me.What's even more contrived is when Bastian, hiding from the Nastys, retreats into the world of Fantasia, only to have Slip retrieve the book, realize its powers, and try to destroy the world and Bastian. In the book and the first two movies, the reader had little to no control over how the NeverEnding Story would be told. How the Nastys get control is never explained anywhere in the movie. The NeverEnding Story being an enchanted book is no excuse to cover up such plot holes.When Bastian realizes he has to re-enter the real world to obtain the book and save Fantasia, the movie just gets worse. Even with the Oren (the token worn around the neck that resembles two snakes), Bastian alone can't make it back home. So a number of creatures from Fantasia have to wish with him, and be transported into his world, for him to save Fantasia.Such a subplot wouldn't be so bad if the supporting characters weren't so annoying and intelligence insulting. There's the Rock-Biter's baby boy who talks in annoying baby talk that real children under 3 don't use as vernacular, an anthropomorphic tree who talks like an old Jewish comedian except not as funny, and two gnomes (Urgl and Engywook, featured in the first movie but played by different actors) who have a tired running joke about needing to use the bathroom.Oh yes, and who could forget Falcor, the luck dragon? In the first two movies, Falcor was a hero to Atreyu and Bastian, and was the voice of reason in many situations. He also had a voice like Walter Cronkite, which made him ever cooler. Here, he not only looks different from the previous two films, but he's whinier and dumber. When, in the real world, he mistakes an airplane for a female luck dragon, I could only hang my head and wonder, Why?.To make matters worse, Bastian can't wish the book back after the Nastys stole it because he can't use the Oren to make wishes in the real world. That plot point is well and good, and makes a setup for a great conflict that adds to the story. Unfortunately, the people who wrote this screenplay forget that plot point and failed to explain why Bastian's stepsister Nicole (Melody Kay) could make wishes when she had possession of the Oren. Any script reviser could point out these plot holes, and it most especially amazes me that filming progressed despite these inconsistencies.It is even more amazing that no one in this movie actually acts poorly. Richter does well in his role, despite his voice obviously cracking and no one noticing. I don't bring that point up to be mean. It's just that the filmmakers could have used his voice changing as a good subplot to explain why he's being picked on. But I digress.The point is that everyone involved in this film just could not save the story having so many inconsistencies. By the end, the story bears no resemblance to Ende's original book at all. The Fantasia creatures are also too annoying, trying too hard to be comic relief and inundating their dialogue with uncharacteristic pop culture references. Case in point the Rock Biter rides his bike while singing Born To Be Wild by Steppenwolf. What were these filmmakers thinking?And you would think that the Jim Henson Creature Shop working on your side would be a valuable asset in this film. In this case, none of the recurring characters look like they did in the first two movies (the Rock Biter, looking like a pint-size version of his predecessor, was the biggest disappointment), and they weren't strong characters either. They did not live up to Henson's high standards of storytelling and development. If you don't believe me, try finding this movie on Muppet Central. You would have had better luck finding this film in a theater that ran it for two weeks back when it was released. "}{"Title":"Truly the Worst of the Worst","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Anyone else out there may fondly remember the original movie. It captured our imaginations and took us to a place of fantastic adventure and will be remembered by most viewers as the pinnacle of family fantasy films. The second was not bad, but it wasn't exactly a shining gem of cinematic art either. Now comes Neverending Story III... absolutely, without a doubt, the worst of all three, and one of the worst movies of all time.I have heard so many negative things about it for many years, so one day I decided to watch it with an open mind. I wanted to turn it off 15 minutes in, but I held out hope that it could get better in some way. Well, I was wrong, and it just got worse and worse until the finale, which had me face-palming on the couch for what seemed like a number of minutes. Upon reflecting on what I had just seen, I just sat in a daze, astonished that a studio could manage to destroy a franchise's future so utterly.I will never watch this movie again and I regret ever watching it in the first place, because now that I've seen it, it is forever engraved in my memory and came close to ruining one of my fondest childhood memories. So bad it's good does not apply to this film. Some more creative viewers may find some small charm in it, but, as everyone had told me for years, it truly is THAT BAD! The studio who produced this garbage should be ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"Wow, and I thought Home Alone 4 was bad!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was awful, easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen, though not quite as abysmal as Home Alone 4, honestly that film is blasphemy. I love the first NeverEnding Story and consider one of the all time great fantasy films, and the second one while disappointing was pretty good, but this one was garbage. Sorry I hated it, it has none of the magic of the first film, none of the sense of wonder that enthralled me when I first saw NeverEnding Story as a child. The scenery was not at all good, dull and rather tacky, I just wonder whether the producers saw the first film for their inspiration, because actually in the first film, the sumptuous set design should've got an award, for it was fantastic. The script here was dreadful, and the plot was uninspired, and had many inconsistencies with the first film(ie. the omission of Atreyu and anything to do with Bastian's family). Not to mention the rushed ending and the rather cartoonish design of Falcor and his voice(ugh!). Even the acting was poor, Jason James Richter has little of the innocence and heroism and even the likability of Bastian, no matter how hard he tried. Jack Black, who I usually find entertaining was wasted and it doesn't help his character was such an unlikeable jerk, as was the usually brilliant Freddie Jones. All in all, awful, awful, awful! See the first film instead. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Without surprises, I was expecting this to be very bad. On one hand, I saw no reason to watch this at all. On the other hand, I had nothing to do, so I decided to watch this just to see how bad it would be.My oh my, the many negative comments I read about this movie have all the reason to be. This movie is garbage, capable of making any fan of the original blush of shame. Seriously, I don't get how in the world did this movie lost its place in the IMDb Bottom 100 because that's where it belongs.This terrible film should have never seen the light of the day. What did they think they were doing? This is not even a shadow of the original. Frankly, this is an offense and mockery on the original and a strong one to win a place of honor at the Razzies, being the worst of the trilogy.If the 2nd one is already quite bad and a huge mess, this one is even worse. It's a movie without reason to exist. Everything is bad in this movie the crude puppets and sceneries, the very poor plot, all of the characters (especially the more than annoying bullies, the Nasties) and the crappy lines (such as a reference to Arnold Schwarzenneger and Jean Claude Van Damme).But that's far from being all. The bullies here are really nasty and way more annoying than the bullies from the original film. Just as bad as this or even worse is that here the bullies have the power over Fantasia!Plus, what have they done to good old Falkor? Here he is so ugly and has no personality at all. Here he has nothing to do with the beautiful and happy creature from the 1st film we all love so much. And what's the point of putting Falkor flying next to a Lufthansa plane? Other annoying things are, without a doubt, the walking tree that also talks... bah, I hate that kind of thing! The Rockbiter here is slim and small, so much that I didn't realize it was him until the 2nd half of the movie. Here he's got a wife and a son, Junior. Can't describe how annoying is the Rockbiter and his family here. And now they've got a television? My goodness, what a silly nonsense!The soundtrack is a mistake. I mean, the songs themselves are great, such as Born to be wild, Crash! Boom! Bang!, Kiss From a Rose and Games People Play. But these songs aren't for a fantasy movie. As for Fantasia, as one can (and should) expect, it hasn't got the magic, enchantment and beauty of the original.Jason James Richter, although he was a competent actor, can't be compared to the charismatic Barret Oliver. Once again, the cast is entirely different. None of the characters feel like those of the original at all. They're a joke instead of captivating. Yet there is nothing funny about them or the movie itself. And that thing of Bastian's new family and lifestyle... no comments.The cast, the director and all the artists involved in the 1st movie must have had quite a shock with this joke of a movie. This has nothing to do with their masterpiece. They must have laughed out loud about how ridiculous this movie is... "},{"Title":"Sequels are usually worse, but this is just TERRIBLE","Date":"1 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is AWFUL. It can't be stated more clearly than that.Like many others, the first Neverending Story movie was a much-loved, magical part of my childhood. The second one wasn't so great, and I didn't see the third one until today.Children tend to remember things bigger and more grand than they actually were, so maybe that's what happened. But I don't recall Falcor being so... ditsy. Honestly, do they have to water him twice a week? All the characters are just plain hokey. I remember the rock monsters being proud, huge, and majestic. After seeing the grumbly rendition of Born To Be Wild on a Flintstone-esquire motorcycle, I really wanted to turn it off. The movie, at the point, was more painful than my kidney stone.I found this movie to be without much purpose, without much of a solid story, and without intelligent characters. The humor is lame and stupid, too banal for even kids. What a sore disappointment that killed some of the magic 23 years after it started. How sad... "},{"Title":"Almost makes me want to watch football","Date":"14 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Football is nearly all that is on right now and I caught up on TV shows, this movie is on and I figure to give it a shot.1994!?!?! This movie reminds me of the worst of 80's low budget fantasy. Even how the characters dress, with their preppy plastic clothes or stereotypical punks outfits.As another commenter pointed out, the references from Fantasia characters to real world people and places is insulting.This movie kills fantasy.The contemporary soundtrack also destroys whatever potential there could ever be for a lasting (positive) impression.Everything about this is horrible. I gave it a 2 because it's better than watching football. "},{"Title":"Pure Crap","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I hated this movie, though I absolutely loved the first two. This sequel is totally off track from the original. Many points were changed in the story and descriptions. Also, the Fantastican characters weren't the original ones (even the Auryn and book were different) and ended up looking silly and dumb. In fact, the characters acted liked they looked! It's a movie to avoid AT ALL COSTS! "},{"Title":"This movie does not exist.  There is no NeverEnding Story III.  It's a lie.  Nothing more, nothing less.","Date":"8 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" How I wish this movie never existed. So how many things are wrong with nes III? OK, every single problem with this trash's waste makes up one person. We would have the population of China, SQUARED. No, CUBED!!! Why is it bad? Here are a couple reasons why.1. They turned Falcor into a complete retard. Falcor was supposed to be mystical and wise. In this one however, he is the equivalent of Patrick Star.2. The rockbiter (or the rockchewer in this crapfest) is nowhere near the same one I know and love from the first movie. He rides on a motorcycle SINGING. In case you're wondering, I'm not joking. Watch it for yourself.3. The villains are unimaginative. In NES I, the villain was an abstract entity. In II, the villain was in human form. In this one, they're just school bullies. I'm dead serious. Don't believe me? See this movie and watch it for yourself.4. Inconsistencies. Count the stars. Then square that. That's how many of those you'll find in this movie.5. Bastian is useless in this movie. He does absolutely nothing to try and help the situation he is in. He doesn't take advantage of the wishes he could be making. Even the NASTIES are more heroes in this movie because they take advantage of what they have.That's why I want The NeverEnding Story III to never exist. This crap gets a doesn't deserve to be on IMDb, the dictionary, brains, the earth, the galaxy, the universe, and if we have one, GOD. THIS MOVIE DOES NOT EXIST!!! "},{"Title":"Oh dear god....","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Why oh why didn't they try a little bit more.Just a little....Or maybe they did try...Because you have to try hard to have such a shitty and boring story and to destroy the main characters in such an extent.And the villain...The nasties...Really....It went from the Nothing to the Emptiness and end up in the school bullies?Going from abstract meanings symbolizing the disappearance of imagination to the school bullies?The first time i saw it i actually stopped watching it in the bike scene.Unfortunately i made the mistake of continuing it some other day...Wish i hadn't...Go watch the first movie again which is a masterpiece of children fairytale movies and don't ever touch this one....PS And all you trolls reviewing this saying it is fantastic and tricking people in to seeing this awful thing...YOU ARE TERRIBLE HUMAN BEINGS!!!! "},{"Title":"neverending reputation? Ended!!","Date":"26 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Neverending story 1 was my favourite movie as a kid. But a lot came while growing up and in the process, I confess I completely missed parts 2 and 3. Now I discovered them by chance and was really curious.. OK, part 2 is not bad but failed to impress me as the first one. Part 3, for god sake what a disappointment. Why did they even bother? Why is Rockbiter so small? What happened to Atreyu? even the known characters as Falcor are completely changed (Lucky Dragon? More like GRUMPY dragon here) Also the book cover is green? What happened to the normal red cover? They TRIED to respect the original story, but they failed. Miserably. As a kid I imagined Fantasia as this wonderful imaginary world, full of dreams and illusion. Thanks to this movie, my image of Fantasia has been reduced to Rockbiter buying an electric guitar and joining a Rock band and also Childlike Empress using Aurin for her shopping sprees. Don't ask, just don't watch it. If you want to keep your childhood memories intact, stay at Neverending story 2. Story ends there anyways, this was completely unnecessary. Avoid. "},{"Title":"Dissapointmentism","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have seen the first two Neverending stories and I was greatly disappointed with this one. It hardly can be called the third one in the series just for the fact that it has almost no continuity with the others. The Dad has no knowledge of the book despite the fact that he read it in the previous movie, and Sebastion seems to be the same age as in the previous movie. This movie was the equivalent to a power rangers movie with slightly better actors (ie Jack Black), and much worse special effects. I would suggest skipping this one altogether and sticking with the previous versions which both had some form of budget and a higher standard of filmography and plot.  "}{"Title":"Absolute trainwreck!","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I checked this movie out earlier today out of curiosity after reading the reviews on here. Wow!! I'm still shaking my head over how incredibly bad it is!! Too bad I can't give this movie a 0. All the reviews are true. At least I saw it for free on youtube so the only thing I lost was time. Well that and braincells. I didn't even care about the characters, not any of them. This movie is incredibly boring-- non-existent plot & nothing makes sense. The characters are annoying, one-dimensional & too cartoony. The whole movie is a weird combination of trying to be funny & hip but serious at the same time, which of course fails because the viewer can't make heads or tails of this mess. This miserable excuse for a sequel doesn't belong on the same planet as the wonderful original, which i'll always love & can't wait to see again!! "},{"Title":"Total utter crap","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was so horribly done I was waiting for the moment for it to be over with. It was pretty torturous, from the bad acting, lame jokes trying to be hip to flat out disappointment in character development. This movie is just an embarrassment. I don't even associate this nor the NES II with the NES I(which was the only good one). The series could have been great if it was consistent in actors & quality.I think I'm going to go cry about the hour I wasted watching this movie.This site asks for my review to be at lest 10 lines.... How much can you write about a movie that sucked so bad you were on the edge of your seat waiting for it to be over? I literally just watched it so this review is fresh...and yes it was my first instinct to write a review for this movie so no on else has to suffer. "},{"Title":"Terrible, just terrible","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first movie wasn't too bad, the second movie was not as good, this one is just plain awful.Let's start out with the villains. They have a level of retardedness as in a lot of children's' movies where they crash into each other a lot and can't keep control of their limbs on every corner as if they're running on ice.Many of the characters that were in the original have had their looks and personalities changed, even some have had their names changed, and there's many inconsistencies. Where's Atreyu? And Bastions' family has for some reason changed from having a dead mother to a dead father. Even the cover for The Neverending Story book has changed and is much thinner than it used to be.The puppetry looks ridiculous and the costume design has the same cheese factor as the early episodes of The Power Rangers. Falcor is no longer the wise luck dragon we remember but is now a clueless abomination that looks stoned. Rock Biter has somehow shrunk from being the size of a 3-story house to the size of a door.I couldn't watch this movie all the way through. It was poorly scripted, poorly acted, the costumes were poorly designed, and the whole movie in general was just plain stupid and dumb and totally destroyed the magic.I'm not surprised that Warner Bros. decided against distributing this, after watching it themselves they probably wanted to gouge their eyes out and have themselves hit on the head with a baseball bat to give them amnesia to forget what they saw and never have to see ever again. "},{"Title":"And That's Why There are no more Neverending Story Movies after this one","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I watched a trailer for this movie, I noticed how ironic it is with this quote Neverending Fun. Yep, you read that right Neverending Fun. More like never ending stupidity! I know what you're thinking how bad can this movie be? I'll tell you how bad this movie is! This movie is so bad that it makes convicts in a prison look like boy scouts! If Bastian's trying to get to Fantasia(Not to be confused with the 1941 Disney movie), why don't you rename the movie Neverending Story III Escape TO Fantasia?! Are you that dumb?! And why are the villains in the movie a bunch of middle-aged bullies simply named the Nasties? The nasties?!! Did the people who created this movie fell asleep while coming up with the name of the villains?! And here's the worst scene yet The Rockbiter and his family. What the heck?! There's TV in Fantasia?! How'd ya get TV in Fantasia?! And who knew that the Rockbiter has to sing a song?! What is this anyway, Rockbiter The Musical?! Why do I even bother watching this movie?! Why, why, why, WHY, WHY?!!!! "},{"Title":"Only Jack Black is Worth Watching!","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, this film is really just for kids with the creatures, the fantasy, and ridiculous storyline about a magical storybook. Anyway, Jack Black is a surprise here in one his earliest films where he plays the leader of the nasties. He and his gang of tattooed high school failures are called the nasties and terrorize the kids in school. This time, they terrorized poor Bastian who is new and has a new family including a stepsister whose not so keen on the new family addition of stepfather and brother in her mother's household. Anyway, the film plot is boring. It never really develops nor do we care too. There is too much in the fantasy world of Fantasia where Bastian goes to escape the Nasties and returns with a couple of them to Earth. When the Nasties get a hold of the special magical book, they are tempted to make changes and alter two worlds. A silly film for kids only. Maybe they'll get it. "},{"Title":"The Fun is played out Well, but it still doesn't hold well and in the end it becomes a major disappointment","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Once upoun a time there was a legendary tale like the Dark Crystal called the Never ending Story which is adventurous, fun and has many fantasy elements to enjoy.Then there was a mess of a sequel and now fours years after that messy muck, we have another ridiculous sequel, the Neverending Story III.It was getting good at the start and then 5 minutes later, towards the end it just felt like a funny, doo film and in this film especially, all the magic has died.The acting is still up to scratch which is good but director shame on you for destroying their talents. There are many things which bring this film down and it is a shame that they actually tried to be like the first one, e.g Rock biter's bike.I'll go through many weakness of this film - The Bastian character is really weak, annoying, irritating and comes up with the most stupidest accuses ever e.g. when the elves are in the box, he says the parrot I brought, for gosh's sake the bird would have been dead in 2 hours or less.- What happen to the giant Rock Biter and why does he have a wife, it was already bad enough that he has freakin kid already. Rock Biter is small and he sings a rock song which is irritating.- The Never Ending Story song isn't good and it's not original anymore which ruins the magic.- Where the heck is Ateryu? - And even if the acting is good, why are they different.The only good things about this film is the (NOT ALL OF them) funny moments. Jack Black does a great job but that ain't enough and even that Tree Branch is weird.I'd only watch this if I'm bored but that will hardly be ever.... It's a good film for kids from ages 4-7 and that's it.Like the Never Ending Story 2, I really tried to like this but it ain't enough, the magic is gone like I've said, even some of the dialogue is stupid.4/10 "},{"Title":"There is no part III","Date":"8 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What is this? The only thing that is NeverEnding is the torture of watching so much fantasy being flushed down the toilet.A pair of married elves are waiting to get into their home to go to the bathroom? A baby rock monster and a talking tree in a department store watching toys? Jack Black? No Atreyu? Childlike Empress, what's wrong with you? What is this? I'll tell you what this is. This is by far one of the most awkward fantasy movies ever made. It makes Willow seem like LotR in comparison. Jason James Richter, whose fame sank in the sea along the memories of thousands entries in the Free Willy saga, and Jack Black try their best to make this movie appealing to audiences. Ende fans didn't like it. Kid audiences didn't like it. Not even stupid moviegoers liked it.The question is, who said this was part III? Where did they get the idea this was related to The NeverEnding Story? "},{"Title":"I'm confused!","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've not seen this movie completely, just snippets. Reading all other comments made me laugh, as in the 7 pages that i read, only 4 were good! I'm guessing the movie was a failure, But would be quite entertaining to watch is you needed to feel annoyed. I love the never ending story 1, and never ending story 2 was OK. I wonder if number 4 will come out, because surely the never ending story never ends!? I don't think the actors should be that different, and it is very childish. The series is meant to be for all ages, and number one was. I especially loved the theme tune to number 1! I have not heard it for this one but apparently its awful, and rock and roll. Now it sounds like this movie has given people nightmares instead of dreams about fantasia! "},{"Title":"Pales in comparison to the first and even the lackluster sequel.","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is nothing but a slap in the face to fans of the original film. The second movie was bad enough, but at least they tried....this was just stupid. And the sad part is this movie will probably appeal to young kids more than the other two.In this atrocity, Bastian Bux's father gets married and Bastian has a new stepsister who doesn't like him for some reason. He goes to a new school and gets picked on by the group of bullies called the Nasties, led by a young Jack Black. He goes into the Neverending Story to escape the bullies, but they find the book and start changing it in their image. Chaos ensues. One thing I can say about this movie, is it's actually somewhat entertaining at times because of it's stupidity, where the second film was just boring. But nonetheless, this is still the worst of the films. It seems as though the writer and director didn't think to use the other two movies as references on how the characters should look or act. Falcor in the first film is an intelligent heroic creature, here Falcor has a deep, dumb voice and he serves as the stupid coward comic relief, similar to the Cowardly Lion. The Rock Eaters have totally changed what they look like from massive and wide to skinny costumed characters. One of the worst scenes involves the Rock Eater singing Born to Be Wild, which was horrendous. Atreyu, the co-main character of the last 2 films is gone, and everything about Fantasia has changed in this terrible so-called final Neverending Story film.My rating BOMB/****. 90 mins. Rated G. "},{"Title":"I wanted to love it, but I can't even like it.","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" One of the main reasons this installment tanked is that it depends entirely on the second installment to bear it up. The problem with that is that the second installment was horrendous, so anything at all that depends upon it can not possibly be great. It could be better, but it can't be great.This isn't even better. I don't know if it's because the movie feels and runs like they spent a grand total of twelve minutes in development, or if each and every individual element is inferior (if that's even possible) to the second installment.Either way, it's not worth my time to figure it out, it's just that bad, but if you happened to be among the two or three people who liked the second installment, the third is necessary to fill in the numerous plot holes.It rates a 2.4/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"This movie gives the NeverEnding Story a bad name!","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was amazed when I saw this movie.  The characters were changed too much. Falcore looked like a pink dog of some sort, and the Rock Biters were all wrong.  They know too much about the human world, and are put into situations that would NEVER happen to anyone over four.  They didn't even make the Orin right.  That is probably the easiest part!  The sound track was okay, but the movie put a real dive in the series. "},{"Title":"THIS FILM IS MISSING THE MAGIC THE SERIES EVER HAD.","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Neverending Story series has just crashed and burned badly.  This movie is awful, it doesn't follow the characters very well, it puts them into childish and very corny situations and it has so many tie-ins and bad acting that it reminds me of Barney on fire-control.  How could this happen?  THEY CHANGED FALCOR, he is a stupid blubbering sissy nanny who can't fly in arc worth crap.  the nasties and the nastiness could have been so much better acted and a whole lot more creative.  Whoever really was in control of this film, I don't think ever read the book. "},{"Title":"Oh, god, what a rip off","Date":"29 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I gave this one a two, because I actually could stand to see it to the end of it. I give 1 only to what I cannot stand, but I had a dilemma about this movie.What the hell are they doing? I understand that the first movie was made after a book, so the effort of transforming it into a script was minimal, but how could they use less effort to create a new script from scratch I don't quite get.Imagine that the Neverending Story book is stolen by thugs. From here on all the story goes on and on in the human world (no story, no special effects, no effort of imagination) and the damned Free Willy kid uses karate in the end to get the book back. Add to this a scared poodle as a Luck Dragon, something that seemed a parody of a homosexual behaviour as a rock baby, references to the human world from the mouths of all characters, not to mention that all of them, and I mean ALL FANTASIAN CHARACTERS, are there only to move around in silly costumes and say silly things. They are of no consequence to anything.I guess this movie does make a point, though. You kids, better pick up the Neverending Story book from somewhere, read the original written word and skip incredibly idiotic movies as this one.God, horrible! I couldn't believe it when the movie ended that I actually stayed and watched it. It really feels like someone made a deliberate joke of the beautiful story the first movie was. "},{"Title":"Hey did anybody else notice this movie sux?","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Let me just say that I never had any intention of seeing this film. Ever. I have only tried to watch it (tried and failed!) because I bought the Trilogy on DVD, being that it was only a few bucks dearer than buying just the first movie by itself, and it came in a nicer box. Plus, I thought it was a novelty to be able to see Moya Brady in a film (any fans of The Bill would know her as Robbie Cryer), and there was the added bonus of Jack Black as well.I had extremely low expectations of this film, and I must say, I was still shocked at how bad it was.Worst. Movie. Ever.This film should have NEVER BEEN MADE. Especially since the second film in the trilogy was such a huge disappointment.I find it an absolute insult to the original film, the book, and Michael Ende that this rubbish shares the name The NeverEnding Story. The character of Falcor has been murdered beyond recognition. This was the part that made me really angry, and that really made this a waste of film. Same for Rockbiter. Their appearances were not even accurate, let alone their voices, and Falcor seemed to be a stupid, bumbling fool of a thing. Nothing at all like the Falcor we all loved in the original movie. PATHETIC to say the least.Yet another new cast means that the characters have changed yet again since the second film. Something which I find completely unacceptable. If they insisted on making a 3rd movie after they couldn't get the 2nd one right, then they should have at least kept Jonathan Brandis as Bastian. At least then there would be a shred of continuity (something which is non-existent in this film). This has to be one of the biggest wastes of film, money and time in the world. I can't think of a worse film that I have seen (except maybe Freddy Got Fingered - that's definitely worse).I'll say it again. This film should have never been made. And that's a fact. If you haven't seen this movie, DON'T EVEN BOTHER. I have it on DVD, and I will not even be watching the ending. It's JUST THAT BAD.1 out of 10 (What an absolute stinker! Movies like this ruin careers!) "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever made","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Oh how the mighty have fallen. The first one was brilliant, full of imagination, and completely unique. The second was a cheap knock off of the first. This 3rd one, however, was an abomination. It was nothing more than a pathetic attempt at humour with the unnatural mixing of the Fantasia world with the materialistic pop-culture that I watch fantasy movies to try to escape from. The rock-biter is singing 'Born to be Wild' and the child-like empress is going on a shopping spree. Worst of all, they butchered Falkor, the luck dragon. Another commenter referred to Falkor as the wise old dragon. Rightly so, and might I add courageous. But in this one, there version of Falkor is a stupid, clumsy, cowardly excuse for a dragon. What they did to Falkor is unforgivable. What a waist of a Hollywood budget. Needless to say, I gave it 1 star. I wish I could give it negative 10. Watch this movie once just to see the stupidest movie ever made. You will get a good laugh out of it perhaps. "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?!!!","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is only the second to put me in the fetal position and almost make me cry out of it's sheer badness...(the other movie was Dr. Giggles, thank you very much) This movie has lost all the magic the other two had. I have no idea what went wrong, but I'm sure the writers and Director aren't getting much work anymore.But, to be fair, the story had a good premise, but it's execution was terrible. And the whenever Jack Black is on-screen, the movie becomes stomachable.It still gets a one though, because they turned Falkor into a yellow bellied wimp, and forgot about Atreyu. Ugh...the pits. "},{"Title":"The 2nd sequel is an insult to the original storyline","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Anyone who grew up watching the original (1984) and then watched the sequel 6 years later probably had a few things to say. But at least they stuck with the main storyline so you can relate. It was tolerable enough that I watched it to the end.Although the Empress in the first movie explained very clearly that Fantasia is made up of wishes and dreams, so the more wishes the better. Then they decided no, wishes are going to eat away at his memories. Hey producers! These movies are supposed to inspire kids to imagine and dream. There was a hidden meaning in the whole wish thing. Instead you make it so the next generation of kids think twice about wishing, dreaming, imagining. Besides, they stole the creatures from Krull.Now here comes #3. This one on the other hand actually angered me it was so bad.1) The father-son relationship was well done in the 2nd movie, now suddenly dad is clueless and married to an airhead? Since dad discovered the secrets of the book from movie #2, it would've been nice if they built on that. But no, he completely forgets everything that happened and is now in LaLa Land.2) Originally the fantasy-reality connection that allowed Bastian to appear in the story was simply a child's active imagination mixed with a few unexplained coincidences in the real world. But he never actually left the attic. Now Bastian can simply talk to the book and teleport like Star Trek? Seriously?3) Engywook and Urgl shrunk even more! Before they were about 3 feet tall, now they're not even 12 inches?4) Falkor #3 no longer tucks his legs in when flying, making for quite a sloppy looking show. It doesn't even look like Falkor. He has a Col. Sanders goatee now. He's supposed to be a Luck Dragon not a Luck Flying Dog. I know he's a dragon that looks like a dog, but he's still a dragon, and should fly like one. At least Falkor #2 looked like #1 and flew like it too. #3 looks and flies more like Falkor's cousin from the trailer park sipping moonshine in between flights.5) The whole Rock Biter (now Rock Chewer apparently) scene should've been cut and burned and buried. This whole sequence by far doesn't even mesh with the rest of the film. If there was any seriousness in the film, this sequence takes it all away and turns it into a kid's Saturday morning TV show. You know those stories of people getting too drunk and waking up with a mysterious tattoo? This is what happens when the Director gets drunk. The kid's watching a cartoon in the wall? They have a Flintstone ATV? Singing Born to be Wild? I need a drink.6) To play the now-grown-up Empress they hired a UK actress who insists on pronouncing Fantasia (fan-tay-shuh) the UK way with an extra syllable (fan-tay-zee-ah). Now don't misunderstand me, I'm all UK myself and am proud of it. But I'm more proud of my theatrical experience and knowledge. And I know that if a significant word in the script (especially a name important to the plot) is pronounced a significant way by everyone involved, you DO NOT go on saying it your way just because you believe it's proper English. That is, if you have any interest in having a lengthy acting career. You can tell by the way she puts emphasis on it several times at her first appearance that she does not care. These mistakes and her arrogance make the character seem like an unintelligent demanding snob. What happened to the sweet and compassionate Empress?7) The Bark Troll sees a tree being cut down and says talk about a chainsaw massacre. This movie is intended for a very young audience. Yet they use a reference to a very graphic adult horror film. Obviously the Director doesn't know how children think. They will wonder what does that mean? if they don't already know, and ask around or look it up. And I'm sure half of those will be curious enough to want to watch it at such a young age. Even in 1994 it was easy enough to do some research, talk to the older kids, find out it's the name of a horror film, rent the movie albeit under-age (via naive parents or naive rental clerks), and then have nightmares for weeks.If there is one good thing to say about this movie, it's that Jack Black (early in his career) was very funny from beginning to end. But that is the ONLY thing. The rest of it is a film student's nightmare. "},{"Title":"Pure Garbage","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Unwatchable, terrible piece of garbage. This makes The Karate Dog look like a gem. So lame, so poor... Born to be BAD! Do not watch this. A pure waste of time. Terrible dialog. Terrible gags. There is nothing to write about this. Ugly chicks. I hate this movie. Unwatchable, terrible piece of garbage. This makes The Karate Dog look like a gem. So lame, so poor... Born to be BAD! Do not watch this. A pure waste of time. Terrible dialog. Terrible gags. There is nothing to write about this. Ugly chicks. I hate this movie.Unwatchable, terrible piece of garbage. This makes The Karate Dog look like a gem. So lame, so poor... Born to be BAD! Do not watch this. A pure waste of time. Terrible dialog. Terrible gags. There is nothing to write about this. Ugly chicks. I hate this movie. "},{"Title":"It's Fantasia but not as you remember it...","Date":"29 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Fans of The NeverEnding Story are likely to be disappointed by this third installment which differs completely from it's predecessors in turns of characterization and tone. Whilst the first sequel may not have lived up to some expectations, it did at least contain that same sense of wonder and fantastical charm that enriched the original. This third entry abandons our awe in favor of gags and goofs. Bastian this time around is played by Jason James Richter of 'Free Willy' fame. His father has remarried and he has subsequently acquired a teenage step-sister. It's not long before Bastian and his extended family are caught up in Fantasia, his land of imagination. Particularly when a group of comical high school bullies, led by Jack Black, steal The NeverEnding Story book and create havoc in both Fantasia and our world. The creature design this time is by the Jim Henson workshop. Sadly, their renditions of the inhabitants of Fantasia and indeed their personalities are inconsistent with the previous entries. For example, Falkor is reduced from being a noble and brave luck-dragon to a whiny and cowardly puppy dog. And this is what hurts the film the most. To the younger viewer it will be a mildly amusing affair, but to those who have followed the film series, it will appear to be a complete deviation that will have you aching for the Fantasia of old.The actors all turn in good performances but you feel they would all be best served by a more earnest script that employed plot lines from Michael Ende's novel. Still, it's far superior to the live action television series that would later follow. "},{"Title":"Sickly","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" For a film that bleats on about the importance of imagination, this third instalment in the tacky fantasy series has precious little of its own. This vomit-inducing series was unbearable back in the mid-'80s so God knows why anyone thought it would survive the '90s.This time Bastian (Jason James Richter, the third actor to play the part in as many films) gets plunged into another cheesy adventure when the Neverending Story book is stolen by school bullies, who start causing havoc in the soppy land of Fantasia. After a brief visit to the world of 'Wizard of Oz' rip-offs, Richter is transported back to Earth along with a hairy flying dragon, two gnomes, a talking tree who never shuts up and a baby made of rocks. This pudding-headed duffer is a load of old rubbish, not helped along by lazy plotting, Peter Macdonald's heavy-handed direction or the lacklustre acting. Only Jack Black, as a bully, and Melody Kay, as Richter's step-sister (yep, it's a boring dysfunctional family subplot) enliven proceedings. About as magical as a kick in the balls, frankly. "}{"Title":"Watch Nostalgia Critic Review Instead!!!!","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the worst sequel ever to escape from the bowels of Hell! It is filled with plot holes, poor writing, and complete horrible character alterations. If you are thinking that this piece of non-biodegradable s@#$ will have the same essence as the other two films, it does not!Even the characters are completely different, as if the film makers just read notes about the previous movies and threw in their versions.My suggestion Save your time and money and never watch this movie! If you are curious about it, just watch the Nostalgia Critic's review on the film. It's shorter, funnier, and less painful. "},{"Title":"An unfortunate mixed bag","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Good intentions don't always lead to positive results. Some franchises have been resurrected, but despite the filmmakers having their hearts in the right place what came out of it was less than satisfactory. For example, 'Superman IV The Quest For Peace,' was an attempt to bring the series back to it's former glory and the potential was definitely there, but problems on set and heavy editing resulted in a bomb. The first sequel to 'The Never Ending Story' didn't exactly set the world on fire, but unlike some sequels it isn't an embarrassment. Five years later the producers decided to bring the series back to life, even though pretty much all of Michael Ende's book was covered in the first two films. After seeing it you may wish they had quit while they were ahead.Pros Performances are fine and everyone seems like they wanted to be there. Excellent animatronics by the Jim Henson Co. Nice, at times beautiful score. Grand production design. Fast-paced and fun in a Saturday morning cartoon sort of way. A decent story.Cons Most of the returning characters have been reduced to caricatures. Some of the dialogue is painful to hear. Full of scenes that don't really move the story along. Some CGI that hasn't held up. This time humor is brought into the mix, but even little kids will think it's lame and corny. Fantasia characters like Rock Biter and locations like the Ivory Tower look different for no apparent reason.Final thoughts This movie is so frustrating because there is some good in it, but it's overwhelmed by the ineptness. I'm not sure who all is to blame, but the script is a really good place to start. A lot of the same people behind I and II were also involved with this one and they should know better. The first two installments, like a lot of Fantasy movies, can be enjoyed by people of all ages, but this one seems squarely aimed at kids. Someone should have told the makers of this sequel to go back to the drawing board.My rating 2.5/5 "},{"Title":"Where's a gun? I need to shoot myself after watching this...!","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" And I thought Troll 2 was the worst! Now, whenever I hear, Nilbog is spelled 'Goblin' backwards! This is their kingdom! I will praise the coming of the Lord. However, with sequels like this movie (and it does NOT matter that it was a sequel), it has officially been proved that moldy water-smelling garbage can be fed to you by a movie producer who swears on his children's' lives it's Superman ice cream. Not even the awesome Jack Black could save it!I was kinda hoping my computer would blow up right as the movie started! This movie did not satisfy my craving for something exciting or imaginative. All it did was make me want to start drinking to excess and run into heavy traffic! I feel... I feel like I want to hurt something now... Like a small animal... Not only did this movie fuel a rage and hatred far beyond that of the movie 'Blue Demon,' but it also proves that God does not exist...!DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE, FOR GODSAKES!!! UNSUSPECTING, GOOD-NATURED PEOPLE WERE NOT MEANT TO BE TORTURED IN SUCH INHUMANE WAYS!!! WHERE'S THE GUN??? I NEED TO SHOOT MYSELF AFTER WATCHING THIS!!! "},{"Title":"why did they do this one","Date":"5 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have watched the other two and well all i can say is number one is the best,did they pay attention to the first one at all i mean this is so bad,my own children wouldn't even sit and watch this they turned away quick.This didn't put me or anyone i know in the fantasy world at all,if you have seen the first one then i have a feeling you will be very disappointed with this indeed.Falcor didn't even look look the same in fact it was a big let down to the one in the first one,they could have made the story line better that would have at least been something.well when i watched this movie i was so bored and well i wont be watching it again,i was not impressed in the least and well if your thinking of watching it then you need your head testing.Being honest don't waist your time. "},{"Title":"Entertainingly bad film...makes the 2nd look like a classic!","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I think I'm the only person who has seen this twice. It's so bizarre in it's badness that I felt compelled to make someone else watch it with me. First off, the title is all wrong, the basic plot does not involve an escape FROM Fantasia. Points off. Second, the villain is ridiculous. The first film in the series had The Nothing, Part II had The Emptiness, but this film is left with The Nasty. The Nasty is a much less formidable and threatening enemy. Third, this movie disrupts itself with so many out of place scenes that really hurt the tone of the film. Moment of Truth The Rockbiter, while riding on his rocky tricycle, sings a cover of Steppenwolf's Born to be Wild too octaves lower than the original. Ouch. Combine those things with overall poor acting, dialogue, and total lack of budget for sets and effects and such, and you are left with a hysterically awful film. "},{"Title":"Why did they ever make it?","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I didn't have my hopes up when I saw this movie... The REAL Neverending Story was one of my very favorite films as a child, and even now, 23 years old, I adore it. I love the book as well, and done ever since I read it - when I first got together with my first boyfriend we read it out loud together. ;) Falcor is my favorite character - when I was small I used to dream about having my own luck dragon. In THIS movie, every single one of the characters are wrong. I hate what they did with Falcor. The only fun joke (which of course is extremely out of character is when SPOILER the Childlike princess is watching Bastians sister in the mall and says something like In all my time as an empress, it never occurred to me to go shopping with the Auryn The story is unbelievable, there is no feeling of magic, the characters - aside from not being true to the book or the other movies, are every single one flat and unconvincing - the nasties are nasty only for the sake of it.I am unable to understand why they did this - there are thousands of people who love the first two movies (or at least the book, or the first movie) and at least a few must be talented and interested enough to come up with a good script - I don't think it necessarily had to follow the book - just be a magical story set in Fantasia with the same feel as the previous ones.If you are thinking about watching this movie, you could just as well see one of the first two again 0) "},{"Title":"A poor film on so many levels","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" With a new life with his stepmother and stepsister, Bastian Bux has to start another new school and ends up facing yet another set of bullies not won over by his personality. After narrowly getting out of a beating, Bastian escapes the real world back into Fantasia. However he cannot hide the book and, although he is safe in the familiar magical world, the book falls into the hands of the bullies. Despite being older, more cynical teenagers, Slip accepts the concept of a magical world within a book surprisingly easily and decides that he will use the book to change the story he wants to hear and the world of Fantasia is yet again under threat &#150; however this time the people of that world must take the battle into the real world.Having seen the bit in quality between parts one and two already I must admit that I held out limited hopes for part three. Unsurprisingly this film turned out to be stripped of budget, magic, fun and imagination and replaced with a standard story with poor humour delivered by the cheapest bidders. Maybe for budget reasons or maybe just to save the writers having to develop Fantasia any further, the majority of this takes place in the real world. This in itself isn't a big problem but the fact that the script does nothing of value with it is. The story makes big leaps and seems more interested in cheap gags and soap opera dramatics rather than producing a story of magic and excitement which the first film, although not perfect, was (although comparing the first film with the third makes the first look like Citizen Kane). I struggled to care about any of the story and the whole thing was written at the most basic level it could have been.Visually the film looks rubbish. The effects are at the standard of a television show &#150; certainly the rock creatures look like they were the characters from Dinosaurs spray-painted grey. The low budget can be seen in the mouths where they are basic flaps without any ability to match words, instead they just flap open and closed. Generally this is the standard and everything looks rubbery and basic &#150; contributing even more to the lack of magic. The cast shouldn't really be blamed for any of the mess because they are caught up in the blast. Richter is so-so at best and the rest of the cast are all pretty basic. Black is a strange find but I was grateful for me &#150; he didn't take the p1ss quite as much as I would have liked but he does at least do a watered down version of what would later become his normal routine. The voicework is generally poor, mostly being as cheap as the effects &#150; the only real surprise was to find Tony Robinson in the midst of it all.Overall a poor film that is completely unnecessary. The effects are as poor as the plot which is as poor as the performances. Lacking any magic or excitement this is a truly horrid product that is the last thing I would want to expose my children to &#150; I would want them to have higher standards than this. "},{"Title":"Third time isn't the charm..","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Where to start? Which is worse, the complete demolition of the history set up by the previous films? The totally inappropriate pop music heard throughout in a vain attempt to connect with a modern audience? The makeover given to all the characters which strips Falkor of all his former majesty, and turns the Rock Biter into a costumed freak? The dreadful, completely stupid voiceovers given to the above? The unfunny modern jokes about Arnie and runways that the citizens of Fantasia could not possibly know about? Perhaps the poor performances of the parents of our hero Bastian, probably the most unconvincing screen couple ever with their extremely fake squabbling? Or maybe the whole mall sequence, which is so badly directed and scripted it will have you screaming WHAT THE HELL?! at the top of your voice in front of the television? (Be careful not to disturb the neighbours..)Yes, those are all worthy winners, but for my money what really takes the cake in this debacle is THAT DAMN ROCK BABY. Honestly, everything about it, from that cutesy way it repeats it's one word sentences, to it's ugly features as it wanders around getting in everyone's way, makes me just wanna grab a pneumatic drill and turn the little git into rubble. A pathetic attempt to pander to children, this grotesque creation is NOT funny, NOT cute and is even more annoying than it was when it was introduced in part 2 of this trilogy. Mind you, the other new additions to the cast, like those two chattering dwarfs and the tree creature, aren't particularly endearing either. They are pointless, badly thought out and totally unnecessary.. a bit like the whole film, really.Jack Black has fun in an early role as one of the Nasties (what kind of a name for a high school clique is that?) and the actress who plays Bastian's stepsister is quite charming (if a slightly amateurish thespian) but we're a long way from the superb original here. The series has now degenerated into a knockabout farce for the kids. Except, they won't enjoy it either. With classic fantasies like Harry Potter and Lord Of The Rings waiting on the video shelf for them, why would they want to dwindle their time on this twaddle for? I'll leave the final word to the new, impostor Falkor who says just before the credits roll Ooo this is my favourite part!! Mine too, mate, mine too.. 3/10 "},{"Title":"This movie gets a 2 only because it has the words Neverending Story in the title","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I would have given this movie a 1, if not for the fact that is has something to do with The Neverending Story. That alone is points. Unfortunately, this movie had not other points.It is silly, overacted at times, and underacted at others. The story and the way it's played out insult even the youngest viewer's intelligence.Hmmm... well, I would say Jack Black's presence alone might boost it up to a 3, but then again I'm embarrassed he was here. As a matter of fact, I'm embarrassed this movie has the title it does. So here's my new breakdown for this god-awful piece of crap 1 point is the minimum, and then a half-point for being a Neverending Story movie, and another half-point for having Jack Black in it. "},{"Title":"Another crappy sequel","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I admit that the first part of the Neverending Story saga ranks as one of my favorite fantasy movies, because it just had everything you need for a good fantasy flick beautiful sets, good actors, a great story, and most importantly, you could actually feel the magic of movie-making in almost every scene. Neverending Story II was a bit of a letdown, but still an enjoyable flick. And then we got this terrible piece of garbage, called Neverending Story III. It's always a difficult task to make a sequel to a good and successful movie; so producing a third part is even more complicated. Still, there are some great Part IIIs, like Star Wars Episode VI Return of the Jedi (part 3 of the OT), Star Wars Episode III Revenge of the Sith (part 3 of the PT), Indiana Jones & the Last Crusade or Back to the Future III. They all succeed by staying true to the original movie's formula, having the same main actors, cleverly introducing new characters or expanding the storyline of the forerunners (and by having a big budget, by the way). Unfortunately, does neither of the things mentioned above. Because I don't want to say too much about this disgraceful sequel, only a small rundown of why it sucks so bad 1. The setting was changed. The story now takes place in the real world, no longer in Fantasia. That's a good idea, but it simply doesn't work at all, mainly because of the interaction of the Fantasia-characters with the real world (what's with the Rock Biter singing Born to be Wild? Or a fantasy character mentioning Las Vegas? How do they know that stuff? Doesn't make sense at all. 2. The movie is unbelievably silly. I just say Rock Biter family...what a terrible scene. 3. The personality of some characters has changed. That's especially bad with the childlike Empress. She's no longer childlike, kind, smart, caring and lovable, but a snobby teenager. 4. The movie was made cooler, or at least it was supposed to be cooler, for example by introducing the (incredibly dumb) Nasties and the above mentioned Born to be Wild thing. 5. The actors are simply terrible, neither of them is convincing or even has potential (except for Jack Black). 6. The visual effects are truly horrible, even the first part looks way better. But that might be because of the rather low budget. Still, the way the fantasy characters are created and presented in this one is embarrassing, just look at Falcor or the Rock Biter (did he shrink since part 1?) 7. The most cruel thing Atreyu is missing, for no apparent reason. So one of the most popular and beloved characters is simply wasted. Normally, you don't throw away interesting characters like him in any movie series. It's a crime he was missing. If you're a fan of the book and the first (or even the second) flick, then avoid this stinker at all costs. Simply watching it could make you cry, because it destroys it's forerunners legacy. Pure and utter garbage. "}{"Title":"The NeverEnding Tragedy","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Do you want to know why there are no more Neverending Story films? This film is the reason. It was a tragic display of ignorance on the part of the producers. They threw away everything that had been established in the previous films and started from scratch. Why did they do this? I have no idea but they definitely ruined the series. There is almost nothing redeemable about this film. It was hard enough getting through the second film but this one was too much. I recommend going back and watching the first one again and not wasting any time with this tragedy.  "},{"Title":"What were they thinking???","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I got two words for this movie...pure crud! So why did they make a third Neverending Story movie? The second one was bad enough! This one is just a total copy-off. This one is so bad...it tries to copy the actual Neverending Story mixed in with 90s attitude. BOMB! Trust me on this one......dont see it, unless you are very curious!Average Grade D "},{"Title":"Early bad memory","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" My - let's see, I would have been in - fourth grade teacher showed us this movie soon after it came out on video. We couldn't exactly decide for ourselves whether or not we wanted to watch it, but most of us were fairly enthusiastic, since movies have to be much better than taking notes and listening to Teacher.Not this one.I can't really speak for more than myself and the five people closest to me, but if we were representative, 5/6 of the class was catatonic before the movie was finished.We were ten years old. Every movie that interrupted class without being itself educational was absolutely fascinating. And yet, NESIII failed us.I can still hear Heather's voice clearly Wasn't that the STUPIDEST movie?! "},{"Title":"This movie ended the series","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Warning--may contain spoilerI was surprised at quality of the rubber trees and the rock eater costumes. But after seeing the pink dog puppet covered in fake fur---I shouldn't be.This movie seemed to be a combination of school, mall shopping, and some strange Fantasia world all combined into one senseless movie.  When Nicole goes shopping---it must have been a whole couple of minutes total--and seemed like an MTV fashion show segment. In fact most scenes seemed thrown together without any regard of continuity or logic.The father was insipid. Because his 2 kids run up to him---he decides to stay....there was no explanation. Couldn't tell why he was leaving in the first place.            "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had no plans to see this movie, because I always thought it is a bad movie. Now I watched it accidentally and I was right It is a bad movie! Bad acting, silly dialogues, terrible characters, cheap special effects and a silly story at all. The movie is maybe entertaining if you are younger than six years, but it's just a waste of time if you are older. 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What a Disappointment!","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was probably one of the most worst acted, poorly written and childish movies that I have ever seen. Even when I was 7 I thought this movie totally sucked! It is a disgrace and should rename itself and not be connected in any way to the other NES movies. The first Neverending Story was beautiful, beautiful graphics, acting, plot and characters. The second one was okay, but not as compelling as the first. Acting was good by the kid who played Bastian and Atrayu. This third movie completely cut off Atrayu and made Fantasia look like a piece of garbage. Rock Biter and Rock Baby were totally unrealistic and the plot line sucked. Jason James Richter's performance in this movie was a disgrace. I wish they would have used the same actors, but hey we all have to grow up, but come on this kid had no resemblence whatsoever to the first Bastian and for that matter the second... Come on people.. This movie was HORRIBLE!! "},{"Title":"this movie should not have even existed!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ya wanna know what made this movie go down the turlet? THE LACK OF CREATIVITY!!!! 1)Atreyu was not in this movie. But then again, had he been in this movie, his dignity would have not been seen in this film, whereas in others, you could tell this man had a sense of humor, but dignified as well. 2) Falkor was Drunk. The way he was flying, the way he was acting. You'd think he hit a pub on the way over. He said Excuse me ma'am to an airplane. One has to be drunk in order to do that lol 3) The Childlike Empress was stupid! In all my years as an Empress, it never occurred to me to go to the mall...oh, come on now...her dignity went fluuush! right down the john. NES 1 and 2 had much more imagination, good music, great acting, great characters, great plot, great everything!!! NES 3 has..well..dead trees walking..they got nada people! "},{"Title":"watch for loyalty and curiosity if you saw the other two","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It is not bad but surely not good.  Effects are middling; acting as required; silly as it integrates a modern school day with 30 year old bullies and Fantasia.  Doesn't work well.  If you are loyal to the series, you should see it.  It is better than pulling weeds out of the garden. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Believe it or not, being such a HUGE fan of The Never Ending Story saga, I didn't happen to see this movie till about 2 years ago. Even though this story has absolute NOTHING to do with the series, all I can say is I actually didn't mind it. I for some odd reason found it quite entertaining and was impressed. I do seperate this movie from the series in general (or else I might begin to hate it), it most likely does better on its own. The original series was actually very serious and alot more dark, especially the first film. I saw The Neverending Story 3 however, as some sort of comic relief to the series. I do enjoy how it was a little more down to earth and had alot more humour in it. Even though the original actors are long gone, the actors in this movie do portray these new characters quite well and are believable. If one wants to enjoy this movie make sure you totally seperate it from the original series and DO NOT compare all that much. I will never like this movie as much as the original, I still will watch it for a gag every now and then but it just won't hold the same place in my heart as the originals. If you are HUGE into fantasy and have seen the other movies, give this one a try, 'tis actually not all that bad. Trust me, I have seen worse. "},{"Title":"As the British would say...bloody awful!!!!","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The puppet characters all talked like they were retarded. The lines were corny and not funny AT ALL. I'm a fan of Tony Robinson, but how could he sink soooo low as to be in such an awful movie?I've actually seen worse, but this movie is still high on my really bad movie list. "}{"Title":"It wasn't a good movie !","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I like the first one & the 2nd one.They can be one of my fav movies -).I gave it 5/10 because Jason James Richter was in this movie and he's a capable actor.  The reality's it's not a good movie. The movie seems weird & Creepy & the magic disappeared. It lacks a lot of works.Just some bad students did stupid things to kill Jason.I don't like these guys very much. They are so stupid.By the way, may be filmaker made this for $. It's not a bad movie,but if i'm peter,i'd not like to make this one. If people like to see some Magical movies,you'd better see Neverending story  ,II ,Bogus & Home alone.If people don't like this movie, please skip it. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, but I've seen worse","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yeah, this movie never needed to be made. Every time I watched it I would pray for the Nasties to just beat Bastion and his friends up and be done with it. Yes, I said *watched* it. As in multiple times. The only reason I saw it in the first place is because Ryan Bollman (who plays Dog) is in this, and I think he's great in it. Actually, Jack Black and the rest of the Nasties aren't too bad. If you just watch their parts and fast forward through all of Bastion and Nicole's little dramas, the movie becomes watchable. Sort of. So there's my advice. If you really feel the need to find out what happens to Bastion when he goes on to a cheesy B-movie career, fast forward through most of it and stop whenever the Nasties are around. If only just to hear Dog yell Let's get NASTY!! "},{"Title":"I Can't Believe My Eyes","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I happened to be flipping through stations last night and I came across the last hour or so of this movie.  All I have to say is Thank god I didn't watch the whole thing!!  I would be afraid that I would have to gouge out my eyeballs.  No, seriously this movie is terrible.  The acting, the script, just everything was terrible!  Well, Jack Black was a little bit funny.  I don't need to compare this to the first two movies to know that this one stunk!  I gave it 2/10 only because I felt like being generous. "},{"Title":"Whoever is doing this, please, stop.","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Before I commence, let me say how good a film The Neverending Story is. It is definitely worth watching. This film, however, is not. Personally, I'm taking it as an insult to the original that it was even made. This is the second time that a cheap, utterly perplexing imitation has been made. Anyone who has seen the original and enjoyed it is well advised to steer clear of this film. Familiar characters are reduced to empty roles and the plot seems so eerily familiar. One final note The Nothing, interesting new concept. The Emptiness, I can't believe they tried to pull that one off. The Nastiness, stop, please. (And as to a rating, forget it.) "},{"Title":"This story must end","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The first movie was such a wonderful movie, like the Princess Bride, for example.  The characters were real in a fantasy sorta way.  You could relate to them and the mission.  The second movie was a horrible, anemic shadow of the original on a sub-level only rival by Lawnmower Man II (Jobe's War)as opposed to the original.  My only thought as to why anyone would make a third installment of this movie after the second one was to prove to the critics that things can always get worse, which is to say that the second looks pretty good compared to this...how is that for damning with faint praise? The director, creators, producers and such of this movie should be banned from touching another camera or even going to the movies in the future. "},{"Title":"Awful doesn't even come close","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This poor excuse for a film makes me sick to my stomach...it doesn't even pass off as a quality children's film; it simply confuses the hell out of them and scares them. Don't ever rent this movie, even better, if you see it in the store, drop it in the garbage when the clerk or the security camera isn't looking. If they catch you, I don't think they'll really care anyway. "},{"Title":"I like the second one best.","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't know why did they call this movie Never Ending Story if the series would end up to three parts only. Yet, I still enjoy watching the fascinating image and special graphics of this movie. "},{"Title":"A disgrace","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  my question is why?Why not make a movie that compleates the other half of the book (sorry, number 2 did diddly for the book, but the first covered maybe the first half with the Nothing and Gmork and all)?Why make Rock Biter wear clothes and have a son and a wife (although juinor was in #2)Also, WHY CHANGE FALKOR?! "},{"Title":"It's an all right movie","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't understand why this movie was such a low budget movie that they had to shrink the characters specially Rock Biter. Wasn't Rock Biter, a bigger giant in the first two movies?And why did a different movie company Miramax, release it instead of Warner Bro's who released the first two movies. This movie didn't capture the magic of the first two movies. "},{"Title":"never ending story","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In my opinion it's the best of the NES films. Because there are so many new characters like Nicole and the Nasties. And I think all people in the film are all feelings. As I watched the movie first, tears stand in my eyes, because junior ask of his mother. It was so cute. And when Sebastian and Nicole became friends i was so lucky. =)AS I saw the Nasties first I feel so angry. In my opinion the movie isn't bad. It's good! Very, very good. And I want to say you must watch it! =) A little bit of love, friendship, fear, happiness and you have the perfect movie like never ending story III. I only knew two people, who didn't like it. But I knew hundred more, who like it. Everyone, who didn't know it must watch it! please and than you can say, if you like or not. Okay? watch it please! "}{"Title":"Painful","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was painful to watch.  I skipped the middle.  I have never seen the other too Neverending Story movies, so I have no idea, but I know a terrible terrible movie when I see one.  I especially hated the tree and the rock baby.  I laughed at the wierd clothes. "},{"Title":"Cool but Super Cheese!","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I still think the first Neverending Story is the best of the series. I didn't so much like the second one as it was super cheese. This one is still super cheese but I enjoyed this movie. This version is so 90's. The music is so Dance Mix Tape style. And I loved Jack Black as the bully. This movie is not as well done with the fantasia characters but I really liked the story line with Bastion's little sister. And the nice family moral at the end of the film. This movie is not as cool as the first one but maybe because I'm a kid of the 90's I liked this version because I can remember growing up in the 90's. Hopefully they will not make anymore versions of the Neverending Story unless they do a really good job. Falcor was so cheese in number three that I can't bare to see anymore movies made of this series unless they do an amazing job on a fourth one. I am so cringing the new Lost Boys Tribe movie as it will be nowhere as good as the 80's original. "},{"Title":"Lord have mercy on my soul","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is by far one of the worst if not the worst movie i have ever seen. It saddens me today that the sequels they are making are the worst movies in movie history.  really cant understand why movies are made the way they are made now. People suck at making movies now. Every now and then you see a movie that has great potential. Plot lines dont even exist anymore, the use of CGI is too extreme, and actors try to hard now...lets face it. Movies will only worsen. The only reason why people have sequels is to squeeze ever last penny out of the movies gross. This is a good example of how movies shouldnt be made. I was actually ashamed to be watching a movie so stupid.  "},{"Title":"The 3rd story that never ends...","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Yes, the story of the NeverEnding Story doesn't stop here! The family fun goes on and on and on and on and on........Get your family ready as y'all go on an exciting adventure through a fantasy land, meet lovable characters, hear stories with great values, and more! Much, much more! But wait! There's more! There's terrific animation, terrific voices, a great story, a great plot; mix them up, put them all on a greased cake pan, put the pan in the oven already heated up to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, and in 30 minutes or less, you've got a great family film that's been nominated for best film! (Hint if your movie is not done by that time, it's free. LOL) I sure hope this series lasts as long as the Land Before Time series! (Man, how many more movies can there be?) "},{"Title":"Enjoyable!","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've tried to keep possible spoilers minimal. I just saw The NeverEnding Story III for the first time. As a kid, I loved the book and the first movie. This one wasn't great and was missing some of the magic, but was definitely still worth watching.I really enjoyed watching Bastian and his new step-sister Nicole's relationship develop. That element of the story was acted out brilliantly. There was resentment, attraction, interest, and finally trust and friendship. I actually came to IMDb today because I was particularly impressed with actor Melody Kay's (Nicole) performance and wanted to see what other films she's been in (very few, unfortunately.)The Earth-aware dialog on Fantasia doesn't make much sense. But if you look at this movie on it's own, and don't assume any prior knowledge of the book or previous movies, issues like this go away. The generation this movie was made for had plenty of viewers that these inconsistencies with the prior story wouldn't bother.I loved the contemporary pop/rock music! It is entirely reasonable that the hero and his step-sister, at about 13 years old, would be interested in popular music! It also helps recreate, in 2007, the aura of 1994... The soundtrack was great, with a feeling in-between the 80s sound and the 90s sound.A couple of misconceptions1. (That there is a significant break from the prior movie because Bastian's Mom is alive and present again, and Bastian's Dad has disappeared.) -- Actually, the Mom in the movie is not Bastian's Mom, it is his step-sister Nicole's Mom. The Dad really is Bastian's Dad. There is a point in the story when an interaction between the kids and parents seems to contradict their (clearly established) blood ties, but that interaction has a different purpose altogether.2. (That the karate in the movie is ordinary.) -- Actually, it is magically enhanced.The NeverEnding Story III is not brilliant, but it is definitely enjoyable. ***-- 3/5 "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" You cannot judge a movie from the 80's & 90's and compare the special effects to today that is unfair. The Never Ending Story trilogy is and always will be fantastic... I wish they would make more of them.. My children enjoy them and their friends enjoy them and if you look at the age of my children and compare it to when I started watching them we are the same age. An adult might not enjoy it but the never ending story is a movie for children and for adults that are still children at heart. I would without hesitation recommend this movie to all my friends and family who are looking to watch a movie that is entertaining and those who enjoy fantasy movies would definitely enjoy these three movies. My only hope is that the writers of these stories would come up with another sequel with todays technology it would be a best seller in every country around the globe. "},{"Title":"aptly titled","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've never seen the first two movies in this trilogy and I didn't want to see the this one, but since I work in a daycare with kids who did, I had no choice. Anyway,for a movie I was basically stuck watching, all I can say about this movie is, it could have been entertaining. The lead character, Bastian Baltazar, some last name that starts with a B, has moved to a new town with a new blended family with a boring sister named Nicole and two basically absent parents. Little is said of their family life, however, for most of this takes place at a school, where Bastian shows up with weird hair and is of course, bullied by a group of geriatric teenagers(who look about 40)called The Nasties. The Nasties also act about forty, and it's plainly obvious the writer knows nothing about modern bullies, but at least their teasing Bastian is so overblown and silly that it's entertaining, especially when Bastian has to escape into a storybook(I assume he did this in the other two movies) to hide from them. Too bad the story he picked is some dull, freakish thing that is set in the Godless land of Fantasia, where people follow a child-like empress(does that mean she is a woman in a child suit?) and worship and consult some wizard named Oren(horrors). Even that could have been passably entertaining, since the Nasties find and read The Never Ending Story(pretty smart bullies)and start to control it in a way where stupid Fantasia goes all wrong, so wrong in fact, that all of the myriads and gnomic creatures of Fantasia have to move down to Earth to escape.And after they did, I stopped paying attention and dubbed the movie quite worthy of its title, The NeverEnding Story, for it went on and on and on. The little snatches that I caught were all cliched and the ending quite silly, but by then I was so bored I couldn't even laugh. How could a movie with such potential go so horribly awry? Plus Fantasia and all that goes on there gives a horrible message. I'm sure at least one of my kids is Christian, and this movie is basically presenting Oren as some God and Fantasia as a Heaven. The kids didn't seem to mind any of that stuff and actually sat through the what felt like three-hour running time without a complaint or any kind of sound. That was good. Too bad the movie wasn't. "},{"Title":"Great Great Great JOB!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Oh my god I love this movie soo much even though its 13 years old. I to be honest I don't really like watching movies that are older, But I love this movie soo much because I think its a very good movie also the story is great, the actors are amazing, I think the little boy who played in it did such an amazing job. I also think that he was the right actor to play in it because I don't know I just think that he was the right one to play in this kind of movie. Ohh and also I love the song too because It represent the movie. I just love that movie I think it's a very good movie. I mean who wouldn't like it everybody likes it in my family small kids, teenagers, and adult too. Most of my friends think that it's for little kids. I don't really give a crab what they say or if they like it or no because I like it and thats what matters to me. u know what to be honest i don't think it's a kid movie because if it would be s kid movie for example franklin no adults or teenagers would like it, and obviously they don't. Me and My whole family were upsest with that movie when we first saw it. We would watch it every single day and over and over again and never get tired of it. I can't say more than it's such an amazing great entertaining cool movie. I just love it soo much. This is the only old movie I love. I watched it since I was like 5 or 6 years old and I still watch it now sometimes. I'll never get tired of watching it. Now my little sisters watch it too and they love it. They always bother me to put it on for them. haha... I think its such a great movie not only because of the actors but mostly because of the director Peter Macdonald and also because of the people who wrote the credits. Greate job!!!!!!!!! One more time I LOVE IT!!!!!!!)))))) "},{"Title":"A Must See!!!!!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've seen the first two NeverEnding Story movies, but none of them have a script like the third one! This is the most down to earth NES of all, not to mention the great cast! Ryan Bollman is TERRIFIC!!!!!!!! This is a great movie, trust me! Go out and rent it tonight!!!! "}]