[{"Title":"Insanely bad!","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"44 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I decided to watch the original Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE, TCM 2, LEATHERFACE TCM 3 and TCM 4 in a row. I already seen the two first and I think they're great. But Leatherface and TCM 4 were new to me. Leatherface was extremely flat and boring but TCM 4 was, well, INSANELY BAD. I simply could not believe what I was watching. My jaw was on the floor. Is this a movie? It's a joke, right? I never laughed so much in a very long time. There are simply no words to describe how bizarre, SURREAL, and bad this movie is. Nothing makes sense so there's no point of trying to make sense of it. It's insane. Insanely bad. Insanely funny. Insanely directed. Insanely insulting to the whole series. Insanely watchable AND unwatchable. Yes, it's INSANELY entertaining to the masochist in me, who likes to witness the worst of the worst in movies, and TCM 4 is WRETCHED to the nth degree! It feels like the Hitchhiker from the original TCM directed this movie. I have to admit that as bad as TCM 4 is, at least it's looks and feels more like the TCM world created by Tobe Hooper than the ultra boring and flat looking LEATHERFACE TCM 3.There are so many moments in TCM 4 that have to be seen to be believed. The funniest being the moment when Renee and Matthew are battling over remotes that controls Matthew's piston powered leg (got that?). Or the funny scene of Leatherface (a cross-dresser here) standing behind clueless Heather and playing with her hair. Heather has to be one of the funniest characters I've ever seen. She's played by Lisa Marie Newmyer, who's a bimbo but with a lot of insight. In this movie, Heather is attacked by Leatherface, placed in a freezer. Then she's hung on a hook, and for some unexplained reason, she got off the hook and tried to crawl away from the house only to be brought back to the house, where she lies on the floor, too bored or lazy to runaway. LOL!!! The whole thing is played as a comedy. But the comedy is often so bizarre that it's not really funny. What's also remarkable is that Renee and Matthew do have star quality and watching these stars in this insane movie just adds a lot more bizarre, wonky quality to the movie than it really deserved. The whole cast is game but I wonder, what did the director or producers do to have the cast go all out like that? Was it drugs? Was the whole crew and cast on drugs or drunk?!?! Matthew is very good in his role as, well, I don't know, a buff psycho? And Renee goes all out in her role as survivor, running across the forest like an athlete trying to win a medal.After I watched TCM4 for a second time, I've finally realized that it's all flippant parody of the first movie. I've noticed bizarre details, like the sound of crickets during the opening scene inside Jenny's house. The director, who co-wrote the original TCM, didn't take this new foray into the TCM universe seriously for one second. In the end, TCM 4 looked like an amalgamation of 'THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE' and TWIN PEAKS. The director was obviously influenced by the David Lynch TV series. When you look at the movie in this light, it's not the total disaster that everyone says it is BUT the movie still ends up looking pretty bad because of one major weak aspect about it it's TOTALLY POINTLESS. If there's was a movie that was totally pointless, it's this one. Why basically remake the first movie a la David Lynch? What's next? The Quentin Tarantino version of TCM?Anyway, personally, I prefer TCM 4 over LEATHERFACE TCM 3, which is just plain bad and is the worst movie of this bizarre so-called series. At least TCM 4 is so consciously bad that, even if it's an almost total embarrassment to the two first films, it's actually fun to watch if you're looking for something to laugh at or with, something that's insanely wacky, full of energy and 100% OVER-THE-TOP! As a straightforward film, TCM 4 rates at a big fat ZERO. But as a it's so bad it's good movie, TCM 4 rates a perfect 10. It's ranks up there along with GLEN OR GLENDA, PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, TERROR IN THE JUNGLE, and THE LEGEND OF LYLAH CLARE as the very best of the worst. "},{"Title":"It's been an abomination. You really must accept my sincere apologies.","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Well said, Rothman. Whatever this movie is supposed to be, it fails on every level. It's not scary, it's not disturbing, it's not entertaining, it's only funny periodically when you can't believe how stupid it is, and it essentially killed the Texas Chainsaw Massacre franchise until it was rebooted a decade later. The only reason anyone would have any inclination to watch this is because of its leads - Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey - who were young and naive back then, but they did they best they could with the material they had. Renee played a fine damsel in distress and McConaughey was perfect as an insane cannibalistic psychopath. You can tell he was having fun with the part, and the fun he has is contagious sometimes especially knowing how huge he has become since. The movie itself is downright horrendous. It starts off as a typical slasher a few teens leaving prom get stranded in the woods, then they encounter strange characters, and from then it devolves into a nonsensical screaming battle between everyone. Literally there are scenes in this movie where the only lines are AHHHH! Leatherface has gone full transvestite for this installment. They also end the movie with some sort of conspiracy that these cannibals have been around for thousands of years and there are men in suits that check up on them or something. It makes absolutely no sense and trying to piece it together will ensure a loss of brain cells.This is the worst of the pre-millennial TCMs by a long shot. Only watch if you're a die-hard TCM completist or you want to watch McConaughey yell like crazy for a while. Either way, you're bound to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Wow, one of the most bizarre horror franchises ever!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The latest Texas Chainsaw Massacre, is absolutely no rest from the bizarre first three horror films. Leatherface here is performed just like Gunnar Hansen's take in the 1974 granddaddy of all horror films,  The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The actors seem to overact sometimes, it's pretty corny...still the humor and craziness of the flick are entertaining, as well as the music and atmosphere. Definitely the best film of the two leading stars, who would go on to become Hollywood heartthrobs. You'll have a lot of fun if you're a horror fan who likes to see some weird B-ish stuff. "},{"Title":"Creepy in many ways (I'm in the minority again)","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I liked this movie. I liked it in whole and in parts - meaning I enjoyed the film as a whole (and have watched it several times, inflicting it on various friends...), but there were touches in it that really creeped me, and that isn't something that happens every day. The film is your basic teenagers on the way home from the prom get lost and stuck and run into spooky family in the middle of nowhere - mayhem ensues. Actually, this is the movie I thought of (fondly) when I first heard about House of 1000 Corpses. I like this movie much better, and not just because I REALLY want to bring it to a Matthew McConaghy Fan Club movie night.(SPOILERS)It's the details that make this movie. The wall of drivers' licenses that you can see in the background in one room of the creepy family's house, which implies they've been at this for a while. The filthy bathroom where you can't see the human skin hanging on the back of the door until you're already inside with the door closed.I've always found it hard to imagine a female villain character who actually works in a movie like this, unless she's either essentially browbeaten and incapable of individual action, or is utterly, irredeemably psychotic. This movie has a creepy female character who both casually flashes passersby from her office window (explaining only that she just got implants and everyone seems to want to see them) and flirts with cops while she has a girl tied up in her trunk. She also gives a variety of weird conspiracy theoryish explanations for why she goes along with what the spooky family does.Most unusual of all is the weird guy in the limousine who shows up for no particular reason and implies that he put these people here for some reason - presumably to generate exactly the type of urban legends they are generating - and who might be.... Satan? Some underling, anyway. Maybe Ranger Asmodeus (from Equinox) has a cousin. ..The movie left me wondering - in the best possible way. Not the usual why did they make this? or how could they have thought this was good? But instead who is that guy? Does he have other enclaves of evil out there just waiting for his visits? and that woman - was she a victim at one point who talked her way into joining them as a survival mechanism, and then convinced herself that it was OK? Ya know? "},{"Title":"brilliant sick & twisted","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe this is rated as a bad film by so many. It is one of my favorites. It's pretty twisted and sick in a realistic way. Indeed it's not like the other TCMs but it's the same plot line , but completely different in a way. Mr. McConaughey has a great role and is acting like never before. Try seeing the movie and finding the good qualities instead of searching for whats bad about it like everyone else does. The psycholigy is brilliant. A must see for all ! "},{"Title":"I Don't Understand!","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  At one point, a terrorized Jenny screams I don't understand!  And Vilmer replies Welcome to the real world.  For me, this sums up everything I like about this movie.The TCM series has -- at the best of times -- been about random violence...usually for the sake of sensationalism.  But underneath it all is the creepy realization that not everybody thinks like you do.  Some of them do things which make no sense to you.  When you step into their reality, you're at their mercy, and you'll never understand exactly why.This installment plays the why? theme to the hilt, eventually copping out somewhat near the end when they should have just left us wondering. Darla is wonderful as Vilmer's girlfriend, alternately getting hung up about seemingly trivial things -- having a quiet dinner for a change -- and goading Vilmer into continuing their twisted, mutually abusive relationship. Vilmer himself has fantastic moments, though none of the actors quite live up to Perensky & Zellweger's standards of convincing nuttiness and terror, respectively.  Though Newmyer is also great in a role which is too small.Outside of the mayhem, there's some wonderful dialogue, especially the first few lines in the movie the teacher who simpers around the students and then gripes, f*** I hate kids.  Heather's friend with the absolutely bizarre mannerisms explaining that the gossip-monger is just trying to cause trouble.  Heather saying that they might end up slaughtered and hidden away in somebody's basement, with Sean retorting, that's stupid, the houses around here don't have basements.  And finally, my favourite line Too bad about her face, Leather, but you can have her shoes!Despite all the bad press this movie's received, I hope Kim Henkel enjoys what she created as much as I enjoy watching it.  Goofy, funny, real, unreal, terrifying and witty good job. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie and could watch it over & over again","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie to me, was totally entertaining for what it is; the what, 7th movie in a string of horror movie sequels? Come on! Give these people some credit. Once they make about 3 or 4 movies, you're a moron if you're expecting an Oscar worthy film. Matthew McConaughey is INCREDIBLE AS A PSYCHO! His lines are delivered so INSANELY (mind the pun!) PERFECT that you wonder if he really is a bit nutty in real life. The things he says cracks me up. When he runs over the character Sean with his tow truck saying Yep, that shoulda done' it... that shoulda done it riiiight there. I just laugh so incredibly hard at how crazy he is throughout the entire movie. You have to let go of your cirtical, Siskel & Ebert serious side & just have some fun with this movie! The Next Generation isn't much for blood and guts like the original, it more so focuses on demented psychopaths who live amongst body parts and filth and who torture for fun. They try to give you the meaning of HORROR even that crazy-skin-flesh-nipple-ring guy admits that the whole psycho killer set-up is, & I quote appalling as far as horror goes. So there, they admit it but the characters are still great in my opinion. But the scene with the prom kids in Darla's office is a load of laughs because Tonie Perensky portrays the hot psycho chick to a T. She's completely cool and collected about her lifestyle and just pulls off the greatest pin-up type homicidal bimbo character ever. And she manages to still look hot despite almost getting choked to death (by a TV remote controlled leg) and smacked around a few times by Vilmer. Renee is EXCELLENT as the virginal victim who, unlike most innocent horror movie victims who do the stereotypical running up the stairs when they should be running out of the front door, Renee gets some courage to climb a 3 story roof, swing from a cable line, jump out of a window, & is even brave enough to point in Leather's face and tell him to SIT THE F*CK DOWN! GO JENNY! Jenny's friend Heather is a little annoying with her little girl voice and airhead paranoia but she acknowledges the error of her ways and ultimately gets the grossest punishments. So we can pardon her! The only one I can say that really didn't impress me was Leather himself. This if the first Texas CM movie I've seen where Leather runs around pulling at his hair and screaming endlessly like a little girl instead of getting down to some real deal chainsaw business. After a few minutes of them introducing Leather (continuously screaming like a sissy) you're looking for the MUTE button on your remote. This movie doesn't lose the original concept of the Ed Gein theme by showing briefly the woman-skin suit hanging behind a bathroom door, however in this TCM movie we get to see Leather decked out for dinner in a fancy gown, red lipstick and a black wig he must have stolen from Tina Turner.All in all, I really find this movie entertaining and think that Matthew and Renee got off to a GREAT start with these characters. I give it 1½ thumbs up! = "},{"Title":"Now that I've watched it more times I can say I love it","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just because I don't like as much as the other ones doesn't mean I hate it. The things that pi** me off. 1) Leatherface dressed like a woman. 2) Vilmer always shouting Vilmer. 3)W.E. always saying those stupid quotes. 4)This is the one main thing that really pi**ed me off no one got chainsawed to death. Somethings that I like about the film is. Its entertaining. It's a Texas Chainsaw Massacre film. I think the reason I like this film better than most people is because the original film is my favorite movie. Other than that the film isn't that bad so I don't why people thrash it so much. the film makers had the balls to make it way different than the other ones. Like I said this is weakest one in the series but it's a good film. "},{"Title":"honestly one of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"37 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You couldn't make a worse movie if you tried. This movie does everything wrong, leaves out HUGE parts of the plot line, and has some of the worst acting i've ever seen. This combination is basically the perfect storm for making one of the most poorly made and crappiest movies of all time. The thing is, thats what makes it freaking hilarious. The craptasical nature of this movie combined with the COMPLETE seriousness with which it is delivered is perfect. Honestly, when i say you couldn't make a worse movie, i mean you couldn't make a funnier one. This movie is one of the best comedies I've ever seen, hands down. Can we say matthew mcconaughey and a TV remote operated bionic leg? Yeah, best movie of 94 and truly kickstarted renee zelweger's career "},{"Title":"A retro piece of fun!!","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so we've all come to various conclusions about this movie and saw it in a different light. To anyone out there who hates it..chill!! It's mindless horror, it's meant to be fun and it manages to be scary, hilarious and disturbing. The first hour or so is definitely the best and contains some genuinely frightening scenes as well as two classic chase sequences between Leatherface and the two heroines. Lisa Marie Newmeyer puts in a memorable role as the mindless Prom queen and has some of the funniest lines since Clueless and Renee Zellweger is great as the mousey Jenny who goes from classroom geek to feisty survivor and gives the cannibal clan a good run for their money. It's all very purposely retro, a film that would have been top notch in the 70's slasher era...when the characters sprout lines like..My flashlight's dead or Hello? Is someone there, walk into old houses in the middle of the woods and split up to get help, you know that the director Kim Henkel wanted to capture the innocent horror of pre Scream times. It's a pity that he got lost somewhere after the first hour and added the senseless Rothman character...instead of staying classic and ending with a great chase scene he tried to make the story a little bit different. He should have stuck with the formula we've trusted for so long and one he'd delivered so far...still not a bad sequel...better than 2, much better!!!   "}{"Title":"Well...first I'm gonna kill ya.","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, it's not the greatest movie in the world. Okay, it almost directly rips off the first one. Okay, the plot twist at the end is more confusing and dumb than thought provoking. Who cares? I sure don't! This was the first Texas Chainsaw I had ever seen. I loved it then and I love it now. The movie is about madness, plain old madness, and thats what it delivers. Again, it borrows heavily on the original. A bit tacky to say the least, but its got a lot of its own to stand on. I found that the character of Vilmer to be the best not Leatherface psycho of the series. Just edging out Bill Moseley as Chop-Top. Its popcorn horror, plain and simple. This movie scratches that part of me that also enjoys Cannibal Holocaust and Toxic Avenger. I recommend giving it a shot. You might hate it, or then again it might become one of your favorites. "},{"Title":"It's Bad, but then it's pretty good too, I just like it!","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This film is impossible to describe, it's really badly made, but I went through a stage of watching it repeatedly for some reason. The plot is almost non-existent and if there is one it's bizarre. It's not even slightly scary and I'm not sure if it even tries to be, it's easily the worst in a genuinely good series. The Leatherface is awfully played, more or less everyone can't act to save their lives, the two leads excluded. There is no actual massacre nor any chainsaw related deaths. So thats all the bad stuff out the way.Now the on the plus side, there is one thing. Matthew McConaughey. The first time I saw it I was stunned by his performance in it. He's really good. Very menacing and maniacal. Also Renee gives a decent performance as the sprightly young heroine.This film does have the power to annoy though. Oh my god my torch has run out I know, You two go and follow the mysterious car....I'll wander about in the woods with what is possibly the worst torch in existence...Oop..It's broke.The ending however, is the real cherry on top which makes most people I know hate it. No kind of sense has been made so far but I'm working on it. Where did that plane come from, why did it kill Vilmer, who to him, must've looked like he was also being chased by a man with the chainsaw. So was it all some kind of cult? Why have the police not seen this place? It's not that far from a school let alone civilisation like the original was. Funny how this school where they travel about a mile from is right next to a huge desert too. The list of plot holes could go on....but if you can get past the awful acting, irritating plot, hate-able characters (which is a good thing I guess) and the fact it makes no sense, you might just enjoy yourself. Just watch the two leads and enjoy (kind of). "},{"Title":"this movie is great in its own right.","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  if you have never seen a TCM movie, or are expecting to see one like the original, then do not watch this! just like the other sequels it takes the family,and leatherface to a new level. its different, its funny, and unlike what other people said, it has very good acting in comparison to other horror movies.this movie wasnt made for just anyone to watch and appreciate, you have to be an actual fan of the original, and its sequals in order to fully appreciate and understand a movie like this.-boon "},{"Title":"A Respectable Followup","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Thoughtfully done in the same style as the original. Cheap, gritty veneer suggests a bad movie, but this was a purposeful move, because the family is country, and country isn't well-lit or well-versed.  Truly, this film is best enjoyed immediately after watching Texas Chainsaw Massacre (Burns is much easier to recognize that way!!) "},{"Title":"Best Of The Series","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler AlertTexas Chainsaw Massacre-The Next generation is my pick for the best in the series...I love everything about this film...All of the actors are great. My favorite character in the film has to be Darla for those of you that don't know who she is or remember she is Vilmer's girlfriend. I've read many reader reviews for this film & i don't understand why everyone has nothing but bad stuff to say about it. For fan's of the WWF this is a film you should see because WWF Diva Debra Williams-Wife of Stone Cold Steve Austin has a bit role a Police Officer 1... This film very much so has the feel of the first Texas Chainsaw Massacre which is a classic all it's own. 4 friends start out at the Prom where Heather catches her boyfriend Berry with another girl she runs off Barry follows she jumps in his Dad's car as Barry soon does... she puts the petal to the medal then Jenny & her friend Sean sit up from the back seat & a lot of talk goes on. So on Heather takes a short cut down a dirt back road much like other TCM's Heather ends running into another car causing the car to go off the road, after this they all get out of the car and check on the other  uy whoam they hit...he faints! So 3 of the 4 go to look for help leaving Sean to stay with the other guy. Heather, Barry & Jenny find help when they come upon Darla's work place. She call's her boyfriend Vilmer to go out and get the car...The kid's thank Darla for her help and go off on their way back to the car along the way they get lost & Heather & Barry go down a path they see leaving Jenny alone on the road alone...Now back to Sean who is still waiting with the car, Vilmer comes along in his toll truck & comes out and checks on the guy who had fainted Vilmer then goes on to tell Sean that he is dead & then kills him...Vilmer goes on to kill Sean, Heather... Leatherface kill's Barry coming out of the bathroom... Jenny makes it through the film... now i cut that short so you that have not seen it will get a shock from the rest of the film. Anyway this film gets a 10 out 10 from me.  "},{"Title":"A nice mix of horror and comedy make The Next Generation a very good movie","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Nex Generation of Chainsaw series is actually a farily decent horror film in my opinion. There wasn't too much gore to distract you from the film, just enough to let you know that this is in fact a horror film. Just the right touch of humor to keep the viewer interested, and pretty good acting from the young Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey, seeing they were really young and just beginning their careers which are now flourishing. All in all I thought this film was very good, I can't say I was really scared, but some parts got my attention and Leatherface was actually alittle nicer this time. This was the last good Massacre movie in the series. "},{"Title":"Cult Classic","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This TCM;Next Generation is an accidental cult classic.I wasn't scared watching this movie,but finally figured out i'm not supposed to be horrified.It is subtly funny,and it is obvious Renee and Mathew and the others were trying not to burst out laughing half the time.It was a load of fun to watch.The actors were having too much fun to try to give Oscar performances and for that their performances are brilliant.This is Renee's best role.Not that she isn't a great actress in general...i just love her so much in this role.She is a young actress who seems like she is just having fun.Mathew is amazing..how on earth this movie gets such low scores is beyond me.Watch it...you'll love it. "},{"Title":"A weird take on the franchise(with star power!)","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure, but I saw this when I was about 17 on cable and thought it was pretty cool. I like how it kind of gives a whole different angle on the family ( is the guy at the end with the rings in his stomach supposed to be Machivelli himself?) Thats just my take on it. It appears as tho the entire Texas Chainsaw Family is doing a job for a beyond rich historical real life Italian figure who, being Machivelli, wants to preside over a real Experiment in Horror. Matthew Mc whats his face-his truck is also christened with Iluminati signs. All in all, I don't see why everybody dumps on this movie, I think it is actually pretty good, and is way better and scarier than that piece of crap remake they did. "},{"Title":"My favorite in the series..","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was fairly late to the Chainsaw Massacre movies, being only 20 years old. I remember one day walking in to Wal-Mart and finding this movie for $3 on VHS and I was intrigued I wasn't alive to experience the shocking first film, and I barely remembered the second film from when I was a child, so I figured I might as well take a chance and purchase this. This was from years ago -- before I discovered ultra-gory movies, before I really had much knowledge of horror movies in general, and... wow. Then and now, this movie holds up.The biggest thing about this film is that people seem to suggest that it doesn't live up to the legacy of the Chainsaw series. Having watched all the films in the series now, I can say that this is EASILY the best of the lot. The most entertaining, the most hilarious, and the most memorable. Sure, it doesn't shock and awe like the other (overrated) entries supposedly do, but it does have its merits Matthew McCoughnahay is just hilarious in his role as truck driver with a robot leg. First I'm gonna kill ya... it ain't no f***ing biggy. You'll be quoting him for weeks.Renee Zellwegger, in her best role ever, actually looks pretty good as an abused daughter and proceeds to run away from Leatherface barefooted, sees all her friends get killed, and gets her face licked by some businessman with weird tattoos and piercings on his chest.There seems to be no point to this entire film. I guess Leatherface killed JFK. And is a transvestite now. And is somehow affiliated with the government, and people need to learn the true meaning of horror. Horror. And what's with the ending? The man and the woman in the trailer have a different person dubbing their voices for them? Why? And what about the airplane flying around and then suddenly hitting a character in the head and oil comes out of their brain? What? ... I'm not going to say that this is a serious film by any means, but it is definitely the most memorable. Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"WONDERFUL,SCARY,AND FUNNY","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie brings me bakcc to likeing gruesome movies this is just a wonderful movie ive really never seen anything better besides the (halloweens), but anyways this movie is basically about 4 teenagers that get kidnapped and slaughering by a man eating monster.the kills were just fabulous like hanging the girl on the meathook i mean there were just good kills there was hangings,cutting,slaughtering,bashing, crushing,butchering,biting i mean this movie has it and to all the other people that insulted it back offf cuzz you gies must not be very good movie watchers but anyways i give it a 10/10imdb is the best    "}{"Title":"Above Average","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I started watching the return of the Texas chainsaw massacre i thought that it would be another poor and insipid horror sequel like nightmare on elm street 2. The film starts off like an episode of the o.c. but it soon turns ugly, the youngsters get involved in a car accident and that's when you know the mayhem will begin and the group get split up. This film is very much like the original (even though kim henkel the director teaches film studies at a texan university) you would at least think that he could produce or help produce a script which would be original and keep viewers on the edge of there seats. some of the similarities in this film to the original are when jenny is escaping from leatherface she runs into another human being who could possible help her but is actually a member of the leatherface family another similarity is the fact that the kids are basically 2 couples just like the original all the needed then was to have a disabled brother and the characters would be exactly the same as the original. in this film I don't know whether it is intentionally done but the ending is very confusing like who was that British man with his chauffeur and who was in the plane which shot wilmer(matthew mccounahey) and also right at the end when jenny is at the hospital with the police men and he is reassuring her and sally(marliyn burns) is pushed past on a hospital bed by a hospital worker (paul 'franklin' partain)when i say intentionally done maybe in 1994 when the film was made they were hoping to make a sequel with the characters sally and jenny but because renee zellweger got really famous in jerry maguire and reality bites she would never return to the series and why did matthew mccounahey try to have this film stricken from the records and have it vaulted?  "},{"Title":"A little deeper than everyone is giving credit for","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this is one of the most bizarre movies I have seen, and I can understand why some people do not care for this, but to be ranked in as one of the worst 100 movies is proposterous.I loved trying to figure out what was in the directors head when he made this.  He was trying to say something, in a messed up way.  It was also fun in a campy sort of way.  I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie! Recommend!","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"13 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I just can't stop wondering, how you guys, who all consider yourself horror-fans, don't get the actual idea of this movie! TCM4 is brilliant! All the pseudo- seriousness, all the dumb dialogs, the plot that makes no sense (especialy the ending- a weird guy in a limo reading french right-wing parties newspaper and licking his victims, an elderly couple in a van drinking Pinacolada and an airplane coming out from nowhere...)~ it's SO surreal~ it's good! I agree, if this would have been an average movie it might be considered as bad, but this one- isn't about that! And just listen to the Hungarian violin music at the end, when the credits are shown! Soooo f**n cool! Not to mention Matthew as a psycho with a leg moved by a remote control, and Leatherface dressing himself as a transvestite and listening to Nazi marches.. This is the way it was meant to be~ bizarre and annoyingly bad! Enjoy it! It's not the best bad movie I've seen, but just because almost everyone else here thinks it's so bad, I'll go for 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"A Misunderstood Classic","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Most people think that this is a peice of s***. They probably think that it was one of the worst films in existence. Sometimes this makes me wonder if the majority of the population are dumbasses or artistically autistic. The truth is that this movie is a classic of horror. I gave it a ten. The people that think it's terrible are trying like hell to analyse it. They just dont understand it. And what they don't understand they think that it's stupid. Hell, who would want to think the other way around? The truth is that this a classic of horror. It's just as perplexing and bizarre as the original, but it takes it all to a higher level. Texas Chainsaw Massacre in its most evolved form. And that's what it tries to be, so it deserves the utmost acclaim. It's also a horror rollercoaster, it has all the suspense to make it extremely entertaining, and also has the humor. I loved this movie, it was a peice of art. Most people just dont understand it. Oh well, too bad for them, because this certainly is a classic. "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" this was an amazing movie. it wasn't intended to be terrifying like the rest of the chainsaw massacres. but it totally made up for it with the twisted comedy and Matthew's outstanding performance. there was never a dull moment in this movie. if you like dark comedy and like the rest of the chainsaw movies, i totally suggest you watch this one. its the kind of movie that you can never get tired of. i may be the only one who apparently liked it but that shouldn't discourage you to go out and rent it. once again, Matthew's performance, i think, was one of his bests. after seeing frailty, I've noticed that he plays a great crazy person. overall, very twisted, very entertaining. watch it. "},{"Title":"No stars.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"23 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The third sequel in the Texas Chainsaw series is now more famous for starring Matthew McConaughey and Renée Zellweger, neither of whom, at the time the film was made, knew better than to accept such trashy roles. The film begins by asking us to care about a group of teens who leave their prom due to a couple having a fight and end up lost in the woods. This mere minutes after having driven away from their high school, which presumably resides in their hometown. Clearly they have not learned their way around much, but no matter. Before too long, they very soon find themselves running for their lives away from the famous freaky family, not only lost in their home town but, before long, also without their car. One of the biggest gripes that people have with this film (which is saying a lot, because there is nothing but stuff to gripe about) is that Leatherface seems to have become a transvestite. You can almost watch the transformation in the film, which seems to me to be sort of the result of trying to make Leatherface too complex. There is a point in the film where the trapped Jenny (Zellweger) tries to get Leatherface to help her escape, talking to him exactly like a psychiatrist would talk to a disturbed child.Come on, we know Leatherface is disturbed; I just don't understand why cross-dressing had to be added to his impressive list of deviations from the pattern of behaviors generally associated with reasonably well-adjusted people. On the other hand, Kim Henkel did co-write the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre with Tobe Hooper, and has thus been granted at least some right to tamper with the character. What you see in the movie, however, is a lot of tampering gone horribly, horribly wrong. If it ain't broken, as they say, don't fix it. You may end up making it worse.What is amazing to me is how far McConaughey and Zellweger have both come in spite of this film. As I was watching the film, I couldn't believe I was watching the same actor who had turned in such wonderful performances in movies like Bridget Jones' Diary and Cold Mountain, as well as another actor who displayed strong acting presence in movies like EdTV and U-571. Why the focus on Leatherface being a transvestite? Leatherface is a side character anyway, it is Vilmer (McConaughey) who is the star, which is sad because he plays such a belligerent, disgusting character. If you don't believe me that he's more the star than Leatherface, count how many people Leatherface, or anyone else, kills with a chainsaw in the movie (hint none).Vilmer is the new head of household in the backwoods family, working as a tow-truck driver/reckless murderer and who has the fascinating addition of an electric leg that is operated by remote control. At one point, a high school kid pleads for help, then when he realizes Vilmer's one of the bad guys, he runs away from the truck (running straight down the street rather than into the woods to relative safety, of course), Vilmer gleefully chases him down, laughing and hooting and hollering all the while, and then runs him over five or six times before stashing his body on the back of the truck to later taunt one of his little friends with.As is to be expected, there is never any motive given behind any of the random killings, this is all just the sickening actions of an insane family in the woods, evidently comfortably separate from any sort of law enforcement or even the most tenuous interaction with greater civilization, waiting for unsuspecting teenagers to stumble into their midst. Interesting that the movie starts out as such a gigantic horror movie cliché, and still manages to go downhill from there.Horror movie sequels are first faced with the usually daunting task of justifying themselves. A horror movie sequel has to have a premise that gives it a reason for having been made, otherwise it is clearly a cash cow made to cash in on the success of the original film. Texas Chainsaw 4, instead, simply passes itself off as something of a remake of the original, rather than another sequel, and turns from the more plodding and slow-moving original to the mindless, completely over-the-top belligerence that you see here. The scenes at the house are peppered with stupid violence, at one point Vilmer throws Darla to the ground and steps on her neck with his powerful leg, nearly killing her by suffocation or by breaking her neck, clearly not caring which. Naturally, she gets up and complains that she could easily leave him and go back to her husband. Charming. Add cannibalism to the mix and you have a hilariously bad movie. Jenny spends much of the latter half of the movie trying to escape from the hungry hungry hicks, as we are constantly bombarded with the stupid, stupid characters and plot twists that the movie makes as it ineptly tries to combine the horror and comedy that even the most mildly competent horror film can display. This is exactly the kind of thing that really makes me wonder why, every time a new movie comes out in a certain series, I always go back and watch the whole series before watching it. I'm still working on The Friday the 13th movies, the Nightmares on Elm Street, and the Child's Play films, which are decidedly more fun than the Texas Chainsaws. And to make matters worse, I have heard nothing but bad things about the 2003 Texas Chainsaw. And given how right all the bad reviews of this movie are, that is certainly a sinking feeling. "},{"Title":"a ridiculous, overacted mess","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This extremely erratic remake/sequel tries to follow the template of the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre, nevertheless twisting it into a bizarre modern blend of dark comedy and tasteless antics. Its the usual story of high school prom night turned bad as the typical airhead girlfriend, moron boyfriend and likable nerdy girl (Renee Zellweger) fall victim to a rural Texas dysfunctional family led by madman (Mathew McConaughey). If you've seen the previous Chainsaw films, then you should know what to expect, but this comes off so eccentric, that its impossible to take seriously. Mathew McConaughey tries way too hard to be insane as the maniacal Vilmer, and Renee Zellweger tries way to hard to be scared as the female lead. The rest of the characters are either mindless fodder or laughable afterthoughts such as Tyler Cone as Barry who's every line in the film is a literary quote, and Leatherface in drag and constantly screaming in dress and makeup is just way too wacky. McConaughey's character's leg is controlled by a remote actuator, and he slaps and cuts himself repeatedly while abusing everyone around him, especially Zellweger. Somehow a powerful organization is behind the control and funding of the torture tactics implemented by Vilmer and his clan, a strange plot device that completely throws the film into left field. Its a masochistic freak show, and little gore, hardly any chainsaw action, and plenty of silly inconsistencies (at one point a chainsaw cuts bricks off a chimney with no effort???) make this effort a real blunder. Its entertaining for its ineptness and craziness if anything. "},{"Title":"So....","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" am i a retard or am i the only person that likes this movie??Well i don't feel like a retard or else i wouldn't be commenting this film right? Perhaps we were all a bit TO harsh on this awful movie.I'm a Texas chainsaw freak (especially hoopers' 74 version) so i think it gives me the right to talk about it.FIRST the bad things..The character 'Heather' is kind of dumb and annoying how she plays the role and also the 'Barry' character BUT ..sometimes it's fun to watch these people act,or try to act.and trust me,there are much much worse actors and actresses in the world.and not only in ass and tit movies. and i think that's about it that bothered me. Don't see it as a true horror movie.See it as a comedy or black comedy.Cause sometimes 'Vilmer'(McConaughy) reminds me of a Patrick Bateman or something.He plays it pretty darn good.The quotes are cool and Zellweger i never liked actually in any movie except this one. maybe i liked it because my friend and myself were finished watching John Woo's The killer and than this movie was very late on Television.It was perfect.we had a good time,good laugh,and both liked the Vilmer character,the rest as well. So man,the score here is 2.6/10 which is ridiculous.There are movies like 'the worm eaters','XXX'(with Vin Diesel),'Psycho'(the remake!) and other shitty comedies nowadays that are MUCH worse in my honest opinion. So really,give it a chance,it's not THAT bad.. for fans ofAmerican Psycho,Killing Zoe(not for the action scenes),some old Wes Craven films,nothing really Italian horror-like to be found here.. and another thing..I think Mr.Hooper didn't really cared for this movie cause it doesn't really need to be compared with the first one,but people still do.so see this one with an open mind and don't care about what's been made in the past.Hooper(in my opinion) bothered with the real 'good' remakes from the Texas chainsaw with Jessica Biel and the prequel movie sort of speak.cause that wasn't necessary cause the first one already WAS a true success.They were good but personally i didn't cared for them that much. This movie is different.It's not my all time favorite horror movie,not by a long shot BUT i think there's plenty of entertainment to be found here. Enjoy people and sorry about the spelling(from Belgium you see)My Rate6/10 "},{"Title":"Not That Bad!","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you chose to see a sequel of 'Texas Chainsaw Massacres' you know what you expect. Knowing what you expect, you will not find this film that bad. It certainly is just horror for the seek of horror, and there are no real surprises or great cinema making in this movie. However, the convention is followed, the right quantity of ketch-up and screams invade the screen, and the film never pretends to be something else. 6/10 on my personal scale. Recommended just for horror films fans.  "},{"Title":"the funniest horror flick i ever saw!!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  well i have to say that this picture was by FAR the funniest horror film i have ever seen (beside 2002's Queen of the Damned) i love everything about it and watching it at 100 in the morning made me wonder if there really were psychopaths wandering around as they had in this AWESOME MOVIE "}{"Title":" What to say?","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  well where do i start. OK now this by no means will turn out to be a classic but it was an alright flick not near as good as the first three but still watchable. Sometimes the film will lose attention but well its a cheesy horror flick at its best and well its ok what else can I say 6/10 "},{"Title":"Why dont you people like this one?","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is the second best of the series. This one is about a girl named Heather catches her boyfriend Barry kissing another girl. Heather gets mad and takes off in a car, Barry also jumped in, and in the back seat is Jenny and Sean. The four teens get into an accident hurting the guy in the other car. Sean stays with the hurt guy, and Jenny, Heather, and Barry go to find help. They find a woman named Darla. Darla calls a man named Vilmer to help the guy who is hurt and toll the car and them back into town. Vilmer comes to Sean and the hurt guy and kills them both. Jenny, Heather, and Barry find a truck that can drop them off at the prom again but it doesnt stop. Heather and Barry run off and follow it and leave Jenny alone, Jenny finds Vilmer. Heather and Barry find a house, Barry goes out back to find someone, Heather waits on the porch, then Heather is attacked by Leatherface and put on the hook for now. Barry is killed by Leatherface. Jenny finds out that Vilmer killed Sean and the hurt guy. Jenny runs out of his truck and into the woods, and meets Leatherface ... This is the second best of the series. People say all the actors are bad. But Renee Zellweger (Jenny), Matthew McConaughey (Vilmer), Robert Jacks (Leatherface), Tonie Perensky (Darla), and there are more. So if you are a true Texas Chain Saw Massacre fan see this movie!! "},{"Title":"What did you expect?","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone expecting oscar caliber film material when they popped this nugget in their VCR is kidding themselves.Saying this movie sucks is  similar to the people who stand in front of me at McDonald's complaining that their burger wasn't prepared properly. This aint Western Sizzlin, ya know!So it was mindless, laughable, and possessed all of the other attributes that all TCM movies have.  So what.Can we really say that the original TCM had any kind of cinematic value. It was intense, graphic...yes.  But the dialogue, (the small amount that it required) was no more cerebral than any TCM produced after.I agree with the viewer in Baltimore that the mechanical leg was very funny. I preferred the trailer park babe who was constantly making references to her fake breasts. She was funny.  The movie did go downhill with the arrival of the freak in the limo.  It became very disjointed.  So did all of the others, though.  All TCM movies have always been about one subject...mindless violence and shock value.If you didn't like it...fine.  I was disappointed that the two main characters are embarrassed about making the movie.  It's not something to be proud of, no.  But it is still a piece of film that they got paid for. Also a break that they were given, as unknown actors. Just goes to show that once actors make it to the top, they forget the mere humans at the bottom, that boosted them up. "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It's not as bad as a lot of people say. In my opinion it's better than the first one.but as good as part 2,but about as good as part III. It has humor in it, but sometimes the humor didn't work. All in all pretty good. I give this movie **1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"Bizarre, but good.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is incredibly strange, and a hell of a lot of funbesides.  Matthew M. goes hog wild as the lead psycho, and hisentourage of crazies provide for some hilarious interactions.The on-screen insanity is real enough to pull you in and makeyou feel like you are part of this frightening (and funny)nightmare world.  As long as you don't go into it expecting atreatise on the whole horror movie genre, you'll have a good time. "},{"Title":"Excellent in all the right ways","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I suggest seeing this film. If you didn't like it,remember, it is the 90's, what is good anymore?  "},{"Title":"The Shiznet!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is awesome. If you like kind of off beat horror like  Evil Dead or Hellraiser you probably want to see this. This is the best horror flick I've seen in quite sometime.  "},{"Title":"I thought it was quite good...","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, maybe it's a little different from the other TCM's, but that's a good thing to me. TCM1 dragged to high heaven and I thought it was quite boring, this is my favorite TCM out of all out them. To me all of the TCM's are hilarious. I'm a fan of the sick, twisted, not really funny, humor, which is why I loved this film. I think McConaughey is down right histarical in this movie, I laughed the entire way through. So sue me, I liked it. WELCOME....TO MYYYY WORLD....btw, TCM1 being a classic? Pffft, give me a break.. "},{"Title":"People have misunderstood this mindbending film.","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After first seeing this movie, my actions were warped toward the nonsensical for days. I have since seen it five or six times, and personally, consider it a fantastic film. It is primarily a spoof on the slasher movie formula, with a very esoteric twist added on. It follows a group of high-schoolers on their prom night, who, in the heat of an argument, take off in a car, and mysteriously become lost within minutes. Soon enough, they encounter Velmer, armed in his Illuminati Wrecking truck,(which should, for perceptive viewers,which obviously does not include the impatient idiots who have reviewed this movie on this same board illustrate some of the wierd events to come) whose job it is to cause these teenagers to experience absolute terror, with the hopes (of his Illuminati boss, who possesses archemedean-spiraled stomach nipples)that they will have spiritual experiences (or at least, that those who survive will!). Velmer does this with the help of his family, which includes his cocky but controlled girlfriend, his older brother, now emasculated (the former Leatherface), and someone whose relation to Velmer I can't figure out, as whose name, I'm pretty sure, is Dubayee (personally, I think that Dubayee is my favorite character). Expect events to transpire which will leave you wondering for weeks if not months, and, for earnest viewers, a serious search including multiple viewings, trying to ascertain just what this movie is trying to say. Good luck, happy viewing, and congradulations on refraining from quickly passing this, or any, movie off before you make a careful analysis of it (which, again, the aforementioned previous reviewers have failed to be). Peace. -Lih "},{"Title":"Stupid, contrived, silly...but still somewhat enjoyable","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I expected this film to be extremely terrible because of all the negative reviews I'd heard about it. However, in reality, I found myself to like the film in all its warped oddness, clumsy editing, confused storyline, and mediocre to bad acting. The four teens, Jenny, Heather, Barry and Sean, were all extremely annoying, so it's not like you're really rooting for them to get out alive or anything. I myself thought Heather would have been a better leading girl than Jenny - Renee Zellweger's character almost seemed to like getting chased around by Leatherface and tortured and whatnot by the other demented family members. The best actor in this movie overall would have to be Matthew McConaughey. He was excellent as the psychotic Vilmer and seemed to take over for Leatherface, who in this entry is not scary at all and spends a lot of time screaming like a woman and putting on makeup and whatnot. Matthew's role is indeed the highlight of this confused, low-budget mess. I found myself insanely turned on by his sexy, rugged presence as the movie progressed - call me sick, but hey, Renee Zellweger seemed to want some of that when he kept going after her. Other points to mention include the strange subplot involving the FBI (I'm still trying to figure that out, I just don't get it) and also how it seems that this film was originally conceived as a remake but once it got to video they are marketing it as this all new entry in the Chain Saw series. Not so. It adds nothing new. It's just a rehash of the original '74 classic, which is, of course, the best out of all the Chain Saw movies. If you like trashy type, low budget movies, you will like this. Keep in mind, it's not really bloody at all and no one is killed with a chainsaw. Another strange and frustrating point in this mess of a film. "}{"Title":"All-time worst films? Not!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I recently bought this film on DVD and was surprised about some of the nice touches in it.Sure, the film suffers from very choppy editing, especially near the end.Initially, watching the last scene, I scratched my head and said what was that?However, after giving it some thought, it actually made sense in an X-Files sort of way. Certainly, it represented an original point-of-view that is rare enough for these types of movies.Matthew McConaughey and Renee Zelwegger give charismatic performances, which makes their later stardom understandable.As for the dumb dialogue and over-the-top performances, it was obviously intended to be campy, and, in many instances was funny and effective. Even the incredibly ditzy, wooden, female victim was obviously directed to perform in that manner. I highly doubt it was just a case of merely bad acting. To the movie's credit, though it is brutal (and somewhat misogynistic) in spots, there is an absence of true gore. When a man gets repeatedly run over by a vehicle, or another character gets their head crushed underfoot, the actual gore is kept off the screen. This makes the deaths seem more horrific.  I was not enamored with the idea of Leatherface as being transgendered. That's been overdone in similar films and is rather unnecessary. In fact, one tends to feel sorry for Leatherface, more than anything else.The film was atmospheric, though not especially scary. It reminded me of a live-action cartoon. Similar in style to the Tales From The Crypt series.My main gripe, and the reason for just giving it a 6 (out of 10) was for some of the brutal sadism. For example, one of the characters is repeatedly poked and stunned with a cattle prod. It happens over and over again until you just want to scream at the director Enough. A little too much relish went into terrorizing the females in the movie (not the men). Unfortunately, all that does is make you question the director's motives, which is not a good thing. "},{"Title":"FOUR TEENS,FOUR HOURS BUT THREE DEATHS WHO WILL LIVE","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this movie was actually one of the best movie that i ever saw, this movie is basically about four teens the nerdy guy seann(jhon harrison) his girl jenny (renne zellweger) and the bitchy girl heather (lisa marie newmyer) and her boyfriend barry the jock (tyler shea cone) all get lost in the woods coming back from there prom they find help but then notice that they are all about this masacre they all end up getting slaughtered by leather face one by one. when seann and barry sie and heather is suffering on the meat hook jenny is getting attached and captured they she then tries to get heather  and herself way from the chainsaw man eating family.10/10 imdb is the best "},{"Title":"Better than the ratings it gets.","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I have seen many people give this a bad rating. however because I seen some good reviews (because some movies get bad ratings but there are them few reviews that actually give the truth) and decided to watch it. for any real horror fan I think they will enjoy this. it is not as a big of production as other Texas Chainsaw Massacres but it is a good story. their are new characters and a lot of the originals are not in this movie. but anyone who likes this series should check this movie out. leatherface was more of a physco in this then other ones in my opinions. give the movie of shot I know their are a lot more worse movies that this you could watch. this should satisfy your movie needs. "},{"Title":"A little deeper than everyone is giving credit for","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Yes this is one of the most bizarre movies I have seen, and I can understand why some people do not care for this, but to be ranked in as one of the worst 100 movies is proposterous.I loved trying to figure out what was in the directors head when he made this.  He was trying to say something, in a messed up way.  It was also fun in a campy sort of way.  I loved this movie. "},{"Title":"This Is Some Weird Stuff.... But I Like It!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I know everyone's opinion is that the original movie is always better than the remake, and there is truth to that, but some movies have exceptions, like this one. I really thought the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre was really cheesy, and it really didn't entertain me. I know what your gonna say, this movie was very entertaining, scary, and was anything but cheesy back in 1974, but it isn't 1974! To me a remake is just updating the film, but keeping it at it's original levels, in which most cases in remaking films, they just completely change the story and switch things back and forth, until youv'e got a whole different movie. This movie pretty much stuck to it's basic lines of the original film. Now with the acting in this film, it wasn't all too bad, although I've seen WAY better from Renee Zellweger. Matthew McConaughey's acting is always usually pretty good, so his acting level was the same. I also think a good thing about the movie is that the producer of the original film (Kim Henkel) directed this remake. I think that's good because she helped make the original, and should have the experience of dealing with this kind of movie. So, what I guess I'm trying to say here is that I really did enjoy this movie. Also, you can visit my site on it www.texaschainsawmassacrethenextgeneration.freeservers.comAnyways, I loved this movie. I give Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation a 10 out of 10!! ) "},{"Title":"A happy folow up.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Here we get to see the 4th sequel to the famed movie of this title. There are many addtionals that didnt make it in the first 1 such as the fact that leatherface was a cross-dresser.  Renee Zellwegger, & Matthwew McConaughey both give great performances in this movie, there are some pretty creepy scenes in here.  I enjoyed this flick in that it had some ideas based on the first 1 only expanded. The sick family having their usual spats, the flirtations, their dinner. I recomend this film to horror fans. "},{"Title":"finally a good follow-up","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Despite other people's comments, I personally think this is a great follow-up of the original '74 movie. And a great relief after the really disappointing Leatherface movie. I liked the way Henkel filmed this sequel, like it happened back in 74. Packed with loads of hysterical scream-parts to really great redneck acting by the family itself. It kinda reminded me of the original. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Kim Henkel, who co-wrote the original Chainsaw, returns to bring you this remake/sequel to the popular cult series -- having two couples on prom night, getting stranded in the woods, and being hunted by the sadistic Vilmer (McConaughey) along with his demented brother Leatherface, and the rest of the chainsaw clan. Seemed quite good until towards the end, where tons of weird plot twists begin to turn, along with a suprising lack of chainsaw action.  "},{"Title":"GREAT AND FUN FILM","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  this film is a great fun film, and all those people who have been insulting it by calling it trash, well they just dont know horror films, cuzz only a true horror film fan would like this movie or know that this is a funa and great film, well this movie had it all, leatherface looked real, the kills were perfect and they got actors who could scream and act, especially lisa newyer she is actually the best screamer ive ever herd, and this film also has rising stars like renne z and mathew m, well if your a person that likes films with a group of teens trying to escape but still dieing one by one, than this is your film , see this movie, i give it a 10/10  "},{"Title":"Oh my GOD","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is only one film that can match the sheer horror of this gory masterpiece. Every second is filled with suspense and constant fear. Renee Zellweger pushes her acting talents to the limit - what a performance! The other actors also contribute in making this one of the greatest ever horror movies. I will never forget leatherface in this movie - he is the best leatherface of them all. I just wish they would make a Swedish version of the film starring Mikael Nyqvist, Victoria Silverstedt, Max von Sydow and Rolf Lassgård - maybe some day they will. A raw and heavy soundtrack by Rhapsody of Fire would have made this movie even better.Rent this movie - then buy it! "}{"Title":"The buzz is back!","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1994) is a highly underrated horror film by the co-writer of the classic and seminal film Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Kim Henkel decided to make a quasi-sequel to the first film. A very odd but pleasing results make this one a must see for fans. The story revolves around a high school student (Renee Zellweger) and her friends who's traveling the back roads toward their school prom. Along the way their car breaks down and the bump into a very bizarre individual named Vilmer (Matthew Mc Conaughey playing himself) who decides to have fun with his new found friends. One of the clues that are very important to this movie can be found on the side of Vilmer's tow truck. Vilmer also has a hobby that he shares with his dinner companions.I don't know why so many people hate this movie. I found it to be very unique and intelligent. Nothing is spoon fed and the performances are up to snuff. Renee Zellweger and Matthew Mc Conaughy are excellent as the wall flower lead and Vilmer respectfully. When this movie was finally released it was badly edited and it had a virtually non-existent release. It's a shame that people have to slam this movie. I found it quite entertaining. If you like the original then you'll love this follow up to the first film.Highly recommended.Keep an eye out for a special surprise at the end. Those who have watched the first movie will enjoy it. You'll be in for a pleasant treat "},{"Title":"see this movie!","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i can't begin to explain how this movie has changed my life.  i once, like many of you, didn't understand how far the complications of the universe could go. now everything has changed.  this is a great movie, pulled together magnificently by the top notch leading actor who played leatherface.  the mystery if whether or not he was male or female, just added a wonderful aura of confusion, thrown in with minimal erotism.  the soundtrack also just blew me away! watch this movie and get ready for the suprise ending and prepare to be blown to smithereens!!!!!.......ahhhh....i can still hear the sound of that chainsaw......if you like movies with horror,comedy,confusion...and sexy results, i suggest you watch this film! "},{"Title":"Leatherface in drag....","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The tamest and the worst of the TCM series, which does`nt necessarily mean it was a bad movie. Overall, it was mediocre with a plot that was somewhat removed from the other films in the series but did borrow a lot from them as well. The acting was spotty throughout by Renee Zellweger as she seemed truly terrified one second and then delivered a very stale line the next. Matthew McConaughey is brilliant as the psychotic head of the deranged family. Leatherface is given somewhat of a facelift (no pun intended)and gets into drag late in the film. For anybody who is a fan of the series it`s worth watching but if you`ve never seen a TCM film, don`t start with this one. "},{"Title":"So bad it's good. So so good!","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A lot of people really hate this movie. And I can see why. Comparatively it's a piece of Crap. If this where a stand alone picture and not a part of a franchise I'd consider it a great movie. The atmosphere is gritty and makes you u comfortable, the acting for the most part is really good for the main cast. There are some genuinely creepy moments like when Vilmer is sticking his fingers into Jennies cheeks or when he crushes a different characters head in with his remote controlled boot. Or when Rothman sticks his tongue down her ear. Ugh! But as a TCM it fails. First of all not one person dies or is even maimed by a chainsaw. The twist in the end comes from way out in left field and makes absolutely no sense at all and quite nearly ruined the whole franchise. But all in all it still kinda works for me. The characters are all so zany and entertaining. I love it a little. "},{"Title":"Its really not that bad","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is really not as bad as everyone keeps saying it is. I'll admit, its a horrible low-budget B-movie....but come on, all GOOD horror movies are B-movies and/or low budget. This movie is tolerable, the characters aren't the greatest in the world, but they fit into the plot. Matthew McCaunaghey(pardon the spelling, I cant remember how to spell it) is definitely the best actor in this film. He portrays the character of Vilmer quite well. I didn't like Heather or Barry that much, Barry was only cool in the part where he locks W.E out of his house and says HAHA Dumbass and stuff. Heather is just a screaming bitch who should have died first. Sean wasn't bad, but he wasn't in the movie too long so you couldn't judge him really. My personal favorite part was the car accident scene, where the cars collide and the guy (named 'I'm Not Hurt' in the credits) gets out all shaky and says I'm not hurt! I'm not hurt! before passing out. Over all this movie is definitely not the best, but it is tolerable. Fans of the other 3 movies should definitely see this one. In my opinion, Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre beats the 2003 version of Texas Chainsaw Massacre by far.OK movie, 5/10 "},{"Title":"regardless of what others say","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw what the last person said about how horrible this movie was, how it must have been written by a monkey and how it had nothing to do with the first one. Well, YES it does. Kim Henkel who wrote and directed this also wrote the ORIGINAL TCM. Also if you had seen all the others you'd know that TCM 2 was stupider and more absurd than this one. I'm positive it was INTENDED. Apparently Tobe Hooper wanted to change direction with the series when he made 2. And now Tobe's co-creator wanted to change direction as well. Drop the pretenses, buddy. Most horror movies are stupid. The original TCM was a fluke like the original Halloween and Bride of Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Good ONE time...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw this film 2 years ago. I made 2 mistakes 1) wasting my money renting it, and 2) Overestimating it. I honestly expected a movie as such terrific, timeless horror classic as the original. I was wrong, i did not like the movie AS MUCH as i thought i would. This was Renee's 5th film. Knowing what a star she has become, i thought she'd add much better acting to the film that Mathew had lacked. The best acting was from the old loser who kept reciting famous historical quotes. I was diapointed with the acting, but this film is also not as demented and eerie as the original. I did however enjoy the courage that Renee built when she grabbed the rifle as Mathew was on the ground in one scene. I found myseld rooting for this heroin more than the female captive in the original. One last comparison is the terror in the leading lady. The female lead in TCM showed much much much more fear that Renee did. Then again, the original leading lady wasn't put to ease as Renee was by Mathew's girlfriend, wife, or ex-wife in this saga's contribution. Overall, i give it (out of 10) a 5. Hope this has helped you with you movie renting excapades. Till next time, Lata!  "},{"Title":"You were expecting maybe Citizen Kane?","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Let's be frank. You don't complain to the manager of your local McDonald's when you don't get a five star meal. Guess what folks, you just ordered the value meal that's been sitting in the warmer just a little too long. The fourth installment of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre sucks... appropriately so.Let me reiterate that this is the third sequel to the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. If anyone is still surprised that it didn't land any Oscars, please please seek help. Personally, for yet another recycled dimestore drive-in flick, I thought this one paid off quite nicely... true, the writing was just this side of atrocious (although I had heard word of an original cut of the film I have had neither the luck to procure one nor the drive to even attempt to), the acting - for the most part - was terrible, but it's still fun to single out the future stars who actually did give performances of startling quality. I must say that I enjoyed the movie for being a regurgitated horror film... I got a few good scares out of it and quite frankly some scenes flat out disturbed me. Sound design was nice, and there were quite a few decent shots here and there, making good (though endless) use of lighting through dust and fog. Editing was nothing superb but oftentimes, the better the cutting, the less we notice it. Altogether, it was a technically aware movie. Not one to expect the unexpected I wasn't disappointed with the film's shortcomings, and when you try to dissect the plot there are some pretty substantial ones. Still, a fine delivery, particularly after the style-sterile attempt of the third film.Not the greatest film ever, but far from being the worst. "},{"Title":"The series returns to its roots","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The return of the texas chainsaw massacre returns to the roots of the series by eschewing the gore of the 2 previous sequels for the psychological terror and jet black humour of the original film.This film is actually more of a remake than a sequel, with several sequences (such as the infamous meathook) copied shot by shot from the original film. Kim Henkel, the director, was the co-writer of the original chainsaw massacre back in 1974 and it is apparent this is his version of how he saw the original film.  The humour is perhaps more to the fore in this film, with Matthew Mcconaughey (Sp?) going way over the top and leatherface in full transvestite mode and this can sometimes work to the detriment of the film.The last half of the film keeps the tension up well, with the underlying threat that violence could explode at any moment. However too much of the acting is of the shout at the top of your voice school and by the end of the film youre wondering how many times poor Renee Zellwegger can escape and be recaptured.Overall better than the second and third entries in the series, but way behind the first. "},{"Title":"Trashy but good horror","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What's up with all you other people who made crappy comments about this movie, it was cool! It was fast paced and not slow and boring like Halloween. Get into the nineties people because Halloween did and as a result they made an excellent movie H20. Renee Zelwegger displayed her great acting ability and the character development of the script allowed her to be free with the character and really show her stuff. Ignore the critics and see if you like it, if you don't just stop it and take it back to the video store. "}{"Title":"Get a Grip!","Date":"14 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I think some people are being way too harsh about this movie. Okay, so it's not the greatest movie of all time, but I hardly think the writers/director/producer or even the actors set out with the idea of making another Citizen Kane in mind. It's another cheesy horror movie sequel like so many before it and like so many that are to come.I like the original movie. It's not the greatest horror movie in my opinion but it's entertaining enough. Okay, so there are some overlaps with the original in this movie. Isn't that a good thing? It is, after all, a sequel. Yes, there are some events that don't make sense. For example, after Heather is hung from the meat hook she's then found crawling on the road without a big hole in back. But, hey, most movies have some problem with continuity. And, I disagree with the people who said that the acting was awful. I thought that Matthew McConaughey and Renee Zellwegere did a pretty good job. I certainly can see why they became stars. I mean, Matthew McConaughey was pretty convincing as a psychopathic killer.It is a shame that Leatherface has been reduced to a drag queen-esquire character and that, while he does chase people with a chain saw, he doesn't actually kill anyone with it. Obviously, for people expecting this movie to be like the original TCM, it's not. But, get a grip people! It's not the worst movie ever made. Have you ever seen Dude, Where's My Car? I found the movie entertaining and if it was on again I would probably watch it again. If you're into campy stuff, then this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Retro, Campy, But Fun Slasher-Horror.","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In this campy sequel from Kim Henkel, writer of the original Chainsaw, a group of Texas teens get into a car wreck in the backwoods on prom night. Stranded with nobody around, three of them seek help, and one stays at the car. But little do they know, a cannibalistic family lives in the woods, lead by the chainsaw wielding Leatherface. The teens are eventually all lead or taken to a dilapidated farmhouse to suffer torture from the psychotic family.Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is a misunderstood movie. All of the people who criticize this movie are missing the point. This movie isn't meant to be taken seriously. It's all fun & games, and that's what I love about it. It is so bizarre and over-the-top that it makes it great. Besides the horror elements, there is also a lot of comedy in it if you really look at it. It's retro, campy, bizarre, disturbing, and funny. This would've been pure excellence had it been released in the '70s slasher era, but since it wasn't, people misunderstand it and take it far too seriously. It really is a fun slasher movie.The acting here isn't the best, but believe me, I've seen much much worse. If you want an example, go rent Bloody Murder and then tell me the acting in this film is bad. Renee Zellweger is great as always, and Matthew McConaughey portrays one of the most over-the-top villains I've ever seen and does it well. The plot is pretty much similar to the original film, but it was intended by Kim Henkel to be a semi-remake, rather than a sequel. Too bad Columbia/Tristar made those cuts to the film, it made it a bit choppy in some scenes, but I guess it wasn't anything too serious. Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation (aka The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre) isn't that bad of a movie. If you enjoy good old campy horror movies, this one's good, just don't take it so seriously. Enjoy it for what it is. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Dang! How scary!","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Ooh, I may not even go into too much detail for this movie...because every single one of the TX Chainsaw Massacre movies are, like, the scariest, nastiest, and most importantly, the naughtiest movie to come out of the minds of filmmakers! And what would these movies be like without that guy in the white hockey mask, and that gas chainsaw, ready to slaughter? (Vroom...Vroom...Vroom...Vroooooooommmmmmmmm!!!!!!) Yeah, that's horror at it's best. In fact, I give this movie 10 stars just for that!So this Halloween, spend the night in the house, lights off, under the sofa, with your trick-or-treat candy, and watch all the TCM movies ever made! "},{"Title":"P. U.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film sucks. Okay, the correspondent who said that the movie was ruined by cutting, well, true, I didn't see the original cut. It's hard to imagine, though, that it could make that much difference. Some elements, I'm sure, were intended as camp. When filmmakers aim for camp and miss by so wide a margin, the result is boring ugliness. The part of the film that wasn't (supposed to be) campy, was just sadism and psychopathy. While these can make a good horror film (such as Wes Craven's Last House on the Left) here the result was just painful to watch. The only positive in this movie was Renee Zellweger. Her initial mousiness blossoms into fierce beauty.   "},{"Title":"The 80s linger in this 1994 reboot of a classic horror movie.","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What a cast! Renée Zellweger? Matthew McConaughey? Not exactly the cast I would picture in a film about crazy redneck murderers. Same classic (classy?) leather faced masked man and his hillbilly, my-name-is-Mud, crazed family. Matthew McConaughey has no trouble acting as a killer. A character who would fit right in at a Donald Trump rally. He never does explain why he hates all these prom-swagged early 90s teens. Maybe he had abusive parents, maybe he's never had the opportunity to be educated and he is jealous of the kids, we may never know. There are moments when he is physically quite rough with the women in this film. Surprisingly there isn't actually much gore for a movie about a massacre. There is however a lot of abuse. I give this movie 5 bags of popcorn. For a truly immersive experience watch this movie on prom night! "},{"Title":"It's bad, very little saves it","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In the mid-1970s, Tobe Hooper had unleashed horror in a new way to moviegoers with The Texas Chain Saw Massacre (1974). It was a film that had so much going for it. It may have been outrageously controversial for its depiction of sadistic violence but it served its purpose in being a scary film. It relied on simplicity and minimalism in order to drive its viewers crazy. Then Hooper created the long awaited sequel that confused his original fans by attempting to keep continuity while simultaneously changing everything else. It turned out being more of spoof of itself than being a sequel. When the franchise finally released its second sequel, it was even more mixed in reception due to its further lack of connection to the last two movies even though its title said otherwise. At that point, it would've been thought that maybe the franchise was suffering from lack of attention. Apparently the next sequel (this one) shockingly was neglected even further. It by far is the most confusing and disappointing to say the least.The overall idea behind the story is no different from that of the other movies before it. A group of teens end up crossing paths with Leatherface and his notorious family of cannibals. This sequel was written and directed Kim Henkel, the original co-writer to the original film that blew everyone away. According to Hinkel it was supposed to be the official sequel to the original film. As to what he thought consisted of making it the official sequel is barely visible. The writing is all over the place and the continuity is very unfaithful. Like the films before it, it begins with a monologue recounting the past events, yet it was supposed to ignore them too. So how does that work? There's also a subplot about Leatherface's family having some kind of government connection or something along those lines. Allegedly they report to a higher authority and their motives go higher than their personal needs? The most painful part of the writing belongs to the dialog and the actors don't make it any better.Almost the entire cast essentially is an over the top exaggeration of some horror trope but worse. Starring as the heroine is Renée Zellweger best known for her breakout role in Jerry Maguire (1996). She's also accompanied by Lisa Marie Newmyer as Heather, who constantly spouts out useless sentences that don't add anything to develop her role. There's also Tyler Shea Cone playing Heather's boyfriend Barry who is none the more likable. They also come across a local who tries to help them played by Tonie Perensky. All of which can't deliver a line that sounds the least bit believable. The only thing that really keeps a viewers' attention is because of how bad the actors are. The only actor who has some saving grace (for himself) is now esteemed actor Matthew McConaughey playing Vilmer, a member of Leatherface's family. McConaughey just hams it up playing his role as psychotic as possible. Playing Leatherface is Robert Jacks who is annoyingly bad because all he does is scream nonstop.The only other positives worth mentioning are the practical and makeup effects. There's not an abundance of practical effects but the fact that it was used shows effort. The same could be said for the makeup. McConaughey's character is part robotic with a hydraulic leg and that does make it interesting to see. How he got that way and as to where he came from, if this is the official sequel to the original, is never explained either. What a surprise. This is it though for pluses. Even though there are practical effects, there is almost no gore to this movie. It makes the previous film to this franchise look bloodthirsty. It's actually very surprising. With all the inhumane and off putting scenes that involve grotesque acts, there's hardly a drop of blood shown throughout the running time to this movie. Sure, minimalism works to an extent but if nothing else is really working in the overall product, at least give the audience something visual.That also goes for background elements. The director of photography to this project was Levie Isaacks. Isaacks is best known for being the DP to movies of Guyver (1991) and the infamous horror movie Leprechaun (1993). The work that Isaacks presents here isn't much to talk about. Much of the shots throughout the film consist of turning away from anything gory and refusing to place any establishing shots. Viewers will see the disarray of the cannibal house but there's no real setup. The films before it at least had some kind of arrangement. Here it's just everything everywhere with no real order and it's boring. For music, Wayne Bell from the original film returns and his composition is uneventful too. There are moments where he creates a tune or two that establish a nice sense of dread but other than that there's nothing memorable about it. Much of the instruments involved are synthesizers and since it is not used properly, the audio is rarely effective. So sad it got this bad.It's a shocking film all right. It's shocking that people who were involved with the original returned and had completely forgotten what made it so unique. Matthew McConaughey is possibly the only actor who tries (somewhat) and there are some okay looking effects. The rest isn't good. It makes the other sequels before it look like it they had better writers. Not even a gorehound would enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Oh my...","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  What in the world did I just watch? I can't figure it out! Was it acomedy? A parody perhaps? It certainly wasn't horror... I'm a big fan ofscary movies, especially cheesy ones, and I've been wanting to see thisfor a while. I saw it for sale in a video clearance store a week ago.Boy am I glad I picked up Prince of Darkness instead (which is noprize itself)! I just caught the last hour or so on television, and I'min shock. I'm no fan of the original TCSM, but I do have an appreciationfor it -- And from what I can see, this movie makes a mockery of it! Itlooks as though a bunch of film students got together after watching theoriginal and decided to improv their way through their own version. Oneof these days I'm sure I'll watch it again -- all of it -- to give it asecond chance. But I certainly don't expect to shell out a cent any timesoon. If it comes to TV again I'll be sure to gather my horror movieloving friends together so we can all have a good laugh. ______________________ "},{"Title":"You'd expect more from a creator of the first","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is just trash plain and simple. The only scary thing about this movie is that it was written by Kim Henkel who helped write the first one. Also I thought that the crazy family ate people not pizza. Stay clear of this one, its not worth an hour and a half of your time. "},{"Title":"Hell No!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This Movie wasn't even worth the hour and a half to watch it. My biggest beef is, what the hell did they do to Leatherface, he was cool in all the other movies, what a freak! In this one they completely changed his image. Didn't like that! The Movie was really bad, acting was pretty horrible, and the part with the chainsaw in the lake and then still working was a bit unrealistic. Overall I give it a 2 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Nice start!...Lousy Finish.","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The movie looked kind of promising in the beginning, but by the time we met Vilmer, I have to say, I just plain didn't care anymore. My goal in the movie wasn't to see a great ending where the good guys would win over evil, but rather to see the character of Barry die.The movie did have some humorous parts, I'll give it that, but I was basically left sitting there going, And I actually PAID to rent this? I doubt that Zellweger and McConaughey are putting THIS at the top of their resumes, even though McConaughey did an excellent job portraying the psycho. (But the sound of his fake leg got really annoying after awhile.)This movie basically had two highlights the fact that it ended, and the fact that it was less than 90 minutes long. I assume it was supposed to be some sort of a slasher flick, but it missed the mark in that there were no good death scenes. Are people dead? Well, we THINK they are. We never actually see them die. This movie has the look of cheap, low-budget rent-a-flick, over-flowing with what were, at that time, low-paid, inexperienced, no-name-brand actors. In fact, a few haven't been in anything SINCE 1994.Could this have been a good movie? Maybe, depending on your personal tastes. I'm not a huge fan of cannibalism, cheap theatrics, or over-done routines. About the only decent thing about the movie was the acting. I may have hated the characters, but Perensky and McConaughey were fabulous in those roles. I'm not even going to go INTO my complaints about Leatherface. They basically took Arnold Schwartzenegger and genetically mutated/crossed him with Strawberry Shortcake. Not a pretty result.* out of ***** "}{"Title":"Sheer chaos","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As a die hard TCM fan I have to say that this movie was able to capture some of the chaos brought to the screen in the original and part two. Matthew M. made this movie, a good sequel by acting insane from the first time you see him ( and just when you thought every instrument of death imaginable had been on film...enter a tow truck) and maintaining his intensity throughout the film until the end ( but Raiders of the Lost Ark did use the air plane propeller bit). Yes there was alot of goofs, but my question is,what was that blue stuff...oh well...overall Chaos rules this film. "},{"Title":"Great potential","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A movie such as this makes it easy to see why Vilmer and Jenny went on to bigger and better things.  My main gripe is the Illuminati aspect did not work @ all.  Those that are unfamiliar with R.A.W.'s books can only guess @ where the Scarified, multiply pierced dude with the bad hair cut could possibly fit in.  The fact is, he doesn't, despite Darla's best efforts to lay some kind of ground work.  I don't even know if Toby could have done for this what he did for Poltergeist.  @ the same time, The concept of plot is a hang-up to the off the hook action TCM demands - cause and effect - time and distance - right and wrong - need to go right out the window if your going to make it work.  Rothman walks in and they all freeze-up like some bad stage play.  Say what you want to about Bob Altman but he keeps everything going all over the place and picks out bits here and there to create something massive.  But the action never stops.One last thing the multiple off screen crushings were great, but the snapping of the neck on screen cheapened it.  If Vilmer had been arguing with Barry and working the kids neck over and then the camera had zoomed on his exprssion and all's we'd have heard was snapping &#133; that would have been an oH WoW &#133; right up there with Orville already being awake when Alan walks in in Children shouldn't play with dead things.  "},{"Title":"Enough already! **possible spoilers**","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first Texas Chainsaw Massacre was a rarity a true horror film that genuinely delivers shocks and scares. It may not have been the most explicitly violent of the genre, but in the long run, it was one of the best. It success put a young director, Tobe Hooper, on the map, though he has yet to live up to his early promise. He attempted to revitalize 1980s horror movies by giving us a sequel to TCM; the result was a critical failure, only marginally successful at the box-office. Although TCM 2 was seriously flawed, especially with a somewhat tedious buildup, it wisely refused to recycle the original material, leaving us with an uneven but often invigorating dark comedy. The third film ignored its predecessor entirely; although it was more faithful to the original, the it failed to add anything new to the table, making the material tired and overtly familiar. When the fourth film went into production, some fans must have felt a renewed sense of hope; this time it was being directed by Kim Henkel, cowriter of the original. Perhaps this time someone would finally get it right?No such luck; Texas Chainsaw Massacre 4 is the latest of many entries on a long list of mediocre horror sequels. It's not a badly made film, but it's almost as forgettable as the last one. It does have a few oddities to its credit, however. The strangest thing about the film is that they didn't even try to make Leatherface scary; he's just a big clown with a chainsaw who's more likely to cower than to terrify. Not only that, but he's a cross-dresser as well; in one scene he primps up in a way that recalls memories of Buffalo Bill in Silence of the Lambs. It's amazing that they would make such a poor decision for the character, but his treatment here does have an odd fascination. The last third even tosses in an X-Files-style conspiracy subplot, the nature of which is never adequately explained. I suspect it was thrown in at the last minute or something. It doesn't help that the whole setup feels contrived.The film features future stars Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey, who undeniably make it a practice to leave this project out of their resumes. Admittedly, Zellweger does a reasonably good job under the circumstances, but her presence primarily serves to remind us that even major performers begin their careers in smaller (and occassionally embarrassing) roles. Henkel throws in a few smoke machine effects but he can do little to liven up such a sloppy script. In a way though, it has some curiosity value since at least it's willing to be a bit off-center. Still, the original TCM was best left as a stand-alone movie; to be fair to the people who gave us the sequels, there just aren't a lot of inherent storytelling possibilities in the material.*1/2 (out of ****)Released by Cinepix Film Properties  "},{"Title":"this is some funny s**t!!!!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best comedies in years!!!!  Don't miss it if you are a horror fan and like parodies.  OOpps!! this isn't a parody.  Well, it should have been.  This sorry piece of s**t is far from a sequel.  This movie sucks BAD, but it has to be seen for just how bad it is.  Drink a few beers before watching, it enhances the experience.   "},{"Title":"A Campy Remake","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Leatherface is back..or should i say Pocketbookface??This is nothing more than a campy remake of the original film.  Its not meant to be taken seriosly.  Its the typical teens+madman=horroh film. Its not a note for note copy of the first but i have a feeling they were trying (as all horroh movies seem to) create a cult fave.  The acting is laughable and it was meant to be that way.  You couldnt care about these people if you grew up next to their house.  But once again, i think thats the point. Its campy, its a B-movie, nothing more, nothing less.  Even with a few notible stars (rennie and matt) it wants to come off almost as a joke, and it does. There is one scean where im almost held in suspence (the drive thu) but thats about it for more than half of the movie.  The real fun doesnt start until we are back at the Family's house for yet another trek into the minds of a lunatic group.I see this movie for what it is, and i like it on that merit. Its not trying to be scary, its not trying to gore you into submission, its just something to pass the time, make a few bucks, and let the studio decide if a part 5 is worth while. But with all that they did make one HUGE mistake Leatherface.His Mask o' Skin is replaced by, well, a k-mart wallot.  Thats half the fun with the chainsaw series, that mask!  Not in this one, Leatherface is as scary as a smurf in this, the real creepy dude is Matthew Machangy's charector as leader of the family and his over-zealous wife.If you are not a fan of the chainsaw movies you wont be reading this right now, if you are looking for a new horror movie to see with suspence and gore, skip this, if you are in the mood to watch a new twist on all the cheezy 80's horroh movies go to blockbuster and go home happy. "},{"Title":"trash","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Texas chain saw massacre the next generation is one of the worst horror films ever, if you can even call it horror. the movie tries to be scary but fails, and there is a little comedy but it's not funny, this movie can make you laugh cause it's so bad. i think this is a remake of the original, all i will say is skip it. Leatherface is so annoying in this movie, i wasted like two hours of my life on this horrible movie, i don't know what is worse this or Jason goes to hell. i give this movie 0/10 "},{"Title":"I haven't been so passionate about hating a movie since Uptown Girls.","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" As the credits rolled at the end of this movie, I found myself unable to exhale through the open, horrified, gaping hole that was my mouth. What a pile of complete and utter rubbish.At one point of the movie, a rich mafia-looking fellow opens his expensive shirt to reveal tribal scarification and what appear to be several superfluous nipples; all pierced, and pronounces he wants them (I'll assume he meant the audience) to experience true horror. Well..mission accomplished, I've never been so terrified. Terrified that someone went to the effort to press this to DVD, terrified that someone approved the script Please Mister, you're scaring me!(Even though I just saw you break someone neck, I seem only marginally frightened) TERRIFIED THAT I HANDED OVER MY PRESCIOUS MONEY TO BE SUBJECTED TO THIS SLUDGE! Scary, huh? In fact, this movie was bad in so many ways, I'm not going to able to list them all in the detail I would like, because you may expire from dehydration and hunger before you got to the end. Allow me to simplify in point form 1. The script. Welcome to confusion 3 minutes into the film. Who are these people? Why did four people who seem to hate each other drive away from the prom, and then keep driving? Why then did they complain there's nowhere to turn around on an unbarricaded country road? Why bother making character development when it serves only to confuse the storyline further? 2. The characters. Who cares if they die. Who cares why they kill. Why does the crazy tow truck guy have a hydraulic mechanical leg that works with any remote control? Why does leatherface suddenly want to be a woman? What's the goddamn deal with the slutty woman and the pizzas? 3. Run woman, run! How man times can you escape and be recaptured? How is it you can be in the middle of the woods one minute then be chased by leatherface the next? It suggests leatherface and his family communicate via mobile phone to inform each other of the whereabouts of potential victims. Mmmm, unexplained murders.4. The conspiracy theory. Utterly pointless addition to the movie, suggesting that the crazy family of skin fetish, cross dressing, semi cyborg taxidermists are somehow at the whim of a secret organisation responsible for killing JFK and scaring girls on prom night.As you can see, this movie explains none of its ridiculous actions, characters or general happenings. You're left with an hour and a half worth of questions! Please, I beg of you, ignore anyone who says this movie is half way decent. This film is BAD BAD BAD. 1/10. "},{"Title":"A fair view of a dumb film.","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" WHY OH WHY OH WHY??!! OK, I admit, I love a cheesy, dumb movie as much as the next person, but why does a film with such legendary status have to have its reputation spoilt by pointless sequels? TCM may not be the only film with a load of crap follow-ups ( the Elm Street series, The Howling series - I could continue...)but surely it's one of the only films (not just horror) that just doesn't need a sequel. The original was so groundbreaking in many ways that it was almost perfect film making, a film that 'does exactly what it says on the tin', so to speak. Alright, TCM 2 had its moments, but was really just a cash-in without any of the style of the original. TCM 3 was pointless, but at least it had a bit of a nasty edge to it. This is just like a 'made-for-tv' style movie (remember how 'Freddy's Nightmares' compared to 'A Nightmare on Elm Street'?). Anyway, basic plot for those who can be bothered - a group of kids get stranded in the woods and run into a family of maniacs. Sounds familiar? A bloke in a mask called Leatherface (Gunnar Hansen, your rightfully legendary place in cinema history is very safe!)wielding a chainsaw does not necessarily make a Texas Chainsaw Massacre movie.LOOK AWAY NOW IF YOU DO NOT WANT THE PLOT TO BE SPOILT!There's no actual massacre involved in this film, and any killings that do take place do not involve a chainsaw! What you do get is a confusing story about people who shout a lot and run around in the woods. There's also some rubbish about the Illuminati, but I won't even bother going into that. If you want pure, gritty horror then you could do worse than watch the original TCM. If you want edge-of-your-seat tension and shocks, then watch the very classy 2003 re-make. Just don't even bother with this, as you'll only get disappointed. "},{"Title":"Matthew McConaughey is pure genius!!!","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must say that this pales in comparison to the original as far as being scary, but i found that this film is laugh out loud funny.  There are some pretty good one liners in it, especially Matthew McConaughey's.  I think that he played his character very well.  A lot of people won't like this movie, but if you like campy b horror movies then this one you might like. "},{"Title":"Great campy horror film.  Matt is great!","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is for Bad movie night, definitely.  The action is great, and you know, I like Matthew a lot in this film.  He plays a great, really intense redneck.  Fantastic.  Rene does alright, but her lines aren't very well written.  It's too bad, but she's always fun to watch.  Oh man, wait 'till you see the boot to the head.  Good stuff.  "}{"Title":"NICE CHICKS","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Nowhere near the original, this very low budget remake is saved, I think, by the presence of some really attractive and sexy women. Tonie Perenski, for example, gets my vote and I wish she had appeared in more pictures. "},{"Title":"A worthy folllow up to the original.","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie and had extremely low expectations. The first Texas Chainsaw massacre is one of my favorites ever and so I am always hoping to find a movie as interesting. But after 2 (which was somewhat interesting but too over-the-top and with gimmicky new villiais and with some very silly acting.) But i was very impressed with this film. It manages to recapture the gritty grainy visual style of the original and also some of the frenetic sadism. The performances are all great and Henkel mangaes to keep most of the original story and adds enough unfamiliar twists to it to make this a far better follow up than 2. It is flawed in that the guy that plays leatherface while he is a good actor is very silly looking  they should have spent more time making him hideous. And also the Wayne Bell score is very disappointing given his score for the original.  There's no gore but there wasn't any in the original either. "},{"Title":"This is satire!","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Has the intelligence of the entire world dropped so much that a self depreciating pile of cack like Scream can go on to make millions at the box office and be praised for being a 'satirical spin on the horror genre'. Do you people honestly think that self-depreciation is a witty form of sarcasm?Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation, should've been the movie that went on to be acclaimed.  Should've gone on to make the millions. Should've struck a chord with a generation who supposedly pride themselves on the fact that the marketeers and demographics demagogues can't fool them into watching movies that are simply moneyspinners, instead of the intelligent entertainment we so crave.TCMTNG succeeds in that it is aware that the audience is aware of horror movie conventions, but doesn't let the characters in on the secrets, unlike Scream's poseurs.  The movie makes the audience laugh with horror movie conventions, instead of laughing at them, unlike Scream's unfunny self-depreciating remarks.The moment when Rothman tries to visually explain to 'the family' what the meaning of horror really is, is as witty as any moment I've seen from any movie this decade, let alone a horror movie.  Other moments are almost as amusing, such as Leatherface's final chase of the heroine paying homage to the master of suspense or the reverse of the 'Energizer bunny' bad guy horror movie convention.  But the most delicious moment of sarcasm in the movie was to make Matthew McConaughey's character a tow truck driver.  The only way that could've been funnier was to make the character a lawyer... now that's sarcasm =PPerformances are exemplary, and it can be seen why Renee Zellweger and McConaughey have gone onto greater things, whilst Neve Campbell is still a wannabe sitcom actor and Rose McGowan will always be Marilyn Manson's girlfriend.Instead of checking your brain at the door, why don't you try using it whilst watching TCMTNG, remember a mind is a terrible thing to waste =) "},{"Title":"The Death of Leatherface","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The worst thing about this movie (oh, and there are many)? The total disrespect given to the character of Leatherface. I hope we never see a Friday the 13th or Nightmare on Elm Street sequel with Jason and Freddy running around cowardly in a dress. The ONLY good thing about this movie? Seeing star Matthew McCounahey totally embarrass himself. I was really disgusted with this film , as opposed to the mere disappointment I had with TCM part three. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Horror Movies. I'll tell you why...","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I know horror movies are supposed to be scary, but from the beginning you can tell this is going to be one of the three types of horror movies that I've found there's the real scary ones (like Halloween) and then there's the really funny ones, usually cheesy (like Basketcase). There's also the ones that can do both at the same time (Nightmare on Elm Street). This is one of the funny ones and before you start critiquing it, you have to realize that. With that statement in mind, this movie is great. Vilmer's remote controlled leg is probably the funniest of all. Many laughs are produced off of that one. And then there's strange old Leatherface. When the victims and that cuckoo torturous family get together, you are talking pure enjoyment that has got to be fun for whole family 15 and above. Many would say that it's really too cheesy but I think that is the best part. It's like Troma's quirky idea of horror. See it and stay open. "},{"Title":"A purposely trashy piece of art","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Am I the only person who sees this film the way that I do? The film is a purposely trashy piece of art-and the writer/director Kim Henkel did a great job in making it. In the age of Jerry Springer, I'm surprised more people didn't cling on to this film. I mean, they like watching actors playing white trash on Jerry. TCM TNG is pretty much the same thing. I won't compare this to the original, since these are meant to be two completely different movies. Comparing them would be like comparing a used car to an orange. It would be a waste of time to compare them. "},{"Title":"Not meant to be taken seriously","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was made before SCREAM, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER,etc. and still had the teen appeal of those movies. This movie was a total satire, and even when it didn't make sense or scenes were unbelievable you had to suspend your disbelief. I enjoyed it- the characters were over-exaggerated giving them a cartoon-like feel; At the same time they kept you on the edge of your seat because you never knew what they would do next. "},{"Title":"It may not make sense...but does that really matter?","Date":"27 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent movie. Granted a lot of it makes absolutely no sense, but why should that make it a bad movie? It was much funnier than the rest of the movies, and although the first and second ones were much better, this one sure beats the hell out of the second one. The last half of this movie was one of the most creative and original movies I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"one of the best TCSM movies","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" well, i love the original, -humph- who doesn't , i've seen the the 2nd one , i hate the 3rd one, and the rest of them are good! the only guys to play leather face, should be IMO, Gunner Hansen, Bill Johnson, Andrew Bryniarski but above all, i love Matthew's character, i could play his character so good, no joke, i can even play leather face, the funny part in  the next generation is Renee saying I'm leaving, and no one is gonna stop me, then leather face, screams, and Renee says YOU SIT THE F*CK DOWN! LOL, AND BTW,Darla is so fine, them boobs are nice, but heather is OK looking, and the other funny scene is when Renee is about to shoot leather face, his look, is like oh s*it, click , then he gets mad, his expression is funny! "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" May contain spoilers$$$***#OK lets start by saying this movie is amazing this is like Friday the 13th five thats how i think of it........OK lets start its prom night the teenagers are stereotypes(drinking ,smoking)who wants them to die from the transsexual ,pizza eating,non cannibal ,make-up wearing leatherface? o me o me o me . The acting is horrible , horrible but its so funny, so anyway they are driving after prom i forget want happens after that but some how then they are walking around ...blah blah and then they are hunted and killed in anyway but of course not killed by the chainsaw..i don't know why they weren't killed by a chainsaw but they weren't.. So Matt had a crazy leg ..the one guy knew history quotes ..the women got hit a lot..and leatherface screamed like a women with a bad 90s mullet( so bad)there's the normal chasing, table scene, weird business guy with hooks on his chest?Sally from the first one makes an cameo at the end , please make sense of this...i own this movies and its my second favorite in by far the best series every made "}{"Title":"Good Times","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay We rented this movie and didn't expect a lot but...... Seriously I have never laughed so hard in my life sad too considering this is a thriller. I almost peed in my pants. My sister in law was laughing so hard her button broke off her pj's and we both had tears in our eyes. Plus I had another friend who had seen it and we would quote lines from it and just bust out laughing...........One of my favorite being Stop it mister, you're scaring me Really is one of the worst movies ever! Yeah cuz that's what you tell the man who just killed your friend and whose body he has in the back of his truck, Plus the guy is running down the middle of the road so that the truck could follow him, Hello run off the road into the grass and trees that are all around you. But then I guess the scary man wouldn't be able to follow him and get him real scared! Worth the rental just to laugh. And could someone tell me what was up with Matthew McConaugheys leg thing? "},{"Title":"Where no Massacre has gone before.","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Sorry, the subtitle 'Next Generation' always summons Star Trek imagery to my mind, which is the first sign that Henkel either had no clue or didn't want the film taking itself seriously. If that doesn't confirm it, the cover art does. But wait-Henkel had a hand in the original and this is the 'true' sequel? That's a joke, right? So going into the film, I expected either camp or comedy and got neither (much like the second Saw film, I might add.) Again we open up with white text and someone reading the text in case the viewer happens to be illiterate. The narration brings us up to speed on the whole TCM mythos in case some poor fool obliviously sleep-walked into the horror section and picked the movie up by mistake. Seriously, Henkel, plain white text and narration doesn't count as a TCM trademark nor a mood setting device, and I know we can find something more interesting or drop the whole thing. This is not the Star Wars 'A long time ago . . .' line and fanfare. But what do I know? I didn't co-write the original screen-play.So let's meet the teenagers to be slaughtered and explore exactly how stupid a writer can write a character. There's something about horror films featuring the lowest forms of intelligence, and this usually happens for a reason. I mean, if the characters performed the intelligent act of finding a way out of their predicament there'd be no film. But as a fan of the genre, one grows to accept this and stop caring that the characters on screen are idiots . . . to a point. TCM Next Generation impressively managed to throw out characters that were too stupid and way too obnoxious. The possibility of Leatherface meat-hooking and slowly slicing these losers didn't appeal to me. It wasn't good enough to watch someone else torture and murder these characters-I wanted to beat and torture these characters, myself. Besides, TCM 1 proved Leatherface incapable of shutting up one screaming little girl, don't get me started on the second one, and it only gets worse here. My personal favorite line in the film (paraphrased) 'There's no place to turn around! Don't these people know how to build a road?!' What was he looking for? A U-turn sign? A driveway or big open parking lot? If that road were a bridge with guard rails any driver I know could've turned around easily. I guess the concept of a 'reverse' gear escaped these teens as well.Nevermind the lines that contradict what's shown on screen. I can still suspend my disbelief for the sake of humoring a horror flick. Especially for the moment where one guy is held at gunpoint, escapes into the gunman's house and uses the gunman's bathroom. Classic stupidity.And you know, since horror has gotten so cliché, Henkel decided to throw in some twists to the TCM formula. Hello, Leatherface in a dress (as if the makeup in the first TCM didn't already lower my opinion of Leatherhead). Hello, Men in Black. Hello, Conspiracy theory. It's actually hilarious that despite all the twists in the film how predictable everything is in terms of who lives and dies. Based on the opening credits, I predicted with 80% accuracy. Once the characters all were introduced, and I saw who filled what role that prediction was amended to be 100% accurate. Putting Leatherface in a dress was, admittingly, a ballsy move that angered many people. I don't understand why they didn't just go ahead and kill off Jenn (in a non-final-frame-jump-sequence) Note stating this character survives is not a spoiler - if you watch this movie and honestly don't know her fate, you need help. Back to my point, killing off the star of the film would upset an equal number of people, but at least I'd walk away with the satisfaction that the writer had it in him to play with the entire story arc and resolution (it's not like these actresses are ever back for the sequel anyway &#150; who cares if they survive?) But no, instead we get typical horror-I-survived-happy ending . . . and Leatherface in a dress. Oh yes, and since this is TCM we have to retread that stupid meat hook again, the family whose reach stretches to every character these guys encountered in the film, the dinner scene, and Leatherface running around too much with the chainsaw over his head. Homages are nice, but make your own movie. Seriously.I've never liked the TCM series, and I think the sequels prove how little juice the original had going for it. Maybe it would have shocked me in the mid-seventies, but TCM against the passage of time is just a testament that shocks are cheap.  "},{"Title":"My girlfriend loves this movie.","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  My girlfriend loves this movie. She owns it on vhs. I like the movie enough to watch it occasionally. It's a funny, campy, stereotypically teeny bopper slasher flick. There's a little t + a, a lot of violence, and a lot of stupid Porky's 3/Police Academy 4  kind of nonsense. Don't pay to rent it, but if it's ever on cable or someone happens to own it, definitely  watch it. "},{"Title":"Insane","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Welcome to the world of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation.  The story is about Jenny (Renée Zellweger!) who, along with a load of friends, crash in the woods and meet up with Leatherface.  But be prepared.  This guy is one sorry antagonist.  Leatherface will scream like a girl and looks like a transvestite.  Before you throw away your money, there are things you must be aware of,1) There is NO chainsaw massacre.   This film should be called The Texas Chainsaw Murder2) Matthew Maconahay is absolutly out of control.   He plays Vilmer, Leatherface's crazy relative.  Keep a good eye out for his hillarious EEEEOOOOOOooooo! primate call when Jenny tries to make a get away.  Believe me.  This rivals Agent Smith's Dr. Evil laugh in The Matrix Revolutions   3) This film is boring and tedious. There will be minutes of footage of Jenny walking through the woods with nothing going on and you don't get to see Leatherface until the 35-40 minute mark.The script is beyond awful.  One of Jenny's friends is chased by Vilmer in a truck and his respose of absolutly no sign of fear is, Stop it mister.  You're scaring me.Despite all these negative notes, I did enjoy Renee Zellweger's performance.  It was kind of interesting to see her so young before she played in big budget films.All in all, don't rent this unless you are prepared to laugh your heart out.  It's low-budget, practically plotless, meaningless, and funny.  You are warned. 2/10  "},{"Title":"So bad, it's funny.","Date":"17 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies where at times it tires to be funny, but comes off as stupid.  Other times it tries to be serious and you laugh your pants off.  I seen this movie when it was  released back in '96, or '97, maybe '98 The characters are idiots, the plot is almost non existent, and i really don't see what this movie has to do with the TCM franchise.  "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  i dont understand why people hate this film, its soo fun i mean come on who doesnt like a movie about 4 bitchy bratty teenagers falling into the hands of a mad family. i love this movie better then part 1, but i will say part 1 is the scairest out of all no matter what and how good the new one is, who ever thinks that any of tcm movies are scarier than the 1rst well they are just stupid and they dont know movies. well this film actually made it to theatre in 1997. and this is the 1rst remake , and the new tcm film is the 2nd reamke . i cant wait to see it. but all of u ewho hate this ur just a broing perons, everyone who hasnt seen this movie....SEE IT!! and for those of u that havent seen any tcm movies but are excited yto see the new one, your just a plain loser "},{"Title":"Camp can be fun!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  While not the average Texas Chainsaw movie, this one is unique for being able to showcase 2 very popular actors in very different roles. Matthew McConaughey is having a ball in this tour de force of deviant behavior. And why not? When will he ever have the chance again to play someone SO psychotic and disturbed? And does he EVER camp it up! He was great! Renee Zellweger, of Jerry Maguire fame, brings her considerable talent to her scenes as well. I can't tell you how much FUN it was to watch these two! And it wasn't as gory as one might expect either.I am surprised at the reviews by those that just don't get it. Lighten up!! It accomplished what it set out to.  Too bad some aren't hip to that fact. "},{"Title":"The stupidity beyond your imagination...","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with all reviewers,who don't like this so-called movie.There is absolutely no atmosphere,no suspense,even no blood,just incredibly lame jokes and annoying characters.What happened to Leatherface?He was one of the most terrifying killers in the history of the cinema.He was a real brute.Here,in this awful picture he looks like a stupid yokel.Even his behaviour is laughable.To sum up,if you want sheer terror rent or buy original Texas Chain Saw Massacre but if you are a fan of the sheer stupidity you can try this junk.I will give it 2 out of 10(maybe because I am a merciful guy). "},{"Title":"it,s bad... but not the worst I've ever seen","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I would like to say first of all this movie is by far the worst TM movie of them all, there is no debating that but I wouldn't say it's the worst movie I have ever seen. I would rather watch this instead of house of the dead, or say the ring. I could make a list of worse or less entertaining movies, but i won't go into detail because that could take a while. Though this is a quite stupid movie I would say i've definitely seen a lot worse. Nothing will ever touch the original of this series, which is a true masterpiece in horror. I feel bad for the one's who had to see this one first before they seen the other's. Let us hope the new prequel of the Texas chainsaw massacre goes back to the roots of terror. "},{"Title":"Very underrated movie","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This the forth Texas chainsaw massacre movie. It not has scarier as the original The Texas chainsaw massacre from 1974. Also The Texas chainsaw massacre 2 is scarier. Also Leather face Texas chainsaw massacre III is scarier. But there no reason to say this is a awful movie. There is reason why people do not like this. It is the forth one. I think that would be the reason. This a very scary movie. I keep hearing that the fifth part to the original series Chainsaw massacre 3.D is better. This a great movie. And Chainsaw massacre 3.D is just awful. I The Texas chainsaw massacre remake from 2003 is not better then is movie. It is just boring crape. I can't believe people think Texas chainsaw massacre the beginning is better. That movie is producible and boring. In this movie you don't know what is going to happen still you see it. The fist three The Texas chainsaw massacre movies are better but only by a little bite. This movie has a great story line. It also has great acting. It also has great special effects. I consider this horror fantasy because the killer in this movie are ghouls. This movie is a must see. "}{"Title":"We are thrown to an unexplained plot&#x85;","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What a hell? What happened? Is there no way to create something new to a TCM story? Instead, we got young Renne Zellweger and young Matthew McConaughey (yep, even before his funny psycho role of Tip Tucker in Larger than Life 1996). The story hold no originality at all, damn it&#x85; it's the same as the third film, only mixed with the irritating insanity of the second one. Matthew's character Vilmer (which Matthew did pretty solid, but, you just can't tell if he is a handsome psycho, or just a psycho&#x85;), Renne didn't do much with her character, I bet she was bored during filming. Leatherface was played by Robert Jacks&#x85; another tall, large guy who fits good into a leatherface make up and costumes, this time in more&#x85; feminine costumes. Nothing is developed again with Leatherface. The film is just insanity, dumb insanity, there are random characters that comes out of nowhere and there is no explanation for them! This family of cannibals, lead by McConaughey, is&#x85; noting special, and there's no explanation for them too. Are they just a copycats of original Sawyer family? Are they connected? What, movie? What?! It's just dumb and no explanation! The entire film simply bores you with irritating insanity and the end disappoints you even more. Avoid this! "},{"Title":"Most pitiful entry in Texas Chainsaw history.  Several spoilers.","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I won't be overly tough on the film specifically. First, Matthew McConaughey is wild in this film, and that's probably one of the only things I really can credit the film with as a positive. It isn't a great performance, but it's befitting of the material, and aside from his weird leg, the character really fits in with the Sawyer family as a whole. Other than that, the only other things I really enjoyed was the house itself because I found it very creepy, and also a more transvestite-like Leatherface, which was an interesting take.Aside from these few small things, this film was awful. Particularly their attempt to make the Sawyers into some sort of conspirators in a weird project that is supposed to be spiritual, as the random Agent Rothman tells the surviving girl; this reeked of something half-baked that the writers came up with as an idea they thought was interesting, but only falls flat, as there's too much vagueness surrounding this random Agent Rothman, and what exactly the Sawyers were doing for him. For me, it felt like an infringement of science fiction into what is by all other accounts a pure horror film, and it really, really made it even worse than it was. This gets a 2 out of 10 stars. I don't recommend fans of the Texas Chainsaw franchise watch this if they're looking for a good movie, but as someone who loves the movies, it's worth seeing just to say you've seen all the films. "},{"Title":"A backwoods, psychodrama, black comedy. Better than part 3.","Date":"21 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Tcmthe next generation is an odd film. Its more entertaining than the previous installment, Leatherface, but its a far cry from the original. We follow some of the most annoying, idiotic, and bizarre teens as they leave prom and get into a wreck on a Texas back road. Soon enough Matthew McCaughney shows up snapping necks, overkilling a guy with his monster truck, and jumping off roofs onto cars. He seems to be in charge of the new Sawyer family. Leatherface spends half the film in drag and screaming his lungs out during chaotic scenes of violence or chases. The teen characters are so stupid you actually root for them to meet their demise. The acting is all over the place. Matthew McCaughney gives a whacked out, over the top performance, while Renee Zellwegger is mediocre at best.There's some ridiculous sub-plot about the Sawyer family being used as a type of anarchy/psycho squad by some sort of agency or occult. But it falls flat and seems like trying to add some method to the madness.The gore is weak, the acting is weak but the film has a manic pace and some truly disturbing moments. It does feel like a rehash of the original and part 3. But thats expected when your plot revolves around a redneck, cannibalistic family with a chainsaw wielding maniac. Its better than the dreadful Leatherface, but its no TCM2. A solid rental. More of a remake then a sequel. "},{"Title":"leatherface fans will hate this, they turn him into a transvestite","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" i am a huge fan of the first two chainsaw movies, i also loved 'the beginning' and the remake. part 3 to me is just boring dull, and tries to hard without delivering anything of worth, it turned leatherface into a generic slasher figure, but that does not even compare to what kim henkel has done to him in this movie, here he is a screaming transvestite, who loves wearing womens clothes and putting make up on, and although its true he chases people with a chainsaw, this is not the same leatherface. i know there are people out there who will say, but he wore a pretty women mask in the original, yes he did for one scene, but he never donned a dress and makeup, its stupid. the movie itself is a bad one, its rubbish and horribly made, not as well made as part three, but much more enjoyable, there are some cool little references to the original and homages, but it doesn't make a good movie, the script is terrible, the acting the same, if i give the movie one thing, it keeps its nastiness, as well as poor attempts at humour, but there is some sick stuff here, witch funnily enough doesn't involve chainsaws. the movie ruins leatherface, and will really anger fans of the other movies, after this the only way back was a remake, some people hate on tobe hooper's second movie, but i love it was a great sequel something different, kim henkel thought he could go back and make the true sequel,and ended up making the worse, terrible stuff, the five stars are strictly for enjoyment factor "},{"Title":"Hmm...what just happened??","Date":"26 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First off...let me start by saying...I have yet to see the First Texas chainsaw massacre.....i've seen the second..the remake....this one...and the beginning...sooo right off the bat, I can't completely freak out about this movie. So let's begin. Right off the bat, it looks really good. I could not tell, without looking at the budget, that this movie was made for so low. It starts off promising. 4 high school kids coming from the prom, and they get in an accident. Seems like good ol B-movie horror waiting just come out, right? Then they go look for help (of course!), and that's where the real horror begins. You meet the main villain, Vilmer, pretty soon, and you can already tell he's not a nice guy. It really does go well, UNTIL after this one part where a girl gets locked in a freezer. Then it seems to slowly start decaying, and begins to really suck A LOT. Right away, There's no REAL likable characters...not even Leatherface! They are all badly written characters. The main girl is always screaming, The main bad guy is just plain retarded, and Leatherface....well he's just annoying. The part that really gets me, is the end......it tries to be a plot twist...but it comes off, and stupid, and not necessary. Either way.....i would simply just watch once....and maybe for a good laugh...watch it with some friends......at just start to do the whole MS3K...trust me...it's be fun ) "},{"Title":"I honestly don't know how to feel about this","Date":"21 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like the TCM franchise as much as the next guy but I just don't know about this one. Some say that this is the worst in the series and sorta agree. No, I definitely agree. Usually I'm not the critical type of moviegoer, I don't nitpick or let little stupid things in a movie get to me. But this time, I'll make an exception.Some of the plot-lines didn't didn't make sense. Like for instance what stupid group of kids a drive off from their prom and into a forest conveniently at the end of a freeway? When does that ever happen? There were times when I was shouting in my head for something to happen like when that girl was hugging the guy in the suit and there were a lot of opportunities for the killers to do something.One thing I hated was what they did to Leatherface. I know he's supposed to be controlled by his other family members but they turned into a wining, screaming gay-wad. He's now a bigger pussy than he ever was!!!The one thing I did like was Matthew McConaughey as Vilmer. His acting in this film is phenomenal!! The way he mocks and intimidates the victims makes you believe he really is a psycho. It made you want to slap him the face. The whole time I was watching him I wanted kick his ass so hard!!! Very hard!!Verdict McConaughey's acting is excellent, but seriously...... ♪♪Hi HO! Hi HO! This movie really blows!♪♪ "},{"Title":"whhhhhhhhhhhyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy??????????????","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" whhhhhhhhhhhhyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy does Hollywood keep making movies that are so bad, that people waste their money just to go see them? I must admit that Matthew and Renee are very good actors, but i don't understand why they would want to spend 86 minutes of their life in this piece of trash that some people call a movie.Of course, this isn't the only piece of trash that I'V seen in my entire life.I'V seen Halloween 3Season of the witch and Freddys DeadThe Final Nightmare,but none of them can be as bad as this piece of crap. Do you want a tip? Here it isGo watch the Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake or the prequel.WarningDO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!!!!! May contain spoilers "},{"Title":"An Awful Mess","Date":"26 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Texas Chainsaw Massacre the Next Generation (aka The Return of the Texas chainsaw Massacre) is supposed to be the real sequel to the original, its more like an insult.Texas Chainsaw Massacre the Next Generation is about four young people who go to prom, after they get into a car accident and eventually make it to a house of a cannibalistic family including the legendary Leatherface and Matthew McConaughey.In this installment Leatherface doesn't really remind me of Leatherface. The actor who plays him does the worst job of any of the other actors. The whole movie is a total mess. Mostly its just people running around a house getting tormented. At least the original had a creepy atmosphere this one has nothing.No scares and not much of an entertainment value. The only amusing thing is Matthew McConaughey who plays Vilmer a crazed killer but thats not enough to save the movie. Later Leatherface turns female, thats just dumb. Why do that? This is easily the worst of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre movies. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"29 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Possibly one of the worst films I have ever seen. The action was slow and Leatherface has turned into some bumbling, screaming transvestite who is hopeless at killing. If you are a fan of the original, then this film will be an enormous disappointment. Many of the original elements have been reused, such as Leatherface cutting down the door, the dinner scene near the end and Jenny jumping through windows to escape, just a Sally did in the original. It ends in the same way the original ends, with Leatherface swinging his chainsaw wildly. However, in the original, the shot was beautifully done, set against a red setting sun. In this he just screams and swings in a feild. This film is neither scary nor funny, simply a waste of time. It stinks of original elements being used to try and cash in on the success of the original and in turn, fans of the genre. Leatherfaces incompetence means the element of fear people had from the other films is lost, his character almost comedic. Fans of the films and the genres STAY AWAY from this film. You will only regret watching it... "},{"Title":"Pathetically Executed","Date":"28 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To be fair, this movie could have been something strange but interesting. Here we have a director who was going to take the TCM franchise in strange new directions a new family which Leatherface has been adopted into, still full of strange freaks that blast their way through Texas devouring people, possibly controlled by some 'Illuminati' type organization for reasons unknown. At the very least, it would be the best of both worlds of gore and human deviants mated perfectly with the X-Files that was popular around this time. It could almost work.Sadly, Henkel seemingly has never made a film before.All of these elements are thrown into the mix willy-nilly which give it the luster of a book report written a few hours before the class and without any knowledge of the book included within it. We get a solid unintelligible mish-mash of convenient plot twists and bad acting that can only be defined as utterly pathetic. It's impossible to say if this was the fault of a difficult shoot, a badly written script, or a horrible directorial job, but all it adds up to is failure. The secondary title of The Next Generation just adds another dose of hilarity to the mix as it definitely refers to the famous Star Trek show and adds more hilarity, given the out-of-the-blue aspect of the Illuminati that seems tossed in their, a red sock amidst the white wash.All and all, you can see where this could have been made into something different in several spots but is let down by incompetence on every conceivable level. In a way, it tries to be Halloween 3 and Halloween 6 and ends up being too much like them to the point of failure. Well, except both Halloween sequels are more entertaining than this.Watch it, but don't expect anything other than a superbly awful film. "}{"Title":"I love bad movies but...","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" But this was the worst movie I've ever seen. It was so bad it couldn't be good/bad--just plain BAD. Awful. WTF??? Kind of funny but not enough to totally redeem it from total awfulness. You will be bored and incredulous.You know how some movies can be so bad they are actually good? This ain't one of 'em. Okay, the one redeeming thing is that Matthew M is really good at playing psycho. But if you want to see a really good movie were he plays psycho, see Frailty and skip this one. This one has no plot, it is not scary, not witty, and makes absolutely no sense. "},{"Title":"The Texas no chainsaw Massacre","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I like to start by saying WHAT A LOAD OF CRAP! this piece of **** makes Gigli look good! This movie is nothing but BAD! I recently watched all the Texas chainsaw massacre movie's and I enjoyed them. I picked this one up from my local video store and saw a R rating and thought it would be full of violence! But I was mistaken the film starts off by seeing two teens fighting after leaving angrily a girl and her friend get lost in the woods and are Chased by the weirdo Vilmer(Mattew Mchougany) who if any of his fans see him in this role would make fun of him forever! He chases and supposedly kills some of them. I won't tell you any more not to ruin the surprise. But get the point here this movie is plain bad! The two main stars must have needed cash badly to star in this one! Turning Leatherface into a transvestite The title says The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Chainsaw check Leatherface check Stupid teens check massacre NO WAY! No violence charters being stupid Kim Henkel directing! A plot that doesn't make sense! A stupid Vilmer dies via Plane which seems to come out of nowhere this could have just been rated PG for just plain stupid a Crap van vs Towtruck scene I Hated this movie and give it 1/10 "},{"Title":"What...the...hell...","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is a remake of sorts to the original cult classic. It tells the story of a group of teens who are stranded in the middle of nowhere after prom. Pretty soon they are being hunted down by a family of cannibals lead by a seemingly normal young woman. The dirty work is done by Vilmer, a sadist with one leg, and Leatherface, a cross-dressing chainsaw-wielding maniac. Please don't expect this terrible entry into the series to be serious. I think it's a prank to be honest.I don't understand how this series could go wrong. Tobe Hooper and Kim Henkel created a horror movie legend with the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre. Then Tobe Hooper came back for The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2, and that was a disaster. The 3rd film had no one that was involved with the original involved. Now, original writer Kim Henkel returns to direct the 4th film in the series. He makes it a kind of reworking of the original, and all the while he spits on his original creation. All of the characters are stupid and dull, and you're rooting for Leatherface to kill them as soon as possible so the movie will end faster. Pretty soon, you're not even rooting for Leatherface anymore. Instead of being the chunky, terrifying, silent retard from the first film, he is an obese, noisy, clumsy retard that dresses like a woman all the time. The most ridiculous plot point is when it is revealed that the FBI knows Leatherface and his clan are still active, and they're allowing the killings to happen in a controlled environment.The acting is disgustingly poor. Not one performance in the movie is good. It is interesting to see two good and highly successful actors like Matthew McConaughey and Renee Zellweger sucking so bad. It was actually kind of sad too.Overall, everybody should just ignore the fact that this movie even exists. Matthew McConaughey was in Angels in the Outfield in 1994 and moved on to Boys on the Side in 1995. Renee Zellweger was in Love and a .45 and moved onto Empire Records. Remember that.1/10 "},{"Title":"Physically Painful","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Chick Murray once said I went to Dunoon for a week one day, and that's pretty much how I feel about this. As a fan of the first 3 films (unlike a lot of fanboys, I actually enjoyed pt3) I was eager to see this, adamant that it couldn't be as bad as people made out. But it was worse. Upon it's release, it was marketed as the true sequel, but to compare it to the original in any positive manner is insulting. poorly acted, conceived, written and just bad in every way, there is nothing to recommend. I don't understand how Kim Henkel, after brilliantly writing the original, could possibly sink so low with this garbage. If I were Tobe Hooper, I'd probably still wake up in the middle of thew night every now and then, screaming in anguish. Avoid like a plague. "},{"Title":"Run away from this movie!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is one bad movie. The leathetface in this movie is retarded. Why was this movie made. The plot makes no sense, why are the teens leaving the prom. Why did they let Renee zellweger live so long. Math Mcconaughey is the only good thing this movie has. He plays the white trash nascar drinking smirking redneck killer. This move rushes into the climax, without letting the character relationships develop.This is the worst movie ever made. The ending for this movie makes know sense.Don't waste your money on this crap,instead by the orignarl TCM. Acting D Renee Zellweget C Matthew Mcconaughey F Robert Jacks as leather face F Tonie Perensky "},{"Title":"Bad, pointless movie","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This review contains some spoilers, but given the category of this movie, this is not a serious kind of spoiler.I really hate the word pointless. Not only using it, but hearing it as well. But there are a few occasions where I cannot simply use another word, or expect anyone to use a different word. Pointless accurately describes this movie, even knowing that a horrors/thrillers are not known because of their character development or inappropriately elaborate plot lines. The main problem is that the Chainsaw Massacre does not really have a plot, save the intro, up to the point we can see the first killing.I must admit that I have not yet seen the first movie, or any of its predecessors, but after seeing this, I started to become curious how they could be. I know that sequels are not superior to its prequels, at least in the eyes of the reviewers. Seeing that the first movie got far better rating than this one, I look forward to seeing them, or any.As for this film, I do not intend to give a brief outline of the plot, as some of my fellow reviewers have done so. The story started out relatively well, mainly because of the dialog in the car, but it continuously became worse as the movie progressed. When the fat man with started chasing the poor girl with the chainsaw, I was hoping that at least there would be something that boosts my morale in this movie. But no, not a single one was killed in a downright bloody and brutal way, I exaggerate if I say that either of the killings was any good. Yes, either, because only two of the four protagonists die in the movie, plus one antagonist gets chopped by the propeller of an aircraft. That was the best part in the film. (How the aircraft came into the view and why remains a mystery) Frankly, I was expecting more from this movie. I expected much gore and got little. The skulls, skeletons, and other corpses improve a bit on the overview. Not if these were elements which are unique for a narrow range of horror movies, or how they are displayed/placed were any special. "},{"Title":"Why Leatherface Wore A Dress","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I don't care much for horror flicks so I can't really form an opinion on this, except that I think it probably fell short of what was intended. I can however say that the man Leatherface was originally based on, the True Story, was Ed Gein, a serial killer who wore a mask of human flesh and killed women at his remote home. The characters of Norman Bates and Buffalo Bill (Silence of The Lambs) were both also based on him and were, by all accounts, more accurate. Ed Gein also wore a suit of human flesh, including breasts, in an attempt to be more female, which accounts for Leatherface wearing a dress in this film. However, a lot more characterization should have been put into explaining this. For the record, Ed Gein worked alone, no family members helping him and certainly no grand family traditions of cannibalism, and the only two bodies ever found were killed with a pistol; no evidence ever pointed to him using a chainsaw on any of his victims. He was just another Jeffrey Dahmer-esq serial killer with a highly dysfunctional sense of eroticism. "},{"Title":"Scooby Doo 3 Scooby meets Leather Face!!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK the Mystery Inc. gang is back in action with new nicknames; Fred is called Barry, Shaggy is Sean, Daphne is Heather, and Velma they call Jenny to protect their identities. Daph catches Fred making out at the prom and the fur begins to fly. Shaggy and Velma stow-away in the back of Fred's car. What happened to that cool green van? I don't know. Oh well, to make the long story short they get lost in the woods and find some SOB has killed Scooby and there's a mystery to be solved! They stumble into a strange group of suspects but who really killed Scooby? The police can't help since they have real crimes to solve. But you bet the gang will find out before it's too late. All that missing in this movie was the groovy chase song. Be sure to watch this one with the kids! "},{"Title":"Kim, How Could You!!!?","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was new to the series when I watched this movie. I had only seen Chainsaw II before this one. I hated that movie. I almost stopped watching it three times. I was looking through my local video store and I saw Chainsaw IV. From the look at the names who stared in it, I thought this had to be an awesome movie. I mean the chick from Jerry Mcguire and the guy who stared in Reign of Fire. What could go wrong? I bought the movie right then and took it home(big mistake). I was so embarrassed for the makers of this movie. How in the world did this film make it to the light of day. What studio executive green lighted the release of this film? When did they sit down and actually say this is a good movie let's let people watch it. There was no best part in the movie. Not even went it was over did I feel good. I knew that I could never get that time it took to watch the movie back. Please do not watch this movie. I beg you. If you see this movie at a store, hide it, so no one will have to watch it. "},{"Title":"This kinda hurt my heart!! What a mess!!","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" What can I say?? I am...I'm...um...well. I'm F@#$@! fuming that such a kick ass character, such as leather face, can be degraded to this level. Everything about this film is awful. Its just bad. Totally B- quality acting. No Plot. Doesn't stay faithful to the story. Its just bad! I would have to say that I have loved all the films installment...1, 2, 3, and um, NOT part 4!! No...Part 5 (YES!!!!) Jesseca Beil kicked but!! Part 4? Well...Renee was OK...but the fact that she existed at all in such a mess of Mannequin proportion....makes her kinda negative cool, as well!! Matthew Mcaughney? He was good!! But still...he was amongst such horrible co-stars...that he, himself has managed to self destruct! You see....no matter how good the actor...if he's believing and going along with something so unbelievably bad (the plot, acting ability, just everything) Then he becomes part of that disaster...I give this film a 1...it gets 1 only because I have a soft spot in my heart for crappy b-films...I love em all...so I give this something...not too much but something. But its one of the not so desirable....Watch if you will...its the only way you'll know for yourself!.. C, 'Ya "}{"Title":"Somebody hold my nose for me while I type","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film for the first time last night on British TV.I had heard and read that it was bad but I really think that that is an understatement.How can a film this bad have been made. From the comic opening credits to the totally dismal end.One of my favorite sayings in relation to film is catching lightening is a bottle. The TCM 1 was lightening. Yes it has its faults but the first hour is antastic, but this. Now I know why Ms Zelwegger refuses to ever talk about it or be asked about it.What a total disappointment "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve the really bad reputation, but it isn't great either. ** out of 5","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You know... I was teetering between one and a half and two stars and I'll go ahead with two because it was pretty entertaining at times. It's a bad film, but there are certain scenes I thought were pretty well done.It's really neat to see Zellweger and McConaughey in a film like this. McConaughey is terrific in the film and literally steals the show but I don't know if I'll ever look at him the same again! He goes looney tunes in this flick! Leatherface himself can be kind of a sissy in this one. In fact he does nothing but dress like women in this flick so I guess he is a sissy.It's pure chaos through and through and that's cool and all but it's over long and wears out it's welcome. The whole bit with the guy in the limo was really stupid I think. It seemed an attempt to bring something new to a film that is really nothing new. And the ending left me a bit confused. I'm tempted to change it to a *1/2 star film so I better go ahead and end this review. "},{"Title":"what did I do to deserve this?","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The original Texas Chainsaw wasn't my favorite movie but its The Godfather compared to this piece of garbage. When you watch bad movies you tend to look for some positives but in this case I was literally begging for it to end because other than Rene Zelwigger this movie had no redeeming quality. Matthew Mc has certainly seen better movies, this was just awful.I can name 3 good things about this movie, Rene, Marla showing her tits and when the closing credits rolled because I was free. The overall plot was just horrendus, first we get 30 year olds playing high school kids and then we have one of them get chased down by Matthew Mc...then stops to chat with him, before Matthew Mc finally runs him over. Then we get to meet Leatherface....who dresses in women's clothing. Now who in the blue hell wrote this script? We got a family of psycho's who and I quote kidnap people for the FBI and then we got Leatherface in a dress.I can't go on anymore, the sheer thought of this movie is making me sick. Avoid it at all costs 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Incomprehensibly horrible -- avoid at all costs","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" * minor spoilers...as though anything in this terrible film could be spoiled *As a fan of the first three films (for different reasons), I have to say that I am literally angry for having wasted 45 minutes of my life (I watched it at 2X after the first 15 minutes) with this horrible, horrible film.There isn't a single worthwhile moment here. The acting is beyond awful, there is NOTHING funny about it (and this coming from somebody who thinks Part 2 is the greatest black comedy ever), there is nothing scary about it, and they DECIMATE characters like Leatherface (who is reduced to a moaning transvestite that is incapable of murdering anybody) and GRANDPA. HOW DARE THESE CLOWNS PUT GRANDPA IN A SCENE AND THEN HAVE HIM DO NOTHING?!?!?!?!I'm so angry I don't know where to begin. See #1 if you want to see a scary movie; see #2 if you want a black comedy (and the low point of Denis Hopper's career); see #3 if you just want to laugh at the crazy character Alfredo. This one is an abject disaster. "},{"Title":"makes me want to vomit !!","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I love horror movies and one movie I really love is the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. So I saw the Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre at my local walmart. So I bought it for like $8.00. I thought what the heck its part of the TCM series it has to be funny and pretty disturbing. I put it into my DVD player and sat through this bad movie. It was though funny and had some gore. But the storyline throws you off. You have so many questions that aren't answered in it. The whole movie was a disaster from the start to finish. Just don't get it or even rent it its pure cinema waste!3 out of 10i gave it a three cause I'm a gorehound "},{"Title":"AWFUL! TERRIBLE! A WASTE OF TIME!","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" When I saw this film, I thought I was going to throw up. Not because it was violent, and definitely not because it's shocking, but because it flat out ruined the first two films. I know that there is no way that one movie can ruin three movies that already exist, but still yet, now there is no way anybody could say that the TCM series is an awesome series, because you have this turd of a film stinking it up!It is about a group of kids, that are driving around on prom night, and they end up getting into a wreck. When they try to go and get help, they end up running into the infamous Cannibal Family. Of course now they are all dead meat blah blah blah. I can't go on any further because just hearing me say that the Infamous Cannibal Family is in this movie makes me want to slap myself. That is how bad this movie is.There is nothing good about this film. Stay away from it. STAY AWAY! "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen some bad films but Texas Chainsaw Massacre Next Generation pretty much takes the cake. If it wasn't for the release of Jerry Maguire and A Time To Kill I think it's safe to say this pile of dung would have went strait to video. This film really makes me sad because the original TCM is a horror classic and one of my all time favorites. Leatherface TCM III is the best of the terrible sequels and that is really sad. To make matters worse this film makes no sense at all. At least the other films fallowed a basic story. This one has a mysterious airplane attacking Vilmer, an old couple touring through rural Texas in an RV and a bizarre man who rides in a limo that has large rings pierced all over his stomach. The impression is left that this man is actually a sadist who employs Leatherface and company to terrorize and kill people. The one upside to this film is that Renee Zellweger actually opens her eyes. This flick is badder than bad. I give it 1/10.  "},{"Title":"Gag...","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Hm, I have never been an UBER fan of this genre, the whole, chainsaw idea is scary to a point, but Chainsaws arent nearly as prime-evil as say, a machette. With that said, the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre gives us a chilling look at possible humanity. Though, it twists the true tail of a man who just liked to skin dead bodies and a few living people for parts, it does give us a neat little genre to think about. Now, WITH THAT SAID. I can starb bashing this terrible movie. God man, a horror film should scare you, and disturb you a little. Not annoy you and disturb you none. This is just a bunch of cheap attempts to gross you out and make you laugh all piled up into one stinking bag of crap. The movie fails on every level and its dialogue is far past dated. The characters are stereo typical, and the acting is bleh. The antagonistic characters are so homely and freaking 'southernish' that any self respecting southerner would be offended. The movies constant state of POTENTIAL disturbance ruins it, really. It ends up being just long and annoying. It will drive you more batty then a really bad independant film that tries to be artful. The ignorance of the 'victim' characters is disgusting. When I watch a horror film, nothing annoys me more then a victim character that JUST WONT DIE. Its usually the 'anti-hero' of the film. But as anyone knows, Leatherface is kind of a wimp. He cries alot, whines, and is far from scary. Infact Id go as far to say that his family is more disturbing then he is. This movie fallows the same path as the others, where you keep a human character alive, bloody, beaten, half dead, just so they can die later on when they should have died hours ago! Its just a really bad flick that I think would annoy ANYONE! "},{"Title":"why oh why oh why","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ok,, i watched the trailer for tcm 4 on a special edition dvd of the original and thought it looked quiet good as it looked like leatherface actually had the same personality as he did in the original tcm as in 2 and 3 he didnt, how wrong could i be. I also noticed that kim henkel produced, wrote and directed this film which he also played a big part in the making of the original tcm, id just like to know what the hell was going through his mind when he made this total piece of crap,, i could not believe what i was watching. This film is very very very bad,, i dont mind a cheesy horror film but this is just awful. avoid at all costs,, if your a tcm fan and want to see this disgracefull piece of garbage wait for it to come on tv ( which i doubt will ever happen ) or wait for a friend to buy it or something,, dont waste 1 pence on this,, tobe hooper should give kim a bit of a kicking for making this film, i would. my advice is STAY AWAY. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked sooo badly I wanted to scratch my eyes out with a rusty coat hanger","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Oh my God!! What have they done to my beloved TCM.  They have totally destroyed my favorite slasher villian of all time.  Leatherface, why oh why did you have to do this to me.  First this movie, then the pathetic remake which was more of a 90's slasher throwback than anything that happened in the original.  I wish somebody in Hollywood would grow a pair and make a true remake of the original.  Get Tobe Hooper to direct it and focus on resurrecting the story, not making it like a big homage to Scream.At least the TCM 2 had a different storyline than try to rehash the same plot with a few minor changes.  I hate you Kim Henkel, you are filth, excrement, and waste all wrapped into one big intoxicating piece of garbage. How dare you try to pass off this terrible movie as a TCM movie.  "}{"Title":"for the love of god!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I may be wrong here, but in a successful horror movie .... the viewer shouldn't be praying for the heroine to *just die already*!  Ugh, worst movie EVER.  Just goes on and on and on and on and on with one incredibly lame twist after another.  Bletch!  0.0000000000000000001 / 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Out of my circle of friends...","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is rated our worst movie of all time. Worse than Demonicus. Worse than Razorback, Uncle Sam, Blood Hook & Dead Pit. It's even worse than Leprachaun in the Hood & C.H.U.D. II Bud the CHUD. This movie is terrible. I'm surprised that two the the actors in the movie turned out the be fairly successful. I guess you have to start somewhere... "},{"Title":"A dark day for the entire art of filmmaking","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so irredeemably awful that if it were my first ever exposure to film, I would never again watch another movie. I want everyone involved with it to reimburse me for the hour I spent crawling through the unbelievable level of tedium and  pointlessness. I say an hour because I left in disgust 60 minutes into it and I almost never walk out of a movie early. In truth, the movie could have been wrapped up in 15 minutes as it felt labored by then. SLIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD I never knew people running around screaming and fleeing from chainsaw-wielding maniacs could induce such awe-inspiring levels of boredom and aggravation in me. The worst part is, this film, whose name I cannot bring myself to utter, is so horrifically made that it cannot even be enjoyed as a comedy, one of those movies that's so bad it's good. I am sure those involved in spawning this movie intended it as camp but anyone with a modicum of creative ability knows you cannot ever intend something as camp. Campiness lies in the fact that the creators took their own work seriously and it just ended up badly. If they don't take it seriously and try to make something so bad it's good, the word for this is not camp. Terms like pointless or insulting are more apt. And no, I cannot bring myself to say Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaghey did the best they could or their stardom shines through or whatever meaningless tripe I am supposed to say about well-known actors who star in trash like this. McConaghey probably intended to be an over-the-top psycho but he just came off as unbelievably irritating and his skills were about as subtle (and painful) as being bashed repeatedly with an I-beam.Zellweger phoned in her performance while sleepwalking and her skills are so pathetic that she cannot even convey emotion upon learning her prom date has been run over by a tow truck.The only way I would ever watch this movie again is if it were one of the ransom demands made by the person who kidnapped one of my family members.  "},{"Title":"If you heard this is crap-you dont know the half of it","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The plot of this TCM sequel is basically the same as the original, except that the victims are stupider and the psychos are wackier. Don't expect to be frightened unless you are afraid of transvestites or bad acting. This movie is pure camp - but not the fun to watch kind. More like the counting the minutes til it's over kind. I will spare you the details and just say that I gave this movie two stars. One star for Renee Z. who apparently has always been adorable, but is now a much better actress. The other star is for Matthew M. who's a hoot as the craziest psycho and the best thing about this horrible, horrible movie. I would accept a dinner invitation from Leatherface and Grandpa before I'd endure the torture of this movie again. Someone needs to stop those people from making anymore TCM sequels. Please. For the love of God. "},{"Title":"I tried...","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really tried to like this film. I loved the first three, and figured any sequel is better than no sequel at all. I'm not too picky. Nothing will ever come close to TCM1, so I just sat back and enjoyed the sequels for the goofy horror films that they were. Tried to do that with this one, but I couldn't do it.Leatherface as a crossdresser seems to be the most controversial topic. I actually thought that this was more true to the the original character that portrayed in the sequels, because he wore a wig and makeup for the dinner sequences in TCM 1. Vilmer was a highlight too.But that script! I just don't get it? What was the deal with that weird guy in the suit? Was he a govt agent, alien, member of the family? Then if you noticed, theres NO cannibalism in the family at all, which doesn't make sense in a TCM film. Rene Zellweger didn't seem to be particularly afraid or in any hurry to get away.I don't even remember if anyone got killed with a chainsaw at all in this movie. Lets see Run over by a car, lit on fire, clubbed over the head, nope. I don't think anyone got the saw. Which shows how horrible this film really is to it's premise. No chainsaw killings in a film titled Texas CHAINSAW Massacre??? That's like, having the title but not having it take place in TEXAS.I really tried to like this film, but couldn't. I gave it a couple of chances, hoping it might be better the second time around or improve with age (Part 3 certainly has) It was awful, and even it's few good scenes don't make it worth watching even once. It's obvious Hooper was the reason TCM1 was as great as it was, not Henkel.  "},{"Title":"A must see pice of sh@#","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so bad, that if I was ever to watch a movie that is any worse, and makes less sence, it would probably kill me.  My small brain cannot comprehend how such a horrible movie could possible be made, especially with such good stars as Renee and Matthew.  I am shocked that such a horrible movie is allowed to be seen by anyone, especially on Premium Television. I know HBO isn't what it used to be, but this movie is far below the standards that premium television, and free TV alike should maintain.  I did, however enjoy watching this movie only because I'm board, and can't sleep.  After seeing this movie, I am amazed at the thought that just maybe, this is not actually the worst movie in the world, and somewhere out there, someone made a movie that made even less sence than this one.  Or maybe I just need to watch more horror movies and this one will make more sence.  After all, this is the first horror movie I saw since I was 10. Thank you to anyone who cared enough to read my thoughts on this horrible movie. "},{"Title":"Well at least they're sticking to the story!","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike other sequals this does stick to the original. Why? cause it's dumb! and it sucks! Just like 1 & 2, I've yet to see part 3 but I'm sure it's dumb too. These movies would be so much better if Leatherface just killed and didn't have a stupid family to boss him around it just makes no sense. Despite their being teenage characters again there's no real nudity or sex so there's absolutely no reason to see this heh, unless you're a fan of Matthew or Renee. The acting is pretty poor but it doesn't matter since there's absolutely no plot. I see they're re-doing the original for next year, let's just hope it's better than the originals, 2/10 "},{"Title":"Hilariously and Ridiculously Atrocious","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being somewhat of a movie fan in general when I saw this video on offer I thought I may as well buy it! I'd seen one of the preceding films and decided that it may be similarly funnily bad. I was wrong. Any preconceptions about just how bad this film was going to be went straight out of the window after watching it.I'm not a particularly picky person, and it's quite difficult to find a film I don't like. But this film, however, is so amazingly bad it is my second least favourite movie ever (second only to 'Witchhouse').I think part of the reason I didn't like the film was the fact there was no storyline. Or any storyline there was, was hidden in a cloud of confusing abstract murder. There was no motive. There was no structure. It was simply a family on a bizarre(but entertainingly bad) rampage.What I think was particularly bad about the film was the casting. Matthew McConaughey played the psychopathic character frighteningly well (although sadistically enough I still found him attractive!?!?!) but Renee Zellweger was such a bad cast choice. Do they really expect me to believe someone in such desperate need of a sandwich and a couple of feet in height would be able to fight off a whole Chainsaw wielding, murderous family? Not only that, but her actual acting, in my opinion, was far from solid. She was unconvincing, possibly simply because of her on screen appearance (mouselike) and not in one scene did she show what I would view as 'genuine' emotion. I know it's only acting, but isn't the point that we believe whats happening?Anyway! Aside from bad acting by some, a bad plot, a bad script and general confusion (what happened to the boyfriend who got hit over the head in the bathroom, did he die, was he unconscious etc.) I actually enjoyed watching this film. I enjoyed the idea that a film this bad could be written, someone would be stupid enough to direct it and that two of Hollywood's elite would actually star in it. I liked that I could spend 90 minutes laughing at something which was supposed to be a 'horror film' and I liked that for a brief moment I felt mentally superior. If someone that stupid can write a script for a Hollywood movie God knows what I'm capable of!!!My general summary- watch and enjoy. You will laugh, you will cry with laughter and, even though I'm sure you're not supposed to, you will at times be so overcome with laughter that it will be difficult to contain yourself.The best comedy of our time. "},{"Title":"What have they done to your good name.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is the fourth and worst installment in the series although, it was written and directed by co-writer of the original Kim Henkel.  He succeeds in turning Leatherface into a transvestite and total wuss.  What happend to the fact that the family are cannibals?  Here they're eating pizza for God sake.  McConaughey's campy performance is the only thing worth watching in this mess.  Let's hope someone makes a real sequel soon or put the family to rest forever, sequels have almost killed the name of the greatest horror film of all time. "},{"Title":"It's good, bad and very, very ugly.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Good The film resembles scenes from the 1st installmentBad Odd scenes are in this film, like that guy licking R. Zellwegers face, what's with that guy anyway?Ugly The plot, acting, screenplay... um... everything, nearly! "}{"Title":"The only reason this movie got a one is because we can't go negative.....","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was truly aweful. I think the sadest part about this entire ill concievied and slightly deranged movie is the fact that it has a band of highly dedicated follows who feel it is the greatest of all the Chainsaw films. It's not, it's garbage. I'm a big fan of all the Chainsaw movies but this one, but even a true fan has to agree that all the movies have the same basic plot. No where in the series is that more apperhant then in this one. The actors should be ashamed of themselfs. Avoid this movie at all cost. That is all....  "},{"Title":"What a EMBARRASSMENT!!!!!","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is nothing like the original which in it's time was one of the most scariest movies I've seen. This movie does nothing but tries to use the movie title to make a quick buck. Totally stupid and a big embarrassment. I hope they now will let the Texas Chainsaw Massacre rest in peace after this movie. "},{"Title":"Wha...........?","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like bad movies, I'll admit that, but even I have to draw the line somewhere.  Not to say this movie is a total washout, because Matthew McConaughey does a great job as Vilmer, very convincing and tough.  The rest just didn't gel...AT ALL!  What happened to the CHAINSAW MASSACRES??  I really didn't get the government thing, just made the movie bogged down even more than Circuitry Man, and that's an insult.  Still, worth another look in my book, but just to hope I was dreaming when I watched this movie.  Jacks, don't quit your dayjob, but quit the screwjob of Leatherface!  "},{"Title":"Weak, even for a 4th in a horror series","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Lame 'sort-of sequel' to the other TCM movies.  Only Leatherface returns, the rest of the family is brand new.  Must be like the replacement cousins on the Dukes of Hazzard ... any southern family has replacement cousins it can throw to.  This time out cousin Leather wears women's clothing and makeup along with their skin.Although this story is thin even for a horror movie, I thought Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey both turned in good performances, for what this movie was.  It pretty much becomes a one-on-one between them with all the other characters chasing each other around in the background.  McConaughey seems the only one who understands what an absurd movie he is in, hamming up scenes with his malfunctioning remote-controlled mechanical leg brace.  He also gets a comic scene explaining why the FBI hires crazy hicks to go around cannibalizing stranded tourists.  Zellweger is a strong lead proving that she can kick ass with the best of them ... if only she was in a better movie.The rest of the characters are just put there to kill or be killed.  Except for one chick just stuck in to show off her breasts.  It's like the filmmaker's said ... Uh Carl, nobody gets killed in act two.  Better write in a boob scene.If you like the two stars you might want to watch this movie, setting your expectations sufficiently low.  Otherwise don't bother ... even for a fourth in the series it's weak. "},{"Title":"Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Return, trashy to say the least!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Return has to be one of the worst pieces of film I have ever witnessed. With a horrible script that attempts to be original and lousy acting by all involved(worst of all is the unscary Leather Face that makes you want to knock him out by the end of the movie instead of run in fear from him)this film actually leaves you with a trashy feeling after you watch it. This thing is very cheap and does no respect to the excellent original Texas Chainsaw Massacre. This movie is truly horrible! The main point(if there is one)of this movie is about some high school teens that conveniently get lost on some back roads after leaving the prom and then crash into another car while driving in the night. From there it goes all down hill as the teens stumble onto the house inhabited by the chainsaw family and are chased and beaten and stabbed but still manage to mumble their meaningless lines as the movie drags on for over an hour and a half. The plot then takes a  turn from bad to horrible as we find out that the United States government is running tests on fear and using the family to do the dirty work. I do not recommend this film at all and warn anyone interested to stay away and not even rent it just for fun. I give this film two thumbs way down. HORRIBLE! Rated R for Language, Brief Nudity, Violence/Gore, and disturbing images. "},{"Title":"don't waste your time. . .you've been warned","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I like to think of myself as a huge fan of horror--mostly gore/splatter films, but I can sit through a lot of stuff, even lame slasher flicks. This installment of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is, without a doubt, utterly PATHETIC. From beginning to end, it MAKES NO SENSE! And Robert Jacks' Leatherface really sucks. I mean, it doesn't take a genius to play the part, but this guy just didn't cut it (no pun intended). It should be an obvious sign that this movie stinks if Gunnar Hansen didn't want to reprise his role as good ol' Leatherface. Who can blame the guy, though? The script must've mortified him! To top it all off, the amount of people who die can be counted on one hand. When I watch a horror movie, I want to see massacres of immense proportion, not a measly three or four murders. Besides all that, there's zero gore and pretty much no blood. Bah, what a disgrace.  "},{"Title":"What did I just watch? Was that a movie?","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After sitting through this movie I only have one thing to say What?  How could a human being actually write this piece of trash?  I can only hope that there is something more to the story than a mindless mishmash of gore and lame jokes.  Despite the confusing plot(if you can call it a plot) there were some entertaining parts to this movie.  Just not enough that I would ever watch it again. "},{"Title":"Danger, Will Robinson, Danger!","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was awful. I'm sad to see something Tobe Hooper instituted as a cult classic has turned into a pile of s***. There were some decent acting performances, Zellweger in particular, but for the most part the movie had nothing else, no continuity, no fear, and no adherence to the first movie except for the location, the chainsaw, the meat hook and the freezer.The worst part was the acting of Leatherface. The first Massacre, Leatherface was INTIMIDATING. He could scare without the chainsaw and he growled, moaned and roared, not squeaked like a little p****. The rest of the story was.... what am I saying there was no story. There was some semblance of a story. Here, it's just using the name to get people into theaters and parting fools and their money.  I got no explanation for the remote control leg, where the H*** did that come from? If I had to choose between having painful dental work being done or seeing this movie again, I would opt for the root canal. Please, unless you really have a desire to see this movie, fight it and watch something else.    1 1/2 out of 10  "},{"Title":"I prefer to puke upwards before watching this movie again !","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Change the channel! Turn off the TV! Run! Kill me!Those were part of the things I told to myself (obviously I was alone, cause nobody could stand in front of the TV looking at this movie more than 15 minutes) while watching this fu***** film! (Oh yeah, I stayed until the end - I deserve a price for my sacrifice).Worse, Worst. A real disaster. I saw a lot of b-class movies and I think the worst one of them deserves an Oscar in comparison with this cr** (and is not a B-class one). I can´t even consider this a film. I think it´s with my top 5 worst movies ever. Not even Renee saves it.Can´t understand people defending this film, it gives you no arguments to do so (not even one). I really tried to watch the movie knowing that it could be very bad, but this is beyond any critic I or anybody can do (I´m feeling a very big stupid commenting on it).Worst film in years and what I´m really sure is that is far the worst horror or horror/comedy one ever.I rate this movie with a 2 out of 10 (There is always something lower!)       "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever had the utter misfortune to sit through","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  And that is saying A LOT. I have seen over 500 horror films, and this is probably one of the three worst. Just one of the worst movies I've ever seen in general, and this is coming from someone who has sat through godawful crap like 8 Heads In a Duffel Bag, Mafia, The Men's Club, and many more. I went to rent 3 movies the other day, I picked Videodrome, Drugstore Cowboy, then went momentarily insane and picked this. I should have quit while I was ahead. No, I should have taken the rental money, bought a bumch of nails, and spent 90 minutes pounding them into my skull instead, as it would have been far more pleasant, soothing, and less painful. I saw TCM 1, 2, and 3. It would be insulting to even begin to compare the original with this, so I'm not gonna try (though the main survivor in that, the woman who gets away in the last scene, has an unbilled cameo in this). TCM 2 was great. TCM 3 was lame but this made it look like Goodfellas in comparison! The plot involves 2 couples on prom night who run into Leatherface and his family. Why was it so bad? Well, let's see. 1. Leatherface and other villians simply wander casually into camera range to make their entrance with no pretense at any kind of suspense or buildup. 2. Extraordinarily bad acting, even for a B-horror flick, even from Renee Zellweger and McConaughey.  3. They must have spent their entire FX budget on a shot of a rotting corpse in a bathtub, because there is NO gore at all, not even blood, even when someone gets hit in the head with an axe. There's a scene where M Mc M runs over some kid--after he's been chasing him in his tow truck, and the dumb kid just runs ahead of him the whole time, like in a road-runner cartoon, when he could have easily gone into the woods and escaped--and all you see is a shot of McM sitting in the cab of the truck, backing over him and going yeeehaw! about 20 times. No body, no nothing. Not even a sound when he runs over him. 4. victims are unusually stupid, even for a horror movie. Yeah, I know they're supposed to do stupid stuff and end up getting killed, but this went so far I wanted to slap the screenwriter (if there was one--most of it seems improvised). Characters on the run from killers hide in houses to escape and DO NOT EVEN CLOSE THE D*MN DOOR. There's the obligatory TCM scene where the victim is forced to sit at the dinner table with the rest of the cannibalistic family while they torment her, but in this case she is not tied to the chair--all she had to do was get up and stroll out. It gets to the point where even a viewer with a speed-limit IQ would have their intelligence insulted by this. 5. Leatherface has been turned into a whining, wimpy cross-dresser who is scared of everyone else in his family. Those are just the reasons I can think of off the top of my head. In fact, I'm getting all worked up again over how amazingly idiotic and insulting this movie was just writing about it. AVOID AT ALL COSTS. Do not pay to rent this movie. Do not even sit through this movie if someone pays YOU to watch it. And this isn't one of those 'so bad it's good' movies that are fun to laugh at, either. Don't rent it just to see how bad it is--if you do, you'll hate yourself after sitting through 3 minutes of it. Trust me on this, please. "}{"Title":"What a piece of GARBAGE!","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If anyone can honestly tell me they liked this movie, they obviously have not seen the first three. In fact they probably haven't seen a good movie period. In fact they probably crawled out from underneath some rock. HELLO!!! This was horrible!!!How can someone destroy the image of one of the greatest horror movies of all time, the original, and add a sequel that sucks so bad? I rented this picture because I wanted to see the last one, I am glad that it is over. The first was excellent, the second was good, the third didn't make any sense, (Who were those people and what did they have to do with Leatherface?), and this one just was a piece of trash.At the beginning, it seemed like this was going to be an okay flick. It started out suspenseful, but 20 minutes into it, the movie turned into garbage. And since when did Leatherface turn into a cross-dresser? I am sure all involved were sorry they made this film.  "},{"Title":"Bad, Very Bad.","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Texas Chainsaw Massacre was a classic of the slasher genre. t.c.m 2 was bad, but Dennis Hopper was in it. 3 was  worse but it had quite a high budget and, er well, not much else. Just when you thought it couldn't get any worse they made 'The return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre'.  This is quite possibly one of the worst movies ever made. The acting (from then unknown Matthew McConaghy and Renee Zellweger) is appalling and the whole film feels as if its missing about 20 mins of plot. This movie was definitely sold on its title.  One to watch if only for the fact that it's so bad. Oh yeah, its not even violent but it still banned in Britain (along with the rest of them). "},{"Title":"This one sucks!","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The original Texas Chainsaw Massacre is tenfold better than this pathetic sequel. This is a cheap imitation of the original storyline, with a lot of nonsense and a bad script too.  "},{"Title":"The series continues to diminish in quality.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Before I start, I'll say that TCM 2 is banned in Australia. I have managed to get hold of it and I can sincerely say that the sad effort that is part 4 deserves to be banned a whole lot more than sequel no. 1 not only because it is a terribly stupid and bad movie but because the cruelty to women is worse than TCM 2, and that's what got it banned! I believe the censors may be more demented than our friend Leatherface, who in this installment is laughable! Take us back to the good, relatively bigger budget effects of the 2nd one please? And if another TCM movie is made, keep Kim Henkel away from it and bring back the master - Tobe Hooper. "},{"Title":"If only I could vote a 0","Date":"16 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is really beyond belief. And to think that Zellwegger and McConaughy are now stars... I guess miracles do happen...  "},{"Title":"Not all sequels suck...this one, however, does.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who has seen the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre knows that this film does not even compare. True, this film is horrible and the blood and massacre scenes are more funny than scary, but that's probably the most entertaining part. By the way, do any of you recognize the chick cop at Bud's Pizza? "},{"Title":"I can't believe I watched the whole thing.","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I also can't believe I'm wasting anymore time on the piece of garbage by writing about it.  When this movie was over I wanted two hours of my life back to watch something more worthwhile.  The ending they came up with turned a sub-par, mostly bloodless splatter flick into a confusing, unsatisfying mess.  As a screen monster, Leatherface comes off as simply pathetic.  I can only hope that some of you can be spared from trying to watch this. "},{"Title":"The worst in the series. What were the stars thinking?","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  One day I rented this film and thought it would be cool! I never seen the other ones first, but after watching this, I think I should have!-First of all, there's no scares at all like in the first one-The murder scenes have no shock in them-It's confusing-Nothing makes sense-It wastes good stars-In other words, it's the worst in the TCM series!Hopefully the next in the series, is alot better! *1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"No wonder it was delayed for a long time","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am truly a fan of the TCM films even if they are bizarre, but this one makes them look like the Psycho movies! Through the whole film I was like What's going on here? Hopefully the next TCM film would kick this movie in the behind!  "},{"Title":"what was Kim Henkel thinking?","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This was written by Kim Henkel, one of the writers for part 1. But, it's obvious had Henkel written the first without Tobe Hooper, it woulda been bad too. Maybe when Tobe Hooper makes part 5, he'll keep Henkel away from the project. The family ate pizza? The leader was a robot? Leatherface screaming like a baby? His mask being a solid piece of brown rubber? WTH? And I know the dinner scene woman suit was based on Ed Gien entirely, but the series wasn't meant to portray Ed Gien, it was loosely based on Gien. Maybe if Tobe Hooper had done this one( I hear it was done against his permission), it woulda been close to good. "}{"Title":"Piece of Garbage","Date":"12 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst pieces of crap I have ever seen.  I saw  this movie in a theatre, and when it was over, the audience BOOED it!!  They really need to give up on the Texas Chainsaw sequels, because it's getting really sad. "},{"Title":"The Textbook Definition of How Not to make a Movie.","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I watched Texas Chainsaw Massacre the Next Generation was something akin to a deer being stuck in the headlights of an oncoming car. I knew I should not be watching this waste of valuable film that could be used for a more valuable purpose such as being over-exposed and then thrown away.  However, there is a perverse sense of joy that one gets by watching the absolute dregs of the artistic community wallow through the painful 90 minutes of this movie.  It seems to re-affirm that maybe a group of us should get together and raise 25 to 30 dollars and make a better movie than Texas Chainsaw Massacre . . .  I mean, anybody with working knowledge of a motion picture camera and two friends could put together a more interesting story and better dialogue than some of the classic zingers of Kim. Although, the screenwriter wanted us all to know that they owned a quotebook it takes more than just regurgitating Ulysses S. Grant to bring a sense of intelligence to a film.  The only redeeming quality of this tragic mess of a movie is that it does have a crescendo effect of stupidity.  Yes, when you didn't think it was possible for the movie to become anymore inane, here comes a guy in a limo to spout some baseless spiritual garbage about the whole thing being a spiritual experience.  The same can not be said about this movie.  If there is one event in this movie that just isn't simply retarded, then it must have been left on the cutting room floor of the editing room, because from the first moment when the actress in the red dress starts having some form of spasm while pointing out the faults of the chaperone to the cameo by the star of the original Texas Chainsaw movie. No, I take that back.  There is one poignant moment in the film. It's not the part where Matt takes the gun from Renee or even when they battle of the remote control for his leg.  No, it's the point where the police officer talking to Renee says, What's going on around here?  After 90 minutes of being submersed in lowest form of entertainment you will also being muttering to yourself, Yeah, what's going on around here?  Okay, run this by me one more time, somebody actually financed this viral infection of the cinema.   "},{"Title":"THE WORST MOVIE EVER, and I'm not just saying that.","Date":"25 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How anyone in their right mind could say that this movie is good is completely beyond me.The title sort of implies that a chainsaw will be used, but hey! Texas CHAINSAW Massacre TNG has about 10-seconds worth of chainsaw action, and in that short amount of time, no one even comes near to being harmed by a chainsaw.Movies this c*** make me look forward to staring at blank walls, possibly butting my head against them repeatedly.I am curious about one thing, though - that Renee Zellweger, at the end, she sees someone at the hospital, looks like a zombie. Who the heck is that supposed to be????? "},{"Title":"Absolutely the worst sequel or remake to any film I have ever seen!","Date":"19 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can't beleive how bad this film is.  It makes Weekend at Bernie's II look like Citizen Kane!  It was boring, and it didn't make any sense.  And this is supposed to be a remake of the original!  If you want to see a good Chainsaw film watch the first one.  Actually, any of the other sequels are better too.  I just hope the new 25th anniversary one, Texas Chainsaw Massacre Tx25 coming out in 1999, isn't this bad.  Then again, I don't think anything could be this bad.  "},{"Title":"A 1 is way too good, this would be well in the negatives","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Where do you begin when a movie is this incredibly awful?  This script was so incoherent that to say it was written by an animal would be an insult to the intelligence of whatever animal you chose to pick on.  Nothing about this movie made any sense or went anywhere.  It was so bad that they didn't even bother trying to offer even the slightest bit of an explanation so the movie would have some semblance of closure.  It began, bizarre things happened for reasons I doubt even the writer could explain, then it ended, perhaps because they couldn't afford any more film or something.  You know things are beyond awful when one of the big highlights of the movie is that the music by some no name band sounded half decent in the background. McConaughey is a very good actor.  He seemed Godlike here perhaps because he was truly excellent or perhaps because everything else was so awful that a good performance would seem worthy of one of those bogus awards that never go to the right people. Be smart and don't subject yourself to this cruel and incredibly unusual punishment.   "},{"Title":"Worst Picture","Date":"11 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Texas Chainsaw Massacre worked once, but it wouldn't work again. This is the worse horror movie I have ever seen. It didn't worked for the second time, not even the third time. Why would it work for the fourth time? The problem is that some directors are only doing this job because they think that some day, they will win an Academy Award, a Golden Globe or any other prize. If they work only for that, they will get nothing. It makes me go down when I know that a dumb movie is about to come. Most of all, the sequels. I only saw few sequels that worked. I'm gonna name three The Godfather part II and III, Indiana Jones and Star Wars. Beside those and some others, no sequel has ever worked.  "},{"Title":"Plan 9 from outer space - move over you've got company ...","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" To make it easy for everyone to understand I will make this quite simple. I'd rather watch Plan 9 from outer space or the entire police academy series than this movie ever again.  It was that bad! "},{"Title":"A Film to Kill...","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was very disappointed with the film for two reasons. One, was the fact that it did not have any feel from the previous Massacre movies. The other was the lack of visible talent from two actors, who have shown an immense amount of talent in recent years, Matthew McConaughey and Renee Zellweger. If you do decide to watch this movie, do so only with intentions of being able to say you saw it. It will really make you appreciate the recent success of McConaughey and Zellweger.  "},{"Title":"this movie was written by a monkey? or was it a donkey?","Date":"21 August 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you have seen any of the 'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' -saga movies, don't see this one. This movie can be described with two words garbage and rip -off. First of all, it has nothing to do with the original 'Texas Chainsaw' -movies except for the chainsaw and the crazy family. Second, the screenplay must have been written by a monkey, because the whole story is so naive and twisted comparing to the other 'Texas Chainsaw'-films. This film could be the new dawn of trash movies. Hopefully not. "},{"Title":"It's a Shame","Date":"13 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I picked this film up for $3, and I still feel that I unfortunately overpaid. The release was excellent, with both fullscreen and widescreen, trailers, and so forth. The transfer was well-done. And release merits aside, there were decent production values and some good ideas. But that's where it becomes such a shame.There was such attention given to a DVD that really didn't deserve anything but to be shoved out without so much as a thought. Even the insert has a model who looks very different to the Leatherface actor from the film, in a completely different mask and outfit -- what's the story there? We don't care.Ultimately the film is a disaster from beginning to end, in more ways than one. Renee Zellweger and Tonie Perensky are really the only two that do anything close to acting, and they're so poorly-directed that they're not allowed to do anything with their characters. The rest of the cast are so amazingly disposable and useless that they never manage anything but taking up scenery; not a single character sticks in the mind in a positive or sympathetic way (the aforementioned included), but worst of all is Matthew McConaughey's annoying and incoherent role. Every moment he's on the screen is another moment of grating repulsion at the fact that his performance is so terrible. It's even more tragic when one realises that he's not a bad actor, it's just that he's not trying...not that most people would, given the abysmal script and lacking direction.The film tries to be eerie at times or disturbing, and it fails outright. Unfortunately more's the pity, since it also completely fails to provide any special effects whatsoever, gore or otherwise. This leads to its most inexcusable affront, and that is the fact that the film is extremely dull and uninteresting. It's not tense or frightening, it's not disturbing or scary, and it's not as thought-provoking as one feels it wanted to be. It's certainly not witty enough to coax forth any laughs, unless you're marvelling at shot of the window that didn't quite break away, which they for some reason left in despite the very next shot being the same window successfully doing so. It's just dull, and there is no excuse for a horror franchise sequel, no matter how far into the series one goes, to be dull. But this one fails on so many levels that it should be a benchmark for what not to do in a sequel.The previous three films in the series each brought something new and different to the story, and although there were good and bad in each, they could ultimately stand with reasonable independent merit. Not so with this one, which relies on the franchise name and iconic character (who incidentally accomplishes absolutely nothing new) to carry it. It's easy to see that there were some good ideas in the writing process of this script, it's just that none of them were developed adequately, and not a single good one made it to what they thought would be a good final revision. This script should have never made it to screen.There are some moments of promise, like the dinner scene, which rapidly go absolutely nowhere. There are setups that do nothing, and ultimately it becomes more frustrating than boring after the tenth or so situation set up and then left with no resolution. This was especially shameful in light of the fact that Zellweger and Perensky had such screen presence and obvious talent -- and we know McConaughey has talent, but you wouldn't know it to watch him here -- but the poor excuse for a script did absolutely nothing with their characters. The direction was also all over the place, and it seemed almost as if the first part of the film were an entirely different piece than the last.It all ends up in an unfulfilling and frankly asinine mess. The ending feels like it had been hastily typed out the day before filming was to finish, and acted out hurriedly, to wrap the film. It gives the impression that they couldn't afford to pay Zellweger for further lines, and it's completely contradictory with her character up to then. Nothing is resolved, nothing is fulfilled, and most damning of all, absolutely nothing is accomplished. This film is an exercise in the most flagrant type of ego masturbation that I have seen in a while, but it's so aimless that one finds it impossible to tell exactly whose ego is being stroked.Certainly not the viewer's, unfortunately. This is a film that crops up at Halloween season, when stores are wanting to sell cheap videos to people picking them up for parties and so forth. This might be a fun once-through when you're so drunk you don't know where you are, but for people watching it even for mild amusement...look elsewhere. This doesn't even manage to give that much. "}{"Title":"Bizarre","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There's a WOMAN chasing her with a chainsaw! Haha. Wow. Just wow.This was a blasphemous abomination. Suffering through this nerve-grinder to only be let down with a wacky, cliffhanger-like ending was enough to make you wanna slap Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey for starring in it. ( Henkel mimics the 1974 original in many ways, with obvious modern updates, trading in the original's sympathetic, likable, and creepy characters for dumber, more over-the-top ones. There is zero suspense or self-awareness....its campiness is relentlessly psychotic and it definitely shows no respect to fans, either. And what the heck was up with the nipple dude?? The only plus is Zellweger, whose transformation in the film was well portrayed. She rarely lets us down. ;) For fans of the series only. "},{"Title":"Kim Henkel, lower your head in shame.","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" For a film thatV was written, directed and produced by the author of the original (Mr Kim Henkel), you'd expect something a little better than this. Firstly, the characters are completely stupid; rather than running away from Leatherface and Co, the victim locks himself in their house! Secondly the acting is terrible, apart from a decent performance from Mathew McConaughey as the electronically-legged Vilmer. Thirdly, despite the words Chainsaw Massacre in the title, there's no chainsaw massacre (nobody actually gets killed with a chainsaw!). Fourthly, the events in the film are either completely random or don't make sense, usually its both. For example, a girl will be placed on a meat hook&#133;she's then seen crawling across a road? What?! And towards the end (A SPOILER FOLLOWS&#133;), Vilmer gets hit for no apparent reason by a random plane, that springs out of nowhere! I don't quite understand what Henkel trying to do with this one, but he's failed miserably. One thing's for sure however, he defiantly wasn't sober when writing or directing this. If he was sober, then he must have dropped the full copy of the script on the way to the studio, picked the pages back up, and then put them in a random order&#133;that's what this film feels like. However, despite what a terrible terrible mess the film is, it's amazingly not all bad. The black humour does work well, and some of the characters are entertaining to watch. Leatherface, despite being far too whiny than menacing, personality wise he's far closer to the original Leatherface's persona than in any other sequel. However, despite these positives, the film is far outnumbered in negatives; it isn't a good sequel, but at least it's to an extent entertaining, unlike Chainsaw 3 which is just boring.Kim Henkel said he wanted to bring the series back to the spirit of the original, but the only spirit was the one he was drinking before he began writing the script. Watchable for the casual audience, but if your fan of the series you'll be very disappointed. "},{"Title":"From Typical Slasher, To Horrifying Torture, To Idiotic Plot Twist","Date":"8 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This sequel to The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is only scary because it is just so f(_)cked up.The good points in this movie lie within the characters particularly the cannibal family as Matthew MaConahagh gives an amazing performance along with everyone else in the family minus Leatherface.The best part of this movie is that the relentless torture is bloodless but more violent and sadistic than any of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre films not to mention very realistic.This movie certainly portrays insanity, cruelty, and disgust to perfection due to the number of scenes where characters are being slapped around, violated, and mocked.The villains tend to always give the victims a glimmer of hope even though they know full well there's no chance of their prey escaping their clutches.The acting in terms of the victims is half good and half bad Renee Zellwegger is fantastic she plays a very helpless but brave young woman, the character who is the typical narcissistic jerk is also a good actor but the ditsy blonde and the very early murdered Shawn are absolutely horrible and you're glad they die.Besides the clichéd characters the meat that holds the bun together in these movies is always and will always be Leatherface but in this movie the actor cannot make Leatherface seem even remotely as scary and scarred as the original played by Gunnar Hansen or the remake's Andrew Bryniarski who at least strike fear into you simply by looking and appearing menacing.This leatherface has a ridiculous mask that looks as if it was made of play doh or thin plaster and really isn't scary or even cool.The worst thing is that this movie is almost an exact double of the first one except with a ton of errors and bad acting.The kill's are all the same as the first film and they even through in the scene where Sally jumps through the window to escape Leatherface cutting through the door.This movie delivered a more warped and bizarre dinner table scene but this dinner scene you knew it was a movie versus the shockingly realistic one that took place in the original Tobe Hooper film.The ending is exactly the same as well minus one little extra scene with Renee Zellwegger in the hospital.The storyline goes from a simple slasher to an unrealistic government conspiracy which i thought was moronic but at least they waited until the last 10 minutes or so to spring that plot twist on us.To sum it up the movie gets a 5 from me 3 points for the scariness, 2 points for most of the acting.The Good -Realistic torture compliments the scariness-The actors portray lunacy and dysfunction perfectly-Good dialogue for the villain charactersThe Bad -Unbelievable overall concept-Repetitive to the point that it seems like a bad remake-Bad make up effects particularly on Leatherface-Plot line wanders aimlessly without explanation-Bad dialogue for the victim characters Overall 5/10 "},{"Title":"It has become an ABOMINATION, laments James Gale as Rothman","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" You see, Rothman had it exactly right, when he complained that Vilmer was not horrifying the ordinary folks the way he was supposed to. Vilmer had become a silly boy, according to Rothman, because he had not frightened Jenny and had let her take control, unlike the way poor Sally Hardesty had been frightened out of her mind in the original. Rothman should have been directing his comments to Kim Henkel, for he is the one who had driven the franchise into this abomination. Alas, what worked well in Return of the Living Dead, the deft combination of horror and satire, falls so flat here that Columbus would sail off the edge. This miserable attempt makes all TCM fans cringe beyond all belief at the embarrassment afforded to that grand horror icon, Leatherface. The general plot outline could have worked in the hands of an able director, and does grant a few genuinely frightening moments near the beginning, and starts out promising. The chase on the rooftop is quite inspired, and Leatherface does seem foreboding early on, but most of that is lost with the ridiculous howling, and the later excessive transvestite behavior. In this regard, the one positive thing about this lame entry is that, by comparison, TCM part 2 is utterly superb and TCM part 3 is a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre meets the Rocky Horror Show","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The trouble with sequels is that they can't leave well alone.This movie is no more than a send up with no fright power whatsoever.It might as well have had a totally different title then it could be said to have been inspired by It comes across as like a dream where nothing makes sense-some guy is knocked down at the beginning and then says I'm all right before he drops dead.It then increases in silliness. Its as if the makers wanted to make the most illogical horror movie but its really an insult to even the intelligence of an idiot. And what the Hell was the point of the Fast Food restaurant!?! The book about the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is where they should have gone-this is supposedly the real account based on investigative journalism which traces the Leatherface character to a shack where he's become obese and speechless. But that would have taken too much intelligence to reconstruct as a movie so this was the easy way out "},{"Title":"Tries for Complexity but Misses the Mark","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've seen very few TCM films that were good. This is actually the first one I ever saw, though, as the choice film for a Halloween party many years ago, randomly picked by a gaggle of middle-school girls. Because of this I tend to compare; I'll watch and dislike another TCM and go Hm. The Next Generation was funnier. Which is really one of the only defenses it has.I'm not even completely certain this film takes place IN Texas like the other ones. The locale is obviously different (while there are some wooded areas in the original, location has always been key, and this place doesn't resemble the original in any way, shape or form; I would actually place this film further northeast).Rewatching it several times and paying close attention, it seems to me that rather than this be the same family (or even one or two members of the returning family, plus some new ones), it's an entirely new one, in a different place. There's no real proof that these people show cannibalistic tendencies like in the first ones (the only thing you see them eat in this movie is pizza. And as the latest film, The Beginning, would suggest, they have alternative sources of food which the originals did not have.) The most I could make out of the conspiracy bit was that someone found a decent smattering of weirdos, threw them in a house together, and basically set this whole situation up to be a copycat of the old 70s murders -- more or less to keep the legend alive. (This is further validated by the fact that when the leader of this charade, after saving Zellweger's character and driving off with her, offers to drop her off at either a hospital or a police station, encouraging her to pass the word along.) With this in mind, I have no qualms with Leatherface showing up in a dress. Why? Because it's obviously not the same one.With that out of the way, seeing this and knowing who figures like Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey are really adds this almost surreal quality to the whole experience. McGonaughey (Vilmer) is positively terrifying at times, and considering his lightning-fast mood-swings, and his constant and aimless acts of violence (even against himself), one has to wonder just what it is that he suffers from mentally. This attitude is likely what got him picked as the leader of this group to begin with, however.Zellweger (Jenny) is almost unrecognizable at the beginning of this film, and the transformation that is attempted for her character almost works. Almost. If there'd been more background given to her, the change from shy geek to toughened victim of circumstance (a transformation that is key in most survival films) would have flown more believably. I have to say I always laugh at loud, though, when she announces she's leaving, and that nobody follows her. Leatherface starts to scream and fly into a rage, to which she responds And YOU sit the **** back down! ...And it works.Funniest horror movie moment, EVER.Short of Darla, Vilmer's girlfriend, all women in this film appear to have a serious problem with running upstairs when they should be going out the door. Zellweger does this twice, in fact. The other main female in the film, Heather, seems to be played up as a parody of all dumb bimbo chicks in movies. She is rude, whiny, badly acted, and constantly talking like she's psychic, but it's played with all the panache of a petulant five year-old.All in all, watch it for the laughs, and to see what Zellweger and McConaughey were doing in their early years. "},{"Title":"Sadomaschistic Trash","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'd rather watch Friday the 13th, Nightmare on Elm Street, Scream, and Carrie than this pile of garbage! Why? You ask? Well this version of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is absolutely dark and disturbing. There is nothing that makes sense in its 80-something minute time span! NOTHING! Tell me something Why would you go into to remote wooded area that is spookier than Ed Gein's basement during Halloween and in dress clothes? But alas, it's classic horror movie murder victim's logic. I can stand the first half hour of the movie or so. I can't stand to watch this cinematic disaster drag on. But I got to admit Reene Zellwegger looks kinds of HOT without her nerd look with her hair down.If you are going to make a horror film put some logic and plot identification so we know just what the bloody hell we're looking at, okay! Nothing pisses me off besides the stupid-ass kids who took a wrong turn into a closed section of highway, than the crazy redneck(played by Matthew McConaghey)with the artificial leg going psycho literally beating the hell out of every woman in the movie, the son-of-a-bitch even sets one of them on fire!Why is this nutty bastard doing this? Why is he this way? If he's that damn paranoid then send his ass to the mental ward, retards! That makes a lot of sense...even in rural Texas!! Everything he says is an excuse to see more gratuitous violence and abuse. Aren't these people supposed by cannibals or something? Because it would've made a better and legitimate horror shockfest if we see the only survivor's(played by a young Renee Zellwegger)friends turned into the main course instead of just battered and set ablaze for no reason This is the worst and most disturbing re-incarnation of a movie I've ever...(emphasis on EVER) seen!!! In fact, this insults the original Tobe Hopper 1974 cult classic! That has some imagination to it, whereas this is a mindless sadistic white-trash snuff film!! "},{"Title":"Bad in a bad way.","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When you consider the sequels and the very loose timeline that came before this one, this movie didn't really screw things up that much. In fact, it's almost (I stress the word almost) a passable, entertaining sequel -- until the ridiculous ending. Kim Henkel, who co-wrote the original TCM returns to write & direct this remake/sequel. Just like TCM 3, this one makes no effort to include events of the previous movie into it's story (except for a very brief mention in the introduction). Four teens get in an offroad accident after the prom and find themselves being hunted by Leatherface, and yet another horde of new family members. The movie moves at a nice speed and the plot takes many predictable turns and characters do extremely dumb things (i.e. a girl is locked in a trunk; driver pulls over at crowded fast-food area. Instead of screaming for help to the dozens of people around, she calmly pleads with her kidnapper I'll be quiet if you poke me an airhole).  Renee Zellweger stars as the mousy heroine (you know the cliche, ugly duckling until she lets her hair down and takes off her glasses) and Matthew McConaughey plays Vilmer, the handicapped leader of the family, whose intents don't appear to be of cannibalistic nature. The movie wasn't released until 1997, three years after production wrapped up -- due to the rising popularity of both of the leads at the time, and it's easy to see why the movie was held back and why a lot of people fought to stop it from being released. Sure, it serves as entertaining horror cheese, but the ending and the complete lack of gore, scares, excitement and logic completely flattens the experience. Kim Henkel should have been able to do better. The recent TCM remake is far superior and just embarrasses this farce. I only recommend this movie if you have seen the previous ones and want to say you saw them all, or if you do drugs. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Worst. Movie. Ever.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Booooooring.SPOILER  (sorry to spoil it, but this movie reeks)I love love love cheesy remakes, low-budget/low-brow, and bad movies in general, but this falls in some no-man's land of neither good, nor bad enough to be cute.First of all, this movie is set in present times, and begins with a voice-over that recaps the original TCM and suggests that we should expect new developments.  But the movie is simply a remake of the original.  And a damn poor one at that.Poorly shot, so poorly acted that at first I thought I was watching a really good farce, completely without tension and completely unnecessary.There is a poorly developed (undeveloped) element of the Family's being tied in with the government.  This might have been interesting if it had been built upon, but it neither explained nor made to seem important.  It just shows up near the end of the movie, really out of place and absurd. Leatherface is a transvestite who wants Renee Zelwegger's face-this has so much potential as comedy and an interesting story, but this feature is left to meander to its boring end along with the rest of this bumbling boring movie. "},{"Title":"'Texas Chainsaw Massacre' remake is why big stars like Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey moved on to bigger and better projects!","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation (1994) Matthew McConaughey, Renee Zellweger, Robert Jacks, Tonie Perensky, Joe Stevens, Lisa Marie Newmyer, D Kim Henkel. Henkel's substandard version of Tobe Hooper's 1974 horror epic is a semi-remake, and not even close to being as interesting or scary where another group of pesky teens get stranded in the country on prom night and `kick the bucket' screaming as they meet Leatherface (now, a scaredy-cat transvestite) and family. Hard going all the way, and abysmal and upsetting. No chainsaws were actually used in the making of this film. Also known as THE RETURN OF THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE. Filmed in 1993 and then shelved for four years.Running Time 94 minutes and rated R for language, graphic violence and torture, and brief nudity. RATING * ½ (out of ****) "}{"Title":"TCM fans don't waste your time or money","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I'm an idiot.  I'll watch *anything* with the words Texas Chainsaw Massacre in the title because of my respect and love for the original. But to quote John Lennon Children, don't do what I have done.What a sad, stupid, miserable little husk of a movie this is.  Please don't waste your time or money on it.  Here's a sequel that manages to get all the little details wrong and all the BIG details wrong, too.  You know you're in trouble when the Sawyer house looks messy rather than menacing and Leatherface looks like the third-runner-up in a drag-queen beauty contest for geriatrics.  (NOTE TO FILMMAKERS when your main monster looks this bad, the solution is to *never* let the audience have a good look at him. Keep him at the edge of the frame or in the background, you nitwits, not front and center!)TCM4 manages to do the impossible it makes the appalling TCM2 look good by comparison.  Nearly everyone has commented on the moronic X-Files subplot already, so I won't bother.  There is NO explanation whatsoever of how Leatherface got involved with this new family.  Who _are_ these people, anyway?The ending makes no sense.  NO SENSE!  It seems specifically designed to enrage moviegoers.  This movie will make you want to pull an Elvis and shoot out the TV screen.This is one of the biggest stinkbombs of all time.  Avoid it. "},{"Title":"Crap wrapped in celluloid","Date":"13 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I love the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre. It's raw tone and the shocking content jarring society! Plus, cannibalism! Can't go wrong with that for a shock. So, I'm a fan. I had been wary of this movie but I rented it. If I had seen this in the theater I would have burned it down and peed on the ashes. The only slightly amusing part deals with Toni Perenski's character Darla who adds a strong, modern woman touch to the often male dominated tribe of cannibals. Her character is like Dixie Carter on crack; a nice performance. Renee Zelwegger slept through her part, obviously bored with this unchallenging role of cannon fodder. Finally, Matthew McConaughey was frightening for a few seconds until he went back to yelling like some inbred goontard. And those two were decent compared to the rest of the cast. And you know what, I don't know their real names, I don't know their characters, and I don't care; you shouldn't either. They simply didn't matter. One person sticks out, though, at complete incompetence. Whoever played Leatherface was a screaming, shrieking moron in a Tim Curry/Dr. Frankenfurter suit. The actor should have had enough reverence to the original that he wouldn't rape Tobe Hooper's original vision as badly as he did. And the director, Kim Henkel, and Hooper are old pals. I would have smacked Henkel. And the plot, tried to go somewhere but didn't. The ending, tried to be cool, but wasn't. Simply a waste of time which actually sucked some of my precious life out of me. If one movie could choke on it's own vomit I would vote for this one. "},{"Title":"How does this film have any relation to the first ones??","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ******Spoilers********not like it matters. Since when does the family do anything for the CIA?Seriously.And whats up with Leatherface's new look???Why in every sequel does an entirely different family live with Leatherface? I mean, Crop Top was cool, but come on...What's so unique about Vilmer anyways?He screams, woooo, thats very scary.Finally, what is the whole deal with that one guys who pulls up in the limo? oh well.Dont rent it, buy it, or even watch it when it comes on T.V. Unless you like being dissapointed every time a classic is ruined by a piece of s!@# sequel like this one.From beginning to end is filled with stupidity, in a bad way...Teens stumble into the house, get hit over the head with hammers, Leatherface doesn't even use his Chainsaw for anything except to chase one girl, and they finish it off with a really cool dance.     Give me a break.... "},{"Title":"Beyond bad","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Return of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is one of the worst if not the worst horror film ever made.Kim Henkel who co-wrote the original with Tobe Hooper serves as the Writer/Director.What the hell was Kim Henkel thinking, did he actually believe this was good? I think you should retire and never make another film as long as you live cause you suck.Robert Jacks who played LeatherFace couldn't scare a 2yr old.I bet Matthew McConaughey and Renne Zellweger never talk about being in this movie.The movie wasn't scary or funny it was pathetic, a sorry excuse for a film.Who in their right mind would give this trash the greenlight?Stick to the original TCM.All copies of this one should be burned.I give The Return of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 0/10 "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Moronic third rehash is, like Part III, more of a remake than a sequel. Kids go out joyriding on their way to the prom and encounter Leatherface and his wacky family of demented cannibals.  Acting isn't bad, but just about everything else is; worthy of note only to see future Hollywood big shots Renee Zelwegger and Matthew Macaugnohy embarrass themselves.  "},{"Title":"A Moviemaking Massacre","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this on cable at 1 a.m. in the morning so towards the end I zoned in and out of consciousness, but anything I missed didn't make a difference; it was confusing from a half-hour in with references to some kind of government/CIA/FBI connection never explained.Anyways, I give it a 2 out of 10 rating. The only reason I bump it up from a 1 is the fun of seeing Matthew McConaughey torture Renee Zellwegger for an hour. Matthew's charismatic presence is the only thing this movie has going for it, though I found his girlfriend rather attractive and interesting in her routine acceptance of this family as being normal. There is some overlap with the original but that 1974 film was very frightening because of its low-budget documentary style (was it black and white?, I can't remember). I didn't see any reference to cannibalism in this one; they eat pizza here.One continuity glitch In a homage to the original, a female character is hung up on a meathook alive and we hear the hook go into her back. However, 20 minutes later she is still alive and lying on her stomach in the road and we see that the skin on her back has no marks or insertion points at all. A terrible oversight and sloppy filmmaking.   "},{"Title":".....Leatherface has a mullet...what the hell?","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre isn't all that great when you think about it. I have only seen the first Massacre film, and this one, and out of the two, I pick the first film. Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is almost completely different from the first movie. The make-up effects look utterly horrible, and bland. Leatherface's face looks like a pile of crap, the story is cheaply done, and the acting was below average. Some of the characters in this film are so cheesy, you would just laugh. For instance, one family member from Leatherface's family has a ROBOTIC LEG, that is so stupid, that kind of material doesn't belong in  Massacre film. Like I said, the acting was below normal. That young teen who was being chased with a car did a really sh***y ass job. One of his lines were Please mister, your scaring me. That was a crap line. Avoid this movie. It sucks. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Chainsaw? Check. Texas? Check. Massacre? Nope.","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was written and directed by the co-writer of the original movie, Kim Henkel. So I expected this movie to be at least half as good as the first one, but sadly it is just a bad movie.Henkel remade some scenes from the original movie, but did none of them any better. All the good bits from this movie were already done better in the first movie. The absence of blood maybe satisfied the BBFC and the MPAA, but was a real slap in the face for the fans of the first movie. Why would anyone want to see this blood-free movie when the gorey and bloody original movie is available? A sequel must break new ground to justify its existence, not paddle backward.The most outrageous thing that really p****d me off was the fact that in this movie there is NO chainsaw massacre. The bodycount is very low and no one is either killed or wounded by a chainsaw.The previous movies in the series were really bloody and inventive, and therefore shocking. This movie is like Chainsaw-light or The Texas Chainsaw Massacre for dummies. A real shame.Even good actors like Renée Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey can't save this movie. Zellweger's performance felt fake as hell and McConaughey's psycho also seemed fake and over the top.Yet another problem is the lack of realism. Zellweger's character jumps from panicky mode to action hero mode to can't-really-act-scared mode. McConaughey's character cuts himself with his knife, but doesn't seem to bleed at all except for a thin strip of blood.All in all, you can watch this movie. If you are a big fan of the series you will feel compelled to. Just don't do the mistake I did and buy it. It is simply a bad bad movie.  "},{"Title":"Truly so bad it's good!","Date":"28 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" There comes a time very soon into the film that you think the film is crap and it couldn't get any worse. Then 20 minutes later you realize that it's gotten much worse. Then 20 minutes after that you're staring in fascination at just how craptastic the movie actually is. But what I came to realize at the end is that I was fascinated from beginning to end. I actually couldn't turn away. Maybe it was for all the wrong reasons, but the who cares. I was entertained from beginning to end.I'm also inclined to believe the writers/directors did this intentionally to give the film a cult/campy feel. If they did, well I'm impressed. This film won't be appreciated by the mainstream. It's way too off. But it's one of those films whose acting, storyline, and EVERYTHING else is so damn bad, that it's fascinating in a way. I saw it for the first time over 10 years ago and I never forgot just how trashy and tacky the film was. That in itself says something.Go into it with an open mind. If you're expecting quality, don't even bother. If you want something offbeat and quirky, if you're looking for something campy, this is the film for you. Immediately after viewing it, you might think it's one of the worst films you've ever seen. But give it a while. The comedy aspect that is derived from it's trashiness is reason enough to give it a shot.So terrible, but then again..it's literally terribly good! "},{"Title":"Worst Horror, Good Comedy","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I give this film a 5/10 simply because it was good not as a horror though as a comedy this film just made me laugh I'm actually surprised that Renée Zellweger put her name to such a film this film had no story except the usual teenagers car broke down in the middle of nowhere at night and some weirdo that i couldn't tell weather it was a man or woman emerges from nowhere killing them of and running around with a chainsaw screaming. There was no gore as such or nothing even scary honestly i would rate this film PG not 18 if you want a laugh at a poorly made horror film I would recommend this but if you want to watch a horror i wouldn't recommend watching this. "}{"Title":"Zellweger's agent must be able to urinate champagne","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" People have criticised the 2003 remake of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre as being a weak film compared to its ancestor. Those who have defended it say, among other things, that compared to The Return Of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, it is a masterpiece. This argument is invalidated by the fact that compared to The Return Of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, ninety-five minutes of Anna Paquin burping and farting in tune should be considered a masterpiece. In case I haven't made it clear yet, my comments refer to the 1997 reissued cut.Have you ever encountered a story, a film, or some other piece of art that is so utterly stupid it is brilliant? The Return Of The Texas Chainsaw is so stupid it becomes brilliant then painful within minutes of each other. A film critic once wrote that the lengthier a title is, the worse the film will often be. He also wrote that when a film changes title for a rerelease or international release, that is a bad sign. This film has had two titles, these being The Return Of The Texas Chainsaw and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation. If the length of these two titles doesn't set off alarm bells, then the list of plot stupidities in this film will.I won't go into every idiotic point of this film. My personal favourite is the hick with a mechanically-enhanced leg that can be controlled by remote. Yes, you read that right. Zellweger's character defeats him by stealing his remote and making his leg thrash about. Yes, you read that right, too. One of the other victims is put up on a hook that goes through the back of her shoulder. Mere hours in the continuity of the film pass by before she is found crawling on a dirt road. Then a millionaire comes by, and it is revealed that this millionaire is paying the family to behave in this manner, for reasons that are not even given a pretense of explanation.Mind you, those are just the stand-out examples of the film's idiocy. What Tobe Hooper brought to the original TCM was apparently things like plot cohesion, or even characters doing things that make sense. The only reason to watch this cinematic abortion, put simply, is to see big-name stars at their lowest point. Zellweger and McConaughey, quite simply, must have agents whose farts smell like Chanel No. 5, and whose urine tastes like champagne. James Gale sums it up best This...all of this...it's been an abomination. You really must accept my sincere apologies. It was supposed to be a spiritual experience. I can't tell you how disappointed I am. I think he was inserted as a proxy for Kim Henkel.If I had to give The Return Of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre a score, it would be a big one out of ten. It excels alright, at failure. Like Howling New Moon Rising, it proves that no matter how low a franchise sinks, there is always somewhere lower it can go. People who thought Friday The 13th Part VIII or Freddy's Dead were rock bottom have absolutely no idea. "},{"Title":"Terrible Sequel","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is the third sequel to the 1974 horror classic The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, and is probably of most interest for showcasing early appearances from future Hollywood stars Matthew McConaughey and Renee Zellweger.Written and directed by the producer and co-writer of the original, Kim Henkel, this is film is essentially a retread of the first. Four Texan teenagers, heading back from their senior prom, are involved in a car crash, in the middle of nowhere (but only minutes away from their school, seemingly) and are attacked by a family of sadistic cannibals, led by Vilmer (McConaughey), who has a mechanical, remote controlled leg.The film falls down on many levels, for one thing the kids are so endlessly irritating they deserve everything they get, the movie has many inconsistencies (I don't know whether or not this might be due to heavy cutting) and there is a bizarre, drawn-out conclusion.The main saving grace is a hilariously over-the-top performance from McConaughey. In fact the whole thing works better as a kind of demented screwball comedy, rather than a true horror film. "},{"Title":"Totally bonkers, and surprisingly watchable.","Date":"13 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The fourth film in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre series, The Next Generation, receives a lot of flack from many fans of all things Leatherface, but although I can appreciate why (it rarely takes matters seriously and doesn't make much sense), I still manage to get a kick out of the movie. Writer/director Kim Henkel's totally bonkers style, the chaotic storyline, and gleeful over-acting from almost everyone involved ensures that, although it might not be 'classic' Chainsaw, part four can still be plenty of fun!A pre-fame Renée Zellweger plays nerdy teenager Jenny (apparantly, wearing a pair of glasses magically transforms her instantly from hot Hollywood starlet to frumpy geek), one of a group of teenagers who become stranded in the Texas woods after a car crash and fall prey to a clan of cannibals (led by Vilmer, a psycho with a remote-controlled leg, played enthusiastically by rising star Matthew McConaughey).Watching The Next Generation expecting anything remotely resembling logic or narrative cohesion is a completely pointless exercise, 'cos there isn't any; the best approach to take with Henkel's crazy concoction is to just go with the flow&#151;revel in its sheer lunacy, bask in its stupidity, but never question what is happening or why. That way, transvestite Leatherface won't come as such a shock, the Illuminati-style millionaire with belly piercings won't keep you awake at night questioning his relevance, and sudden attacks from airplanes will seem perfectly reasonable. "},{"Title":"Texas Chainsaw The Next Generation","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" After senior prom, four Texan teenagers go out on a road trip, which eventually leads to a car crash in a rural back-road area. It isn't long until they find out they are being toyed with by a degenerate, crazy family with cannibalistic roots and chainsaw wielding tendencies. When first viewing TCM The Next Generation with no prior knowledge of the film, it's hard to believe how bad the movie would end up being. It's obvious when watching the opening five minutes that the film worked with an extremely low budget for a big-named sequel and a first time director. The film is filled with pointless dialogue and head-scratching scenes that don't belong at any point. There isn't any chainsaw related deaths and very few chainsaw scenes in general. Not to mention, they made Leatherface into an unlikable sissy figure from the traditional menacing maniac that he should be. The film isn't completely trash though because there are a few times that are pretty laughable, and it can be entertaining to watch on the standpoint of it being a really bad movie. If the viewer can get past the terrible acting and writing, then give Next Generation a shot. Especially, if the viewer is a fan of Matthew McConaughey or Renee Zellweger, being Next Generation is one of their first films and they are the stars of the movie. It really isn't necessary to search out this film after watching the original trilogy and looking to move on to the newer modern day Texas Chainsaw films. Yes, Next Generation is that bad&#x85; "},{"Title":"Texas Chainsaw Travesty","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge fan of horror. I'm the sort of viewer that tracks down obscure movies that most people have never heard about before. In all of my travels through the world of horror, my absolute favorite film still remains THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE. So, it is with some embarrassment that I admit I am also a big fan of the sequels. As a horror fan, you have to generally accept that sequels are rarely good and never match up to the original. The further into a series you get, the lower the quality generally continues to drop. Generally, these movies can make up for it somewhat by upping the body count or going way over the top in the plot lines.I say all of this to acknowledge that I love the Chainsaw series. I own this movie on DVD. I know that horror sequels are usually bad. Yet, this movie is REALLY BAD. I mean, it makes other horror sequels look good in comparison. There is really nothing redeeming about this movie that I can even say, it's bad but..No, it's just bad.We can start with the obvious horror fan complaint that the body count is pretty low in this movie and what deaths we do see on screen are low-key, boring and not inventive at all. There is very little gore, no atmosphere and no real scares to be had. The original is actually pretty low on gore, as well, but viewers hardly noticed because of the terrifying atmosphere established by director Tobe Hooper. Without that atmosphere to lean back on, a movie like this usually has to give the audience something else, but sadly fails to do that.The movie can't decide if it's a sequel or a remake, so goes for some mixed up combination of the two. It remakes many of the iconic scenes of the original (the hook in the back, the window escape, the dinner party) but these are such pale imitations that it just makes the movie look even worse in comparison. The biggest factor in this is that the characters are just awful. I'm not speaking of the acting necessarily, but they're just never given anything to do. Renee Zellwegger is the greatest example of this. She might be the worst final girl in the history of horror. Not really because Zellwegger fails to act up to the part, but because the part is so horribly written. There is no real background given to her, no character development, no emotion almost at all. She is simply a plot contrivance for things to happen to and around, but never really feels like an involved part of anything.The one solid thing about this is McConaughey who plays the only character that's worth of the TCM family. Yet even this character becomes a joke in the end as we have the ridiculous plot device of him having a bio-mechanical leg constructed from old wires and a vacuum cleaner that is, for some reason, controlled by old television remotes. Yes, a sinister organization would replace a leg yet make it controllable by generic remotes. There is no biological reasoning for this. It serves only as a stupid plot tool so that several characters can control him using one of the multitude of handy extra remotes lying around the home.We won't even get started on the ludicrous Illuminati plot. It's so bad, I think writer Kim Henkel was actually trying to make it bad. It's almost like the rights would revert back to someone if they could make a sequel that was so horrible it would sink the franchise forever.I still watch this every few years when I go through an inevitable TCM marathon, but each time I'm a little more embarrassed that I own this on DVD. It's really just plain awful. "},{"Title":"Matthew McConaughey saved this movie from a 1/10...","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" On Prom Night, some friends crash their car into a tree in the woods. When trying to find help, they stumble upon a farmhouse where inside Leatherface and his cannibal family await. This film starred Renee Zellweger, Matthew McConaughey & Robert Jacks.The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 4The Next Generation is again a bad TCM movie. However I do give praise to Matthew McConaughey because he saved this movie from a 1/10 to a 4/10 because everybody else in this film was awful. Well I suppose Renee Zellwegar was OK but she didn't do enough to save it from a 1/10 like Matthew McConaughey did. Not recommended because like the 3 before it, it's bad. In my opinion going best to worst out of the first 4 films...1. TCM 3 - 5/10 2. TCM 4 - 4/10 3. TCM 2 - 2/10 4. TCM 1 - 1/10*/***** Very poor. "},{"Title":"Who thought this would be a good idea?","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is just horrible. The plot revolves around the most annoying teenagers ever(with the exception of one girl) getting into a car wreck in the woods after leaving their high school prom early and running into Leatherface and his family.This movie has virtually no redeeming qualities, the dialogue is horrible AT BEST, the acting is atrocious, and worst of all, the villains in this movie are not at all intimidating.Leatherface in this movie is played by Robert Jacks, who screams and whines throughout his time on screen and wears dresses. There's some gruesome scenes of torture, but that doesn't make the film scary. there's also some stupid subplot about a secret society that forces the chainsaw family to commit their crimes, which just adds to the stupidity of the film. The only redeeming quality of this film is Renee Zellweger's character, but even she isn't given much to do. My advice is whether you are a fan of this series or not, avoid part 4 at all costs! "},{"Title":"They basically defecated on the series with this sequel","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A group of stupid teenagers coming from a prom get into a car crash in the woods of Texas, prompting some Texas hillbillies & the infamous Leatherface to torture them. Why, why, why, why, why? Was the constant question that kept popping up in my brain while watching this turkey. I saw the cut version and I highly doubt I missed anything noteworthy. Added gore wouldn't change my opinion on this dreck. There is no suspense what so ever (Aside from an admittedly decent rooftop sequence), it is rather dull, and it really doesn't take itself all that seriously. Where to begin on all the flaws. I'll start with Leatherface. Gone, is the terror that Leatherface provides, replaced by a shrill scream that can give even the calmest people of headaches. It got to the point where I almost muted my T.V. He also wears lipsticks, dressing up like a transvestite. For someone who wanted to make a true sequel to the original, Kim Henkel pis**** all over it instead. I didn't give a damn about any of the characters in this one, I wanted them all to perish. Also, how is it that the villains are so attractive? I had a hard time believing that someone with Matthew McConaughery's looks could be that sadistic, as well as Renee Zellweger being ugly , as she is inexplicably called in this film. Zellweiger does what she can with the awful material, but her character is stupidly written to the point where I wanted to smack her one. This was released in 1997 to try to take advantage of Zellweger & McConaughery's surging popularity. Speaking of McConaughery... he is probably the best thing in this film. He gives a completely over the top and unhinged performance. He was a blast to watch on many occasions. He knew what a piece of crap this was, as evident when he tried to prohibit this from being distributed in theaters, so he had some fun with the role. Robert Jacks is a disgrace to Leatherface. It isn't entirely his fault though. The rest of the cast isn't worth mentioning, aside from the Marilyn Burns cameo at the end. Blink and you'll miss it.Final Thoughts Even the most die-hard fans of TCM will despise this film. If you're a masochist, then by all means view this movie. If you have enough beers, this MIGHT be good for a few laughs, but it would take quite a few beer DUD "},{"Title":"If there a zero on scale, i would give minus to this one","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First two movies were legends. Why do they have to make such stupid movies and ruin it? No story, no character development, no anything.This was the biggest waste of time of my life. Leatherface was not humiliated that much never before. I am sorry for all fans but this was bullshit and garbage.Movie takes about 80 minutes and I have been thinking more than that film lasted but I can not find any good or at least fine(okay) parts or points to write but no!This movie, without any doubt is in my worst five list and it is a big candidate to be winner. "},{"Title":"This Next Generation is like Coke II","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Oh. My, my, my. Why even bother watching/reviewing Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation (or Part IV) other than my obsession in completing a franchise /series reviews for my site?* Part 2 was vile. Part 3 was worse. Part 4 fell even further. But I honestly don't see any real point in diving in on how bad and badly made this diseased series has become. A quick summary was it appeared to be completely improved, no script, no consistency and no reason for Leatherface (now with yet another new family &#x96; reason ??) to be a drag queen.Prom Night occurs and incredibly dumb kids get lost, blah blah, they're lead back to yet another creepy house and seated around another disgusting table, blah blah, they're terrorized. Only this time &#x96; spoiler! Actually in this case I don't mind spoiling, as it might save you more time to spend with loved ones than watching this crud &#x96; they introduce some dominatrix male in a suit who controls everything for whatever dumb reason. I believe this was to lead into a part 5 that (THANK GOD) never happened, much like the open ended plot holes that happened in both at the end of Halloween 5 The Revenge of Michael Myers and Aliens Vs. Predators.As much as I was angry at life after Texas Chainsaw 2 and 3, I think I just gave up during this viewing. Sure, as bad as the predecessor sequels were, this takes the absolute cake in horrible film making. It has wretched acting, intolerable dialogue and a pointless script.Despite the fact I wouldn't normally agree with actors attempting to halt film releases when they have already completed a film, I have to side, just for the extreme embarrassment defense, with both McConaughey and Zellweger's feeble attempts to stop Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation from being freed to the world. Unfortunately they lost. What kind of world do we live in when OJ (originally) walks and this movie is distributed. There is no justice after all.Does it go without saying SKIP IT? * - Side Note I did go out of order. I first rewatched TCM Remake, then the remake's prequel, followed by TCM 2, 3 and 4. I still have to go back to the absolute beginning to complete the series of reviews. I do pray they don't make any more. "}{"Title":"You got to be kidding me!","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" McConaughey, Zellweger - GET A NEW AGENT!!! How on Earth did you stumble upon THIS?!! With blood streaming from my eyes, I made it to the end of this and have locked it away as a benchmark of badness and all things wrong and broken.You would think Matthew McConaughey is a brilliant actor in this as he portrays a really, really, ridiculously bad actor but subsequent roles have laid that idea to rest.Do NOT watch this film unless you want to be able to tell your friends that you have seen the worst film ever made in the 1990s! But I warn you, the scars it leaves you with may not be visible but will many, many years to remove ... "},{"Title":"I Want Them to Know the Meaning of Fear","Date":"11 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" ...And you will know that meaning if the prospect of having to sit and endure this film comes your way. Run. Hide. Disappear. I am really at a loss for words in many ways to describe just how bad, ridiculous, appalling, and horrible this film is. A group of teenagers are out on prom night when they are redirected on the road down another route only to find a car with a kid hit them, a beautiful Realtor in a cheap office late at night with a neighbor across the street who is never explained, a variety of people going through this place where we are led to believe these terrible atrocities that are about to ensue could happen, and, of course, the house with the crazed killers. Who would these killers be (1)Matthew McConauhey as Vilmer - a crazed psychotic with a powered mechanical leg who takes a knife to his body(shirtless of course)repeatedly, yells maniacally throughout, beats his girlfriend, steps on another girl's face, bites said girls nose almost off, etc... (2)W. E. - Joe Stevens plays the cattle-prodding brother who quotes(and misquotes) the likes of Thoraeu, Macciavelli, and others whilst having virtually nothing else to do except mercilessly poke and prod girls with a cattle prod(who knew prod could be such a versatile word?) (3)Darla - Tonie Perensky as Vilmer's supposedly almost stable girlfriend who is the Realtor and seems to enjoy the high of being with a man with a powered leg, a girlfriend beater, and living in a squalid house where there is no way in hell that she could dress as nice as she does for her job. Perensy is about the only thing I really did enjoy in the film. Not for her performance but for her bust of which we are given a brief but gratifying look at. Other than that she wildly acts hysterically throughout. (4)Grandfather - a truly thankless role as he is in one scene and has nothing to do. ... and, finally, (5) Leatherface - played by Robert Jacks and giving an absurd portrayal of this clownish killer figure. Watch the ending as he wields that chainsaw after the ludicrous Winebago scene. I almost fell out of my recliner laughing at the cinematic ineptitude of that sequence, the lack of directorial competence, and Jacks playing it way - WAY - over the top. Yes, Renee Zellweger plays the main tortured soul who has to watch these crazed thespians(way to generous here with that appellation)run amuck in a disgusting house. She isn't very good either but does manage to evoke mediocrity here and there - almost some credibility in the beginning of the film. You are never really sure where this film is going. Is it trying to be camp, horror, grotesque comedy, or a combination? I never really knew which it was trying to aspire to but do know that it achieved none. This film is just a really bad film with some supposedly good talent. The acting as aforementioned is universally bad. The writing is just ridiculous what is with the Realtor angle? Who is Rothman? What happens at the end? Who was that guy in the bathroom at the top room upstairs that gives a gun to a girl? How did Vilmer get his legs like that? So many questions and virtually no answers. Yes, I know films like this don't have to have lots of answers but they need something to bridge the gap between imagination and credibility. The bridge here was blown right out of the water. Most of all, the biggest reason this film fails is due to the uninsightful, gratuitous, poorly crafted direction of one-time director Kim Henkel. I really didn't see anything in this film that cried out for his talent. Sure, I have seen a lot worse than this and there are many, many films which are crafted even more poorly. But when one connects the material with the cast and everything else - potential must be factored in to the equation as well. This one doesn't come even remotely close to the sum of what its parts could have been. A total bust(remember that was the only highlight- highlights). "},{"Title":"It really is a massacre","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Might as well get the positives out of the way. Renée Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey both give pretty good performances given the material they were given.Okay, that's over with. Onto the negatives.For starters, there's the one that will probably anger TCM fans the most. Somehow, this film is able to make Leatherface completely nonthreatening and quite frankly, pathetic. How is it done? Is it the constant screaming and whining, the transvestite element, the mullet, or the army jacket? Actually, it's all of the above, although the first two are certainly the worst. Leatherface doesn't instill any fear. You're only left wondering how they could have ruined him so badly.The opening of four teens ending up stranded in the woods may not be the strongest opening, but it seems downright great compared to the climax. Don't expect a heart- pounding climax. It just reaches the absolute low at that point.To be fair, there are some good scenes, but most of those are due to the performance of McConaughey or because they're basically rehashes from the original. "},{"Title":"Jesus couldn't even save this movie","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge fan of the Chainsaw series but this one is just...wrong.It was the 1st movie I saw Mathiew in and to be honest I didn't think he'll be in a movie ever again,there was funny parts where one of the girls is shouting for her shoes while letheface and the family are after her.I just now realized that it was Renee acting is this movie.Maybe if it came out in 1908 the film could of been a succese but it didn't.Lether face looks like Dani Davito with a bad wig,a mask and messy make-up trying to screem like a pig thats being raped by a Camel.Not even for it's time I could actually say it was OK.Unbearable,stupid,pointless and simply a waste of time.If you want a b-movie try braindead. "},{"Title":"Poor Matthew and Renee","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was actually the first Texas Chainsaw movie I saw, and thankfully it didn't even scare me away from the entire series at all, but was pretty darn close. I'd have to say out of all the movies (including the remake and it's prequel), this is the black sheep of the family. Even parts 2 and 3 had their fun moments. I don't even know where to start with what is wrong with this flick at all, well I'll just say I didn't like the angle of why the family did what they did. Hint they're not a cannibalistic group like the rest of the series portrays them, and I can't even believe they chose to go down that path! And Leatherface is a total wussy in this film. So sad they let the face of the franchise do so little to nothing at all in this movie. The major thing about this film is it being the debut of Matthew McConaughey and Renee Zellweger. You do notice that most of the major stars today seemed to do their big debuts in horror movies a lot, but this movie is the stain of their careers. I'd be so embarrassed if I were them. I admire Matthew as an actor, but he just overacts too much in this movie and not the Overacting so much it's funny point either. I'd so watch How To Lose a Guy in 10 Days over this one any day.So if you ever plan a Texas Chainsaw movie marathon, please forget this movie. Like I said, it's the black sheep of the franchise. Where's the 0 out of 10 option when you need it? "},{"Title":"Bizarre in a negative way.","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Next Generation for the Texas Chainsas Massacre movies is the equal of The Curse of Michael Myers to the Halloween movies.I had a hard time in order to find this movie. I stepped into a little, obscure Video Center and in order to watch TCM The Next Generation I had to become a member. The attendant didn't want to sell it. Anyways, the box cover is really weird. A tranvestie Leatherface stands holding a chainsaw between the faces of McConaughey and Zellweger. (I scanned the image in case someone wants it). I must say that I'm very disappointed of this sequel especially because Kim Henkel wrote and directed it. I had mixed feelings after watching the movie. At first I thought it's a decent mid 90's slasher flick with a confusing story. Then I thought about it as a 90's version of the events of the original TCM. Then I thought about it as a mediocre attempt to remake the original and adding 90's horror movies elements. Then I was like what a f***ed up movie!. Then I put my ideas together and I reached the conclusion that this is a bizarre horror movie. Not bizarre like TCM 2 which was fun and gory. It's bizarre in a bad way because it makes no sense, the dialogue is awful, the characters are cartoonish, the events are stupid, the script goes nowhere, there aren't explanations to important events, etc. The first half an hour is quite good for an early 90's slasher flick. There's a little suspense and some weird moments. The first half of the movie is a re-make of the events of the original. We get the hammer in the head, the girl hanging from the hook, Leatherface's crisis, Leatherface chasing Jenny, the hitch hiker routine, Jenny asking for help to just be driven to the house, etc. I must say that these scenes are actually well done. Specially the rooftop sequence. It looks really creepy when Leatherface comes out from the window and chases Jenny in the rooftop. It's always nice to watch these scenes mainly because they're great moments in the original TCM. After these scenes; the movie goes abruptly downhill. The second half of the movie is a disaster. What the hell does the FBI has to do with the Sawyers?! What's with the mission to make people feel horror line?! The clan are cannibals! Why would someone mess with the original story and add FBI and aliens? The torture that Jenny goes through is not even 5% what Marylin Burns went through. THINGS TO SAVE ABOUT THE MOVIE. -The hammer in the head kill. -The hanging in the hook scene. Always works. -Leatherface's first appearance. -The rooftop chasing sequence. -Reneès performance. She's very hot! -McConaughey's psycho performance is pretty good. -The pre Scream scenes. -The cameos of Marylin Burns and Paul A. Partian. -Darla's breasts and her sexiness.THE NEXT GENERATION is a mess. Fans like me are insulted and feel betrayed by Henkel. Watching a tranvestie Leatherface imitating the chainsaw dance is pathetic and hurts deep feelings. There's no gore or violence like in the previous TCM movies. The direction is in the caliber of a direct to video slasher, please. The soundtrack is lame! Horrible punk pop tracks. The dialogue is a disaster! Who cares if Barry lied to his exes about breast cancer? What's with the I'm a bitch but i play dumb line? Also, who cares about W.E.'s stupid quotes? This is the TCM sequel to hate, to boot, to bury. There's no need to look out for this movie. I did it because I'm a die hard fan of the series. 2/10. Fans will never forget this mess. What they've done to Leatherface is unspeakable. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is most likely the worst movie i will ever see in my life.  This movie really does insult the original TCM and anyone who had anything to do with this movie besides Matthew McConaughey should feel extremely embarrassed.  If it werent for the awesome performance McConaughey puts on as Vilmer, this movie would have gotten a 1 from me.  His performance is the only thing about this movie i enjoyed and is the only thing that has driven me to watch this bizarre garbage more then once.  Lots and lots of kudos to Matthew for giving a little life to one of the worst movies ive ever seen.  If you want to see a wacky good performance from Matthew McConaughey then check this out otherwise, stay far far away..If you want to see a good TCM check out the original or the third installment.By the way this movie really makes Leatherface look like a whining screaming crossdressing bitch who will do whatever anyone says..i dont think my 11 year old sister would be scared of Leatherface in this movie. "},{"Title":"Without McConaughey This Film Bombs!","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The story is lame in this sequel.  In fact, if you really want to know the story well it's written in almost every horror film compilation.  Teenagers, car trouble, murder.  That is about it.  This film, however has one thing that saves it.  Matthew McConaughey almost single handedly saves Return from what could have been certain death.  The role Matthew plays adds sick humor and pure 100% redneck attitude to a role that I am certain was lame on paper.   McConaughey actually out shines Leatherface in this one.  Well, that should not be too hard to understand considering Leatherface pulls a J. Edgar Hoover in the film by dressing up like a girl and squeeling a lot.   Watch the film for Matthew McConaughey's one man show.  If for any other reason you will be a bit jaded on this one.RETURN OF THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE  6 crows dead out of a possible 10. "},{"Title":"Strangely bizarre, terrible","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movie i have seen in a long time, possibly ever.  It makes no sense, it is beyond violent, but not in a gory way.  Just demented.  The end comes as such a surprise, and hte movie doesnt really have any end.  It just needed to stop sometime and the director picked there.  It makes no sense.  You never even find out what happens to one of the characters thats supposedly killed.  The whole story makes no sense and is stupid.  Do everyone a favor and just dont see it.   "},{"Title":"Ain't no f*ckin' biggie.","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ August 18, 1973.  News of a bizarre, chainsaw wielding family-reports which were to ignite the world's imagination-began to filter out of central Texas.  Regrettably not one of the family members was ever apprehended and for more than ten years nothing further was heard.  Then, over the next several years at least two minor, yet apparently related incidents, were reported.  Then again nothing.  For five long years silence...  And it should have stayed that way.  Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is one of the most retarded ideas ever.  A guy with a remote controlled leg, Leatherface in drag, airplane's coming out of nowhere to kill people...it's just dumb.  It's missing everything that made the original a classic.  It has the madness element in full force, but that's all.  It's hard to believe that as I sit here watching this that the one of the stars has the number one movie in America and the other is nominated for an Oscar.  Unbelievable considering how TERRIBLE this is.  Kim Henkel how could you?  How could you have a hand in the original and turn around to create this awful remake.  This film contains some of the most horrendous acting ever.  And the characters are stupid with a capital S.  Give the devil his due though, Matthew McConaughey is the only reason to ever watch this movie.  He is Vilmer and you can see a star forming.  I can completely understand why he never wanted this movie to be released.  Here's to hoping the next remake isn't this bad. Note for genre buffs  Marilyn Burns, Paul A. Partain, and John Dugan, all from the original TCM, cameo in this film. "}{"Title":"They Should've Just Stuck With Three.","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  MAY BE SPOILERS That's right. They should've just stuck with the first three, and it was good they tried to go back and do another movie, only they made it a virtual remake of the first. You know, same plotline teenage friends wandering around rural Texas, get kidnapped and killed by a maniacal family, among them is Leatherface. Only in this movie, Leatherface has become a crossdresser. Why he dresses up like a woman, I don't know.        There is not much story to this one at all. Renee Zellwegger is here, so is Matthew McConaughey. There's not much to say about this movie, other than it is the worst in the series. There's little or no imagination here and it starts out like a Friday the 13th movie. And it ends like the first three Leatherface standing in the road with his chain saw roaring. They never did show his face, did they? They showed Jason's face in practically all the Friday the 13ths, Michael Myers' face was shown in the first Halloween, and was seen for about half a second in Halloween 5. But we never did get to see what was behind that mask made of human flesh on Leatherface. Also, at the end of this movie, be on the look out for old friends. The woman on the gurney going past Jenny is the same actress who played Sally in the first Texas Chainsaw Massacre, and the doctor talking to Jenny before the latter appears is the same actor who played Jerry in TCM. So in conclusion, even fans should skip this one. It really isn't worth seeing. I give it a big fat goose egg 0.- "},{"Title":"WHY DID THEY MAKE THIS????","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is possibly the worst movie I have ever seen.  How bad?  So bad after I watched it on cable I was so overwhelmed at how bad it was I promptly bought the DVD(yes it is on DVD when hundreds of other good movies aren't yet) Why buy it when watching it once it enough to want to give yourself a full frontal lobotomy?  Why else, to share my pain with others.  My friends didn't comprehend how bad it was even after I explained almost all the movie.  So I had to show them.  Now they believe me!  While you watch this movie you should be confused at the lack of plot, story, and characters but you can't because the anger starts to set in.  You start to ask why was this movie released like this, did it go over budget?(all $2400.95 they had to work with and most of that went to the cropduster) did they run out of time? or did the director and the company not even care?  You get angrier every passing minute at the terrible story and how it runs in circle and even goes backwards and confuses you even more.  I would warn all not to ever see this movie, but too appreciate the worst movie of all time you must experience it perferably with friends.  So when someone says I just saw the worst movie or that movie sucks you just ask them if it was TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE THE NEXT GENERATION if they say no then tell them they don't know what they are talking about.  After you watch the movie you tend to have alot of built up rage and anger but the overload of confusion keeps it all in check so no damage can be done to property or the offending video or DVD itself. If you do choose to watch this try and watch it all the way through just when you think it can't get any worse it surprises you. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous & Confusing","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The Texas chainsaw massacre 4 will keep you wondering what the HELL is going on the entire time. A guy cuts himself and tells some prom girls he's gonna rape 'em, but instead sets their back on fire and puts them in dresses to eat dinner. Okay...How is that not supposed to confuse us? And he has a mechanical leg that works by remote control, and some agent has rings IN his skin. You'll be thinking, 'What the F***?!' The whole time. "},{"Title":"Sequel or remake?? make up your mind!!","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When i saw this movie, i thought that it was the 3rd movie in the series (unbeknownst of Leatherface TCM3) and had been waiting for quite a long time after i first found out about it, so finally it came direct-to-video in the US (it was released in Germany i think) i rented it right when it came out and thought, what the hell did i just watch? a really, really terrible movie that completely copied the first one, or a remake that was just a little too weird, not mention not nearly as good as the original.Im still unsure, its basically the exact same situation as the first one, only with new characters and a new Leatherface (a woman??? what the hell!!!!) Girl has friends with her, girl and company run into Leatherface, friends die, girl runs up stairs and jumps out of window, girl is saved, and somewhere along the line they thrown in the government or FBI or something, i dont remember, and does it matter? of course not, because if this movie is a remake, its by FAR, the worst remake ive ever seen, and if its a sequel, then its gotta be the worst sequel to a classic horror movie that ive ever seen (not counting Halloween 3, but that movie had a reason to be a bad Halloween sequel)If you love Leatherface, please, please, dont see this movie, youll still have some respect for one of the original Leatherface creators.. "},{"Title":"Return implies crappy","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  The only way I can describe this piece of rubbish is by comparing it to The Return of The Living Dead series that followed after the Night of the Living Dead - the rights to using the Living Dead in a movie title floated around awhile before that piece of trash was made, while the actual storyline continued in Dawn of the Dead and Day of the Dead (all of this I remember from watching it on the horror-movie show Joe Bob Briggs hosted on TNT awhile back)... I can only assume that something similar happened here.J "},{"Title":"Plain Thrash!!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Keep away from this one...has nothing...no story, no acting, no direction...etc. There are many better movies to see than to do injustice to yourself by seeing this movie right till the end credits. Just plain thrash...WARNING - KEEP AWAY. "},{"Title":"Junkyard with a few good things","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  So, you can't decide if you really want to see it, huh?  Rumor holds that both McConaughey and Zellweger have tried to acquire the rights so they can burn it, but to no avail.  The script is rotten to be sure, but considering the material they had to work with, both did fine jobs; McConaughey especially so.  His quirky character is done quite well in almost every scene.  (Unfortunately, it falters in what is supposed to be a climactic point).  Many story elements are blanket re-shoots of the original, which those 'in the know' will immediately recognize.  The attempts to add Hellraiser-type elements are less than stupid.  I still can't understand why Leatherface can't seem to work his chainsaw.  It's on, it's jetting, but he uses it as a hammer to beat down a door, instead of cutting through it. Ummm  .. ok.  Paul Partain (Franklin from the original) has a cameo in it. Fun to watch once, after that; most guys will simply cue up the part where Tonie Perensky flashes her bustline.  And they're not reason enough to own this film. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty much a watered down remake of the original, instead of a sequel. This entry finds teenagers having car trouble on prom night and seeking help from a nearby house that turns out to be home of a murderous, blood thirsty family who have a fetish for torture. Matthew McConaughey and Renee Zellweger outclass this dull and almost pointless production. This should even be tough going for diehard fans. Rated R; Violence, Torture, and Profanity. "},{"Title":"I demanded a refund after being bamboozled into watching this film","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After hearing so much about Texas  Chainsaw Massacre, I decided to  rent it and see what it was all about.  Unfortunately, like some horrible joke,  someone put this film in its case.  Man, I haven't wanted to destroy my  television in so long, it was unprecedented.  I'm surprised Matthew McConaughey  and Renee Zellweger even made it after  this film. And is the hardest to spell cast  assemble in history! The bad acting, the  horrible story, and Leatherface being  some kind of weird transvestite with a  major anger-management problem! The  ending was also priceless, further  embodying the lack of direction this film had. "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had been a fan of horror movies since I was a little kid.  In the early nineties I had quite a little collection of LaserDiscs, so I had access to films that I wouldn't normally be able to get on VHS.  I had heard rumors about this Texas Chainsaw movie being made but could not find it in the stores anywhere.  I found a site that had it for sale but then the site closed down.  About a month later I bought the special edition LD of the original one.  On it I saw a trailer for Return of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and thought that it had looked pretty cool.  At this point I knew that the movie had in fact been made.  I got my hands on a Japanese LD catalog and found it for sale in there.  I bought it immediatly.  When it arrived in the mail I was so happy.  I sat down and started to watch. When I was done I realized why the movie hadn't been released in the theaters or on video.  The movie was pure garbage.  The acting was terrible and the story was just a total ripoff of the original.  A few years later It got released in the theaters after the Rene Zelweger's success in Jerry Maguire. A bunch of my friends wanted to go see it in the theater.  I told them to save their money and gave a little show at my house.  They agreed with me as did most of the people who saw this movie.  It's terrible. "}{"Title":"Not good (to say the least)","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I will admit, I wasn't expecting Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre to be all that great in the first place, but I was surprised by how bad it was. The original Texas Chainsaw Massacre is the greatest slasher movie ever. What was the reason for making this? I honestly thought that Kim Henkel, who co-wrote the original, could have made a some-what decent film. But he missed completely. He didn't even get the same atmosphere of the original. If I were going to make a film with the words Texas Chainsaw Massacre in them, I would have made sure the film had the same look as the original. My rating 2/10 "},{"Title":"This film by far the worst thing I have ever experienced.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I am truly at a loss for words after seeing this ...film. Without a doubt it is the most horrible thing I have ever witnessed. Last December, I lost my grandfather to cancer, it was awful, yet still nowhere near as painful as the 2 hours I sat through this film. It was so bad that I simply could not muster the strength to turn it off, I had to continue watching, not being able to believe it was really happening. I thought several times that I must be having a nightmare where every bad part of every movie I have ever watched had combined into one film. It was no nightmare, it was Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation. I'm not even going to go into the thousands of individual reasons (no plot, bad acting, etc) why this film is the worst movie ever made, but suffice it so say, there were several times I completely lost faith in God during the viewing of this travesty of cinema. That says a lot considering I come from an extremely Christian family. Many years from now, even when I become old and gray, I will have seen decades of changes, hopefully I will have gotten married, raised a family, and accomplished great things in my life. However, even after all those years, I shall still never be able to erase the memory of this film from my mind, and every time I shall ever think about that, I will shudder in disgust....  "},{"Title":"Someone get the REAL Leatherface to chainsaw the negative of this film.","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  How could you do this Kim Henkel?!  Was it spite?  The first TCSM(how it was really spelt, but it seems you forgot that here) was probably one of the best horror movies ever made, right up there with psycho, but this horror movie is lucky to compare with a film that was overexposed, and then overexposed again. Tell me this Mr. Henkel, why would the Illuminati(the group that Rothman was a member of) care about some psycho family in Texas? Oh yeah, that's right, because it is a RIDICULOUS concept!  Why you put that plot element in there to further add to this attrocity is beyond me. And what was the deal with Leatherface?  Do you have some problem with Gunnar Hansen that you had to destroy the character he created so well? (Did anybody realize he looked just like Drew Cary's cross dressig brother?) In the opening credits of The Texas Chain Saw Massacre, it says written by Tobe Hooper and Kim Henkel.  I think we all know that Hooper wrote the script, and Henkel is credited because he dotted the i's. Everyone, see the original Texas Chain Saw Massacre and try to avoid this, and try to forget about this disgrace! "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Why?  Someone tell me why.  Someone e-mail me and explain to me why.  There is nothing to gain here.  Nothing to be learned, nothing to excite, no story.  Why?  Seriously, is there any documentation that might explain WHY this thing (not a film) exists.  Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is so unprecedented in it's poorness, that it doesn't even succeed in being a dumb slasher flick.  Let me reiterate.  The filmmakers actually FAILED at the least complicated genre in the book.  If I wanted a series of randomly assembled images leading nowhere I would have rented Week End.RotTCM should have gotten a 1.  In fact I felt like I was disappointing moviegoers everywhere when I gave it a 2, but the extra point is the ever crafty curiosity value.  Yes, you will be compelled to watch, if only to observe some clue as to why both Matthew McConaughey (pre-A Time to Kill) and Renée Zellweger (pre-Jerry Maguire) accepted the lead roles (the clue never comes).  Texas Chain Saw fans will, of course, feel the completist need to see this, the death knell of the series.  And finally, I think just the concept of Leatherface as a shrieking cross-dresser will garnish a few bewildered viewers.  But believe me folks, this still doesn't answer the ultimate question  Why?  Why?!  WHY?! "},{"Title":"To call this film S**t would be an insult to fecal matter...","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Kim Henkel... WHAT DID YOU DO!?!? Oh man, I can hardly believe I waited 3-4 years while this film was in limbo to get such a muddled final product. To say its bad would be a gross understatement, and to say its funny in even a bad, campy way would be an outright lie. So lets see... Fans who saw part 3 will understand this Tex=Vilmer. I cant say I think much of Matthew McConaughey, but he did at least outdo Viggo Mortensen from part 3 in stinking up the film. In fact the Film should have been called Vilmer, since afterall the most integral character of the whole series Leatherface is now a cowering drag queen that sits in only as a comic foil. Did also mention he looks like a horrific combo of Rosie O'Donnel and Roseanne Barr??? That alone should be reason enough to stay far away from this atrocity! Renée Zellweger may be cute, but she sure cant play a scream queen... in some scenes you can actually see her giggling aloud at the pathetic situations she is placed in! The Family is in no way comparable to even the pathetic one from part 3, in fact they are so laughable you might think this is a local film school getting their first taste of being shot on film. Lastly, where the hell is the CHAINSAW MASSACRE the film so portrays in its title? I mean not one death was result of its namesake...God, now I feel cheap that I even reviewed this drivel. Avoid at all costs... "},{"Title":"UTTER CRAP!,this movie is a complete disgrace!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Texas Chainsaw Massacre the Next Generation is without question the WORST in the TCM series! I would rather run a cheese scraper over my tongue then watch this garbage again. Ok let me attempt to list what makes this movie so incredibly bad first off, as well as tiredly over used. Ultimately the most grueling part of the movie, besides the total lack of EVERYTHING, had to be the downright torturous length of the flick! I just don't understand how many people have gotta get plowed over, repeatedly, before some genius discovers that trucks, yes even tow trucks, cannot pass through trees! Also, at points it was hard to tell if Zellwegger was frightened, empowered, psycho, or what! She sometimes was even caught giggling at some of those hilarious mass murders' quips! Perhaps she was just trying to get in good with Leatherface, as he seems to have the evening fashions and cosmetic know-how that any girl would just die for!(that right there was a sample of the quality jokes you'll find in this movie!)Which reminds me(I tried to block all memories of this movie from my mind right away, but I'll dig some up for ya...another quality sample joke!), what's the deal with the transvestite Leatherface? Regardless of whether or not the director of this flick, who is probably now reduced to the job of painting Larry King until he does not resemble a corpse, obviously possessed a rather unhealthy addiction to the Rocky Horror Picture Show, he should have realized that ultimately, well..make-up made Leatherface pretty, not scary! PLEASE DO NOT WASTE TWO HOURS OF YOUR LIFE ON THIS MOVIE!!!!!! "},{"Title":"This was 2 hours of my life I can never get back","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the most wretched excuse for a TCM sequel humanly possible. Now I will admit that I didn't rate 1,2,or 3 on my top 10 list of favorite movies in the first place, but this movie was the most ridiculous thing I have ever seen.  I've seen some pretty bad movies (say, Gods and Monsters?) but this beats all.  First, there is no plot.  I sat there the entire time wondering what in the hell the point of the movie was.  In the original (the second and third as well), you understood why these people were running around slaughtering people with chainsaws.  The crazy family, though REALLY crazy, made sense.  This installment failed to let the viewers in on this little secret.  So I sat for 2 hours and still have no idea why the freaks in the woods were freaks in the woods, nor do I understand what in the hell Matthew McConnehey was supposed to be and he was the main character. Second, what in god's name happened to Leatherface?  That's not Leatherface - I don't know what the hell he was either.  The original made your skin crawl-he was creepy, disgusting and a helluva lot scarier than some freak transvestite who does nothing more than scream like a little girl.  And what's with the Warren act from There's Something About Mary?  And finally, where was the ending?  I must have missed something because all I saw for an ending was Zellweger in the limo with that weirdo (who or what he was supposed to be is also extremely and irritatingly elusive) and that thing that was supposed to be Leatherface spinning around with a chainsaw. Then she's all the sudden at the hospital staring at this bloody chick that wasn't even in the movie, as though she had something to do with any of it. But I feel the worst insult to the TCM movie series was the fact that the C and M were completely missing from the movie.  You cannot name a movie Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE if there is NO CHAINSAW MASSACRE.  Not a damn person was killed by a chainsaw, nor was there any kind of bloody massacre like that nastiness in the second one with all the bloody hacked up body parts falling out of the wall or Leatherface putting L.J.'s face on Stretch's face.  The only blood I saw came from Vilmer, and that was a sorry disappointment.To sum this up, if you have any regard at all to the orginal Texas Chainsaw Massacre movies, or any regard for the film industry whatsoever, bypass this wretched movie.  And if somehow you end up being held hostage and forced at gun point to watch this movie, I recommend telling them to pull the trigger. Seriously. "},{"Title":"Cannot be described...","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was truly the worst movie I have seen in my entire life. When I saw it in the video store, I said Hey this looks fun. Dumb, but fun. I'll rent it, some people are coming over, what the hell. I was in for the worst night of my life. This migraine inducing mess bombarded me like hail. It was totally incoherent, and every scene was the beginning of a new movie. Worst of all Renee Zellweger and Matthew McHonaughey were in it. I feel sorry for them. After watching this movie the world did not make sense to me. The movie physically hurt me. It would have felt better to bang my head against a wall for 2 hours than to sit through this movie. Words cannot describe it!!! This movie should definetly be on the bottom on the worst movies list, and it baffles me how it was even produced and published on video! Do not even attempt to watch it...  "},{"Title":"Very awful!!!","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is hell of an awful film...seriously...good acting from Matthew McConaughey, who was really freaky in his role but who still sounded a little fake, but except for that, it was really really really stupid and bad...If you really want a pointless film, with absolutely NO SCENARIO, NO STORY, NO PLOT...No explanations about the killers' sickness...or about the dead people that become alive at the table...AND DON'T TELL ME IT'S A CHAINSAW MASSACRE, because nobody gets killed by a chainsaw in this film...and a massacre usually includes blood, dead people, and weapons...it's not a bad thing if there is no massacre in a film, but the goal of this one was to show a massacre, and they didn't...we don't know what happens to half of the characters in the end.  The whole thing shows a bunch of weirdos, sick in the head, who are having pleasure while terrifying and beating up a girl who got in the woods (we don't know why) after her prom night. Bad directing, stupid acting in general, NO SCENARIO, NO POINT, and the last two I mentioned are especially awful...So dumb it's funny...and where was the budget??? This is the kind of film that some insane and violent kids could easily shoot without any budget or scenario written...this film has to be a joke, there can't be an effort put in that.  Who is stupid enough to accept a role in such a no-future, ridiculous project???  This is a film that you watch one night, and that you wake up the day after saying Was I drunk??? Did I dream??? Or was it true???  Who could believe in that? Who could give a budget to those stupid folks? I don't know, and I don't want to know, I just give it a one. 1/10 "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I can honestly say that this was the worst movie that I've ever seen. I loved the first TCM, so it pained me to see that it had spawned this as a sequel. The character of Rothman doesn't even make seance! And my suspension of disbelief went right out the window when I saw Heather getting chased by Leatherface who was flying a crop duster. Again, I repeat Worst movie ever!  "}{"Title":"A absolute Disgrace to Leatherface","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is a awful sequel to Leatherfacethe Texas Chainsaw Massacre 3.  This has a bunch of kids who get lost on the road coming back from the senior prom.  They meet Leatherface, Vilmer, and other members of the family. The ending is confusing. All the other Texas Chainsaw Massacre movies are a lot better. Rated R  for Violence, Strong Language, and real Brief Nudity. "},{"Title":"one of the stupidest movies I've ever been subjected to.....","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A complete disgrace to the TCM legacy. Poorly written, overacted to the nth degree, and looks like it was edited by a pack of wild boors.Not even worth renting on a so-bad-it's-good level and it exists only as a conversation piece as being the first film that both Matthew and Renee ever starred in.rating1 "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie like the plague..","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this movie about a year ago, it left me with the ability to say, this is quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen. Even the horridness of the film Redneck Zombies pales in comparison to this. At least that movie was enjoyable at times. I registered at imdb.com just so I could write this review to inform the public of this movie.It's almost completely futile to explain the plot of this movie, because at heart, there really is none. A group of students get lost in a forest. The main character stumbles upon a family of twisted people and tries to run for her life every scene. That's about it.As for why I didn't like this movie, here are the following reasons there is no character development whatsoever, there is no climax in the plot at all because the movie's all about the main character trying to escape from the freaks up until the credits, the scenery is always one chock full of drab, dreary colors that remind me of the setting in Batman Returns only ten to twenty times worse, and the final reason being that this series has been beaten to death with a llama one too many times. There is nothing new to see here.It seems that this movie was intended to be composed of clever scenes in a loose patchwork intended to scare or gross you out, yet it fails terribly. Combined with the fact that the plot is MIA, I can't give this movie more than a rating of .2 on a scale of 0-10 (I couldn't bare to put it on a scale of 1-10. 1 would be too good). This movie can't truly be described in words, it's an experience that makes you want to watch something newly considered good like The Human Tornado. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Don't even bother seeing this movie. Apart from the fact that it has very little to do with the original movie, it also lacks any sort of plot, character development or any redeeming features. The characters do stupid things that no one would ever do...like stopping to take a slash when running away from a shotgun weilding psychopath. It also has lots of annoying loose ends. Utter crap basically. "},{"Title":"Can't believe Renée and Matthew were in this.","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" First off The characters who were supposed to be the victims of another one of Leatherface's family ordeal are so unbelievably arrogant, stupid and hateful that you're basically rooting for the bad guys to kill them all off.Second of all, it's not scary, it's just violent for the sake of it. We see Leatherface and his family kidnapping people and killing them and mostly chasing them around. It gets boring, and not after a while.Third of all There are scenes that don't make sense, and others that reenact scenes from the original films which now looks pathetic.Renée Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey were unknowns at the time this film was made. They have great talent, so I still can't believe they would star in this piece of trash. "},{"Title":"Ummmmm.....what?","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" OK, I am a big fan of terrible movies that are so bad they are funny, so when I started this film I was hoping it would be hilarious.Holy !@#$ was I wrong, this movie was just terrible, with no so bad its good humor in it. My friend and I were left asking what the !@#$ is going on?! half the movie and the other half we spent commenting on how we'd rather bite the barrel of a gun and pull the trigger than watch this thing again. Don't let the big name of texas chainsaw massacre fool you into thinking it is like the others and don't let the big name actors bring you in.This movie punches you in the throat while stealing you movie then leaves you with a ending that can give you an aneurysm if your not careful. If I could give this crap-fest anything lower than a 1 I would. "},{"Title":"Zero stars - terrible","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Read the titles of the comments on this film and you will see it described as illiterate, awful, El Stinko, Terrible Sequel, AWFUL! TERRIBLE! A WASTE OF TIME! I totally agree. There is only one reason this film was made. To make a quick buck off the title.Rene Zellwegger and Matthew McConnahay star in this mess. I bet they wish they'd never made it.Absolutely a waste of time. Spend your 90 minutes staring at the floor; it'll be more interesting than this.If anyone wants to nominate this for worst film of all time, I'd second it. "},{"Title":"Beware......Of.......TRANNYFACE!","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Texas Chainsaw MassacreThe Next Generation(1994) Review Well, this is a surprise. This is beyond low budget, but is it good? Nah, but here's my take The T.C.M.T.N.G. is a movie to remember....for all the wrong reasons. This is B-Movie magic at it's peak. All I can say is that this is truly a disaster. From the scary bad guys, to McConaughey's terrible over-acting.But the real treat is our main villain, Leatherface. This has to be a joke, but it isn't. Think of Martin Lawrence from Big Momma's House with a chainsaw and that's what olé' Leatherface is. How scary indeed.The only plus to this movie that I can think of is Renee Zellwegar. She does her best to light up the screen. She is good as the barefoot damsel in distress, and she was really cute here. Her presence was quite good. Like the only shining star in a pitch black sky.However, she cannot save this, not by a long shot. This movie is a steaming pile. There is so much wrong here. I can easily see a cult following to this for it's awesomeness of awfulness.The Last Word Bad. Really quite awful. Not scary at all. This is not Evil Dead B-movie magic which was good, no way. This is just flat out awful. "},{"Title":"It's bad. but...","Date":"11 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I'm not going to go into detail about anyone's performances, or what is wrong with the movie, but i'll be honest with you.You'll laugh a lot. I'm an avid fan of many films, and i'm a film student, so i do know plenty on how to make a film work.Sure this movie doesn't work in every area.It looks bad, the script is horrible but i'm going to be honest, i like this movie. I did only rate it a 1 because it doesn't deserve anything higher than that but you'll be entertained if you take it for what it really is...bad.So sit back, laugh and maybe you'll gain some happiness out of a bad experience.But please don't go out of your way to see the movie, just watch it if happens to be on t.v or something. "},{"Title":"Enough Already","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie turned out to be a comedy instead of a horror movie in my opinion. I remember seeing this movie long ago when horror movies tried to make a comeback to the mainstream. Here is the review I have to giveIt made me laugh all the way through to the end when I saw Leatherface dress like a woman and go after the lead at the end still dressed like a woman. It had one good moment when the first victim died by getting ran over by one of Leatherface's family members. Other than that, this is a comedy movie with a horror sense.2/10 Stars "}{"Title":"Worst slasher I've ever seen!","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Huh? Was this a joke? This is awful! Originally made as a bad sequel, now thought of as a bad comedy, this 4th entry in the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is one of the worst films of all time. It's one of the few movies that has absolutely no redeeming qualities. The acting is just awful! Young Renee Zellwegger and Matthew McConaughey star in this in some of their earliest roles. The direction....what direction? Leatherface chases people around like he's blind. He misses people right in front of him. Also noted, this was written and directed by a woman, so they have Leatherface dressed like in drag through most of the film, which is just ridiculous. The writing makes no sense and consists of nonstop cussing and yelling and grunting.As for the plot, heck, like the direction there is none. These 4 kids get lost from their prom and end up getting attacked by a crazed family led by Vilmer (McConaughey). First off, why would these stupid kids get lost from prom? Do they not know where their houses are from the school? The characters are so dumb and unlikeable that you'll be rooting for the family to kill them. Unfortunately, there is no gore at all, and that is not an exaggeration. There is not one drip of blood on the screen. The climax of the film involves a helicopter that manages to hit one person but misses someone else 3 feet in front of them. The very end is not explained at all and will have everyone scratching their heads. Plus Leatherface has no point. They shouldn't have made this a sequel considering Leatherface has absolutely nothing to do and is mostly just sitting down.This movie will leave a sour taste in anyones mouth. My rating BOMB/****. 83 mins. R for language "},{"Title":"Well, first, I'm gonna kill you. It ain't no f*ckin biggie.","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This was the biggest piece of garbage I have seen in a long time.I do have to say that Matthew McConaughey really came off well as a psycho. He makes a better killer than he does a Dirk Pitt.I cannot believe that Renee Zellweger took this role. All she did the whole movie was scream her lugs out, and nobody did a damn thing to her! I never could figure out what Tonie Perensky's role was except to flash her boobs in the beginning.No scary, not funny, it was nothing but a headache inducer. Stay away - far away. "},{"Title":"The sequel that killed the franchise","Date":"22 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is bad, sometimes laughably bad. It's basically a rehash of the 3rd one, except way way more cheesy and corny. Even for a horror movie, characters making decisions that doesn't make any sense goes into another level. There is just random stupidity riddled around this movie. It has Renée Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey, but that doesn't even help this movie at all. Matthew McConaughey is usually good at playing psychotic southern maniac so he fit right into his role with this one. Seriously, how many psychotic relatives does the creepy grandpa have anyways? Maybe I am missing something, but didn't that creepy old guy die in the third one? They even made Leatherface a pizza eating transvestite...Seriously. I am not sure, if they intentionally made this movie bad, but it's downright bad. I give this movie a 2.3 because although it's in the awful category I was able to sit through it without having that huge urge to just leave. But that really isn't saying much. The acting in a lot of parts is just laughably bad, like they were intentionally not trying. It doesn't even have the entertainment value to sit with a group of friends and just roast it. In another words, it doesn't add anything to the table. This is a simple and yet confusing movie that just doesn't make any sense. And it's filled with awful ideas, seriously it has Leatherface the pizza eating transvestite? This is the sequel that killed off this franchise, until the reboot. It's better to just skip this one, it has absolutely no relation to the previous movies of this franchise.2.3/10 "},{"Title":"So Bad, But It Could Not Kill the Franchise","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" A group of teenagers get into a car crash in the Texas woods on prom night, and then wander into an old farmhouse that is home to Leatherface and his insane family of cannibalistic psychopaths.Among all the original films in the series and the remakes and sequels, this is definitely the worst Texas Chainsaw film of them all. Not even Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey could save this one.The problems I have with this film are that there is practically no plot, and what what little plot there may be is stolen outright from the original film. If I wanted to watch a film about people in a cannibal house getting chased by a man with a chainsaw, I would watch the original. This film has nothing on that. "},{"Title":"These sequels just get worse and worse","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw this for the first time last week and I don't know why I bothered to watch it.That was one hell of really Terrible movie (I was not even a big fan of other two sequels before this, I am not fan of series, I am?)(I thought I saw bit's of this movie about 8 years ago but now that I that saw 2,3 and 4 in last week or so, now I am sure The parts I saw back them were from part 3.I did not anything in this movie, Leatherface was not scary at all in this movie and movie was not gory at all, you don't even get to see the deaths in this movie at all. The acting this movie in the worse in the whole series I still going give this movie 2 and half out of 10 as it made me laugh a few time because it was so bad. "},{"Title":"What the...?","Date":"23 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The main reason I watched this movie is because Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey were trying to get this taken off the market. I am a horror fan and I am not too particular. However, this was the worst movie that I have ever seen (besides the Mexican vampire movie that you could see the string holding up the bat). The lowest point was a scene where a person appeared with no explanation. I am a big Renee Zellweger fan, but I was not impressed with her in this film. It may have not been her fault, it might have been the script or the director. However, Matthew McConaughey was fantastic! He was absolutely the best psychotic that I have ever seen. He took such joy in what he was doing. I seriously think that none of his subsequent roles were as impressive. "},{"Title":"Awkward as a colonoscopy","Date":"9 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Why is Leatherface in drag? There are a lot of questions to be asked about this movie because none of it makes sense, but that one really sticks out. If you want to make your villain scary, you shouldn't make him wear lipstick. As far as this movie's plot goes, it pretty much has none, making it a really boring affair. I mean, I suppose you could call Renee Zellweger is captured and runs away and is captured again and runs away again a plot, but you'd have to be in a pretty good mood. The original didn't have an exceptional screenplay, but it was enough to work with. This stuff is just embarrassing. But it's like a train wreck, it's difficult to look away. You're just so curious how much worse things can get. Things get all the more painful because even though it's crap, this movie actually looks like Kim Henkel (who used to be Tobe Hooper's co-writer) really tried to keep the spirit of the series alive. There's even a decent chase in there near the beginning, making me hesitate to give this the absolute lowest rating. There are just certain elements that make me wish all the rest wasn't that horrible. But sadly it is. "},{"Title":"A pile of rubbish","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just when you thought that none of the sequels could get any worse after part 2, well you are wrong, this one is the worst ever again sinking the franchise. Firstly this movie is just stupid, none of the characters are any good or likable and any attempt that part 3 made in making Leatherface scary is totally ruined Leatherface has become a sad looking, full blown, yelping transvestite, if you thought he was a pussy in part 2&#133;well you haven't seen anything yet. This is film-making at it's lowest. It has no respect for the series or it's themes and it's reprisal of several key scenes from the original comes as an insult cause they're in such a crappy movie. None of the scenes worked for me, like the scene where Jenny is on the rooftop had potential until she started climbing across the wire, I mean come on as if. Surprisingly though 2 of the actors became major movie stars years after this was released Matthew McConaughey and Rennee Zellweger who are both probably embassed that they ever starred in this rubbish and they couldn't make the most of the rubbish material that they got, Matthew wasn't very good a playing a psycho path I mean he just wasn't menacing or scary and Rennee wasn't very appealing as the main heroine Jenny, she was just plain dumb and look at that rooftop scene.All in all, The first one was a classic, the 2nd one was rubbish, the third one was great and the 4th one, well why was it called The Texas Chainsaw Massace I mean he didn't even kill anyone with a chainsaw in this one. "},{"Title":"Utter Rubbish","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I cannot believe that this rubbish was written and directed by a professor of film at Corpus Christi in Texas.There is no intelligence, nothing funny and nothing very scary in this waste of time. I don't know what emotion Henkel wanted to arouse in his viewers but he failed. Well, that may be a little unfair. He aroused anger in me for watching the rubbish to the end. I did not watch it because there was any part of it that was good but rather with the hope that there may just be 1 minute of value somewhere in this noisy waste of time. If you have nothing to do, Don't get this movie. Rather do nothing and bore yourself to death. This is not even worth watching for free. "},{"Title":"No matter how bad a film is....","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" I never stop watching - I stay till the end. Movies I have suffered like Resident Evil and Darkness Falls and even Sleepaway Camp 2 have been played to their full duration and I've persisted till the end.This movie halted that trend. This might just be the most awful film I have ever tried to watch. I cannot believe how utterly dire everything in this film is. It not only bored me, but managed to parody everything about the previous TCM's and insult the legacy. I could have written the script such was the unacceptable predictability of this. As a TCM fan I would demand something slightly new in all of them - and they all *have* managed to produce entertaining outings. This one was nothing short of appalling. Chronic 'acting', pitiful direction, a script which appeared to be making itself up along the way, atrocious dialogue, and characters who belong to an out-takes special from Tales of the Crypt.I just lost an hour and 10 minutes of my life suffering this drivel before my masochistic tendencies stopped.Give that lost time back.Please. "}{"Title":"Not bad with repeated viewings, but easily the weakest in the Chainsaw series.","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation poses itself as a direct sequel to the original 1974 scarefest & ignores the plots of the last two entirely. WAYNE BELL who scored the original film, returns here & yet again manages to create a very eerie soundtrack, that is perhaps one of the best scores to ever grace a horror film. KIM HENKEL who co-wrote the original film returns as the director. Sadly Henkel has decided to re-stage several of the original films key moments & elements throughout the film, so much so, that the film comes off at times as almost a remake of the first film & Unlike the three previous films, Part 4's acting troupe is not all that great, In fact the only good actors here are a pre-fame MATTHEW McCONAUGHEY & RENEE ZELLWEGER, the rest of the cast is terrible, with both TYLER CONE & LISA NEWMEYER being the main ones. Newmeyer was clearly hired just for her looks obviously, she looks stunning & sexy, but is unable to convey any emotions of fear, depression, anger, worry etc. playing the air headed girlfriend of Barry (Cone) While Tyler is basically a blank sheet as her cheating, lying & cocky boyfriend. The hit & run victim who escapes the car should also burn his SAG card, as should the actor playing Jenny's date. Zellwager plays the role of Jenny well, a quiet, mousy, nerd girl who gets put down by Barry, the crazed Vilmer (McConaughey) & her lecherous stepfather, before standing up for herself at the end of the film. Henkel's failed attempts at bringing back the crazed characters of the first (the actors all turned him down), obviously never deterred him to change a few lines in the script. JOHN HARRISON plays W.E. (The name the cook character was given in the opening narration in Part 3 where it mentions his execution) the quote spouting loony, which runs the gas station & which Toni Perenski's Darla character keeps referring to as the Old Man & Old Fart which makes no sense, since W.E. is in his late twenties, early thirties. While McConaughey was clearly intended to be the Hitcher & has a remote controlled knee brace with W.E. mentioning how Vilmer was once run over by a truck (The fate the hitcher from the first film suffered) though how he was supposed to have survived after being run over by a transport truck is questionable. A lot of other things don't make sense as well, such as why the stranded teens run after W.E.'s truck after he refuses to stop & give them a ride, nor why they decide to go to his house in the woods. The Grandfather returns, all blue coloured, but the film never does specify on weather or not it's an actor pretending to be an old man, or if he's dead & came back to life, or what, it's just never mentioned. Leatherface this time is played by the late radio jock ROBERT JACKS. Jacks does good, but is unable to convey the powerful sense of dread that GUNNAR HANSEN brought to the role, in the 1974 original. One can't blame him though, since the Leatherface character here is radically different. A screaming, hopping, yelping, transvestite, that wouldn't scare a two year old & what's worse, he spends pretty much the whole movie dressed as woman. The dialogue is really bad & despite the title, no one is killed with a chainsaw. The film also pays tribute to ED GEIN, the psycho from Wisconsin, who inspired the films PSYCHO & the original TCM, when Leatherface puts on a full skin suit, a dress, wig & make-up (something Gein used to do) with a few stuffed corpses added here & there in the house (Another sick thing Gein did to his victims). Look fast for former WWE superstar/turned action hero, Stone Cold Steve Austin's ex-wife Debra McMichael, playing a cop. In short Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation actually improves with repeated viewings & has many suspenseful moments here & there, but when it's all said & done it goes to show just how good a movie the first actually is. Henkel has some good ideas & I love the cameo's by MARILYN BURNS (Playing a catatonic Sally Hardesty), JIM DUGAN & PAUL PARTAIN, that he provides, but if only he had a better cast & gotten rid of his silly explanation of why the family does what they do & the fact that their not a real backwoods family, but a group of psycho's put there to work for a secret government organization is laughable. But it does explain why the police could never locate the farmhouse or get any key witnesses to back the survivors stories (such as the two truck drivers who save Sally at the end of the first, since one assumes they worked for the secret agency) As it is, it remains an okay horror item, but easily the weakest in the series. Which is a shame since the film has good momentum going in, before falling right apart midway into the film. Followed by a another reboot sequel Texas Chainsaw 3D.**1/2 stars "},{"Title":"Makes Plan 9 look like Terminator","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" In this one, Leatherface is now an alien. There are supposedly thousands more like him all over the country that the government is hiding and protecting, but why they're doing this is never explained. Frivolous details, right? This one even claims that Leatherface killed Kennedy (!) In addition to being an alien, Leatherface is now also a transvestite, in a Liz Taylor mask, with an electronic leg that he operates with the remote control from a television set. There's even a village idiot running around through the entire movie reciting poetry ............ What? One guy, after being chased by another guy with a shotgun runs into the guy's house, locks the door behind him and then calls the shotgun totin' killer redneck a dumbass, from INSIDE THE GUY'S HOUSE? Then he stops to use the john (that, in and of itself, is stupid enough) but then he walks right by a rotting corpse in the bathtub TWICE and doesn't even notice it until the second time? And then Ma and Pa Kettle come in to save the day by driving their camper over one of the killers, and a crop duster comes in to deal with the other killer. The end scene in the hospital, with cameos by John Dugan and Marilyn Burns from the first movie, is so obscure and barely even noticeable that you can't tell it's them until someone tells you who they are.At the beginning of this movie, the title reads Texas Chainsaw Massacre the Next Generation, at the end the title reads The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The filmmakers couldn't even agree on a title?Even for a zero budget, unreleased fourth chapter, more than twenty years after the first one, this is still just pathetic. It was filmed in 1994 and abandoned, not released until 1997, after two of the cast members became famous in other movies. and it shows why they didn't release this one sooner. (I saw this one in a theatre when it was finally released, and there was only one other person sitting in the entire movie theatre about 20 rows in front of me!) And now supposedly they're remaking the first movie? Again? Why? "},{"Title":"The worst TCM movie","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie is an insult to the die hard TCM fans. It's more portrayed as a comedy rather than a horror movie. I put it on the first time and took it out 15 minutes later because it was so bad. I just had to get through it so I watched it a few weeks later and didn't make it even 30 minutes. Finally about a month later I was determined to get through this movie and I finally did and it totally scarred my outlook on the TCM series. I had to watch part 1 and 2 again to bring myself back from this horrible display of acting and directing crap in part 4. It's hard to believe that Renee and Matthew are A list stars now. Even though I must admit Matthew plays his role pretty good as the villain in this movie. If the movie would have been taken more seriously then Mathew's role would have been perfect. It's the fact that this movie was NOT scary, creepy or original in any way whatsoever. I recommend watching part 2 and observing Chop Top's character played by Bill Moseley. More directors need to get people like him in their movies. Dog will Hunt. Get that bitch Leatherface, get that bitch. Dog will hunt. "},{"Title":"Wrongfully maligned for a decent film","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is far better than it's reputation has given it.**SPOILERS**After a disastrous night at their prom, students Jenny, (Renee Zellweger) Sean, (John Harrison) Barry, (Tyler Cone) and Heather, (Lisa Marie Newmeyer) get stranded on a dirt road and ask local Darla, (Tonie Perensky) for help. Making their way through the woods back to wait for Vilmer, (Matthew McConaughey) they wind up lost in the surrounding woods. When they're taken back to their house, they are eventually captured by Leatherface, (Robert Jacks) and W.E., (Joe Stevens) and the rest of their family. Gathering up her strength and courage, the dwindling group is forced to fight off the family before they are all killed.The Good News There is an incredible amount to like here. Perhaps one of the best features is that it's a loving tribute to the original but changes them around enough to really get a sense of it being something new. The opening twist is pretty nice, changing the funeral trip to a prom night disaster, which is pretty nice. The chainsaw chase is still the highlight here, and while not being as intense as before, it's still a real spectacular action set-piece, taking a generally similar approach while altering events to a degree to be a winking nod to the ones before while also being new in it's own right. The dinner table sequence makes a nice come-back, and is, if not as psychologically disturbing, just as edgy and confronting. It's still a must-see experience in the film. Also quite impressive is the sequence where the victims are dragged to the kitchen to be stored away for later. It's an incredibly long, drawn-out sequence that is as disturbing as it gets, and it should rightfully be so in that situation. It's played for what it should've been, a really intense unflinching experience and it's all the better for it for having done so in that fashion. The film is incredibly suspenseful, and this is nowhere more apparent than in the opening stages. The forest setting given to the action is enormously menacing, almost from the start. The very low light, the constant fog that drapes the ground, and the fact that they just pop up in there out of nowhere really warps the mind. The sequence where they encounter a truck driving down the road and chase off into the darkness after it while only one stays on the normal path is full of tension and dread. Along the chase, this was the real highlight scene, and a strong contender is the opening murder. Having the victim chased down the road by a huge monster truck with blaring lights shining up the location and what eventually happens is quite a breathtaking action scene that really sticks out in the movie. Even more impressive is the gang-banger pace to the film. It rushes along from one even to another in a heartbeat, with the eventual capture around the fifty minute mark, allowing for plenty of time to be tortured in the house, and that also leaves the beginning to be a completely whirlwind experience. Add these together, and this has the makings of an underrated gem.The Bad News While it's a true hidden gem, there are a couple of nagging problems in this one. The most obvious one is that Leatherface has been severely diminished in status for the film. He's barely in the film at all, and when he is on-screen, he's really ineffective. The sequence of him taking the two friends out to be killed is twice as long as it should've been, as they keep escaping and getting recaptured. The mask itself is a real disappointment from the clever and original one in the previous film, and the sad fact that he had to wear a mask and outfit that made it seem like he was a drag queen isn't all that frightening. As is common practice for the series, there's really no body count here, and this in turn really reduces the gore in here. It's got some suspenseful scenes to help out, but the lack of gore on display is really frightening. The new family doesn't do much to help out, and at times they're not at all that edge to them that previous ones had. As such, the fact that it also changes some of the original's magic is a big misstep, and depending on how far an individual's perspective of that is, it's quite damaging to the original. The ending is also pretty hard to figure out and really doesn't do much to help with the explanations of anything. These work against it, but it's nowhere near as bad as it could've been.The Final Verdict A fun, if unoriginal romp through familiar territory, this is a really wrongly maligned film that deserves to be viewed objectively. It's not the best film in the genre, and it really wasn't pretending to be. If you can view films in that manner, give it a shot, but steer clear if that doesn't sound like you.Rated R Graphic Language, Graphic Violence and Brief Nudity "},{"Title":"One of the worst, if not THE worst movie EVER.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of THE most pathetic excuses for film I have ever seen in my life. This movie has absolutely no plot, suspense, energy, etc.. In fact, this movie has nothing at all. I wouldn't even count this as a sequel nor a remake of the cult classic. Embarrassingly enough, this was directed by the guy who helped create the horror classic, Kim Henkel. Kim's head must have been dropped hard to direct this god-awful, sorry excuse of film ever created, in fact, he might have been demon possessed to even create a sequel to a franchise that went out of style after the second film. Unfortunately, Renne Zellweger and Matthew McConaughy had to be in this crap as well. Actually they didn't want the movie to ever come in production, since they realized how crappy the movie was. Overall, the movie is overlong, not scary, unfunny, and makes Manos look watchable. Do yourself a favor and skip this piece of crap movie that is so bad that it even makes Gigli look like the movie Rain Man. Also, if you ever find any VHS copies, burn them, and if you run into any DVDs of this movie, dip them in acid.  "},{"Title":"Texas Chainsaw MassacreThe New Generation","Date":"4 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Sick-in-the-head sequel to the Texas Chainsaw Massacre franchise featuring another group of teenagers(after their senior prom) unequipped psychologically against the twisted sickos who live nearby. Only poor pretty Renée Zellweger seems able to survive the twisted onslaught lead by Matthew McConaughey(tearing rabidly into every scene like a rabies infested mutt)and others as she's either running for her life or going mad, with whimpers and nervous twitches as a result. Leatherface(under disguise is Robert Jacks this time around)is mostly dressed under female skin, wigs, and dresses(!) swinging his chainsaw like a madman never knowing what it might take out whether it be a limb or door. Tonie Perensky as Matthew McConaughey's squeeze Darla is as nutty as the rest of the clan, although she looks relatively normal on the surface. Sadly she's really Zellweger's only ally. You have Joe Stevens as WE, who is always quoting something someone else has put to paper, whether it be Shakespeare or Emerson, even though the saying might have nothing at all to do with the event in front of him. Poor hottie Lisa Marie Newmyer as prom queen Heather gets thrown in a freezer containing dead skin, hung on a meat hook, doused and set on fire, & her skull crushed. What's even more sick is whose ACTUALLY behind all these psychopaths..some man of wealth who believes that what horrors he offers the unfortunate victims is means for a more spiritual experience! McConaughey drives his tow truck over one poor soul numerous times for fun, Leatherface slams a sledgehammer over one's head(at least it stopped there for him), and Renée Zellweger actually scales the sick clan's house with Leatherface slicing bricks from their chimney with his chainsaw at her! There's a moment in the film where Joe enjoys sticking Zellweger with a cattle-prod. And, to cap off the madness, not only does McConaughey like to cut himself with a knife when angered, he also has this robotic leg that goes haywire if somebody has this specific remote control. "},{"Title":"MAN, this one sucked....","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Just don't watch it.... for the love of God, PLEASE don't watch this... I've just thrown 1,5 hours of my life straight out the window, don't waste 1,5 hours of your life doing the same...They killed the franchise with this one, and it was a kinda lousy franchise to begin with. The first Texas Chaisaw Massacre was an entertaining horror flick with some real scares in it, but is clearly hyped up quite a bit. The 2 next sequels were bloody awful, and this one stinks more than a New York sewer inspector... Leatherface has become a F**kin DRAGQUEEN for Christsake! Don't watch this... do something more constructive with your time instead; like jumping off a bridge or something....Jesus Fu*king H. Christ.... "},{"Title":"This one almost made me not watch the first.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so horrible that I almost never watched the first one.  I finally broke down though and watched the first one and loved it.  This one though is just bad...as it mainly involves Renee being terrorized by Matthew.  That is basically all you see.  It sort of mirrors the first one, but then it doesn't.  In that one Leatherface was an important character...here he is a cross dresser.  Matthew who is playing the hitchhiker role from the first one is the main attraction and it just doesn't equal all that much terror this time around.  I don't think a single person was killed with a chainsaw, unless it happened within the first 10 or so minutes that I missed before tuning in.  My advice is skip this one and don't even watch it until you have seen the first one.  If you want to see it after that it is up to you cause there are some positive reviews to be found for this one.  For me, though, this one was awful. "},{"Title":"Truly the worst movie ever made. Seriously. Zero Stars out of ****.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"20 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  THE TEXAS CHAINSAW MASSACRE THE NEXT GENERATION / (1994) Zero StarsStarring Renee Zellweger, Matthew McConaughey, Robert Jacks, and Tonie Perensky  Directed and written by Kim Henkel. Running time 86 minutes. Rated R (for bizarre violent and sexual content, and for strong language).By Blake French	The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation is so bad it is virtually mind numbing. It is the worst movie I have ever seen. Even the most horrible of bad movies tower far above this romp that wonders between insipid concepts and horror free events. I have a real hard time excepting the fact that such badness can actually qualify as a mainstream film production. This picture is disturbing, bizarre, and god awful. I wish I could provide you with a more thought out opening paragraph, but what else can I say?There is absolutely zero character development in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation. Due to this, we really couldn't care less about what happens to the main characters. The film's logic free story consists of several high school students becoming lost in the depth of a wooded area where they stumble upon a sickening family of psychopaths that put new meaning to the word dysfunctional. 	There are two deaths in the film, both of side characters. One is run over with a truck. The other has his neck broken. In a movie titled The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation, one would expect gory murders a plenty--though that is far from reality in this case. There is no blood, no guts, and no chainsaw killings. The Leatherface character does absolutely nothing in the film. Excuse me. He does do something. He dresses up like a woman and shrieks his chainsaw above his head while screaming wildly.	Who are the villains? What do they want? What conceivable reasons do they have for living the lifestyle they inhabit? There are no answers provided. I am not necessarily stating that the majority of viewers will even care enough about the plot to even ask any questions. I am just backing up my theory of the terrible qualities this production contains.	It is quite the surprise to witness some big names in the film's cast list, such as Renee Zellweger and  Matthew McConaughey. Neither of the two are capable of rescuing the movie, nor are they able to perform with fine dramatic tension. What a complete waste of talent director and writer Kim Henkel constructs with this piece of trash.	After screening The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation I honestly felt sick to my stomach. I love movies so much, but this so-called movie is a disgrace to all film's associated with. It is so hard to understand what the individual's intentions were when they produced this heap of garbage. Did the filmmakers desire to give movies a bad name? Or did they actually believe The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation was worth a penny? After seeing this movie's poster, and seeing the tagline Still Buzzing After All These Years, I had a question for it. Why is the series still buzzing when it ran out of fuel long before this film was made?     "},{"Title":"Please tell me how Renée Zellweger & Matthew McConaughey made it after this film?","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Because to me it seemed rather impossible. How in the heck? I mean the acting was so horrible. And this movie wasn't so bad that it was good. I mean, I just was so insulted by this movie. How could they have done this to The Texas Chainsaw Massacre? *sob*1/10 "}{"Title":"Awful fourth Texas Chainsaw film.","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre starts late one night on 'May 22 1996' when Heather (Lisa Marie Newmyer) spots her boyfriend Barry (Tyler Cone) kissing another girl, upset she gets into her car & begins to drive away but Barry manages to get in before she does. In the back seat are two of their friends Jenny (Renee Zellweger) & Sean (John Harrison), as they argue about various things they suddenly realise they are lost in some woods. Then out of nowhere a car hits them & they are forced off the road, Jenny, Heather & Barry head off to find help while Sean stays behind to look after the injured driver of the other car & before long a guy named Vilmer (Matthew McConaughey) turns up in a wrecker. Unfortunately for Sean Vilmer is a psycho & kills him. Meanwhile Jenny, Heather & Barry find an isolated house where they are terrorised by the inhabitants including the chainsaw wielding retard Leatherface (Robert Jacks). Who will survive & what will be left of them...?Written, produced & directed by Kim Henkel & probably more commonly known under the title The Texas Chainsaw Massacre The Next Generation (maybe whoever retitled it was a Star Trek fan) this was the fourth Texas Chainsaw Massacre film & is easily the worst. The script at times copies exact scenes from the original in particular the scene when a girl is dragged screaming through a corridor & a bit when she is lifted up & impaled on a meat hook, the escape from the house felt very familiar & the final shot where Leatherface is swinging his chainsaw around in anger as the sole surviving teenage girl drives off into safety. Unfortunately The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is an awful film in every way possible, the character's are clichéd & annoying, it's predictable, it's totally bloodless & devoid of any exploitation, it is punctuated with lame attempts at humour & there are some truly bizarre plot developments. How, for instance, can someone be driving through a dense city & then within what seems like 5 minutes suddenly become lost in some woods even though there seems to be plenty of roads around? How can these bunch of killers operate so openly? Who on Earth is that guy in the suit at the end who unbuttons his shirt to reveal his body is pierced with large rings?! Who was in the plane? Are we to assume the average crop spraying pilot would use the propeller on his plane to kill people? There are so many things wrong with this film, there are so many bad parts, stupid parts, annoying parts & it's a film without any balls whatsoever so no one even comes close to being killed with a chainsaw. This isn't a massacre for god's sake, I saw more blood when I cut myself shaving this morning.Director Henkel turns in a really crappy film, there are various continuity mistakes that you don't even have to look that closely to see & as a whole it has no style or visual quality. The comedy elements are out-of-place with scenes of Vilmers leg being operated by remote control! There is also the frankly embarrassing sight of seeing Leatherface dressed in drag, a wig & putting lipstick on! A truly hideous image & one that one just can't help but laugh at. There are no shocks, no horror, no gore whatsoever, we barely see a chainsaw & generally speaking I think The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre fails miserably at what it sets out to do.With a budget of $600,000 The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is pretty sloppy & poorly made throughout. The house interior is OK & adds a little atmosphere but not enough. What on Earth are McConaughey & Zellweger doing in this? I would imagine that the only reason The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is of any interest is because these two make early acting appearances, I trust they have since fired their agents & got better ones. To be fair to them I thought they both did OK considering the 3rd rate material they had to work with.The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre is total crap, I can't really see why anybody would like it. The two previous sequels The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 (1986) & Leatherface Texas Chainsaw Massacre III (1990) are far superior so watch one of those again instead. According to the IMDb's 'Alternate Versions' section there was originally a longer cut that ran for 95 minutes rather than the one widely available which runs for about 86, I shudder at the very thought... "},{"Title":"Did an illiterate monkey thought this up???","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Could this film possibly be as bad as they say it is? Actually no, .it's even WORSE! From start to finish, this thing is a complete load of nonsense and extremely irritating crap! Not ONE line that is spoken by anyone of the performers makes even a tad bit of sense. In fact, your ears start to hurt after a while from listening to all that useless and dumb chatting. You cannot believe what they dare to bring to the screen here. The dialogs and one-liners without a doubt belong to the crappiest that were ever written. Give a typewriter to a 5-year-old child and he'll do a better job than Kim Henkel did. And they don't have to start claiming it's meant to be like this and that it's supposed to be a comical spoof.because it's too idiotic to be a comedy and too painfully amateurish to be a spoof. There's another name for it.rubbish!In every possible way, this pile of garbage is a disgrace to the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre and blasphemy to the genre of horror. There's no structure to be found whatsoever! Characters are disappearing all of a sudden and they don't get mentioned anymore thorough the whole movie, while other, newly introduced types are supposed to fit in right away. The members of the maniacal family are stupid, empty and utterly annoying. Especially the image of Leatherface is messed up badly. All of a sudden, he suffers from a serious identity crisis got really lame. Even when he's appearing in his most 'scary' form, he's only a glimpse of the portrayal Gunnar Hansen once gave. I guess the local and ambitious wannabe stars Zellweger and McConaughey would have done anything at that point of their careers to be noticed.I'm surprised they grew out to be famous after this anyhow! They should be pointed at and laughed for being part of this piece of junk. Writer-director Kim Henkel had her 15 minutes of fame when she co-wrote the original, along with Tobe Hooper. She now turned into a complete joke herself. TCM The Next Generation isn't even bad enough to be good.it's bad, period. "},{"Title":"What Were They Thinking?","Date":"26 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Horror, Thriller","Review":" Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The (1994) 1/2 (out of 4)Director/writer Kim Henkel was the man behind the screenplay to that legendary 1974 hit and he returned to this film in hopes of it being a direct sequel. No matter what the original idea was, this film, when it was finally released after countless years, is a complete disaster from the start. Four kids (one played by Renee Zellweger) leave their prom and end up on a back road where they're attacked and tortured by the psychotic family led by Leatherface. This sequel is pretty much just a remake but with some strange sense of humor that never works. I'm really not sure what they were trying here because the film is a complete mess that never really makes any sense. The film has Leatherface pretty much playing a scream queen as he's constantly putting on make up be it lip stick or fingernail polish. Okay, for a comedy. That would make you think you're watching a comedy but the very next scene will be something extremely dark that puts you back into a horror film. The entire movie jumps back and forth and it's not because they're trying to mix the genres but I think it's because no one was really paying attention to trying to make a good film. The dialogue is without question horrid and just take a listen to the scene where one of the killers has murdered one man in front of another and the man that's still alive says you're scaring me as if he hadn't witnessed anything major yet. Even dumber is the kids getting lost even though they're driving in their town and are only a few minutes away from their school. I know there are two versions of this thing and I've seen them both and neither one adds any sense. The screenplay doesn't seem to know anything except that it likes to show scenes of the female characters being tortured. The women here are kicked, punched, slapped, poked, spit on, flicked, shocked and countless other things. I'm not one of those who are against violence towards women in horror films but this movie is just pathetic in how cheap it is all around. Matthew McConaughey is actually fairly good in his role as he's clearly hamming it up just so he can at least say he's entertaining. Zellweger is also pretty good considering the screenplay doesn't leave her too much to do. In the end, this is without question the worst film in the series and I'm still not sure what on earth the filmmakers were thinking. It's a complete mess from start to finish and it's a film that could have sat on the shelf for a couple decades without the need to be released. "}]