[{"Title":"One of the finest and most powerful films of the Nineties","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"85 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In the late 1970s two young girls named Virginia and Grace Kennedy caused great interest in the academic disciplines of psychology and linguistics. The girls, identical twin sisters, had developed a private language quite incomprehensible to outsiders. Even after they had learnt English, they continued to communicate with each other in their secret language, which was partly a mixture of distorted English and the German that was their grandmother's native tongue, but which also contained some inexplicable vocabulary items. This was an example of an uncommon, but not unprecedented, phenomenon known as 'idioglossia' or 'cryptophasia'. 'Nell' tells the story of an even more extreme example of the same phenomenon. An eccentric and reclusive old woman named Violet Kellty is found dead in her home, a wooden cabin without electricity or running water in a remote mountain are of North Carolina. The local doctor, Jerry Lovell, visits the property to certify the death and discovers that, unknown to the community, Violet had a daughter, Nell, living with her. Nell is unable to speak English and can only speak an unknown language. Although in her late twenties, she has never been outside her home and the forests which surround it, and knows nothing of the outside world. A psychiatrist, Paula Olsen, sent to investigate the case, decides that Nell is mentally retarded, but Lovell, who is becoming increasingly fascinated by this strange young woman, contests this diagnosis. The judge responsible for deciding Nell's future, decides that she should be kept under observation for three months so that more information can be obtained. Jerry and Paula move into the woods to observe, and gradually start to find out more about Nell's past. They learn that she had a twin sister, May, who died as a child, and that her seemingly-strange speech is actually a mixture of distorted English learnt from her mother (who had a speech defect as the result of a series of strokes) and words remembered from a private language spoken with her twin. The question they have to resolve is whether Nell should be committed to a mental institution or allowed to continue her life in the woods. In order to do so, they find that they need to learn how to communicate with her. The most outstanding feature of the film is Jodie Foster's performance in the title role- a remarkable one even by the standards of this talented actress. Throughout the film Foster speaks only in Nell's unearthly-sounding private language, but is able to use this, together with gestures and facial expressions, to convey a full range of emotions. The nearest parallel is probably Marlee Matlin's equally remarkable performance in 'Children of a Lesser God', another film about difficulties in communication. What emerges most powerfully here is the traumatic nature of Nell's position- hitherto happy in her limited world, she is suddenly confronted with a range of people and situations she never knew existed. Foster certainly deserved her Oscar nomination; whether she deserved to win I cannot say, as I have never seen 'Blue Sky', the film for which Jessica Lange won the award. At the heart of the film is a triangular relationship between Nell, Jerry and Paula. Paula initially leans towards the view that Nell belongs in an institution, and clashes with Jerry who takes the opposite view, but as the film progresses she comes to share his opinion and his concern for Nell. The two first become friends and then fall in love, brought together by Nell, who forms the third side of the triangle. One can say that there are also love-relationships between Nell and Jerry and Nell and Paula, but because these relationships are platonic rather than sexual in nature they serve to bring Jerry and Paula together rather than divide them. This means that Jerry and Paula play key roles in the film; fortunately, Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson both play their parts very well, although in a more understated manner than Foster. Many of the criticisms which have been made of the film are, I believe, due to misconceptions. The film critic of The Guardian, for example, criticised it for being overly politically correct in its treatment of the 'mentally challenged'. Apart from the fact that that is an odd criticism to find in a newspaper which is one of the strongest bastions of political correctness in Britain, it is made quite clear in the film that Nell is neither mentally ill nor mentally handicapped. She merely speaks a different language (both literally and metaphorically) from the rest of the world. Some have taken exception to the brief scenes of nudity, but the purpose of these is not eroticism, but rather to demonstrate Nell's innocence.Another criticism which I have seen made of this film, both on this board and elsewhere, is that it is pushing a trite or simplistic 'message', normally along the lines of 'nature is better than civilization' or 'ignorance is bliss'. In my opinion, this criticism is misconceived; 'Nell' is not a didactic film of that sort. Certainly, Nell herself has many admirable characteristics- gentleness, the ability to love and to be loved, a capacity for joy and a love of nature- but nowhere in the film is there any argument that one has to be ignorant or a feral child of nature in order to share these characteristics. If there are villains in the film they are not abstractions such as 'civilisation' or 'modern society', but rather those individuals who want to exploit Nell for their own ends- the journalist hungry for a scoop, the rowdy town youths who want to use her either for mockery or for sexual pleasure, and the academic Alexander Paley. Paley is keen to have Nell committed; he tries to justify this as objective concern for her welfare, but his motives are really self-seeking. He sees Nell as a first-class subject for research which will bring him kudos in the world of academia. What gives the film its power is not any obvious 'message' but its deeply poetic and spiritual tone, deriving both from the acting of the three central characters and the exquisite photography of the North Carolina landscapes. It is a film from which different viewers will draw different conclusions- some may see it, for example, as a religious allegory about the redeeming power of love, while others may view it in a more literal way. It may be too quiet and poetic for some tastes, but in my view this is an unjustly neglected work, one of the finest and most powerful films of the nineties. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just watched this movie for the second time. One word wow!This is one of the rare gems that you can tell when actors and actresses put everything into their performances, and actually go beyond the role. How can I tell? At the very end of the movie, the emotion of the moment that Jodie's character feels towards the scene with the little girl reminding her of her lost sister is enough to make Jodie herself cry and wipe away a tear. Incredible. It's very rare to see that level of immersion into a role where the actors involved feel real emotion about a scene. I'm willing to bet that moment of grace at the very end of the movie wasn't scripted nor acted on Jodie's part. You simply cannot get more heartfelt emotion into a scene than what was shown at the end of Nell. Brilliant and well-acted movie by all. A definite 10.  "},{"Title":"Clearly Foster put more effort into this movie than the writers.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I haven't seen or read the play 'Idioglossia' on which this movie was based, but its title indicates where the emphasis was probably placed... on the attempt to communicate and understand this woman who was raised under extraordinary conditions.  Movies don't usually thrive when done in the same tight, focused manner of a stage play, so it's customary to expand adaptations with additional locations, events, and subplots.  Unfortunately for 'Nell' these are utterly conventional, filled with stereotypes and a sampling of the usual cliches.  This takes time and attention away from the fascinating core story and the superb performance by Jodie Foster.The story begins with the discovery that a reclusive old woman has died and has left a grown daughter alone in their remote cabin.  Originally she is thought to be a wild child since she doesn't understand English and only utters what sounds like gibberish.  Besides that, her behaviour is very peculiar and everyone's first impression is that she is also somewhat retarded, if not mentally ill.But the movie and Foster display an understanding of their subject matter almost unique in a Hollywood movie.  A true wild child (that is, a child who grows up isolated from human contact without learning a language) pretty much never can learn to speak normally or function independently in society.  But this isn't the case for Nell.  She lived with her loving mother all her life and did indeed learn to speak as any child would.  It's just that the language we hear her speak is unique to herself (the definition of 'idioglossia') which was caused by a couple of different circumstances.Her mother had suffered a stroke (if I recall correctly) which drastically affected her own ability to speak clearly, and this was the model for Nell's own speech, never having heard any other.  Nell also had a twin sister who died when they were children.  Typically twins develop their own language (twin speech) to talk to each other when they are very young.  Also typically they tend to outgrow and forget this language as they grow older.  The movie postulates that Nell and her sister never discarded their language, not implausible considering their circumstances, and that Nell retained into adulthood much of that language even after the death of her sister.The final elements of Nell's seemingly odd behaviour is simply a matter of a clash of cultures.  Nell and her family were essentially a people unto themselves, living in isolation and out of contact with the rest of society.  Some of their customs and beliefs were generated from the traumas suffered by the mother, others spontaneously arose from simply living the life they were leading.  These seem peculiar to outsiders from our own, very different, culture; though it's just ordinary life to Nell.  Even more peculiar is the outside world to Nell.  The shock and recoil that she often undergoes comes from being suddenly confronted by inexplicable, unimagined, and overwhelming events totally beyond a lifetime's experience and coming directly on the heels of the death of her mother.When the movie centers on these elements it is entirely engrossing.  Foster is fully convincing in her role, and clearly understands the complex nature and history of Nell.  Despite everyone's first impressions, Nell is never anything but an intelligent adult woman confronting a strange and often hostile world, and attempting to adapt to it as best she can.  Her interactions with Neeson's and Richardson's characters are often complex and traumatic enough to keep the film moving in the absence of the other, extraneous, elements.Had the movie concentrated more intently on this interaction and devoted more time to it, which is really the whole point of the film, or had it done a better and more original job of expanding it's vision during it's adaptation to film (those parts involving the sheriff's wife showed unexploited potential), 'Nell' could have been a great film.  Certainly the superb cinematography shows one of the great advantages of film over the stage.  But there was too much time spent on weak scenes for the movie to ever fully blossom. So overall, despite its flaws, 'Nell' is a good film with many fascinating elements and an excellent performance by Jodie Foster.  And that makes it well worth watching. "},{"Title":"What a charming movie","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film really surprised me, because it was really good. But it mostly surprised me, because I read here that this would be a drama and I must say I disagree. Drama stands for sadness and melancholy, whereas this film stood for humanism. I mean Nell is basically as happy as can be and who are we (the people in the film) to tell her that her way of life is not good? I know this might sound strange, but I see this film as a metaphor for human behavior. We reject what is not like us (race, religion, gender, sexual preference, skin color and so on) and think those people ought to be like us, because they are not &#145;normal'. Well you tell me who is more normal Nell or the people who want to put her away; Nell or the journalists; Nell or the boys in the bar? I will tell you Nell, Nell and Nell. I can recommend this film to everyone and I hereby want to thank all people involved and especially Jodie Foster for her great performance.7,5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Breath Taking","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nell is one of the most captivating, moving and thought provoking films I have ever seen in my life. The acting all round is superb, including a truly fine performance by Jodie Foster. This film is nothing short of spectacular, boasting a strong script, beautiful scenery and excellent direction. Overall, Nell is nothing short of breath taking. I strongly advise to see it. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A Unique, But Disturbing Film","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" remember this film, and subsequent VHS tape, getting a fair share of publicity when it was released. The story certainly was different and so interesting to me (on the first viewing) that Jodie Foster's constant incoherent phrases didn't bother me. They aggravated a lot of other viewers, however. However, after three looks at this film, I had had enough, too, not because of Foster but because this is a disturbing film. It's not a lot of fun to watch. The fact I watched it three times tells you it's pretty darned good.Liam Neeson played a no-nonsense good guy. Natasha Richardson also adds to this unique story. I would definitely recommend this film to first-time viewers but be wary it's different and not always pleasant to see and hear. I don't want to say more in fear of spoiling the story, but kudos to Foster for an outstanding effort. "},{"Title":"Very Interesting-A sleeper that I really liked.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having never seen this film before, I stumbled on to it this morning about 10 minutes after it started on A&E and was so mesmerized that I watched the whole movie, and really liked it! It is well acted (Jodie Foster is INCREDIBLE), as is Natasha Richardson and Liam Neeson, and it's just an all around GOOD movie. I recommend it very highly, and stopped short of giving it a 10 because it didn't have one of those neat what-happened-to-her title-over endings, though the ending IS a good one. "},{"Title":"There's a definition to great art.","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I can't think of another movie better than this one that I have seen anyway so I nominate it for a ten. The thing about great art is it engages the consciousness of the perceiver creatively with the same amount of energy the perceiver invests. That might sound like a lot of pseudo-babble so let me try again. What you see is what you get with great art--and this relationship happens unpretentiously. In an ideal creation there is nothing presumptuous about the art. No doubt there are moments of stereotypes, but these could be just as easily blamed on bad acting from the supporting cast, or simple lapses in composition. I don't think anyone could seriously say stereotypes are a fundamental weakness of this flick, mainly because the use of stereotypes is serving a larger purpose to the story--at least as I see it. This is probably one of the most complex, multi-layered movies I have ever seen. We witness all the archetypes of good storytelling utilized in ever-meshing ways. How sexual violence is a fetish, and how an innocent mind sees it as simple playing. And in every scene we are given, the meaning of Foster's character and what she represents grows. The ending under these terms is truly remarkable and frankly a surprise if witnessed representationally. I mean these are heavy comments on reality folks. I didn't see the play the screenplay was based on, but over and over again I kept thinking Who the hell wrote this thing? Who directed this? It is masterful, and if you can't see it that way, I don't know, go read some books on critical theory, on the development of human consciousness, on Aristotle's's poetics, etc. It is counterpoint perfection--extremely well crafted, and a powerful commentary on not only our culture and civilization, but what it means to be human in this contemporary moment. Oh yeah, Jodi Foster is outstanding. We could make a case that she and her character are the center of this movie, except that it is the world unfolding around her that makes this such great drama. I think I have to go back to her Disney-era movies to think of a truly awful movie she has made. But that shouldn't count either. I never thought those movies were all that bad, but then I simply watched them as a kid. "},{"Title":"A beautiful film","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was a great and simple story. Simply about a woman raised in the wild, unable to speak proper english due to her mothers stroke and she is trying to be brought into civilisation.Neeson and Foster are the stars of this film!! Not just because of their star status but they really showed talent in this film. Foster is brilliant as the vulnerable but independent Nell and Neeson is great as her guardian angel. This film has its funny bits but the ending... well if youre dead sensitive, get the tissues out. When Nell speaks in the courts, I was causing a flood!!!!I give it a 10/10. Definetly one to keep forever. Helen xxxxx "},{"Title":"A tour de force of acting skill and sensitive direction","Date":"8 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I bought the DVD of this film, which I was completely unaware of, because of a review I accidentally came across. Jodie Foster's performance as Nell made an almost incredible character totally believable. How she didn't get an Oscar for her performance says more about the Oscars than about the enormous range and empathy of this superb actress.She was assisted by a wonderful complementary and vulnerable performance from Liam Neesom and the sensitive exploration of a very difficult subject by Michael Apted. I found myself crying without immediately understanding why. I then realised that the film had plumbed the depths of my humanity to levels I did not realise existed. It confronted the question of what it is to be a fully individual human being going beyond our place in a so called civilised society to our almost instinctive spiritual responses to the natural world and to relationship. This is a truly deep and rewarding film which deserves a wide audience. My only criticism is that the transition to Nell's independence was hurried towards the end in the interests of dramatic denouement. "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was fortunate enough to see the original production of the play, its emotional impact was as profound as any I have experienced in the theatre. It is perhaps for this reason that I was left somewhat disappointed with this film.However, I recently looked at it again and found that it is truly a top film. Jodie Foster is a towering talent as an actor and this performance was as good or better than any she's given. Neeson and Richardson were also at the top of their game. And the story of a woman shut off from the world, and the world's perceptions of her, merely because she can't communicate to it, is profound in its implications.I should not have been surprised about being disappointed the first time. I also saw a stage production in Los Angeles of IDIOGLOSSIA and found that disappointing after the original. But this film is a wonderful film. "},{"Title":"A criminally under appreciated and overlooked, divine film","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nell is one of those movies that captivated me in so many ways for so many reasons. It is powerful, poetic and astonishingly beautiful with a beautiful message and an overwhelming use of angelic material that makes my heart ache from how wonderful the attributes that this film tries to get across to it's audience are. The story is a bit familiar, yet they add so much pizazz that it makes it seem fresh and brand new.It really does handle all the subject matter so well and it is exquisitely executed. The directing and writing were amazing, and I thought the performances in particular were absolutely brilliant. Jodie Foster gave such character, life and believability to Nell that I don't think anyone else could have gave any better; she is truly spectacular and deserved that Oscar nomination, maybe even the win. The characters are well done and really likable for the performances and screenplay behind them so you actually care for them, which is what more movies need to try and do; make you care for the characters.Like I said, Nell is dramatic to the point where it's painful, in a good way, sort of, to watch this woman's innocent, undisturbed life play out and unfold, and you wish for anything that you can just make everyone see her point of view and you really hope everything pulls through for this brilliant character in the end. Nell definitely makes us wonder who are the real monsters of this world. The cinematography is excellent also and I found myself completely caught up in how awe-inspiring everything in the movie is at times, whether it's the cinematography, characters or story, which the story is absolutely gripping and fascinating, if you have not caught that by now.Nell seems to be a really overlooked film because most people do not see it for it's full potential of delight and cleverness. It has a few fans, but I never hear any talk of how wonderful it is from anyone. I thought it was excellent, and an astonishing watch, no, adventure, that I would love to live out again sometime soon. "},{"Title":"A great movie.  A wonderful story.","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My comments have little to do with the quality of the movie. However, I think it was exceptionally well done. I found myself wishing there was more to the story to fill in parts that seemed to be missing. Like the five year jump just before the last scene. So I found the book called 'Nell', which is based on the screenplay for the movie, and I read it. But the book added little to the story. Although my hunger for a more comprehensive story was not to be satisfied, I was more than compensated for this imagined shortcoming when I finally realized what the movie was really about. To me the essence of the story of 'Nell' is Nell's ability to look deeply into a person's eyes, to communicate from her soul to yours, letting you know absolutely that she cares about you. Although this ability of Nell's constitutes only a small part of the story, I believe it is responsible for the miraculous recovery of the Sheriff's wife from the depths of her long time depression. It also accounts for the effect Nell had on people in the courtroom. It is a human story. It is a spiritual story. "},{"Title":"Foster works admirably hard, but film is unenlightening and not too convincing...","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Young woman, raised in total isolation in the backwoods of North Carolina by her mother (who had suffered strokes and inadvertently taught her daughter an idiosyncratic form of English) is discovered by a well-meaning doctor who hopes to understand her; unfortunately, other doctors with an eye on their careers get involved and, figuring the girl to be a mentally retarded wild child, bring science into the equation. Intrinsically, the film is about how civilization corrupts our innate innocence, yet the movie is really a bit condescending to the medical profession to suggest today's scientists (and journalists) are only interested in basic assimilation and not the human spirit. If this is indicative of today's society--and that the message is we'd all be better off living like Nell--it doesn't provide much enlightenment (or entertainment value), just annoyance. The picture has a cold, flat look, and Jodie Foster (a highly intelligent actress) rarely gets to use her brains; she's beautifully pale and dreamy-eyed one minute, a ferocious animal the next, and the transitions are jarring. Natasha Richardson, as the doctor who would initially like to see Nell act like just like the rest of us, gets stuck with the worst role (all she ever seems to ask is, So what are we gonna do about Nell?). Many of the doctors are written and acted to be the villains of the piece (right about on a par with the ignorant roadhouse yahoos who make fun of Nell), and the director (the estimable Michael Apted) can't seem to get around the daunting clichés. Foster provides a few lovely moments, especially when showing off her expressive hands in close-up, and there's a touching final shot of her knowing, gentle face, but the movie itself just goes around in circles. ** from **** "},{"Title":"What the light has been made for...","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is 18 now, there are reviews from zero to 10, so here is mine Albert Einstein said Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited... &#x84;Nell shows that kind of knowledge which is behind the &#x84;veil of Isis and that's because some aware people got together to make this visible.It seems that we still need &#x84;stories to reach this, but stories are only a start and never a conclusion.&#x84;Thou are beautiful, O my love, as Tirzah - this world is full of grace if you begin trying to say it to anyone, because all you say is to yourself.&#x84;Who's Tirzah? Jerry Lovell asked, swimming, laughing... It always makes me shine.Alicia Foster's face at the very end shows all we need to know - during about 16 seconds. The most beautiful thing a camera ever could have been taken for; the light was made for. "},{"Title":"First rate","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having previously watched Nell one night on my own, I prevailed upon my wife and children (when they were coming up to their teens) to watch it with me one evening.As expected, they fell about laughing as soon as Jodie Foster started talking in chickabee language. And then, also as expected, they were utterly absorbed as this unusual and involving story unfolded. For, make no mistake, the quality of Jodie Foster's performance is such that Nell becomes absolutely real, and the audience is intrigued at discovering the explanation for her strange development, and dreadfully, dreadfully worried about what will happen to her.Others have written much better informed and more thoughtful reviews about this film - I will just say that I thought it was an excellent film, and so did my family. "},{"Title":"Curious relationships","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" When I put this movie on I watched it, waiting for it to develop. I rented it on a Jodie Foster search, and I did not see any reviews beforehand. I Googled Nell while the DVD was still on and what I found is that people were really moved by the film, so I paid more close attention.I agree with the reviewers who say that Nell is a story about humanity. I also agree that this is NOT a film about a society that carries evils that will corrupt her, just people who have ulterior motives. For Liam Neeson's character, his motives are on behalf of human compassion and a desire to learn Nell's ways.This movie is held together by the interests of Dr. Lovell to keep Nell in her own environment, and Paula who also wants to interpret Nell's behavior but from a more scientific perspective. There's tension as to whether Nell will have to be committed, as she is later, but the hospital is not the proper setting for Nell. One good thing that came out of her brief stay in the NC city is that she is able to let go of her twin sister's ghost, Mae. By ghost I mean a relationship of replayed memories and emotional strongholds.One thread that I found interesting was the ailment of the sheriff's wife. She is not mentally retarded, but she is mentally ill. As a person who is diagnosed bipolar, I wonder about the similarities between the disconnect from society and the disconnect from civilization. There's another reality that can cause depression by certain triggers, or mania, and this can cycle back and forth rapidly. What was the director thinking in putting the wife there? Another way to show how people are receptive to body language from those who are perceived good?I will remember this movie. Jodie Foster is as convincing as Leonardo DiCaprio and Dustin Hoffman but her communication is more than a brief stint. There's never a forgotten moment with her, never a time where her communication couldn't be understood by those who loved her. "},{"Title":"The story of a man trying to understand a mystical savage girl.","Date":"7 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jodie deserved the oscar for that performance.  She was so fantastic its  unbelievable.  So many actresses could have misportrayed Nell, and yet she  found a way to do it; when she talked Nell's language, it seemed like she  really had done so all of her life, and sll of her mimics were absolutely  fluid and genuine, as were all of the rituals she performed.  Liam  Neeson was also wonderful and seemed to really care for the poor child.   One of the best movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Excellent reach for Jodie Foster","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Any time an actor/actress can carry a film with little or no dialog, my interest is piqued. Directors have done this, Hitchcock, for one, but Jodie Foster truly showed her range in a most difficult role. The dangers would be in under- or over-doing the role, yet Jodie played it like a true professional. As far as moving the audience to caring about the title character, I struggle to think who could have done a better job. I must admit, I went in unprepared, as I hadn't read a single review of the movie, and therefore did not know what to expect. The theater audience validated my convictions, however, as I have seldom seen such universal positive reaction to a film (other that the old Classics). "},{"Title":"spoilers, probably, from a health care professional","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie intriguing as I watched it the first time.  I wondered what the diagnosis (es) could be.  I wondered how the two doctors could possibly figure out what Nell's life had been.Then I looked back on it.  There was never a diagnosis because none of it makes any sense.  They didn't make a through search of her house as soon as they could?  They can learn her language but she can't learn theirs?  A group of behavioral psychologist ignore three months of tape in the patient's native environment and make determinations based on a few hours in an observation room?  Nell, catatonic for days, suddenly communicates in a courtroom and starts to think in abstract terms with a new and mispronounced vocabulary?  She learned limited language from her mother, who spoke with a southern drawl marred by strokes, but she can't learn a new word until . . . when?I don't think this was intended to be seen as a true story, or even a believable one, but it didn't make sense to me.  With this cast and this much trouble over the setting, I would have expected realism. "}{"Title":"The Best Movie Of All Time!","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Get your tissues out and get ready to cry. Jodie Foster does a great job acting in this movie. Never seen a better actress in my life-time. That's my opinion. Can't wait for this to come out on dvd, Feb. 2004.Some-one said this is not realistic. Where on the box does it say based on a true story?I didn't see it.If anyone can find that,Please E-mail me and let me know and who is to say that it can never happen.Jodie Foster made me believe, in that movie, that Nell was real and I was ready to go to that bar and fight those boys myself and anyone else that had bad intentions towards Nell.A must see movie for anyone that is human and has feelings.Please, do not read between the lines in this movie and make up something that is not true.Read the back of the vhs,laserdisc,or dvd before watching this movie and please, remember to get a box of tissues.This movie should be rated more than a 10 because Jodie Foster gave 200% in this movie. "},{"Title":"beautiful","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is very beautiful... you must have see them. You love them all. Jodie Foster plays the biggest role. She is very great with talking the language of Nell. Liam Neeson who's married with Natasha Richardson, -and both played also in this movie-, plays the roll of Dr. Lovell. And Natasha the role of Dr. Paula Olsen. they are great too.You can see that they love the other... and I thought Natasha was pregnant during this movie.But the importants person is Nell... and I need to say...! Great. see them!  "},{"Title":"Foster at her peak.","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's easy to point out the flaws in Nell. The sub plots that are left to waste, the Taster's Choice ending, and above all, failing to delve deeper into the psyche of Nell instead of dwelling too much on scenery and loose shots. Too easy. But let's concentrate on the good. And there is much to love about this movie, not in the least Fosters brilliant acting. I remember when I saw this movie in the theater for the first time, I was totally convinced by her acting. During the entire movie I never doubted for a second that Foster was Nell. This is the best compliment I could give any actress or actor.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful story! I find the courtroom scene moving every time I see it.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie appeals to me on several levels. (1) I have a fascination with languages, especially constructed and private languages, and Nell has the ultimate private language! (2) Nell is a beautiful person in her innocence and unspoilt nature. As the doctor and psychologist learn to communicate with her, I become attached to her just as they do. (3) The theme of the movie cuts through to the human condition itself, about how we must be together and alone always. I cannot but give it a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"not believable, on any level","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Not believable. So many of these wild person movies have been done, from Tarzan to Crocodile Dundee, that we know what to expect of them...nothing believable, and nothing to learn from. Characters in other movies have been suckled by wolves, raised to swing from vines like apes, to fight crocodiles by the Australian Aborigines, raised by Indians and taught to dance with wolves, who knows what else? The only thing is, it could never happen. Raised by people in other societies, yes, but children raised without contact with any other people, it's impossible. Nell, if she had been living like the story has us believe, would have matted hair, filthy skin that was callused from head to toe, and she would be eating caterpillars and bark, not the groceries that were delivered to her door every week. And if the grocer knew where she was living, so would everybody else. Who pays the grocer? Why is she wearing shoes that fit? Why is her skin so soft and smooth? Why does her sister have to be an identical twin to make their own language...she could just as easily be a cousin. The thing that bothers me the most is that the average hillbilly in the mountains of North Carolina are much worse off than she is, and yet she is the one with new clean clothes and perfect teeth, while they are the ones with none. You want to make a movie about hillbillies in NC, then just go into the woods and film an average family in those hills, you don't need to drag Jodie Foster in with 25 makeup artists to hide blemishes. We have her in a cabin near a road that some local bikers have found. Are they the first people who ever stumbled on that cabin? The US government has surveyed every square inch of land in this country, and census takers know where every cabin or shack is. I have 28 acres in a part of the Adirondacks that are every bit as remote as the hills of NC, and when I tried sneaking a cabin in there, within a week I had the Town Officials up there wanting to see my permit. The movie is impossible. "},{"Title":"Well-acted, but unbelievable story","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At first, the story about Nell is very intriguing. Jodie Foster is a great actress, and she succeeds in making Nell into a fascinating woman. I also liked Liam Neeson's performance. But, on the moment Nell is being introduced to civilization, the movie goes wrong. The shrink, Richard Libertini, is a complete cliche. It's so obvious that the audience is being manipulated into feeling that civilization is bad, nature is good. I also hated the court-scene, because I found it unbelieveable that Nell, who hardly knew mankind, could defend herself like this. The obligatory final scene was one of the worst I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"something is wrong with this movie","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The major flaw of this movie, which struck me after the first 20 minutes is that it is somehow artificial. This could be due largely to the direction, which somehow almost never really got a grip on the movie.There was something relaxed about the actors, which didn't quite fit the sad and serious subject. And Jodie Foster was definitely miscast here. She inspires determination, self-confidence and ...feminism, so how the h*** could she be right for the part of a feral child? Sure, her acting is great, but why cast her in such a role? It's like casting Julia Roberts as a brain surgeon or Jessica Lange as Margaret Thatcher. And the that end speech by Nell in the court room...pleeeaassseee. The feral child suddenly turns into a moralizing philosopher? What the heck was that? Apparantely Jodie Foster did her homework playing a feral child quite well, despite her miscast, but the writer and director were so keen to deliver a final touching scene, that they forgot all about realism there. The outcome of the movie is also fairy-tale material. And the movie is somehow very unbalanced in its elements (story, acting,direction,dialog). The three points I'm giving is for some really touching scenes, but overall it is below average. "},{"Title":"Inappropriate movie for the aged rated by NETFLIX","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The film is especially upsetting because it has a mature theme or adult tone, and it has been rated 12 as a parental guidance and I was watching it with my 12 years old daughter and it is not suitable for 12 or 12A rate but NETFLIX failure in this point. I don't like the movie at all, very annoying and boring to watch it. Loads of naked scenes making no sense. Liam Neeson performance is mediocre and the scene where he come naked to the lake to make a possible contact with Nell, I found complete nonsense. I expect more from the movie and the only good performance was from Jodie Foster, but the language they choose for her to perform is really annoying and difficult to watch until the end, but I did just to write this review. I am not recommend. "},{"Title":"The director probably has passion on down syndrome?","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nell is woman who's been brought up in the forest. The only people she knew were her mother and twin sister who passed away. They lived together in a cottage. On some scene in this movie, Nell has braided hair, she can also work with the woods outside the house, she wears a cloth just like a normal women. How come she has character just like DNS? Even the dumb indigenous people living in the isolate jungle they don't act like down syndrome. I know this because I have been stayed in Thailand, and there was a news on TV. program about a girl who's her parents have antisocial attitude, they brought daughter to live in the jungle. this girl has never seen the car and people still this she can talk properly, and when the TV program brought her to the city. yes, she scared of a lot of things, but her action isn't weired like Nell on this film. because she isn't the down syndrome. we go back to the film Nell, the character Nell has on this film is not supposed to be normal character for normal human, it just a character of someone who sick, unrealistic movie plot, plus too much unnecessary scenes. "},{"Title":"good performance from Jodie Foster","Date":"9 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Stroke victim Violet Kellty passes away in her isolated North Carolina cabin. Town doctor Jerry Lovell (Liam Neeson) and Sheriff Todd Peterson (Nick Searcy) find a young woman (Jodie Foster) living in the house speaking her own language. She is Violet's daughter Nell from a rape. Lovell asks Dr. Paula Olsen (Natasha Richardson) to help him decipher her language. Olsen is looking to commit her but Lovell opposes her asking for informed consent. The judge gives them 3 months to observe her before making any decision. However her language hides the fact that she had a twin once.The movie navigates some interesting matters like Nell's sexuality but handles it without much depth. The movie ends with a Five Years Later scene. I think those five years hold something more interesting. It's also perplexing that Nell doesn't figure out some more English. The movie seems intent to keep her a virginal innocent to the end of the trial. The speech in court starts off well but quickly turns cheesy. There is a vein of cheesiness going on in this movie. Jodie Foster gives her all in this performance. It would be great if director Michael Apted dig deeper into the character. "}{"Title":"Nell-A Powerful And Moving Film From The Early 90's.","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nell is a story that takes place in North Carolina. It is about an adult age young woman who just lost her mom. Billy who deliverers groceries to the woman's house deep in the woods finds her. He reports it to Sheriff Todd Peterson(Nick Searcy). Todd and the town doctor, Jerry Lovell(Liam Neeson)go out to investigate it. Todd is not only the sheriff, but a good husband to is wife who suffers from anxiety. I believe, I never read the book so I am just guessing. Jerry(Neeson), is shocked because he didn't think anyone lived this deep into the woods. Once they are in the house it is very quaint, wood floors, wood furniture, it is very basic. They find the old woman who is laid peacefully in the kitchen with her arms crossed, and flowers over her eyes. Jerry can't believe it, he is in disbelief. There is no water, no electricity, or phone. How can anyone live like this, they both look around the small house and Jerry comes across Nell. She is scared, and seems to have been sheltered most of her life. She seems to speak in a kind of broken English or a type of her own language. Jerry believes she speaks this way because her mother suffered a series of strokes. Nell is a sheltered young woman with little knowledge of the outside world. Jerry knows he needs help with this case. Especially when he finds a letter written by the mother. It says God has led you here please take good care of my Nell. Jerry is upset after reading the letter, he goes into Charlotte for more help on the case. He meets a psychologist, Paula Olsen,(Natasha Richardson). He explains to her what happened. Paula is fascinated, she wants to bring Nell back into Charlotte to study her. At first Paula and Jerry bump heads, Paula/ the other doctors want her in a controlled environment; to study her. Paula goes to extreme lengths for competency. Jerry says no way, he is blocking it. He has watched her, and realizes she can live on her own. He is fascinated by what she can do. Paula says differently, saying she can't even speak English; she speaks her own type of language. The competency trial gets blocked; and the board gives him a time limit on his progress with Nell. In order to understand Nell someone will have learn her language and help her open up.Paula is there to help with equipment to watch, listen, and work on her type of language. They take blood samples, realize Nell was a product of rape, and is the only survivor of Twins. They study her day and night, observing her while she unaware. They both continue to study her language on the houseboat Paula has. It is Jerry who opens up to her, to Nell he is her Guardian Angel. He works on understanding Nell Speak( her language). Jerry sometimes pushes the limits, like playing music. This scares her at first because she has never heard it. He also wants her to realize that not all men are evil doers. She believes this because of her mom's rape. I believe this is one major reason why she stays inside during the day. Nell is remarkable she comes out at night, swims, and seems very capable of anything. To start breaking her from being scared of all men, Jerry jumps into the river with her. Paula tells her it is O.K., he will not hurt her. The three of them start to form a powerful bond that can't be broken. The next step is to get her out in the day time. They begin with baby steps, teasing her with food. She is shy at first, but she begins to break free. Then they take her into town, she is mesmerized. She sees so much for the very first time, they stop into town and meet Todd and his wife, Mary(Robin Mullins). Nell bonds with Mary, and Mary begins open up. Nell, Paula, and Jerry go to the grocery, and Nell really opens up. She then wonders off to the local Pool Hall, where she gets harassed by Billy; and some of the other local boys. Jerry finally finds her; and protects her from being embarrassed any more. In fact Billy almost gets what he deserves from Jerry. Near the end of the movie some twists; and turns take place which are crucial to Nell's well being. Nell's court date begins; and Jerry proves to the court Nell is competent. Five Years go by,Paula and Jerry are a family, and a big get together happens at Nell house. Nell has progressed remarkably; she will never forget Paula; and her Guardian Angel-Jerry.This movie is excellent, one of Jodie Foster's best. Liam Neeson is remarkable as the caring doctor who wants to help Nell. Even though Natasha Richardson's character wants to jump the gun at first, by locking her up in a hospital. Richardson's character opens up as the film progresses. The movie is powerful, it tackles prejudices/fear. It opens our minds to people who may have a disability/sheltered, ETC.. All people deserve to be treated like human beings; and not like lab rats.THX, Kris L. CocKayne "},{"Title":"Calls of the Wild","Date":"8 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Directed by the oft underrated Michael Apted, Nell stars Jodie Foster as Nell, a young woman raised in an isolated cabin by an elderly woman with a severe speech impediment. Emotionally and intellectually arrested, Nell is cared for by doctors Lovell and Olsen (Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson), a pair of well-meaning academics.Nell's first three quarters are mostly excellent. Pleasantly low key, atmospheric and shot in the gorgeous woodlands of North Carolina, the film is at its best when Lovell and Olsen take on the rolls of detectives and cryptographers, both trying to decipher Nell's strange speech patterns.Unfortunately Apted's film completely collapses in its final act. Cardboard villains, a silly jail break and a horrendous monologue in a courtroom, completely derail what was initially a very original picture. The film's philosophy &#x96; that Nell is teaching Lovell and Olsen rather than the other way around &#x96; is likewise cringe-worthy. It's a shame, because until these final moments, Nell was rather unique.Incidentally, Nell echoes a number of Apted's other works. His Up series was likewise preoccupied with mapping the social development of human beings, his Coal Miner's Daughter and Gorillas in the Mist likewise found young women isolated in strange woodlands, his Enigma revolved around cryptography and his Thunderheart and Amazing Grace hinged on rehabilitating the socially marginalised. In Nell, our young outcast is nursed back into the fold, but ultimately rejects modernity. She remains in the forests of North Carolina, a decision which Apted tries desperately to attach profound significance to.7.9/10 - See Francois Truffaut's The Wild Child. "},{"Title":"A profound, superbly acted meditation on love and loss","Date":"26 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My rating 8 out of 10 (I really liked it) I just watched this and wow, what a movie.I hope no one would let the average rating this movie has received on IMDb dissuade them from giving it a try. I can't predict what people will like and what they won't like, but I know that for me it was an experience I didn't want to end. The point of movies is to immerse you in another world, to make you believe you're watching real people going through real experiences. For 2 hours 'Nell' did that for me.The acting in 'Nell' is some of the best I've ever seen. There wasn't a false note to be found from a single person in the cast &#x96; these actors BECAME those characters. Never once did I feel that I was watching a performance. It was all incredibly real, and that's rare. I was in awe the whole time.'Nell' is full of wonderful things. The cinematography is utterly gorgeous. Normally visuals don't carry much weight with me, but even I couldn't help but notice. And the music, while simple, was so weighty and effective.This is not a movie for people who are bored unless there's fighting and explosions and such. This is a thoughtful movie. It's about people, their life experiences, and how they deal with and are shaped by those experiences.It's interesting&#x85;I've read a number of reviews of 'Nell', and the mixed reactions it's gotten for the last 20 years tell me that sometimes even highly intelligent people can see a movie and yet not really see it. Many reviewers would have you think 'Nell' is about language, about the phenomenon of idioglossia. Trust me, that's NOT what this movie is about. Yes, that may be the framework for the story, and Idioglossia is the name of the play on which this is based, but that's not what 'Nell' is about. Simply put, the story of 'Nell' is a story of two of the most basic and yet most profound of human experiences &#x96; love and loss. For two hours we are given a window into the lives of these characters, watching them as they help one another deal with these two matters together.I won't say any more about the plot because I would hate to spoil anything for someone reading this, but I will add one more thing. Watching Jodi Foster in the very last scene of the movie&#x85;maybe I'm the only one who feels this way, but wow. Rarely have I seen an end to a movie that so simply, effectively, and profoundly reflects on a human being's experience of love and loss.My rating of an 8 in no way implies that I found flaws with this movie. When you reach a certain level of quality in art it becomes simply a matter of preference. In my scale, 9 and 10 are generally reserved for movies of certain genres and certain subjects. Therefore, I would not argue one bit with someone who gave this movie a perfect score. "},{"Title":"Emotional, yet simple, modest, and beautiful","Date":"29 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nell, the movie is titled after the protagonist Nell, a wild girl who has grown up isolated in the woods. The lack of exposure, death of her twin sister, and tales narrated by her paralyzed hermit mother leaves her with an unusual behavior, distorted speech, fear of strangers and the real world. The story revolves around Dr. Jerome Lovell who discovers Nell, panic-stricken at the death of her mother. He tries his best to communicate with her, protect her from strangers, and lead her to a normal life. With time, he grows fond of her. When Jerome explores different options to grab Nell's attention and persuades her to respond, the movie gets intriguing. Dr. Jerome discusses Nell's case with Paula Olsen, who believes and proposes that institutionalization is the way to treat and protect Nell. Paula appeals to the court for the custody of Nell. However, Jerome counters that Nell will turn out to be an object of scientific research like other patients in such medical facilities. The court grants 3 months to both the appellants to observe Nell closely and prove their stance. However, after observing Nell's independence, routines, and response to Jerome, Paula is convinced that the impersonal medical procedures will not cure Nell. Therefore, she begins to assist Jerome in his efforts to understand Nell's language and interact with her. Jerome soon turns out to be Nell's Guardian Angel. But during their stay together, Jerome and Paula also develop intimacy.Towards the climax, I was convinced that Jerome and Nell will lead a happy life together. However, the movie takes a smooth turn when Nell is seen as the same person but in the company of Jerome's friends. She is shown free, happy, and playing in the woods with Ruthie, Jerome and Paula's daughter. I am impressed by the remarkable performances of Jodie Foster and Liam Neeson. Jodie Foster's effort to justify Nell's appearance and behavior as a wild girl deserves a clamorous applause, mainly for her voice modulation, expressions, movements, and gestures. Liam Neeson's acting as Dr Jerome is significant. Particularly, the dramatic narration of his childhood to evoke Nell's reaction is spectacular. The portrayal of innocence and purity is heart-warming, when Nell vents out her feelings to Jerome and embraces him. Jerome's natural display of disappointment and anger is powerful, at the pathetic sight of Nell in the hospital. The impulsive reaction on realizing that he would lose Nell is admirable. Last but not the least, the choice of the pristine location in the movie, around Nell's wood cabin, certainly adds to the effectiveness of the plot. Firstly, if you are a fan of either Jodie Foster or Liam Neeson, you must not miss this movie. In general, Nell is worth your money and time. "},{"Title":"So much more than beautiful...","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember seeing this movie when I was younger, and had a fair memory of how the movie was and that it was a rather good movie. Now in 2012, I decided to get the movie and have another look at it. And I am actually quite happy that I did buy it from Amazon, because this movie is more than good.Nell is a really beautiful story that will have you swept away and have you immersed into the story in no time. Nell tells a story of being human, accepting people for what and whom they are, it is a story of existence, but most importantly it is a story of the heart.I think this was actually the first or second movie I watched with Liam Neeson (playing Jerome Lovell) in it, and to this day, I still think this is his best and most memorable performance. Jodie Foster (playing Nell) is nothing short of extraordinary in this movie. Her performance is breathtakingly beautiful and so heartfelt.You really get caught up in the story, and you want to know what happens next. And the way Nell's story is revealed to you and how she grows, it is like you are right there with her. The director really did an awesome job on this movie. And the way Jodie Foster portrays Nell when exposed to the world and the life we take for granted is really good acting and amazing performing. She really makes Nell come to life as a real person.Nell really goes straight into your heart and soul and the story will be with you for a long, long time. And you might want to keep some tissues at hand, because the story is really touching, and really helped so greatly along by Jodie Foster.I know that I will be watching this movie again at some point, even though the story doesn't hold surprising twists and such, it is one that can bear being watched more than once. "},{"Title":"Jodie's zenith","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In Nell, Jodie Foster gives, arguably, the best performance of her life. Clearly, she invested deeply in the role and her genuine strength and inner beauty shine so brightly into the character that Nell's beauty and loneliness become completely convincing.The story is more idealistic than realistic (as allegories are wont to be) which is worth remembering throughout - not least when it comes to the courtroom scene. I appreciated the sentiment of that scene whilst privately wishing it had been a closed hearing (full for a custody hearing?) Despite some ragged plot problems (that USGS wouldn't know about the Kellty homestead, that Nell is in really good health, that the lads who deliver her groceries never appear to discuss the 'strange hermit woman' with anyone, and so on) the story staggers to the finish line with an overly idyllic ending.Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson support well locking horns convincingly over which was to become Nell's champion until they realised that Nell wasn't a trophy for an academic white paper. Nell becomes the adopted child, the glue that binds Neeson and Richardson's characters' emotional attachment.The film has some poetic cinematography and good location. But it is Jodie Foster's ability to play crushingly tender moments (the mirror, the lake, the effective memory) that - I'm happy to admit - still bring me to tears and is why I don't watch it a lot. It's a good film for couples who either have, or want to have, children. When you see it, I hope you'll understand why. "},{"Title":"Nell is a Jodie Foster Triumph","Date":"14 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The 1994 film, Nell, is an acting triumph for Jodie Foster. The screenplay is by William Nicholson and it was adapted from the remarkable play by Mark Hadley. Foster grows up as a Yeti in a remote forest having been raised by her mother who suffered from a speech disorder or aphasia after running to the woods escaping the rapist who had attacked her. Nell then grows to adulthood with little to say in favor of men, and little speech to begin with anyway. Modern society attempts to treat her, but Liam Neesam is able to convince the doctors to allow her some space for growing room and a period of adjustment in order to make a more gradual adjustment to society. This film is compelling from the moment it begins and holds ones attention to the very end. It is deserving of much praise for handling a delicate subject with loving care and empathy that permeates the film. The cinematography is overwhelming and makes one jealous of Nell's environment. It is a very good rent now on DVD and well worth the time involved. Neesam's portrayal of a family physician turned naturalist is equally as compelling as is that of Foster making for a very satisfying picture. "},{"Title":"Fascinating Story That Turns A Bit Too Feel Good In The End","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The subject matter is fascinating. Nell (Jodie Foster) is a young woman raised by her mother in a setting completely cut off from civilization. She knows nothing of the outside world and has had little if any interaction with other people throughout her life, to the point at which she's developed her own language. Discovered by a grocery store delivery boy when her mother died, she comes under the care and tutelage of Drs. Lovell and Olson (Liam Neesom and Natasha Richardson) who have to decide whether or not she should be taken from her isolated environment and introduced to the real world.The dilemma is very powerful. What right does anyone else have to decide for Nell how her life should be lived, especially when she's clearly capable of living on her own in the environment to which she's accustomed? Why should she be subject to court orders about her fate or to living in psychiatric hospitals when there's obviously nothing really wrong with her except that she's living a life that no one in the outside world can understand? Those are tough questions. The movie does a great job of developing the relationship between Nell and Lovell (and then also Olson) in a sensitive way, as both begin to care for Nell and want to be protective of her and her rights to choose. Jodie Foster was - I thought - surprisingly good in this role. She usually plays a stronger type, and - at least as the movie opens - Nell was a very vulnerable figure. I didn't know if Foster would work in such a role, but she pulled it off perfectly.I would criticize this film only for the overly happy ending. Beginning with Nell appearing in court, this took on a too syrupy fell in my opinion; everything in the end was far too happy to be believable - in my opinion anyway. But aside from that I thought this was a very well done movie and a very interesting story. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Mixed drama, good acting but poor writing","Date":"20 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mixed drama with Jodie Foster as a wild woman, living for many years with her disabled mother deep in the woods, who is discovered by Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson. She speaks in a language they cannot understand, yet they (Neeson in particular), form a special bond with her. Eventually as publicity about ehr case grows they are induced to take her away from her natural environment, and of course trauma follows. Jodie Foster never entirely convinces as Nell, but not for lack of trying. Her character has this big courtroom speech at the end that is ridiculously written. It has some nice moments, and the three actors have genuine chemistry, but it just sorts of plods away, never really getting anywhere. "},{"Title":"Nell  Another  Shawshank Redemption.  A winner.","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Hollywood is a wonderful place, it's certainly brightened my lonely hours, and took away the gloom of cold winter nights, closed steelworks, mounting boarded up shops, my worrying about taxes, getting the car serviced, or finding hammers and shovels and sheep wire and fencing and nails and screws that go missing whenever they are needed. As you can imagine like royalty I have a padded chair throne, a pint mug of hot tea, and a warm fire. I have no visitors but my house is never ever empty. Great stars call regularly and I'm the sort of guy who always ends up walking into the sunset with Humprey Bogart and Claude Raines, or humming 'April Showers' with Jolson. Sometimes I cry, rarely great big tears, but, the occasional 'the truth can hurt you tears', and NELL was such a 'truth can hurt you film that can make you cry', because it exposes to ourselves our isolation from the busy bee world and, our growing old fears and wary'ness about meeting strangers. Someone said NELL was a sleepr, maybe they meant because no one got shot, stabbed or beaten up spoilt it at the box office, but take my word for it, lots of young folk are missing out a great trip down hardship lane if they miss this wonderful film. This film is a sort of well acted small town 1930 depression film that hit the moon and my heart. See it, talk about it, and after seeing it, try and get involved as NELL did with the world?. As for marks, 10 out of ten. Loved it, you will too. Nell lives up to the adage that the purpose of films is to educate and entertain, it did this admirably. "}{"Title":"Foster a prodigy, unparallelled","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Powerful acting from leads Liam Neeson, Natasha Richardson and Jodie Foster dominates this tale concerning a 'wild woman' from rugged mountain country who is forced into mainstream society when her elderly mother passes away and can no longer take care of her and keep her sheltered from the outside world.Director Michael Apted has taken a theme that is not a new one, and shaped it into a strong drama about how an unpolluted human being can transform those who have suppressed their emotions in the outside world merely through their purity. Nell contains a definite message in this light, and it's one we could all learn from. Apted takes everything very seriously in bringing William Nicholson's screenplay to celluloid, while carefully balancing things with a gentle humour. His competence is most evident early on and continues through the middle of the narrative, yet towards the end one gets the feeling Nell is trying too hard to say something. The final court scene is effective, but perhaps a little unnecessary (attempting the quintessential tear jerker maybe). Everything is just too nicely wrapped up.The cinematography is wonderful as it captures the splendid locale beautifully, and Mark Isham's score is truly soulful, but let's get back to the movie's real strength.Jodie Foster is a true prodigy, even though she may not be at her best, she manages to deliver an unbridled performance, holding your attention with ease whenever she is on the screen. Her earthy beauty makes her look all the more natural, and she maintains complete control with seemingly no effort. Foster is an actress unparalleled among her contemporaries.Tuesday, February 14, 1995 - Village Southland "},{"Title":"Fascinating Premise","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I did not see this film in it's initial run, but recently caught it on DVD. I am fascinated by the premise and I found the film to be a very emotional experience. Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson tackle the colloquialisms of Carolina to an astonishing degree, with Richardson damn near passing for a native speaker. Nick Searcy delivers a performance, yet again, that captures the verisimilitude of his utility role with authenticity. He is an often overlooked and under- appreciated talent. But the reality that Jodie Foster exudes in her performance really made me wish I had discovered this film when it first came out. Her portrayal is so crouched in the emotional reality of her character that it transcends the banality of the direction. I don't want you to think the movie is poorly directed, quite the opposite, I think Michael Apted does a fantastic job. But when these characters are juxtaposed against the circumstances of the story, I felt like Apted chose the path of least resistance cinematically. There are some logic gaps that I wanted him to fill in or explain better, but then I think... why gild the lily? Is it not a beauty in it's own right? "},{"Title":"SUPERB and EXCELLENT! Jodie Foster was robbed of an Oscar for this one!!!","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've seen this movie once on Cable years ago and loved it! Just saw it a few minutes ago and loved it all over again. Jodie Foster was truly robbed of an Oscar on this one she excels like no other performance I've seen in years. You really care for her character, and then for the closeness that develops between Nell and the two doctors, and you really feel like cheering when the two doctors fall in love with each other, as they take a real sincere interest in Nell. It's a great film because, as mentioned above, the caring of and for the characters comes through like a tidal wave. You can tell this is an older movie, just by that! I can't wait for the DVD so I'm getting it on tape. "},{"Title":"Great Jodie!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard that this movie was just for the showing up of Jodie. Okay I accept this point. But the people that says that should say that she did A GREAT SHOWING UP. Her role is played perfectly. Is played in its best way. Her partners as Liam Neeson and his wife, got a good place in the movie, trying to understand the language of Nell.  I don't know why Jodie is almost the only actress you forget that is who it is. Jodie. Her roles are always such differents in each movie. A wild woman in this one. A raped woman in the Accussed and a prostitute in Taxi Driver. Thriller (silence of the lambs) and comedy (Maverick), and soon Anna and the king as a history movie. With many others! I want to say that definetely she is one of the most best actresses in the movie industry! Good Job Jodie. Not just in Nell. Good job in each movie you've done! "},{"Title":"One of Jodie Foster's best movies.","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although Nell is not as famous as The Silence of the Lambs, or even Maverick, it is one of her best movies.  I believe that Jodie Foster did a terrific job in Nell.  The movie was very believable, and she acted her part better that any other of her movies because playing Nell is difficult. I would say that this movie is worth buying. "},{"Title":"Jodie Foster's Wild Child","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson play a couple of doctors who discover a wild child named Nell, a woman who's grown up completely isolated from human contact, and who as a result has developed her own language, mode of communication, etc.I can understand what drew Jodie Foster to the role of Nell, because on paper it's a serious actress's wet dream. However, the results, while earnest, are rather embarrassing. Something about the film, and Foster's performance, never quite works, and I found myself laughing at her performance, never a good sign.The whole thing is just a little too nauseating to be completely enjoyable.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Surprisingly effective","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Really this could have been so bad. It's a high-risk principal role for Jodie Foster as the eponymous Nell, a semi-feral woman who has little conventional language. Whilst this is the kind of part that can bring rewards from the Academy it can just as easily descend into something laughable.Well Jodie Foster was duly nominated for her committed performance, although I suspect that this has as much to do with the mediating influence of Liam Neeson who also works hard. Natasha Richardson is a lovely presence to keep some sort of balance - the big distraction for me, and a positive one it was too, was the location and it capture on film. This is a lovely film in which to immerse oneself and perhaps drift away from the content and tension of the drama on which it is floated. 5/10 "},{"Title":"If you go down to the woods today, you're in for a big surprise...Nell","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Within the woods of North Carolina lives a woman unlike any you've ever met. To call her feral would be an insult. To call her wild is a mistake. But to call her beautiful, now you're on to something. That woman is Nell.Nell is played by Jodie Foster, giving an extraordinarily passionate performance of zero inhibitions. This is a woman so in love with life. But a life built on her terms. To the outside observer, she appears unrestrained. Even animalistic. And she speaks a language completely alien. But that's how she likes it.Nell is a woman of pure spirit. And a fiery spirit. She lives in a shack in the woods, where the only company she ever shared was that of her mother, and her twin sister. Both have died in Nell's lifetime. The sister in childhood. And the mother in adulthood. Nell is perfectly capable of looking after herself in her private solitude, but it isn't long before outside civilisation comes calling.Dr Jerome Lovell (Liam Neeson) discovers Nell, and when he can't seem to get through to her, he has no choice but to call in some help. Dr Paula Olsen (Natasha Richardson) is an ambitious young scientist who thinks Nell would be best served being observed behind the walls of an institution.When this matter goes to court, the judge decides to have Jerome and Paula observe Nell in her natural habitat for three months. Then Nell's future can be determined.I suppose in some sense, Nell has implausibilities. There are questions that did keep nagging in the back of my mind through all this. Like how Nell's mother provided for her daughter. We see a courier dropping off supplies. But where Nell's mother got the money from is anyone's guess. Its a testament to Michael Apted's smooth direction and smart screenplay by Mark Handley and William Nicholson that these occasional illogicities don't completely capsize the film.But more importantly its Jodie Foster's vibrant, spirited performance that carries the entire movie. As I was watching Nell (movie and character), I kept being reminded of Rain Man. Nell is not exactly autistic, like Dustin Hoffman's character, but she is closed and sheltered from society. She screams when confronted with the unknown. Lashes out at others like a trapped animal.Nell is a film that asks a great deal of its audience. The first 25 minutes requires Jodie Foster to scream and mumble an incomprehensible language. You may feel entirely tempted to switch off the film in frustration. But if you have patience, it will be rewarded.I enjoyed Nell so much more than Rain Man. I've never been able to understand what people saw in that film. Dustin Hoffman's performance seemed rather irritating. He never really stripped his mental condition away, to see the tortured man behind the impairment. And his Oscar win was unbelievable.Jodie Foster by comparison runs rings around Hoffman. You're never in any doubt there is a fragile creature behind Nell's tough exterior. Nell's private language may be baffling, but watch the emotions conveyed in Foster's face and her expressive eyes. Its a superb performance of surprising, accessible depths.Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson are OK. Even if, in a sense they are competitors, they become surrogate parents to Nell. Something that Nell seems to recognise, and even accepts. As good as they're performances are, this is Foster's show.Jodie Foster has always been one of my favourite actresses. And Nell is one of the meatiest roles she's ever had the pleasure of sinking her teeth into. She so completely immerses herself in the part. Its one of the things I've always admired about Jodie Foster. Once she loses herself in a character, she never abandons it. She stays true to it.And Handley and Nicholson have crafted a truly complex character that Foster does a superb job of bringing to life. I like the way they've sketched a whole life story for Nell. They don't shortchange us on the details. Nell's mother had a stroke, and she could only speak out of one side of her face. This is what formed the basis of Nell's language. The only other person who spoke Nell's language was her twin sister. Something they secretly shared. And when she died, a piece of Nell died with her.For the most part, Nell steers admirably clear of forced sentiment. Its only towards the end that it goes a little off course. Apted sadly resorts to that cliché of many a melodrama. The courtroom speech. Nell speaks her heart, with Jerome as her interpretor. I get the impression Apted wasn't sure how to close the book on this. Its unfortunate the way he chose to attempt it, because it only strips Nell of the mystery and intrigue that made her such a fascinating character to watch.But still, Nell is a quite wonderful film. Jodie Foster again shows off her fantastic versatility as an actress. And its so refreshing to see a tender story that's actually tender but (mostly) avoids the clichés that come with it. "},{"Title":"Despite what some may think, I think Nell is an intriguing movie","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was disappointed to see that Nell only rated a six. It's such a touching movie. I think it teaches people to step out of their boundaries and look at things in life from a different perspective. At the beginning of the movie, the common first reaction to Nell is repulsion, but as you keep watching the movie, you see that she's not mentally challenged and she's not crazy. Because of the way she was raised, her mannerisms are a bit different than those of people in the modern world, but she's pretty much the same as anyone else. Each country has it's own mannerisms, so why freak out at the sight of a kind? When I watched the movie on TV the other day, the rating read mature on which I agree. There are some scenes when Nell goes swimming in the lake naked. Immature audiences may gasp and laugh at these scenes, but a mature audience doesn't look at these scenes pervertedly, but looks at the female body as a beautiful piece of art, created by God. "},{"Title":"You should see it !!!","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" That is really a very very good film. It approach the word humanism in a very kind way. We are first of all human beings, leaving in the same planet, breathing the same air, having the same needs, we should all show respect to each other no matter what sex,color and religious beliefs have the other people. Nell's character in the film is in my opinion the human being that most of us seek in our modern communities. I sorry if i tired you, but all that thoughts and feelings, that i have already mentioned, came from that wonderful film. Closing i would really like to congratulate all the cast of the film and especially Jodie Foster for her excellent performance in a very demanding role. I strongly recommend to see that movie, after all it's worthwhile! "}{"Title":"Difficult subject to get right","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although Jodie Foster is as always a joy to look at the film disappoints in more ways than one. Granted, it is not an easy theme to turn into a visual narrative, but pretty pictures of the Smoky Mountains and good acting do not alone suffice to make a good film. What is sorely missing is a decent narrative that is able to keep one interested. Moreover, I can live with the cliché of the fanatic scholar who just looks upon human beings as objects and yet another notch on his academic record, but the heavily romanticised picture of Nell towards the end emerging as a pure woman who is able to heal the wounded souls around her is a little too much to bear. "},{"Title":"5 + 0 + 1 + 1 = 7","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *** spoiler ahead, read at your own risk ***The first half of this film is Great. Second half is a big joke which ruined everything.The joke begins when Nell is taken into city to the hospital. The Sick-City-Syndrome-at-First-Sight is formula and shallow. The big speech at the court is sheer Hollywoodish or simply trash. And the pastoral happy ending 5 years later? Just forget it.7 out of 10. 5 to the first hour, 0 to the second hour, 1 to Jodie Foster (including 0.5 for Ellie Arroway in CONTACT, 1997), 1 to Liam Neeson (including 0.5 for Michael Collins in MICHAEL COLLINS, 1996).  "},{"Title":"A film about a lost sister","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nell is a film about doubling and mirrors.  It's a film about a double - if it get lost Nell can not understand it and live with her dead sister together in her dreams. She is never alone in her dreams and this hallucination and her special language makes it impossible for her to be a part of a real society. The drama of the film is to go inside of her world, understand it and than open this world for other, real people. The second problem is her misunderstanding of mens world, who was given by her mother. A great film with a strange person called Nell! "},{"Title":"A painful letting-go","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I took this movie as an allegory or fable, and usually didn't mind the unrealistic aspects of it.  There was one scene that affected me deeply every time I saw it.  It is when Nell stood on a balcony in the psychiatric ward where she was being held.  She has a dream or a vision in which she sees her long-dead child sister walking into the lake at her home, turning as if to say goodbye before she continues walking until the water is over her head.  The look on Foster's face is perfect in depicting the most painful grief of a person accepting the finality of loss.  I believe that in this scene Nell knows that she must say goodbye to her past inner and outer lives that have nurtured her and that there is no going back. She must face an uncertain and unknown future. She tenderly says goodbye to her twin sister--in one sense a part of herself--with a look of devastation anyone who has experienced loss can understand. To me, this poignant moment is the climactic scene of the film. "},{"Title":"This is a well done movie.","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  With a phenomenal cast Nell delivers a great message, great story, and great photography. This is among one of our favorites. Jodie Foster (Little Man Tate, The Silence of the Lambs) really delivered a memorable performance. She deserves all the awards and nominations she received for the part. In my view she deserved an Oscar.  Nell, is a innocent woman raised by her mother in the beautiful state of North Carolina. Her English is incomprehensible due to the her mother having a speech defect and their isolated life.  Her twin sister died, her mother died and then she was left to live all by herself. She lives in her own world. She sleeps during the day and plays and walks around at night. Her innocent world are untouched by civilization. As I begun to write in graduate school and proceeded writing, I invented my own world also. I identify with Nell in that. I guess the idea that I am trying to convey is that most of us regardless of the world that surrounds us have our own inner world, and most families, individuals of groups have their own belief system and their own language despite the language that we speak.  We want that side of us to remain private and untouched by the outside world.Oscar winner Liam Neeson (Schindler's List)  Jerome Lovell, is left to care for Nell.  He found a note that her mother wrote. He did not like that role at first but soon realized that he was responsible for Nell's welfare and was the protector of her world. Natasha Richardson (The Parent Trap, Widows' Peak ), plays the ambitious Professor (Paula Olsen) who decides to study Nell in her conservative study. Nell's case was a good case for her to get tenure from. I didn't realize until doing some research to write this comment that Natasha is part of family where she is something like the third generation of actors, like a royalty family of British actors. The interesting thing about the study that the social workers and psychologist did was that they had all those theories that did not apply in Nell's case, and with all their education and experience, simple common sense should have told them that she had a twin sister. I as the audience thought that since the beginning of the movie. Although I am don't have a twin, I have sisters and I am close to them and could see that all she was doing was pretending to be playing with her sister.  It is weird how many theories smart people can come up with on top of nothing. On the other hand that makes life more complicated and a whole lot more interesting. This is a well done movie.  Favorite scenes Nell playing at night by the rocks of the river. Nell at the grocery store picking up all those diapers and things.Favorite quotes Nell you are hungry for quietness.  Jerome Lovell Don't you remember as a kid Saturday mornings tearing the wrap of a Milky Way? The first explosion of total sweetness, life doesn't get any better. I love this line because the big moments in life reside in the little things. I love this movie. "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Nell is, in a few words, an extremely moving, beautiful and humane movie. With a simple subject - a woman who has lived her whole life away from any civilization with her mother - Nell manages to make contact with every heart in the audience.In the middle of the deepest forests of North Carolina, Nell has lived her whole life taking care of her mother, who can´t speak well, because she is half-retarded. After the woman dies, her daughter is found, whom no-one knew about before. She is now a grown-up woman who has never communicated with anyone except for her mother. As she starts making contact with the two doctors trying to understand her strange language, Nell ends up understanding more about human nature than the doctors themselves. It´s a deeply moving story about how, even after living in isolation for all one´s life, one still is a human being.The performance of Jodie Foster is unbelievable - no-one could have done it better.  "},{"Title":"wild woman never got me wild","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It starts off well, this story of a wild woman in the woods of South Carolina, but loses steam halfway not to regain it again. The ending is downright silly and melodramatic. Great performance by Jodie Foster though, beautiful scenery as well. But all in all, Nell never really takes off and remains a distant film with a pretentious and by sweetish violins accompanied message.  "},{"Title":"One Heck Of A Movie","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I spent last night engrossed in watching this movie.Not once could I tear my eyes from the screen. I happen to live in the city and keep noticing how sick and depraved man really is,And to not like this movie  shows how content we are in our created immorility. I wish I could've been raised like the charactor Nell and not raised to be as sick as I myself am.All you who made fun of this movie if you can't see past your own sick noses,then oh well,I liked it and I wish they could make more like it,instead of the trash they make. Congrats all you who acted and worked on Nell,you did a heck of a job! And you know..Maybe we should be the ones locked up,We are all screwed up to like living in this world we created! "},{"Title":"The languages of souls differ from experience.","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  No one but Jodie Foster could have taken on the part of portraying a woman living in the world alone. While some of the story was flawed, the acting is wonderful.  Liam Neeson plays the conflicted caring scientist well- The language, movements and clarity of conviction Foster brought to the movie is nonpareil... She can lose herself in a part and the audience can lose themselves in the character... This is a movie of courage- to let a being stay free rather than institutionlizing them. And it has beautiful scenery- the Smokies are a deep protecting shelter for Nell.  "},{"Title":"Nell - more then movie, Jodie - more then actress !!!","Date":"18 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I watch Nell my soul is opened and uncovered.  I feel light sweet pain somewhere at heart. My mind perceives something important, my heart feels something clear and beautiful, my soul flies away to a hazy distance... And it's so wonderful! I'm sorry, but I have not  words to explain what I feel. Nell - more than a movie, Jodie Foster - more than an actress !!! Jodie, thank You for Your stunning performance! Incredible woman! Incredible actress! Incredible performance! Incredible movie! Thank You again!!!. "}{"Title":"A woman is discovered in the woods, having lived there her whole life.","Date":"30 July 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Nell is a spiritual truth.  Coming out of the experience refreshed, the person searching for life closure could be clarified with this movie.  Like the free spirit in the true dreamer, spiritual beauty Nell (Jodie Foster) walks onto the rocks, surrounded by a beautiful clear blue lake.  The woods are clear.  She strips off her clothing, and jumps into the water.  She is free.  Having lived in the gorgeous scenery of Fontana Lake, NC her whole life, Nell is not retarded.  She is just a product of a stroke-ridden mother, and emotional trauma, one half of a pair of twins. A beautiful score and scenery, everyone can be inspired. "},{"Title":"excellent film dealing with a strange, backwoods girl","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This one got a lower rating than it deserved, in my opinion; I gave it a 10. This story was so unusual that I had to give it a high rating. I seldom see anything that is really different on film, and when I do it is a real treat. Not only was the storyline great, but the dialogue was spellbinding. I watched in fascination as a man discovered the odd girl, gained her trust, and eventually came to communicate with her. Above average effort. "},{"Title":"There's moving and then there's Nell","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am speechless after having just seen this film once again. The first time I think I was about 14 and it moved me deeply and still does. I know that there are some tear jerkers out there but this film really hits the mark. You have to see this film at least twice to fully grasp what's going on, not because of the film itself. There is no weakness in this film, at least none that I was aware of - others might disagree, that's what reviews are for. However to really appreciate Nell's character to feel and understand what is really going on for her and to get rid of this notion that she is simply a 'wildwoman' because to call her that is just too crude and simple. I love the personal and emotional touch of this film. It isn't your namby pamby moral of the story type of film or your typical 'happy families' movie. I love the escape and distance from the urban jungle away to a more peaceful lifestyle. Being at peace with nature and yet realising the fears of loneliness and the fears of coming into contact with the outside world. But we all have to face loneliness sometime for good or bad and we get by somehow if we have the will to do so. And with a little help we might even find we make some unlikely friends along the way. Yes this film isn't namby pamby at all but it definitely has a lovely and emotional edge. Definitely a good film to watch to put life into perspective. "},{"Title":"Tedious pap","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Normally I love Jodie Foster, but this film is a total misfire that is little more than a gender reversal on Forrest Gump. Foster plays an uneducated backwoods woman, who is discovered following the death of her guardian and becomes the cause celebre for dueling medicos Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson, who debate about whether she should be institutionalized or allowed to remain in isolation. It is a potentially interesting story, but it goes south once one realizes that the film is infinitely more interested in utilizing Nell as some sort of wise-beyond-her-years E.T., who will ultimately bring everyone around her together, rather than examining the world from her perspective. As with many films now, it is in desperate need of editing and the length is unreasonable. Foster is initially amazing as a woman who speaks a language all her own, but there is nothing to the role beyond the initial impression. She spends the majority of the film twirling, speaking gibberish and taking skinnydips. One certainly has to admire her fearlessness in these moments, as she truly gives an air of being uninhibited and innocent. Ironically, director Apted misses few opportunities to denude his leading lady, but when the story conspires a reason for the strapping Neeson to shed his clothes, tellingly Apted suddenly becomes coy with showing nudity. Neeson and Richardson are both fine, but they are stuck in cardboard roles with little dimension. A total waste of time. "},{"Title":"A woman is discovered in the Carolina woods..having lived in a world of her own","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jodie Foster stars in this popular film about a woman discovered in the woods of Carolina having not know civilization as commonly known.Of course, the ones who found her, Neeson and Richardson, want to take care of her and show her the new world, while their colleagues and other government people as exposed as bad guys and want to exlpoit her. A good film but way too predictable and too hollywood-ized. There are no suprises at all.. Jodie Foster does a great job in the title role. 6 of 10 "},{"Title":"great performance by all...","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really like movies that are different. This film is definitely done differently than most. An amazing job by everyone involved and the film came off as so believable because of those acting within it. Absolutely fun, moving and intriguing all the while. Jodie Foster 'was' Nell and then some, she was brilliant. Liam was very good; and so was Ms. Richardson. The writing for the movie was obviously above par too. I thought that the film was a worthwhile documentary in the style with which it was made. It was more than believable for me. I was moved to tears with the proper ending too!!! I watched the movie during the day without ever leaving my television. I like this performance by Ms. Foster better than any other I've seen of hers. "},{"Title":"Just a nice, sweet, and honest movie","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had so much denial that this would be a good film, because of the rather harsh 6.2 rating on IMDb. But may I say that I am very shocked by that rating, this was such a charming movie that deserves another look. Honestly, where was Jodie Foster's Oscar nomination for this film? While it's just a little quiet success movie, it was just a great drama. It also made me look around at what we call as this world and who is truly crazy.Nell is the main character who is just so sympathetic and lovable, she has never seen the outside world of buildings, cars, people(besides her mother who unfortunately passes away), and technology of any kind. She has her own language that a doctor and a scientist, played by Liam and Natashia, are trying to figure out. Can Nell truly survive on her own or does she need help by going to a mental institution? The acting is just great and all around this is just a nice movie to watch with any one. It's very touching and honest, come on IMDb users, give this movie another chance. This is better than most movies on the top 250 honestly, I hope some may agree.8/10 "},{"Title":"pretty good movie","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read a number of the reviews posted here before I watched this movie. Like many others I enjoyed the movie, but found the ending disappointing. At the end where it is 5 years later, Nell didn't seem to have made any progress in her speech, or basically in anything! She seemed stuck in time. I also thought Liam seemed far more interested in Nell then he did the other doctor, so I was disappointed where he winds up with her at the end. He looked like he really wanted to pack up his stuff and moved into Nell's cabin.I like Jodie Foster for taking on these difficult acting roles, and not just out to make sequels to Silence of the Lambs. All the acting was really good in this movie. I gave it a 7. "},{"Title":"it was good","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was a very good movie in the first place. The reason i gave this movie an 8 is because i first didn't like it but then in about the middle of it, it started to look good and me and my friends talk about it every day and how good it was. ever since then i have been looking and looking for it so i can rent it thats why it was so good to watch and it was some what funny because me and my friends laughed and laughed at the parts that were funny and my teacher even said that is was really good so she is going to let us watch it again and i loved the way Nell talked and the way she put her words together and when she is able to speak at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Don't you say anything mean about my Nell","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't believe anyone in their right mind would want to say anything mean about my Nell.  How would you feel if you'd grown up all isolated in the hills with no one to play with and no one to talk to?  And, on top of all that lose your best friend and sister at an early age?  Nell is a sweetheart and I love her.  One may have to take the road less traveled to get to that conclusion but it is definitely worth it when you arrive at this enlightenment.  I say keep up the good work Nell, don't listen to anyone's critical sheeaht.  I say there should be a sequel to this beloved classic, as well as a DVD collector's edition complete with interactive DVD-ROM. Nell rules.  This is an exceptionally amazing movie! "}{"Title":"very open eyed","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It opened the eyes of how america is treating the people with a handicap. I thought it was a great movie and Jodie Foster had to learn alot to portray (Nell). She had the knowledge to undertake such a hard roll and still proform to the best of her ability. "},{"Title":"Worth a look","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An interesting and powerful performance by Jodie Foster. It must have been really difficult to make that character. Good work as well by Liam Neeson and Natasha Richardson. For a Brit, Richardson did a superlative job with the Southern accent, honey-sweet without overdoing it. The film had some disappointing aspects, however. It seemed to echo the tired assumption, nature=good, human=bad. Overall, though this is an interesting film, worth a look. Grade C+ "},{"Title":"One of Jodie's not-so-good movies!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am shocked that Jodie chose such a project. I think this is the most emotional part Jodie has ever played! I thought the movie was very boring. The idea was good but I don't think it appealed to many audiences. Jodie of course did a spectacular job with her part I just didn't like it. She looked wonderful of course but for some reason the movie just never really grasped my attention. alot of the scenes were a bit long, and there were some totally unnecessary scenes (One where Nell pulls off shirt, takes a bath nude etc...). on a scale of 1-10 I give it a 3. Pass on it if you ever have the chance to see it! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jodie Foster deserved the award she received for this movie.  People who didn't like this movie must have a problem with what isn't normal in their eyes.  I would love to see the bloopers from this one.  Gets an A in my book. "},{"Title":"Total copout","Date":"18 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I hate it when films with potential for great and interesting ideas do nothing with them and instead go for the easy route. Nell doesn't exactly do this, but considering how badly the film's second half is mishandled, that would have been at least a little better.A woman has died,, and when called to the scene to declare her dead, a local doctor named Jerry Lovell (Liam Neeson) makes a startling discovery there's another woman living there, but she doesn't seem to be normal. At first he thinks that she's mentally ill, and thus enlists the help of a scientist, Dr. Paula Olson (the late Natasha Richardson). But they soon discover (how they come to this decision is never quite clear) that she is instead a feral woman.This is a fascinating idea. A woman living in the wild on her own for all her life...think of the possibilities. For a while, the film seems to be comfortable exploring these ideas (albeit in a conventional way). Unfortunately, the film completely collapses during the final hour or so into an overblown and downright ludicrous tearjerker.The lion's share of the blame has to go to Michael Apted. Tearjerkers can work if they are handled effectively. Apted's direction is okay in the first half, but he renders the second half a complete disaster. The script isn't too great either. Admittedly, trying to make a made up language is difficult, but it doesn't handle the translation aspects well.If there's a saving grace, it's the acting. Jodie Foster is terrific as Nell. As far as the acting goes, she's great, but the times when she is dancing around are a little too much, and given her track record, I'd have to say that this is more due to Apted than Foster, especially because he has Foster do this far too many times. Liam Neeson does what he can in an underwritten role, but Natasha Richardson is especially good as the lively scientist.I really can't recommend the film at all. The first half is okay, but in the end it's just a flop of a film. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent movie it's worth watching big thumbs up to Jodie and the cast i really enjoyed it bought the DVD 3 days later and watched it again Ti's movie makes me feel good gives me a warm feeling inside and i bet everyone that views it Will feel the same way if you like it or hate it i think the movie rocks the greatest acting from Jodie Foster i have ever seen and Liam Neeson Jodie Foster is grand as Nell just so sad it only gets so Little points and ratings while it deserves allot better as i said great acting no best acting i have ever seen i personally love the scene were Jerry takes Nell out of the hospital and just runs like the wind just awesome "},{"Title":"One to watch","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Great movie! A must see. A modern day Jungle Book. Not really a movie about Jodie Foster (Nell), but about Liam Neeson.This movie shows us that society is just what we make of it. It shows us that even without proper language or education, you are just as human as the next person. "},{"Title":"Absorbing","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An all-around nice film.  The situation itself feels a bit contrived, but there is some solid acting from Liam Neeson and Jodie Foster.  Natasha Richardson is a bit iffy, but there's also a great support cast.  Somewhat melodramatic, but I suppose that couldn't be avoided.  Beautiful photography and music, completely absorbing. "},{"Title":"Worst Oscar Nominated Performance Ever?","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The only prize that the usually excellent Jodie Foster deserved for her performance in the God-awful Nell was a Booby Prize, not an Oscar nomination.  The movie and her performance are both cloying, manipulative embarassments.  I sat through the whole precious, fey, numbingly predictable piece of claptrap, dumbfounded that this normally intelligent and thoughtful actress could have experienced such an extended bout of temporary insanity as was needed to give this particular performance.  Everyone's entitled to mistakes, I guess.  The jaw-dropping thing is that some people actually like this movie, and not just as camp!  By the way, it also features Liam Neeson at his most constipated, and Natasha Richardson's along for the ride too, though its hard to notice either of them while Jodie's so busy making funny faces and gurgling. "},{"Title":"Jodie Foster and Little Else.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jodie Foster's Oscar-nominated performance is the real attraction in this film that wants so desperately to be excellent, but never quite reaches its goal. Foster is a back-woods woman in North Carolina who was reared by her mother who had a speech problem due to several strokes. Her mother finally passes away and Foster is left to a life of solitude until she is discovered by the kind local doctor (Liam Neeson). Neeson decides to take Foster back to town, but Foster's adjustments are hit-and-miss, just like the film's. 4 stars out of 5.   "}{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is to my opinion very unrealistic. It tells the psychological history of the leading character, Nell. Having studied psychology, I think the progression of Nell's behaviour is just not possible. Considering that this is the main theme this is a very negative point. But on the other hand however, the acting performance of Jodie Foster is superb.  Jodie Foster and the tension build up by the story actually makes it worthwhile to view this movie. Considering pros and cons I rated it 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Shame for comments","Date":"26 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film of this kind enough to put a stunted? Are you crazy, is a great psychological film, show the hardship of those who lived far from urban reality and the various psychological effects of those who live in a world all his own. Excellent acting of Neeson and Foster. Great movie. Shame for comments! It 'a film really emotional and moving as these stories are based on reality not entirely wrong. In the past in the jungle were found people who had their own language. They were alien world from civil and had developed a way of communicating their very contorted and maccheronico. The film is not only action and special effects. Shame for the miserable 6.2! "},{"Title":"It tests the patience","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I would've loved to have seen the script for this film, and Jodie Foster's face when she first had a quick glance at it, eessghh knahdhhd naderr loada crap knnaaa knaaaa. In all probability, her eyes would have lit up and the thought of another gleaming Oscar would have had her dribbling all over the worthy dialogue - after all, the Academy love stuff like this, don't they?But I wasn't impressed - the very nice doctor vs. the bad doctors, the media frenzy when in reality no-one would care, Nell's awful introduction into the wide world, the characters in the poolhouse, Nell's inability to repeat the simplest of words, and while SHE couldn't even attempt English, Neeson had gotten a total grip of her gibberish. Come on. And the ending is truly dreadful - 5 years later - the oldest, and the worst, trick in the book.And Liam Neeson is not good enough either - it's a tough role for him, but he just ain't up to it. He's TOO sympathetic and ends up looking like some over-the-top stalker while Foster hogs the limelight in every scene. And she loves the limelight.On the whole, it could have been a lot better, were it not for a few OTT acting performances and the annoying need to please the audience.  "},{"Title":"Awful sh**","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is so STUPID! I mean.. why does Liam Neeson take this woman so seriously, having only heard her say 3 WORDS! When they found her in the woods, they should immidiately have committed her to psychiatric hospital to try and make her a real human being. Just to see Jodie hey-see how stupid I look Foster dance around chanting is stupid.... "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made about Appalachia.","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  OK, first off, Nell's lakeside idyll is a TVA lake, made for generating hydroelectric power in the 1940's.  So much for untouched by civilization. And where'd they come up with the idea that twentieth-century mountain people practiced these crude bronze age cave burials?  Bogus and manipulative all the way through, it's a patronizing rip-off even without its condescending and wholly fraudulent ideas about Appalachian history. Jodie Foster tries desperately to gimp her way to an Academy Award, and surprisingly, it didn't work (unlike Dustin Hoffman's one-note performance in Rain Man or Al Pacino's self-parody in Scent of a Woman).  Michael Apted should know better, having done a half-decent job portraying mountain life in Coal Miner's Daughter.  An altogether horrible film, the worse for its pretensions and delivering some profound truths.   "},{"Title":"Nell","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an interesting drama co-produced by the female actress, and a touching story of one girl found and tried to be turned normal. Basically Dr. Jerome 'Jerry' Lovell (Liam Neeson) is for some reason in the woods and discovers what appears to be an empty ranch house. What he actually discovers is a mad woman, retarded and alone. This woman, Nell Kellty (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Jodie Foster), does act normal in some ways, e.g. swimming, collecting wood, but she still needs to learn to be calm and speak proper English, she backwards or something. In the end she starts to become attracted to Jerry, and he for her. Also starring A Month in the Country's Natasha Richardson as Dr. Paula Olsen. A good drama with a bit romance, and also a bit of Foster revealing her body. It was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Original Score for Mark Isham. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Speaking in Tongues would have made better sense...","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What was this film about? The raving mumblings of some crazy woman in the woods that grew up mostly on her own? Really were the film makers trying to explore the inner workings on the human mind when it is not subject to the normal growth process? Maybe I don't know but these are the questions I was asking myself while going through the pain of watching this movie. Jodie Foster is a wonderful actor as is Liam Nesson but this film stunk. Foster plays a woman that goes by the name of Nell that was left alone in a shack in the woods with her twin sister. When her sister died Foster was left to take care of herself and I guess never really learned to speak correctly. She sits most of the whole time saying strange annoying things to herself in the mirror and you starting to wonder if there is a point. Liam Nesson plays a doctor or something that wants to understand her, and at one point breaks into tears towards to end of the film when he expresses pain for her situation. It was not a convincing scene and poorly acted by Nesson. I felt nothing for any of the characters in this mess of a film and just wanted Foster to vanish into the woods so I could leave. "}]