[{"Title":"What is everyone's problem with this film?","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am glad to say that I have this picture on video now, and it is still one of my favourite movies. I think the film brilliantly captures how a radio station (or a stage production even) can be controlled chaos at times.This film was unfairly maligned in my opinion. I like the murder mystery/comedy genre. At times, it can be badly done, but here it is very well-handled. Brian Benben, Mary Stuart Masterson and the squad of celebrities who cameo, handle their scenes very well. My only real complaint would be that Christopher Lloyd and Michael McKean have very little to do.But the plot twists and the resolution both pay off excellently and Mel Smith directs the piece with panache. There are also several great musical numbers thrown in as well. I give this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Affectionate","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Unfairly and almost universally trashed, this is a charming and atmospheric imagining of a hectic night in the life of a Chicago radio station whose ambition it is to go national.  The sponsors are a tough sell, nothing is going as planned, and everything is pure chaos, compounded by a mounting tally of murder victims.Radioland Murders is one of the noisiest and busiest live-action movies I've seen, literally wall-to-wall in every frame with rapid-fire slapstick and pratfalls, and it does not quite work as a comedy, but even as a comedy, it's breezy and pleasant in the face of its frenzied pace -- not unlike an old Warner Bros. cartoon of the Merrie Melodies variety.  Better, though, it works as a nostalgic notion of old-time radio.  The staggering gaps in logic and plot are meant to be ignored, as this is fantasy; it embraces the idea of radio in its heyday as the missing link between paperback adventures and television, requiring the listener's imagination to do half the work, while television requires none of it.  The movie amounts to what could likely be a 9-year old listener's visual projection of what he's hearing on the radio.It's technically dazzling, too, with the lens darting into rooms, out of windows and around the action becoming its own frenetic participant, and there's some breathtaking shots of the exterior of the station, often accentuating its height and distance from the city street far below.  Brian Benben and Mary Stuart Masterson might strike the same one or two chords throughout the movie, but they're likable, as is this movie.  And Scott Michael Campbell is very funny as Billy the pageboy, a kind of wide-eyed Quentin Tarantino of the radio age; fast-talking (everyone in the film is fast-talking, actually) and easily distracted (the look on his face as he accidentally barges into the ladies' dressing room and becomes mesmerized by the sight of the topless actresses is priceless), his entire grammar and understanding of life is derived from the radio shows of which he has encyclopedic knowledge.Finally, Radioland Murders closes with some wistfully ironic thoughts (the movie is mostly free of contemporary irony, with the exception of this and an unsuccessful line about warning labels on cigarette packs) about television (best summed up by three uniformed cops hypnotized by a cathode ray tube) and the immortality of radio.  A movie more about myth than story, Radioland Murders is written in the scattershot style of the radio programs depicted.  It might merely be a sanitized and moderate entertainment (particularly when viewed against something like The Hudsucker Proxy), but it's affectionate, features lively music, looks great, and is completely innocent.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Undervalued","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you're looking for a serious mystery--or for that matter, a serious anything--don't watch this movie.If you just want a fun movie that you can watch again and again, this one is for you! It takes place in the studios of radio station WBN on the night of its national debut. The station managers, directors, writers, and actors, already stressed with the debut and pleasing the affiliates, are shocked when a trumpet player in the orchestra is poisoned and killed. The station crew then has to keep the programs going while the police investigate and the writers go on strike. After more murders are committed, writer Roger Henderson, the innocent prime suspect, has to simultaneously evade the police, rewrite scripts for shows about to air, and solve the crime to prove his innocence.There are some discrepancies and parts I'm sure critical people split hairs over. Don't expect a masterpiece, just some good fun. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of all time!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the all-time great overlooked flick!  Filled to the brim with intricate timing, sight gags, 40's-style dialogue, radio in-jokes, ensemble acting, and great music, this movie had everything to love and nothing to hate!  Most baffling to me, on finally seeing it on video was how people could not like it!  I have yet to show it to a friend or relative who did not agree that this is an excellent movie!  See it now!  See it later!  See it both!  If you CAN laugh, if you like movies, if you liked the radio, if you breathe, you should like Radioland Murders!  "},{"Title":"Highly Underrated and Under-Appreciated!","Date":"7 June 2007","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a niche film, in that it IS a who-dunnit, but deeper than that, there seems to be a gap between modern audiences and the pre-television world of pop-culture radio. This, in part, accounts for some of the lack of popularity this film experienced.However...This film is intriguing in that it features some great performances, manic and frantic dialog indicative of the behind-the-scenes and on-the-air intonations of the age, and a slick style which elevates this work far above the rating it currently enjoys here at IMDb.The filming style is mesmerizing. The long shots of the outside of the radio building contributes to the feeling of isolation from the rest of the world, as the body count begins to accumulate. The sponsors just won't be sold on the station, everything which can go wrong is, and the station is dying to go into national syndication. All while the intrigue builds into suspense without generating the atmosphere of a thriller, which this is not. It was a difficult balance to maintain, but it never slips, never fails.I have no idea why this was universally thrashed. This was delightful! It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Didn't deserve to flop","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You can see what critics in 1994 were complaining about.  You can get a headache from this movie.  Gags are too snappy (too packaged), editing is too rapid (if someone trips over the shot is only just long enough to cover the actual tripping over - we don't see the crucial bit at the start where they don't trip over, or the bit at the end after they trip over), and there's not a single moment of still contemplation which would allow all the feverish activity to be as funny as it deserves to be.  And while it's nice to see a film that doesn't milk its gags for more than they're worth, at least that would be a fault on the right side.  Some of the comic ideas are just begging to be WALLOWED in.  For example (I'm going to end up recommending this film, so if you don't want its best sight gag ruined, for God's sake skip the next paragraph)...One of the radio serials is about an aristocratic English explorer and his native jungle sidekick.  We hear the former saying things like `What ho, I mean to say, steady on, old chap', while the latter is going, `Ooga booga - me mongo mongo man' - then we see that the African is being played by a dopey-looking white man, and the Englishman is being played by a black (in a tuxedo).  It's a glorious moment.  We realise what if their roles had been reversed they would BOTH have been demeaned ... as it is, they merely look like a couple of prize wallies.  Unfortunately, that's IT.  If we'd seen more of this radio play - and got to watch the bemused/assured/disgusted/bored expressions on the faces of the two voice actors - it would have continued to be funny; it would have got even funnier.  But we cut to some other zany thing or other and the moment is lost.(To be fair, some throwaway gags - like the one involving the policemen and television - are true throwaway gags snappiness suits them.)But it works, on the whole.  There are plenty of good jokes, many of which have been weakened by the style of presentation, but by no means destroyed.  The radio performances are amazingly polished and varied - you'd swear that Lucas sent talent scouts back in time to 1939.  Sure, the film wants to be more than a highly entertaining comedy variety show (it's also trying for murder mystery, love story, nostalgic reverie, and social commentary), so it fails on its own terms, but it IS a highly entertaining comedy variety show, which is good enough. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful, obscure film completely lacking subtlety which is why some people may hate it but exactly why I like it. The countless visual and verbal puns mean you can watch this film 20 times and never find them all. AND eventhough you KNOW what is coming next, you will still laugh at the punchlines.Great story movement, dialogue; every stereotype known to Hollywood and YET, every stereotype seems to get violated; its like stereotypes of stereotypes. The only weakness is the movie keeps interupting some great songs.One of my favorites. OK, so I don't have great tastes. Its still a really fun movie. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest comedy features I've ever seen!","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Radioland Murders is one of the greatest comedy features I've ever seen! The gags are hilarious, the cast is absolutely brilliant, what can I say more? Just watch this movie and ENJOY ) Radioland Murders have unbelievable rhythmic vision, editing and plot line. I can't believe that Radioland Murders is so underestimate movie?!? I was very happy and proud when I've found it on Amazon on a unreasonable low price? Whatever, Radioland Murders is one of my 'all time favourites' and I recommend it to everyone who love great comedy movies. And it's not just comedy. It's a unique masterpiece depicts the daily ground of early radiostations. "},{"Title":"A Great Mystery/Comedy of 1994!","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie takes us back 70 years ago at the City of Chicago, where station WBN hosts the variety of many radio programs. Unfortunately, it's also the place of interest where six murders are committed. Brian Benben stars as hapless writer Roger Henderson, who tries to solve the murders of stool-pigeon trumpet player Ruffles Reedy(Jack Sheldon), Toupee wearing Director Walt Whalen Jr.(Jeffery Tambor), Bossy Stage Manager Herman Katzenback(Larry Miller), Sleazy Radio Announcer Dexter Morris(Corbin Bernsen), humorless sponsor Bernie King(Brion James), and WBN Head Man General Walt Whalen(Ned Beatty). Accused of being the killer by Short-Tempered Lt. Cross(Michael Lerner), he, along with bell boy Billy(Scott M. Campbell) and his wife Penny Henderson(Mary S. Masterson), must find out who committed the murders and why. It features appearances by well-known comedian George Burns as the 100-year-experienced radio comedian Milt Lackey, Anita Morris' last appearance as the Va-Va-Va-Voom Girl with the Va-Va-Va-Voom voice Claudette Katzenback, Christopher Lloyd as the sound effects man Zoltan, and Peter MacNicol(who is known for his starring role in the Mr. Bean Movie) as the son of one of the writers. To find out who the killer really is... You'll have to watch the movie. This movie is a nostalgia of classic radio and mystery with a dash of LOL. I guarantee you'll like this movie! 1000/1000 "},{"Title":" Radio, it's a product of total imagination and will never die ","Date":"20 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The year was 1939 and America was in the flux of world wide change. Hitler was in Germany, Roosevelt was in the White House and a New Radio station was inaugurating it's first night on the air-waves. There are a hundred things which could go wrong and after watching this film for just a few minutes, the audience will indeed come to that conclusion. In the mist of growing chaos, personal problems also are thrown in the mix. Mr. Roger Henderson, (Brian Benben) in trying to win back his wife Penny (Mary Masterson) who threatens him with divorce. At the same time, the radio station employees are confronted with murder as several top executives are found dead. Several key characters add to the general mayhem such as General Whalen (Ned Beatty), Billy The Gopher, (Scott Campbell) Michael Lerner (Michael Cross) Zolttan (Christopher Lloyd) Herman Katsenback (Larry Miller), Billy Barty, Bobcat Goldthwait and Robert Walden. Director Mel Smith and writer George Lucas even threw in the Late George Burns. The station is flooded with everything from on stage Key-stone slap-stick, pratfalls, sight gags, verbal innuendos and hilarious vaudeville entertainment. The center of the story are the mysterious murders which are complex and interesting. All in all, the movie is wondrously exciting and musically entertaining. A fun visit to a far-away place where imagination of voice could transport you to anytime and place. Offered to anyone seeking a slice of radio memorabilia. **** "}{"Title":"Lively comedy","Date":"19 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you liked 1982's MY FAVORITE YEAR, you'll probably enjoy this silly romp into the world of radio, in the late 1930s when radio was king. A radio station run by General Ned Beatty is trying to establish itself as the fourth national network, but its efforts are being thwarted by an unseen killer who is knocking off station personnel in fairly rapid succession. Brian BenBen is the hero of this Woody Allen-ish piece, a writer for the station who becomes a suspect in the killings. Mary Stuart Masterson is a rising radio exec and BenBen's soon-to-be ex-wife. A ton of familiar faces dot the landscape, including good old George Burns, and if you know your character actors well enough, you'll quickly figure out the killer's identity. The film moves at a relatively frantic pace and veers toward the satirical, and you can figures out what popular radio performers of the time are being lovingly mocked, including Frank Sinatra, Cab Calloway and the Andrews or McGuire Sisters (I wasn't sure which). Michael McKean and orchestra do an uncanny Spike Jones imitation. The film does not have the brilliance of MY FAVORITE YEAR, however, and feels sort of empty despite all the junks going on. "},{"Title":"For radio fans and employees","Date":"3 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Having spent three decades working in radio, I was encouraged by friends to pick this up on DVD. My impression is that the Lucas folks attempted to cram 10 pounds of stuff into a 5 pound bag. The potential is obviously present with a cast of extremely talented actors and even some of the folks who were a big part of radio history (George Burns and Rosemary Clooney), but someone (the Director? Producers? The Studio?) decided to increase the pace to the point where it feels like watching Spielberg's 1941 in fast-forward.There is a stable full of interesting characters whom we never really get to know. Harvey Korman and Bobcat Goldthwait's characters obviously had some serious issues - but what was their story? The same with Brion James, Ned Beatty, and Jeffrey Tambor. Michael McKean's homage to Spike Jones was a joy, but too short, and there were too many missed opportunities to show what actually went on in radio broadcasts performed in front of a live audience. Sound effects played a major role, which was hinted at but never fully glorified in Christopher Lloyd's role. I would bet there is probably another whole movie sitting on the cutting room floor.On the plus side, however, at least SOMEONE made the effort to capture the feel of major broadcast radio from it's heyday, and the look as well as the overall mood is fairly authentic. I appreciate that this is not a documentary, and the story itself is pure fantasy, but this film left me wanting more - like someone had torn half the pages out of a book. Perhaps, someday, the Lucas folks will release some kind of director's cut edition with restored scenes and a feature on the Golden Era of radio. Most people under the age of 50 have no idea of the remarkable entertainment that was available over the airwaves during this era - but for fans of the medium, and for those who have worked in it, this is a gem that will bring a smile. "},{"Title":"could see this one many many times!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Radioland Murders is a movie that should be seen more than once because it is so fast-paced and contains lots of inside jokes....it helps to have worked in radio (i've been a control board operator for 6 yrs) to catch some of the adsurdity. In my opinion, it's mostly about timing because in radio dead air is a no-no....one program must flow into another (with commercials in between, of course)....the audience has no idea of the confusion going on behind the scenes! Watch the contrast of the writers' hectic schedule and the actors performing whatever they are given so smoothly...this script is well-written, I think. Dissect the lines and they work, like when Billy tells Mr. Henderson, that's quite a reach, Mr. H. Just say it out loud and it has a rhyme to it.  I love the part where the cops are staring at the TV test pattern!! Some of the silly parts were a bit too long for my taste, but the movie works on many humorous levels. I also enjoyed the 1930 popular lingo as dialog in places. And the last script Mr. Henderson delivers IS a pip and pulls it all together! "},{"Title":"Try My Favorite Year instead.","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Going in, Radioland Murders has some key elements that could of made for an entertaining story all-star cast in a screwball comedy and an nostalgic storyline that could put to use a colorful set.But it all failed. The joke delivery was flat and some of the casting choices were peculiar. Watching Mary Stuart Masterson struggle through the lead female role made me long for Jennifer Jason Leigh's brilliant, high-spirited, cigarette-chomping, Hepburn-inspired career girl in the Coens' Hudsucker Proxy.Also Brian Benben, most notable from HBO's Dream On series, doesn't give viewers any of maligned everyman he popularized in the older series.This movie attempts many times to emulate that 40s-era world, with its Art Deco imagery, but the characters come off more cartoonish than swashbuckling. There are far better period comedies, I suggest My Favorite Year starring Peter O'Toole; Radio Days by Woody Allen and the aforementioned Hudsucker just to name a few. Those films succeed where Radioland fails, pulling viewers into these bygone eras to feel an inkling of what those times felt and sounded like. "},{"Title":"Surprised that I liked it a lot.","Date":"1 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" When this came out, the reviews were generally bad. But the idea intrigued me. So I tracked down the video and found that I liked it a lot. It's about a radio station where they are trying to change from a local station to a national network, with a romantic subplot, and the body count starts piling up too. It's kinda like The Old Dark House or The Cat And The Canary, mystery comedies with a lot of things happening to a lot of characters in one night. Admittedly, it's uneven, and not all of the comedy works. It's frantic and zany, and the characters come and go and then come back again. Just when you've forgotten about one subplot, it pops back. Either that, or somebody new has turned up dead. So, if you are a little adventurous, I'd recommend that you give it a try. "},{"Title":"A minor treasure","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This would make a good triple feature with RADIO DAYS and MY FAVORITE YEAR if you want to be nostalgic about old-time entertainment. The best way for me to review this movie is to list some pluses and minusesPLUS An amazing cast just read the list. MINUS Most of them are barely used. Were some scenes with the writers cut out? Otherwise, why hire big names like Klein, Korman, Goldthwait, McNicol? The only people we actually see writing in the film are Masterson and Benben. (The others are on strike, of course.)PLUS Wonderful evocation of the days of live radio. (I did radio drama in the 70s and it was still much like it appears in the film.) MINUS The mystery plot, while it keeps the action going, is rather a let-down when it finally unravels. RADIO DAYS is more successful because it focuses on funny situations and characters and doesn't burden the film with another layer of plot.PLUS Wow...about five minutes of vintage Spike Jones material re-created on screen with McKean in a Spike suit and playing the Sabre Dance on bottles, guns, etc.!?! Blessings on the Jones estate for letting them do it. DOUBLE PLUS ...and with Billy Barty and Mousie Garner, both Jones veterans, taking part! TRIPLE PLUS A really fine score by Joel McNeely. Am I the only one who thinks there was a Vertigo tribute in the tower-climbing scene? McNeely has done a lot of Hitchcock score conducting.MINUS Lots of show biz clichés (the separated couple romancing, the messenger boy becoming a hero, etc.), but you could argue that it's all part of the tribute.This is definitely worth watching, maybe even twice if you love that era (and I do). "},{"Title":"Gloriously Colorful, Dynamic and Nostalgic-- But NOT PG-Rated","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" What a smartly-written script set against the background of the opening of the world's fourth radio station in 1939 Chicago! The frenetically-paced, highly colorful movie would have been fun and exciting enough except that the writers (based on an idea by George Lucas) threw in the kitchen sink by adding murder after murder which started occurring from the moment the Radioland broadcast began. In the meantime, the people backstage were doing all they could to keep the audience out front from detecting that there was a problem at Radioland...Onstage a murderous Peter-Lorre look-alike threatened a sweet young thing for the secret ingredient in her potato salad, young boys cheered the famous black whip, a Lone Ranger look-alike, and a multitude of radio favorites, real and look-alikes, passed by our eyes. Singing sisters, a commercial with a lady onstage in a bathtub advertising bubblebath, and another one with a lady dressed in a cigarette box advertising cigarettes. (I always thought they should put some kind of warning on those cigarettes, mentions Mrs. Henderson, played by Mary Stuart Masterson, the boss's actual strength behind the Radioland show.) Probably the most frenetic and fantastic of the crew backstage was Roger Henderson played by Brian Benben, the head radio writer, who had become the Chicago police's prime suspect in the murders. In his efforts to solve the crime&#151; and prove to his wife that he had not committed adultery with the show's singing Va-Va-Va Voom girl (played by Anita Morris who died by the time the movie was released)&#151; Roger ran hither and yon trying to escape arrest. In the whole frenzy of activity, Benben ends up disguised in a whole series of costumes, including as a Carmen Miranda look-alike.One of the radio writers under Roger is a very young Peter McNicol who would gain fame a couple years later in t.v.'s Ally McBeal and later in Numbers and a lengthened guest performance in 24. Harvey Korman plays the always-drunk and passed-out writing supervisor and Christopher Lloyd plays the Sound Effects man, Zoltan.Guest appearances on the radio program include George Burns who was alive at the time the film was made, Rosemary Clooney, Billy Barty and some very old-time show-people whose faces I recognized but whose names I do not know. The bandleader Rick Rochester was played by Michael McKean who was able to fit the 1930's to a tee with an extra dash of zing.A tour-de-force performance was turned in by newcomer Scott Michael Campbell as the usher Billy who after the first murder became called upon to rush around with notes and messages backstage, even rushing onstage to give script edits to the actors and ultimately helping Roger escape.The plot lines were multitudinous 1.) Would the sponsors of the show&#151;who seemed oblivious to the glitches that occurred onstage because of what was occurring backstage-- be pleased enough to continue their sponsorship? 2.) Would Mrs. Henderson realize that Roger had not been unfaithful to her but had been the victim of the Va-Va-Va-Voom Girl? 3.) Would Roger be able to discover who was behind the murders before he was arrested as the prime suspect? 4.) Would the audience discover that there was a problem behind the scenes? And 5.) Would young Billy succeed in his brand new job at Radioland and please his parents who were in the audience?I only had two problems with the movie This PG movie opens with Billy trying to run an errand backstage, inadvertently running into the crowded ladies chorus line's dressing room where there are irritated ladies trying to cover-up, and a couple of them are bare-breasted. The scene is rushed so I didn't even see the bare breasts the first time I watched the movie. It was the only nude scene and could have been changed so easily. I felt angry about this scene because it was gratuitous and unnecessary and seemed to be there just to get a more mature rating.My other complaint While I was crazy about Mary Stuart Masterson in Benny and Joon that had been made in the 1980's, her performance in Radioland Murders, especially in comparison to the other actors, was overly low-key, in fact in the doldrums. She was billed as the star of the show but everybody else in the cast certainly outshined her.Other than these two problems, Radioland Murders was a sparkling delight of nostalgia and excitement. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Romp Down Radio's Memory Lane","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Radioland Murders is one I checked out on Pay Per View because of its connection to old-time radio.  I've been in the business 10 years and loved and lived by it my entire life.  Little did I know Radioland Murders would become one of my favorite movies of all time!If you have an interest in the days of live radio theatre, you will enjoy this movie.  We see behind the scenes how sound effects were made and a handful of talent were turned into numerous acts.If you enjoy slapstick comedy, you will HOWL at this movie.  Just check out some of the memorable quotes in the DataBase and you'll get the idea.If you're into star cameos, you'll be shouting, HEY, it's... all the way through.  George Burns, Rosemary Clooney, Bob Goldthwait, Billy Barty, Tracy Byrd, Harvey Korman, Joey Lawrence...  the list goes on and on!If you enjoy a good murder mystery and especially one with an interesting historical plot twist, you'll really like this one.  Maybe I'm an idiot, but I didn't see the ending coming.This movie starts off at a full run and never lets up.  For laughs, memories, and even some great big band tunes, get this movie and see it. Heck, see it twice to catch all the gags you missed the first time.  I can't imagine you being disappointed.My hats off to all involved with the production!  Having just started my own station I can assure you there is more fact than fiction in the antics on the screen!  )  It is a funny, beautiful tribute to the career that keeps food on my table. "},{"Title":"Non-stop Fun","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Admittedly, this movie is not for everyone.  If you like your comedy wry and sardonic, you've come to the wrong place.  This movie delivers its humor on big platters in full view of everyone and follows established comedic conventions.  If you love watching the set-up (familiar or otherwise) and anticipate but still laugh at the punchline, you'll love this movie just like I do. "},{"Title":"Radioland Murders...A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The year 1939 was a hectic year for radio especially if you were working at WBN. At the time, WBN, a small, fictional station set in Chicago, Illinois was to become the fourth national radio network in the United States. Everyone was ready for the big night. The investors were relaxing in the lounge awaiting a good show. The writers were rewriting their scripts and the actors were poised and ready.WBN was going to make a huge splash as the number four station in the nation! Well that is, if anyone was alive by the end of the night. There seemed to be a small problem at WBN during the national premiere. The problem was murder. There were numerous problems. Murder really was not the only one.This farcical comedy has all the elements to make you laugh, shock you, and leave you satisfied if you're looking at it from a non-traditional view.Multiple plots weave throughout Radioland Murders that all revolve around the WBN national broadcast. The story begins with a soon-to-be divorced husband (Roger) and wife (Penny), played by Mary Stuart Masterson (of Fried Green Tomatoes fame) and Brian Benben (from Dream On).It seems that Roger Henderson had a roving eye, which landed him flat on his back. The real problem, though, was that his loving wife Penny caught him with the Va-Va-Voom girl, Claudette Katsenback (Anita Morris). While Penny tried to keep WBN organized as the station manager's secretary, Roger ignored his writing duties in an attempt to get his wife back.Soon we are introduced to the director, Walt Whalen Jr. (played by Jeffrey Tambor). Walt Whalen Jr. is only the director because Walt Whalen Sr. (Ned Beatty) is the owner of the WBN network. Junior isn't a very good director.If you're in the film industry you can't help but laugh at his inept ability to direct or even make simple decisions for himself. Many times Whalen looks on with his trademark blank stare as he adjusts his toupee, whimpering over the need to decide whether to cue music or the announcer. Usually it is up to Penny to chime in with the proper direction.This is just the tip of the iceberg. One of the band members dies on stage. The scripts are horrible and late arriving after having to be re-written at the last minute and everyone is in an emotional rush. To make matters worse, a strange voice keeps coming over the intercom and no one knows where it is coming from. All they do know is that someone gets popped every time they hear the voice and no one knows who is going to be next.They also know that every time someone is murdered, the person attached to the scene of the crime is Roger Henderson. Sure, Roger is bumbling, clumsy, and maybe even untrustworthy (just ask his wife), but a murderer? Radioland Murders takes you through the performance on the scene as they try to determine who is murdering the staff of WBN and who is going to be next.It clocks in at close to two hours. If you are a fan of farcical comedies, it will feel like the movie is just the right length. You don't feel rushed and the multiple plots are entertaining as you watch them unfold. Whether you are trying to guess who did it during this whodunit or not, the character development will amuse you.Celebrities fill the lineup in this movie from well known names like Masterson, George Burns (this was his last movie) and Rosemary Clooney to many names you won't recognize that are attached to people with faces that will look all too familiar.If you're a fan of vintage ideas and radio shows you will find this movie to be a treat. This type of movie is rare, as is its fan base, so this movie will not appeal to everyone. If you are a fan of the movie Noises Off, then Radioland Murders should be right up your alley.The critics were not fond of this movie when it came out and many wondered what George Lucas was thinking when he came up with the idea. However, you cannot always believe the hype of critics and if you are one that this type of movie appeals to. you will be in theatrical heaven.I went in not sure what to expect. I was expecting more of a drama because of the movie's title. By nature I am a much bigger fan of dramas than comedies. This one hit me by surprise though. I began laughing almost immediately and continued to do so most of the way through. It was not the typical movie by any stretch, but that is what made it worth watching.I recommend you check it out as a rental before you buy it. If you like it, buy it. It is one of those movies, which you will want to watch more than once. This is especially true if you get the meaning, the context, and the slapstick enjoyment from the melodrama of the radio celebrities in Radioland Murders.I give it four stars. "}{"Title":"Whoa, slow down!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The fast-pace and changing of scenes every 5 seconds in this film gave me a splitting headache. Hey, maybe the director deliberately did this to emphasise the confusion and turmoil that's going on? It just didn't work.So the audience never gets to appreciate all the one-liners in there, like 'Don't jump or I'll shoot!'. Heh heh, my fav one of the film. It nearly makes up for all the awfully done slapstick humour.It's not much of a mystery either, I figured out who the murderer was nearly halfway through the flick and I'm usually wrong about those sort of things. Give it a miss. "},{"Title":"F u n n y","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, when reading some of the comments that it bestows me in the thought that Americans simply can't stand being made fun of. In my opinion this movie is funny, ironic and wonderfully precise in its portrayal off radio entertainment in the thirties. One of the things that made the movie additionally  fun to me was the portrait of several well known stage acts from back then. You could call this movie Radio days on speed. To add to my observations about American humor I might add that the funniest movie Spielberg has ever made (1942 where's) was criticized, almost machine gunned out off box office because it dared to question the American morale during the war.  "},{"Title":"desperate to be a screwball comedy","Date":"1 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's 1939. Chicago radio station WGN is starting a new national radio network bringing in an audience to watch the premier broadcast performance. General secretary Penny Henderson (Mary Stuart Masterson) is managing the chaos and trying to break up with husband head-writer Roger Henderson (Brian Benben) after catching him with va-va-va-voom girl Claudette Katsenback (Anita Morris). Station owner General Walt Whalen (Ned Beatty) tries to satisfy sponsor Bernie King (Brion James) who wants massive changes to the script. Trumpet player dies from supposed heart attack. Then the general's incompetent son director Walt Whalen, Jr. (Jeffrey Tambor) is found dead. The police led by Lieutenant Cross (Michael Lerner) is called in. Cross reveals that the trumpet player was poisoned and Roger quickly becomes a prime suspect.The fast-talking, light-speed pace and vast cast is too desperate. It's trying to be wacky but it's never funny. The story is trying too hard to be chaotic and it succeeds by being too chaotic. The situation feels manufactured. I don't know if murders could easily be made into a slapstick comedy. This one fails in the attempt. The look of the movie is good. The production value is the main positive and the actors are trying their best. "},{"Title":"Sorry critics hated it; it's nothing but fun","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This came out the same year as Bullets Over Broadway, and comparisons might be made, but I enjoy this film on as many levels as that other highly-lauded film. It's manic and silly and implausible, and is the perfect film to chuckle at all the insanity going on.Critics need to lighten up, seriously. Harmless fun, with an impressive cast. Brian Benben is delightful and lovable and his career should have blossomed after this. His energy and self-effacing humor is endearing, and he handles it all with genuine sincerity.Naysayers, I don't care what you think. This is one of my favorite guilty pleasures. I will continue to watch it when I need an attitude adjustment. "},{"Title":"Entertaining for 1930s Fans","Date":"7 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" George Lucas' forgotten comedy-mystery is a masterful work for those who understand what it is. Radioland Murders is not a spoof or a parody of a 1930s comedy, as many people suppose. It is, literally, a 1930s comedy! Meaning, of course, that it is written as if it is a 1930s comedy, with physical gags and witty dialogue straight from the Golden Age of the 30s. Think about The Thin Man, or Abbott and Costello, or a Bert Lahr film, or You Can't Take It With You. If you love those films, you will love this movie. If you've never heard of those films, then you may find it hard to understand exactly what George Lucas was doing.Brian Benben and Mary Stuart Masterson head up an all-star cast in pure 1930s fashion, as people one by one begin to die off during the opening night of a new radio station. The antics are wholly 30s, with plenty of running into doors, falling out of chairs, and lots of humorous chatter that one might call intelligent humor (you have to be listening in order to find it funny). You won't be rolling on the floor in hysterics, because 1930s humor wasn't that sort of humor. You don't roar with laughter when you watch The Thin Man, but you chuckle at the clever dialogue and amusing antics of the characters, in a more refined way which characterized the manners of the era.As with all his movies such as Star Wars and Indiana Jones, George Lucas pays great homage to the Golden Age of cinema, and Radioland Murders is no exception. It is a fun, rollicking film, not for a mass audience, perhaps, but for those who enjoy the sophisticated humor from the 30s and 40s, a genre that is seldom, if ever, seen in comedy today. "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest From the 90's","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this in the theater and it being so funny (for so long) that I couldn't breath I was laughing so much. Both my girlfriend and I had to look at the floor of the theater to look away from the screen to try and reduce our laughing because our sides hurt so much.Maybe if I watched it again I might not laugh quite so much but I remember laughing more at this movie than any other. And no, I wasn't a silly teenager at the time, I was in my 30's.I loved the fast, fast pace and the constant stream of jokes and sight gags. It does help if you can pay attention and keep track of everything that is going on. This is not a sophisticated comedy by any means, just a lot of good, clean fun (well, except for the murders). ;-)Just a (very) lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Under-appreciated classic","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think the key to appreciating this movie is in your expectations. The first time I saw it I didn't like it that much but repeat viewings have made it one of my favorite comedies. It helps that I really like old timey radio shows, but that is not a prerequisite to enjoying the film.This movie moves fast, and I think that's one thing that throws a lot of people. Modern comedies tend to have a relaxed pace and an improvisational feel, but Radioland Murders keeps a break-neck, gag-a-minute pace. The jokes fly so fast you're liable to miss them. It almost moves too fast. For example, all the character relationships are laid out in the first five minutes before the main title even appears. If you blink you might fall behind. But if you can keep up the movie pays off in spades.The one complaint I do have is that the movie has so many talented actors it gives many of them very little to do. Some of the funniest (and most famous) actors die off before they get more than a few lines. But overall if you like machine-gun dialogue, screwball comedy, and lots of pratfalls, this is a hilarious movie. "},{"Title":"I Loved This Movie","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is more than it seems. Behind the seemingly superficial plot are so many jokes and references that it's unlikely anyone would catch them all, and certainly not on one viewing. For example, the storyline seems to be based upon the breakdown in the relationship between General David Sarnoff, president of NBC who insisted on using the General title after his service in WWII and Edwin Howard Armstrong, an engineer with several of the most important patents in radio including the one for Frequency Modulation (FM). Sarnoff used the power of NBC to essentially cheat Armstrong out of credit for his patents. Armstrong was so distraught over the loss of a patent suit with Sarnoff (the decision was reversed after Armstrong's death) that he killed himself by jumping from an upper floor window. The engineer in the movie even bears a physical resemblance to Armstrong. (see Empire of the Air by Tom Lewis for more on this topic)I also enjoyed the performers including the dancing cigarette girls, the Spike Jones bit, Fred and Ginger, the Carmen Miranda suit, George Burns as himself, and Rosemary Cloony who I think was imitating Kate Smith. "},{"Title":"Funniest movie EVER","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the BEST movie ever. I've seen it hundreds of times and never get tired of watching it. The cast is large and the jokes move rather quickly, but this witty humor is what makes it great! The people who don't like or understand this movie are the ones who don't keep up with all of the hilarious jokes and things mentioned in fast dialog or under-the-breath. You must love witty to love this film. There are memorable and highly-quotable lines, and you'll find yourself mentioning things like what a bunch of nimrods in your everyday conversations. This is definitely a movie you'll remember and be able to watch time and again. "},{"Title":"A Fine, Fun, Film for the whole Family","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although I usually keep up pretty well with new movie releases, I some how missed this one. I discovered it only after I had gotten my first DVD player and was looking for something I didn't already have on VHS to play on it. What a pleasant surprise. It has a great cast and an interesting story. It reminds me of some of the really good comedy mysteries of the 30's and 40's. Especially Abbott and Costello's Who Done It (Which also took place at a radio station) It is a great family film and mine has watched a numerous times. I have also bought copies for relatives that I thought would enjoy it. It may not be an award winner but it is good fun. On the eave of it's nationwide debut a new network is beset by a murderer who sends warnings over that station's airwaves, each of which is followed by a murder. One of the stations writers Roger Henderson (Brian Benben) is a suspect and tries to clear his name and find the real killer with the help of his wife Penny (Mary Stuart Masterson) and the stations pageboy, Billy (Scott Campbell). "}{"Title":"OK, so it's a mess - but it's still fun","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is such a loving recreation of a bygone era that if you let yourself go with the flow - and with the body count - it's hard not to find pleasure in it. The music is lovingly recreated - with even a nod to Spike Jones and his City Slickers; the dialogue is fast and furious, with lessons learnt not only from the Marx Brothers but also from other screwball comedies of the 1930s. The plot - well, the best thing about the plot is the way in which it thickens nicely as each corpse is added!And there is the King Kong pastiche - complete with biplane circling the top of the skyscraper. Though in this case it is not Beauty which kills the Beast, and the villain's fall is not as spectacular as that of the mighty Kong, though I liked the way that ant-like figures could be seen scurrying to the site of the impact far below. The all-pervading chaos reminded me of HELLZAPOPPIN' - and it would make a nice double-feature with George Clooney's GOODNIGHT AND GOOD LUCK! "},{"Title":"Comedy with that something","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't know why but I just loved this movie from the first time I've seen it - everything is balanced between comedy and criminal motives, mystery and funny gags. Many people may disagree, but for me without any doubt this is a masterpiece in comedy - when you watch this you don't stick to a murder plot, comedy parts aren't exaggerated - everything flows smoothly and is really entertaining, just how it should be.And I was astonished when I found out that George Lucas was author of the story - I'm not really a fan of Lucas, but this time he really did a great job. Also the cast is great - full of well-known actors but without any stars that would try to steal too much attention.Radioland Murders is really great entertainment. "},{"Title":"crazy credits - musical variations on a theme","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The (normally) Jazz number And The Angels Sing behind the ending credits works its way through half a dozen musical styles, including a wildly improbable Western Swing.Be sure to listen to the end. "},{"Title":"Hilarious murder mystery!","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All-around fun movie. Lots of site gags, so watch closely! The segues from scene to scene are so clever, you'll have to watch the movie more than once to catch all the jokes.If you're a fan of Shakespearean style comedies (all mix-ups and confusion until the very end), you'll love this movie. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film Of All Time, one that won't be dominated on my list for years to come.","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have been compelled to see this film for nearly four years, but I did not see it until last Monday, when the DVD I ordered, which was Radioland Murders, arrived. I popped the movie into my DVD player with a bowl of popcorn in my hand and I watched the movie.In the end, it was worth the buy. I assume what the critics didn't like were two things. First, the subject matter. The movie is not for everyone. I agree with that. But I liked the way the subject matter was handled. It is handled in a way that most of the actors at least deliver a line that is funny. The other reason critics overlooked this cult classic is because of its pace. The critics couldn't keep up with it and that's why they couldn't find any laughs.But for me,  Radioland Murders is a classic cult comedy that pits good performances and slapstick against visual effects. The visual effects in the movie never distract from the main storyline. This is evident in two scenes. the opening shot and the sequence in which Brian Benben hangs from the call letters when he is on the lam for murder.The storyline takes place in 1939 at the radio station WBN, where they are attempting to create a fourth national network. But behind the scenes, everything is going wrong. The biggest sponser demands that half the scripts need to be rewritten. Roger Henderson (Benben) is trying to win back his wife, Penny (Mary Stuart Masterson) and both Roger and Penny are trying to solve some very real murders that started at the same time the show did.I liked just about every scene in the movie, with my favorites being the interrogation scene and the scene where Rick Rochester (Michael McKean) and his band are going round and round due to the turntable, resulting in one of the six murders that occur without the film.As I said, the perfomances are excellent. Brian Benben was born to play Roger, as well as Mary Stuart Masterson, who was born to play Penny. Ned Beatty is very good as General Whalen, as is Jeffery Tambor, who plays his son Walt Whalen Jr. Michael Lerner is wonderfully crazy as Lieutenant Cross. Michael McKean is very funny as rick Rochester. Scott Michael Cambell gives a good performance as Billy. But its Stephen Toblowosky who steals the show in almost every scene he's in. If I had made this movie, I would have hired him hands down for the role of Max ApplewhiteThis movie should attract both kids and teenagers, basically because it has George Lucas on the project. He executive produced and conceived the story for the film and in the end, the movie is excellent and even if you don't like it, it grows on you. If this movie is ever on television or if you see it in your local rental store, please rent it. you won't be sorry.Rating **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Action Packed Murder Mystery","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of this decade's vastly underrated films. Radioland Murders is an complex, action packed film based on fictional radio station WBA Chicago. The comedy is spontaneously original and the acting is second to none. There are so many famous cameos in this film, it's a virtual American Graffiti--only better. If you liked this film, please search Remember WENN an original series by Rupert Holmes set in a 1940's radio station. It airs Fridays 900 CST on AMC. Please help Save Our Show. "},{"Title":"Completely underrated movie.","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A very complex, funny, imaginative comedy. Completely underrated.It is a little known fact that this is where George Lucas started playing with digital sets (A good portion of the sets used in this film were digital) A process that he has since perfected and put to good use in Star Wars Episode I "},{"Title":"Whose destiny turned on this radio?  (I mean that as a compliment)","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A few years before The Phantom Menace, George Lucas was involved in the goofy Radioland Murders, about a series of killings at a radio station in 1939 Chicago. In a way, the whole movie seems like an excuse for a bunch of gags (namely the scene where the bellboy accidentally walks into the dressing room), but I couldn't help but admire it. Even people who never lived through the '30s are likely to feel nostalgia for that era (uh, can one be nostalgic for the Depression?). Overall, this movie may have no cinematic and/or artistic value whatsoever, but it's just fun to watch. Brian Benben and Mary Stuart Masterson play the lead roles (and George Lucas said that they're the parents of Richard Dreyfuss's character in American Graffiti). George Burns, in his final film role, appears as a radio personality. Also starring Ned Beatty, Michael Lerner, Michael McKean, Jeffrey Tambor, Stephen Tobolowsky, Christopher Lloyd, Larry Miller, Anita Morris, and Rosemary Clooney. A fairly neat movie.Oh, and as the movie makes clear nothing's ever going to overtake radio as the dominant medium. "},{"Title":"Simply Awful.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now I know that George has done some good flicks. And I know that because of Star Wars it is hard for us to say anything bad about him. So brace your self-cause I am about to.  George this movie sucked!! The story was ok but it was completely over shadowed by the flat on your face comedy/acting of Brian Benben (Brian). I was going to write more but that is it. The story was ok. And the rest of the cast was ok. But Brian Benben overshadowed every remotely good thing in the movie. At times I was actually embarrassed that I was sitting in the room watching such poop.  So overall don't waste your time on this movie. "},{"Title":"Frenetic madness","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That is basically how this movie goes.  Everything goes into a chaos reminiscent of Spielberg's 1942, except this one lasts from beginning till the end of the movie.  I must say the computer generated WBN building and background blended the scene well and did not distract me from the story.  As for the story itself, it's fun, but develops rather poorly frequently relying on the chaos going on in the radio station.  I couldn't give a rat's a** with most of the characters except for Mr. and Mrs. Henderson.  Mary Stuart Masterson and Brian Benben handled their roles pretty well amidst a somewhat lame story.  After a while, you could figure who's the killer even if you don't have to listen to all the clues.  Boy, what a mystery.The verdict 3 of 5 stars. "}{"Title":"Funny bits not enough","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Radioland Murders stars Mary Stuart Masterson and Brian Benben as a husband and wife who work at a radio station. The movie is set on the night that the station is due to begin broadcasting nationally.  Sure enough, everything that can, does go wrong and soon the bodies of murder victims start to pile up. Benben is the prime suspect because he is continuously in the wrong place at the wrong time. The movie is an okay way to pass the time, and there are some hilarious bits of comedy in the movie, but overall, watching it one time is more than enough. "},{"Title":"George Lucas shouldn't try to be Mel Brooks.","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's amazing the number of directors who try to make fun of the golden age of radio. Woody Allen's done it, and David Lynch tried the same thing for the early days of TV in his On the Air. The big problem with this film is the attempt to copy the rapid-fire dialog of the Marx Brothers's movies. Even the Marxes had to learn to slow it down; their films only became popular when they learned to slow down so that people could finish laughing.There are good comic performances here (look for Bobcat Goldthwait and Christopher Lloyd) but they're swamped as everyone else tries to slam out lines like Walter Winchell on crack. Perhaps it was Lucas's influence that insisted on cramming more and more on the screen, as if set dressing would substitute for real wit and humanity.The one good thing I can recommend is the soundtrack to this movie; the score is evocative, and the theme song Love Is On The Air should have been the theme song to a better movie. "},{"Title":"Radioland Murders-In the Tradition of the Keystone Cops *1/2","Date":"10 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The only thing that this inane film has going for it is its pacing. It is done lively and quiet fast and given the nature and how bad the film is, it's appropriate to do it that quickly.This is a definite take-off on the radio period in America.While a radio show goes on, the best part of the action seems to be on the backstage, where a series of murders are taking place, one after the other.Suspicion immediately falls on one of the writers who is on the verge of breaking up with his wife, the show's producer.The beginning showed progress with the problems of script writing presented. With the murders, the film falters quickly and becomes one of amateurish slapstick and all other mayhem and nonsense.The comedy lines are silly. One example is Woman to man Don't you see the star on my dressing room? His response was Does that mean you're Jewish? Case closed. "},{"Title":"What a sad waste of talent!","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's so much that's good about RADIOLAND MURDERS.  The camerawork, sound, sets, costume design, and special effects are superb.  The cast has many talented performers in it.  Mel Smith had directed THE TALL GUY and many episodes of the tv show Dream On and would go on to direct the hilarious BEAN.RADIOLAND MURDERS makes you think that people were unduly harsh in evaluating the films of Ed Wood.  Except that one minute of this movie probably cost more than every film Ed Wood ever made put together.  So how did all of these nice people get together and make one of the most boring and inept movies ever released by a major studio?That probably wasn't their intention.  But producer/co-writer George Lucas was so involved in the state-of-the-art special effects that the story and characters got lost in the shuffle.  A very large portion of what you see on screen (including many of the spectacular sets) is actually computer generated.  And that, I fear, is where too much of everyone's attention was directed.So the actors are simply cast adrift.  It's especially sad seeing George Burns- prominently billed- in a tiny part.  The closing credits tell us that at least part of Mr. Burns' dialogue comes from a recording of an earlier stage performance.It's also a shame that this was the last film of Anita Morris, who was a trooper to the end.  To see this lovely lady at a better advantage, watch her in the hilarious RUTHLESS PEOPLE.Better luck next time, Mr. Lucas.  Stick to movies like STAR WARS.  This movie wasn't even as good as the (imho) grossly under-rated but admittedly uneven HOWARD THE DUCK which had many great moments and a tremendous musical score by John Williams.One doubts that this was a story which was burning to be told.  Instead, the plot is just an excuse for a bag of tricks.  So we see dozens of talented people in a futile search for a plot.  Sad, sad, sad.   "},{"Title":"Sadly, Anita Morris' last role; Movie just stupid, not funny","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hard to believe that such a vibrant and young person as this died soon after this role. As for the movie, it could have been written either by some twelve year olds or some ninety year olds. I was interested in seeing this movie, what with all the well-known names involved, from actors to producers, etc. I was completely disappointed. It was just terribly un-funny, barely watchable. I hate to guess who would find this enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Radioland Craziness","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not as bad as some think. Critics hated it and I can see why. The comedy is not funny it is like a Three Stooges or Abbot and Costello movie with very bad and very tired slapstick. BUT this film is a joy to look at though. The art deco sets are great (actually best I ever seen in a out of era film), great costumes, color photography is done well, as are the radio acts and 1930's songs and commercials. Too bad the writer did not make a straight mystery drama instead of a mystery slip on a banana peel movie. Actors are fine especially Michael McKean as the fey, obviously gay bandleader and Corben Benson as the debonair radio announcer. Brian Benben is another story though, very annoying and grates badly. Anyway blame the failure on the writer(s) of this and casting Benben. Original story was by George Lucas. I wonder if his story was a bad comedy though? I have a fondness for this film that transcends the bad points. Amazingly I saw this in 1994 on opening night at a large mutiplex in Chicago. I was the ONLY person in the theater. Opening night at 700PM! Never had that happen before or since. If you like the 1930-1940 era you will probably enjoy this film albeit I doubt the furious slapstick. Film is dedicated to the wonderful Anita Morris who played the sultry torch singer, who died during filming. "},{"Title":"Really average midday movie, not essential.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There are some murders in radioland. Bright colours, period costumes, shoo-be-dop singing, cheesy fun old-time radio ads. So what.Just a really average midday movie - goes for that whole camp old-time radio world, but its already a much better film, Woody Allen's Radio Days.Yet another B-movie with too big a budget.4/10.Trivia if you used to watch Not the Nine O'Clock News, this is directed by the balding guy. I'd love to be kinder, since he clearly gets so few projects, but this movie is about as significant as  "},{"Title":"blech","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you like the old radio shows, films set in the '30s and mysteries, this should be the film for you. The three things mentioned are favorite things of mine, but alas, I didn't enjoy this movie. The thin plot centers around a Phantom of the Radio (a disembodied voice) who says something sinister over a microphone, and then someone is murdered. Apparently all the people who are murdered worked together at another radio station that was involved in a scandal. One of the writers, Roger Henderson (Brian Benben becomes a suspect. He's the husband - possibly soon to be ex-husband of Penny Henderson (Mary Stuart Masterson) who manages to somehow keep the station going with no scripts and people dying all around her.Radioland Murders has a crackerjack cast - besides the above, the cast includes Christopher Lloyd, Michael McKean, Ned Beatty, Harvey Korman, George Burns, Scott Michael Campbell, Brion James, Anne DiSalvo - the list goes on.The radio shows (Lloyd's character is the sound effect man), the commercials and the music are absolutely wonderful. Unfortunately the director kept cutting from those elements to something else - either yelling or slapstick or both. The slapstick was incessant. Some slapstick is funny; constant slapstick becomes annoying. Certainly there are ways to show a chaotic, disorganized radio station without papers flying all over the place every two minutes and everyone getting knocked over and screaming. As far as the murders, they happen so quickly and so soon into the film that it was hard to know whom exactly had bought it.The acting is mostly good except for Benben, who for reasons of his own decided to pretend he was a wisecracking guy from the '40s instead of just doing the role. This is the same thing that ruined the Nero Wolfe show on A&E - you don't put an era on like a shoe, you ARE in the era, or you come off as being an external actor.Big disappointment. A shame because it had some great elements going for it. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie I've ever seen !","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This really is the worst movie I've ever seen! I'm not just saying that, and yes i've seen the movie. I understand the the jokes, there just not funny. I rate this as this worst movie that I have ever seen, and maybe the worst movie of all time. "},{"Title":"For the love of God, avoid this movie.","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If not for Bean, a movie over which director Mel Smith had some control and a better writer, The Raidioland Murders might have killed his career.  It is a sore spot for him and many of the people involved who might have thought anything that is dusted off from George Lucas' closet must be gold.  I love the Original Star Wars Trilogy and Indiana Jones, Labyrinth and even Willow. But this movie is more in the spirit of Howard the Duck - in other words, no clear spirit at all.  A lot of hyper running around.  Too bad so much talent goes wasted.  Trust me. "}]