[{"Title":"Lloyd and Lester","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"64 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Have you noticed? Lloyd, Kevin Spacey's character in The Ref is closely related to Lester, Kevin Spacey's character in American Beauty if you see both movies, back to back, you'll notice the astonishing similarities between the two. Twins? Maybe. If they are, or were, poor Lester, a lot of things will become immediately clear. To start with, he had Glynis Johns for a mother. Miss Jones creates such a frighteningly funny portrait of a castrating mother that Lester's emasculation is perfectly explained. Not to mention their choice of spouses, time bombs Judi Davis and Annette Bening This little piece of trivia will add, to the considerable pleasures of this delightful and underrated Ted Demme's dark fairy tale. The opening at the marriage counselor's office is just superb, I can see it endlessly, it never fails to make me laugh. Kevin Spacey and Judi Davis are a couple part Edward Albee part Terence Rattigan. They are priceless. Dennis Leary's energy is contagious and relentless. His best part to date. The clunky sub plot involving their son and, what it appears, like a hurried ending, doesn't spoil the fun. The writing by the brilliant Richard LaGravenesse and Marie Weiss is pure joy. Ideal to see with a bunch of friends. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"45 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The 1994 film 'The Ref' is absolutely hilarious.Denis Leary is great as Gus, a burglar who takes Lloyd Chasseur (Kevin Spacey) and Lloyd's wife Caroline (Judy Davis) hostage in their own home at Christmas, to hide himself from police. Unfortunately for Gus, this couple aren't exactly the Leave it to Beaver family. They rant and rave the whole way through the film, even though Gus is holding a gun to their head. Of course, we know Gus is would never hurt anyone but it's still funny because Lloyd and Caroline don't! The acting is superb, and the ending is hilarious. The whole Christmas dinner scene is possibly the best in the film. Spacey and Davis sound like a real squabbling couple, and their character's son Jesse (Robert J. Steinmiller Jr.) is a teenage rebel, who causes Gus even more trouble. Not only does this film serve for side splitting laughs, but also for additional fun, because you can always point out that Lloyd and Caroline sound like you and your spouse! (Actually, no, not a good idea!) Overall, I really loved this movie, and think it's a sadly forgotten, underrated comic gem. You won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"A quirky Christmas Story","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed the Ref immensely. It is an off-beat change of pace from most Christmas feel-good movies, yet it still comes together in the end. Denis Leary is very convincing as the successful cat burglar caught in the wrong place at the wrong time. Christine Baransky plays a delightfully deranged sister in law who is more interested in money and appearances than in family or Christmas. Kevin Spacey proves that he can play any part from milk toast nagged husband to serial killer.One caution, though- if you are offended by cursing, then this movie is not for you. There is a great deal of cursing in it. If you've seen any of Denis Leary's stand-up, then you know what to expect, but if you want a Christmas movie to watch with the kids, go find A Christmas Story, Eloise at Christmastime or It's a Wonderful Life. Anything but this one! "},{"Title":"My favourite comedy movie","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an all-time classic movie, and one that my wife and I traditionally watch every Christmas. I know it's not your typical holiday film, but it is extremely funny, and because it is set around Christmas, we always try and watch it this time of year. Kevin Spacey before he hit it big, Judy Davis is incredible, and I simply love Denis Leary's work. Also Christine Baranski being very annoying/funny. Not for the easily offended for sure, but I am part of the generation that has grown up watching movies meant to shock you (Pulp Fiction, Starship Troopers, etc), and this one has plenty of shock value from the wit and vulgarness. I always laugh when I hear the banter between the main characters in the movie, plus a nice mix of physical comedy as well. Like my summary says, it is my all-time favourite comedy. "},{"Title":"funny as hell!","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" My favorite line of all time is from this movie- when Lloyd tells his mother next Christmas he's going to buy her a big wooden cross, so anytime she feels unappreciated or un-loved she can climb on up there and nail herself to it! This movie is definitely on my top ten list. The acting is awesome! The timing and delivery of lines is right on! It may not be everyone's cup of tea, but for those of us who love this kind of humor its a sure classic! The casting was superb! I cant see anyone else playing those parts. This is the movie that turned me onto Kevin Spacey- and he is still my favorite actor ever! This is also the funniest movie I've ever seen Denis Leary in. His brand of humor combined with Kevin Spacey's wit is the stuff dreams are made of. "},{"Title":"Extremely funny","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I laughed like hell during this movie.  Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey fit their roles perfectly and their first scene, with B.D. Wong, gets the movie off on the right foot.  It only gets funnier after that.  This is the only movie I can tolerate Denis Leary in; I find him very annoying and smug normally.  This movie should be on television every Christmas! "},{"Title":"Change of pace seasonal favorite, but good at any time of year","Date":"6 December 2006","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" My absolute favorite dark comedy. All the adults in our family will put this one on after the tykes are put to bed on Christmas Eve. Side-splittingly funny, bitingly tart fun. Anyone that was raised in suburban America will be able to relate the characters to family, friends, and neighbors. Great early roles for Kevin Spacey, Judy Davis, and Christine Baranski, and the deliveries are spot on and maintain the dark comic tone throughout. First-time viewers might cringe a little at the tone early on, but will quickly warm up to it; initial oh my's will soon enough surrender to hearty laughter. If the holidays get ya a little overwhelmed or uptight, this will bring great relief!! Consider it a nice stiff egg nog compared to the rest of the seasonal hot cocoa. Favorite line from Christine Baranski Sex and drugs, and women getting set on fire ?!?! What kind of Christmas is this? "},{"Title":"The best Christmas Night movie, EVER!","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" For years now, I have been able to rely on a twisted programmer at local station CFTO for the perfect antidote to a Christmas overdose to show up, right on schedule, Christmas night, or, at worst, Boxing Day Night.This movie probably isn't as funny if you aren't already full up to your eyeballs with stockings and chestnuts and carols, but on Christmas night, this movie will have you in stitches.The lengthy set-piece when the family finally sits down to Judy Davis' traditional Scandinavian Christmas feast has me laughing out loud every time I see it. Think Long Day's Journey Into Night on coke. Seriously. (But in a funny way.)Plus Any movie that contains the line I just punched out Santa Claus. Don't f**k with me, or words to that effect is a movie with it's heart in such a very wrong place that you just have to love it. "},{"Title":"an incredibly funny dysfunctional Christmas","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" i think that this is one of the most hilarious Christmas movies i have ever seen. first, it is a perfect role for Denis Leary, who really runs with it. Second,the dysfunctional couple, Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are fantastic, battling back and forth, the whole movie, as their lies and secrets are slowly unveiled, with help by Leary. Finally, Glynis johns, as the mother would make you long to be an orphan. Although she does not have much screen time, some of the funniest lines in the movie happen at her instigation.And i like the movie ending better than the one Dehme originally planned(with Leary being caught by the police.) "},{"Title":"If this is what happens, then kidnap me!","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" In what may be his funniest role to date, Denis Leary plays kidnapper Gus, who takes wealthy Connecticut couple Lloyd (Kevin Spacey) and Caroline Chasseur (Judy Davis) hostage one Christmas Eve, only to have them drive him absolutely nuts due to their bad marriage! As Gus puts it I kidnapped my f--king parents! We might say that Spacey's role here was a predecessor to his character in American Beauty - I can certainly see a similarity - but that's missing the point. The point is to watch how the people here go from one embarrassing situation to the next. The dinner scene really blows everything out of the water. Overall, The Ref is looking at the falsity of the suburban lifestyle, but they do some hilarious things to show it. I would say that The Ref and Gremlins are my two favorite Christmas movies ever.Also starring Glynis Johns and Christine Baranski. "}{"Title":"The Ref","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Judy Davis is one of the most effective and talented actresses around today. Her emotional range and realism is astonishing and compelling. I think her linking with Kevin Spacey in this movie was an inspired piece of casting that produced a riveting, engaging and downright funny piece of comedy drama, which I will always remember. I lamented in her early days that she did not always receive good parts, for example, in the dire right-wing political movie 'Who Dares Wins'. Nevertheless she dignified an abysmal script and mediocre fellow actors with a portrayal of a confused terrorist whom finally you care more about than the hero.However, in this movie, she is the star - not because she is trying to shine, but because she is just so astoundingly effective as an actress. Her engaging mix of vulnerability and bitter disappointment forges a devastatingly simple key to keeping her in the center of focus, along with a Spacey complementary performance. 'The Ref' was one of the best comedy drama movies that I have ever seen - Judy Davis in top form. I watched it on video last night (as 'Hostile Hostages'). Thanks, Judy! "},{"Title":"A Oscar Worthy Performance","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let me say this movie couldn't be more real, now having said that Denis Leary didn't even have to blink when reading this script, it was simply written for him because lets face the facts who better to be a gun wielding, curse slurring, angry robber then him. Secondly the relationship between Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis could have a movie all in itself, its real down and dirty dysfunction the good old fashioned way with objects being flung and secrets being expelled in every direction, and the reunion of the entire family makes you want to curl up and laugh hysterically for hours. Bottom line if you haven't seen this movie its an absolute MUST SEE. 10 out of 10 with a bullet. "},{"Title":"Words are just words, but on this night they are very much weapons.","Date":"27 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" There's no denying it&#x85; Most of the humour in The Ref is a result of people being mean, and not just Your Mama's so fat mean, but Your Mama's a c*cksucker mean.Had I not seen it already my first reaction to that is I am as tired of mean-spirited humour as I am of torture masquerading as horror.The fact that it is mean does not make something funny, but if done with a little creativity and in the right context, calling grey haired old ladies c*ck-suckers in front of their children and young grandchildren can be funny. Hilarious even.The Ref makes no concessions to political correctness, it is witty, razor-sharp and well plotted and written&#x85; and yes mean spirited.___________________________________________________________ It is Christmas Eve.Gus (Denis Leary) is a small time thief, deliberately small time. He plans his heists carefully, takes what he can and lies low for a while, as he says himself he can get in and out of whatever he wants without being detected. By not aiming too high he normally stays under the radar and out of harm's way. On this night the job was to provide enough cash to see Gus out for good and he and his practically useless alcoholic getaway man Murray would see their days out in paradise somewhere.Only this night things went awry, Gus triggered an alarm and Murray bolted leaving Gus to fend for himself, covered in cat p*ss and with dogbites on his arse. In a small town the news that a crafty burglar is loose is met with instant reaction from far more quarters than simply the police.Now the houses Gus chose to steal from were of the well to do (and apparently therefore) important people who know others in high places. The police chief is well meaning but ultimately powerless once the local high and mighty gain momentum.With a full court press designed to nab Gus resulting in a curfew and door to door searches Gus is desperate for somewhere to lie low, he takes some impromptu hostages in a convenience store, Caroline and Lloyd Chasseur.This is where the fun starts for all involved.Lloyd and Caroline have been experiencing marriage problems, in short they basically hate each other and constantly bicker and argue. In betwixt their disagreements is their conniving son Jesse, himself a small time crim who dabbles in blackmailing his military school teachers.Being Christmas Eve Jesse is due home imminently, as are Lloyd's brother, his wife and kids&#x85; and Grandma Rose for dinner.******************************* Gus is unaware of what he getting himself into, and in the early stages he struggles to maintain control of the situation even when they are tied up. The couple constantly forget their situation such is the power of their mutual resentment, and they ceaselessly tease and snap at each other and Gus. Gus finds he is pretty much stuck for a while until Murray can find suitable transport, so a plan is hatched that will enable to the dinner to go ahead, Gus will simply play the part of the couple's marriage counsellor.All this sounds pretty dodgy but I can assure you it all works very well.So Jesse arrives first and is immediately tied up and left upstairs as a bargaining chip so that Lloyd and Caroline play along and don't disrupt proceedings. Once the rest of the family arrives it is clear that the standard of manners aren't going to simply improve. To keep matter brief Lloyd's brother is a downtrodden pussy, his wife is a snarky overbearing pretentious bitch, their kids are no prizes either but not too horrible, and Mother Rose&#x85; Mother Rose deserves her own movie. She is unbelievable. Acting as if the world owes her a favour she is instantly grating, sarcastic, bitchy, presumptuous and scathing, and woe-betide anyone who disagrees with her or dares to criticise her or her actions. The worst thing is that she coolly and calmly spits out every poisonous thinly veiled barb with poise and confidence, like she is doing you a favour by pointing out all your failings. If a more reprehensible 70 something Grandma exists I am yet to see her.Dinner proceeds as planned, complete with an elaborate theme and formal settings. Everyone fakes getting along for a while, just like every large family gathering, but Mother Rose fires things up and then Caroline gets a little drunk. Snippy chat soon turns to a full blown argument, which in turn then explodes into open family warfare. No stone is left unturned and no foible unmentioned as they all hoe into each other with gusto. Gus's mood changes from bemusement to a sense of powerlessness and he gives up pretending that he is a marriage counsellor and steps aside for a while.At the conclusion of the dinner everything possible has been aired and no opinion has been covered up or withheld, there is a lot of swearing, inappropriate comments all around and some extra special rants that have to be seen.Even though the lines are laced with venom and the characters treat each other with disdain it is all unfortunately quite believable and brilliantly delivered. You really think Caroline and Lloyd hate each other, the sister-in-law despises them both and bullies her kids and husband, and EVERYONE detests Mother Rose but puts up with her because she ultimately is cash up and has to die sometime right? And this is before they decide what to do with Gus.Final Rating 9 / 10. Next Christmas dinner must have been verrrry uncomfortable. "},{"Title":"Judy Davis steals this thing","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Judy Davis is wonderful as Caroline Chasseur, with her facial expressions, quick comebacks, and excellent lines. Kevin Spacey, who usually commands the most attention in a film, knows he's dealing with a pro with a role made for her, and is wonderful as her sad, angry husband Lloyd.The script could use some fine-tuning and Denis Leary is just OK in his role as hostage taker Gus.However, if you're looking for anti-Christmas spirit, the Ref is the perfect dark comedy and is clever and hilarious in many of its scenes. 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"I kidnapped my (expletive) parents!","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of them most underrated Christmas movies ever. Just go up to someone and mention it, and watch them say, What? No, MY favorite holiday special is It's a Wonderful Life. Try not to pity them too noticeably.Denis Leary plays Gus, a burglar who gets interrupted in the process of completing a job in a well-to-do Connecticut suburb, and winds up taking Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey's couple hostage. Not a good idea, as he quickly discovers. They're so busy bickering that they barely acknowledge Gus, and he must come up with creative ways to keep shutting them up. The main obstacles to Gus escaping undetected are 1) the couple's son is due back from military school, 2) the in-laws are due shortly for a guilt-filled dysfunctional Christmas visit, and 3) the local Keystone Kops are attempting to track Gus down. It's 2) which is really the problem, as the couple's family is even more intolerable than the couple themselves.Sample scene The in-laws are seen eating at a diner shortly before they're due. Eat up, kids. Heavens knows what we'll get at Aunt Caroline's. This proves to be a wise move indeed. And if you got a kick out of Kevin Spacey hurling the asparagus in American Beauty, you'll appreciate the scene where he loses it and starts hitting the Christmas tree. (Excuse me, the 'corpse' still has the floor!) All I can say, that it's good that Gus came along, because the family definitely all had more than a few grievances to air that had long been festering. Though I'm not sure they got every last drop of venom out (maybe a sequel?). "},{"Title":"Brilliant comedy writing","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You have to experience the movie. I almost died laughing. The rest is to complete at least ten lines. You do not, I repeat, do not, have to like Denis Leary to watch this movie. It takes you so unawares that you had better hyperventilate before watching. I've had Christmas dinners like the one in this movie when a character like Denis's would have been welcome. I can't stress the constant excellence of the dialog and the take on Connecticut at Christmas. Even the cops are dead on. There's even a running gag that lites up from beginning to end. I can't think of anything that doesn't work except that at times you'll be laughing so hard that you'll miss something. I think that I've made my 10 lines so I'll shut up. Don't miss seeing this movie on DVD so you can pause in order to resume breathing and see it totally. Enjoy and don't hurt yourself. "},{"Title":"Priceless","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are a miserable married couple in The Ref, also starring Denis Leary, Glynis Johns, and Christine Baranski. One could not ask for a better cast, and after seeing this, I think a stage production of Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolff starring Spacey and Davis would be inspired. They are biting, funny, and poignant - the scene in the marriage counselor's office is hilarious. This is not your usual Christmas movie for sure.Spacey and Davis play Lloyd and Caroline, a couple basically held hostage by a thief on the lam (Leary). He becomes totally sick of them but can't leave until he hears from his partner. The couple is nervous about their son, Jesse, coming home, but Jesse can take care of himself -- he was probably named for a famous outlaw. He has $11,000 that he earned as a blackmailer up in his room plus the missing, large community baby Jesus hidden in a drawer. Adding tension to the hostage situation is the arrival of the family for Christmas dinner, so Leary dresses up and pretends to be their marriage counselor. Glynis Johns is Lloyd's wealthy mother, who gives her daughter-in-law (Baranski) slipper socks for Christmas and charges Lloyd and Caroline 18% interest on a loan. A doll. The dinner is a traditional Scandinavian holiday dinner, and everyone wears wreaths on their heads that have lit candles sticking out of them while Caroline tells the gross story of Saint Lucia, who wouldn't burn at the stake.Don't look for this one on Lifetime during the holiday season. The entire cast is fantastic, but Spacey, Davis, and Leary earn special kudos for great performances in this offbeat film, beautifully directed by Ted Demme. "},{"Title":"Fun Concept Never Quite Pans Out","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Denis Leary and Kevin Spacey match wits in this ever-so-gently whitewashed holiday staple. Spacey, whose flammable relationship with wife Judy Davis takes center stage in nearly every scene, is at his deadpan sarcastic best from start to finish, while Leary's brand of comedy is somewhat neutered by the family-friendly nature of the picture. At its root, though, this is a startlingly simple premise that never really evolves into something grand enough to carry a feature-length picture. It's got some good one-liners, a few solid recurring gags, a volatile core concept, but can't manage to make the shift into high gear that would've put it over the top. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedies ever!","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The subject matter is just one anyone can relate to! The casting selection couldn't have been better. The direction is just on the money. The acting is superb!Everyone here excels;Dennis Leary nails it as the fugitive trying to find his way out of failed robbery attempt!Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are superb as the dysfunctional and argumentative couple.The lightning is pitch perfect.The dialogue are ordinary and yet, cunning.The music is really cool also.It is not a movie for the faint of heart, its irreverent, and it does celebrates bad behavior, but, it also have a redeeming family lesson towards the end.Ted Demme was without a question, a master of the comedy genre.I never get tired of watching this films, specially during the Christmas season! "},{"Title":"Don't Make Me Nuts Today! It's Christmas!","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I swear to God lady, you smack that kid one more time and I'm gonna shove that pigs head, RIGHT UP YOUR ASS!Caroline and Lloyd Chasseur (Davis and Spacey) are couple on their last thread. Throughout the years, they have lost eachother... and that's where the story starts in the shrinks office! After a dazzling display of verbal warfare where they take NO prisoners, they get kidnapped by a Gus (Dennis Leary)looking for a ride out of town after a short run in with 'cannibal' and his get away driver turned out to be a no show.It's Christmas Eve, a wonderfully open and loving night is planned, and then the guests arrive. Every family dinamic is represented in this film at it's best! The only family holiday movie that I  have seen that was close to this good was Home For The Holidays (with Holly Hunter and Robert Downey Jr.) Throw in loud obnoxious kids, a juvinelle dilenquent, bumbling cops, and a drunk farting Santa, and you get the BEST FAMILY HOLIDAY MOVIE EVER!!!Rated R Only because of the laungage, in case peopole did not denote the tone of sarcasm in my voice...I give it a 10/10. I've seen it a million times, and I laugh out loud thinking of it.  - DMerry Christmas!This is my all time favorite movie. I know it all of it. It is the perfect christmas movie. I saw it for the first time about 7 years ago and it has been part of my life ever since. There are so many GREAT lines in it. The dialouge, the actors, the chemistry, everyone works great together. Glynis Johns is awesome as the love to hate mother-in-law-from-hell!  "}{"Title":"The greatest Christmas movie ever made.","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With today being Christmas (Happy Ho Ho everyone!), it was that time of year when I dust off this classic film and sit down with a glass of eggnog. Every year, I enjoy this fine film more and more. Simply marvelous! Denis Leary is hilarious, and so is Kevin Spacey. If you have not seen this Holiday classic, do yourself a favour and go out and rent it.Leary plays Gus, a cat burglar, who on Christmas Eve finds himself on the run from local authorities after robbing a very posh home. Gus takes Caroline and Lloyd hostage (played marvelously by Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis) and forces them to bring them to their home to hide out. However, unbeknown to Gus, this is the most dysfunctional family he will ever meet. And so the madness begins.Great film for adults, however, you may want to keep your children out of the room and out of earshot, as their is some substantial language and adult humour in this movie. However, if you like adult humour, you will definately love The Ref.A must have for any collection. "},{"Title":"An Adult Christmas Tale","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Ref (1994) *** (out of 4)One of the most adult Christmas movies ever mad, THE REF tells the story of a thief (Denis Leary) who needs a place to hide out after a botched robbery so he kidnaps a couple (Kevin Spacey, Judy Davis) not knowing their going through a martial problem. Soon their arguing puts the thief in the middle and things take a turn for the worse when their annoying family members show up.THE REF didn't make too much of an impact when it was first released but over time it has gained a good cult following and rightfully so. I remember seeing the film when it was first released and found it to be uneven but there was just something about it that made me go back for repeat viewings. It soon dawned on me that the film wasn't uneven but in fact it was simply the perfect mix of comedy and drama. Throughout all the sarcasm and wit that Leary brings to the picture, you've got two great dramatic actors really delivering strong performances and making you care about this troubled couple. The way the film goes from one laugh to another and then onto a serious subject is something rather unique and the way director Ted Demme handles it is quite great.The film works so well because the three leads are simply perfect in their roles. That smart mouth nature of Leary is just flawless here as this role was simply made for him. Spacey and Davis are so good dramatically that they can sell this portion of the film but their comic timing is also flawless. The three perfectly play off one another and it leads to some great laughs. Another strong aspect of the film is the actual screenplay, which contains all sorts of bad, adult language but everything just feels and flows so naturally that you can't help but feel as if you're watching a real troubled couple and a real thief getting thrown together.THE REF isn't a flawless film by any stretch of the imagination but there are certainly enough laughs to keep it moving well. "},{"Title":"Quite Funny!","Date":"23 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Ref is a genuinely funny film that mixes elements of dark comedy and elements of holiday films quite well. Some of the jokes are pretty vulgar, but they work in the context of the film. I wonder why a holiday film like this was released in March, because it could have done so much better in the prime months of November/December. This film is memorable and for the kind of film it is, it does have a heart and it features some touching moments.Ted Demme's film is about a cat burglar who sets off an alarm by mistake and is forced to kidnap a married couple to use as insurance. But what he doesn't realize is this couple bicker nonstop even under gunpoint, and he may end up solving some nasty disputes.With this kind of material, the direction and the acting have to be good. Luckily, the acting is good. Denis Leary is really funny and at the same time, we realize he's not a truly awful person. Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis kick it off from the get-go and they have awesome chemistry. Their dialog that they interplay with each other goes a long way to making the actors effective.Overall, this is a funny, smart black comedy that will be good counter-viewing as opposed to other holiday films like Elf or The Santa Clause. This is Bad Santa territory right here. Because of the great direction by Demme and wonderful acting by the three main leads, this film rises above most holiday films. I rate this film 9/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie **********","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is by far one movie that doesn't get the credit it deserves. I've told several people about this movie and they said that they had never heard of it. After they watched it, they were wondering how this movie has gone so unnoticed. Dennis Leary gives a stunning performance and Kevin Spacey is simply great. There are several great lines in this movie... like when Dennis Leary says to Judy Davis What are we, girlfriends? Another of my favorite lines is when the grandmother tells Dennis Leary you don't have the ball... HILARIOUS... and his response had me rolling on the floor. I can watch this movie once a week and still lmao. I gave it 10 stars only because I couldn't give it 100 stars. Great movie and great cast too. "},{"Title":"A wry, anti-hero Christmas movie that comes from left field to make its point.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Far from typical Christmas fare, comedy or otherwise The Ref is an under rated classic that is a perfect blend of cynicism and hope, cleverness and bawdy comedy. It has a lot of shrill moments and if foul language makes you uneasy stay away but most will find the obscenities just part of the plot as the resolution of anger and bitterness in the lives of four people is what this film is about.A sort of Ransom for Redchief style plot where a very sophisticated cat burglar takes a dysfunctional family hostage on Christmas eve much to his initial regret, this film succeeds in the main on the terrific acting by most of the cast. So much of the comedy is carried through because of small facial expressions, minute actions and razor sharp timing from the participants. The leads are priceless, Judy Davis in particular, although one finds himself quoting the two male leads perhaps more often. Christine Baranski, Glynnis Johns and Adam Le Ferve reveal their absolute mastery of the character actors craft with excellent support that shines in its own right. Phillip Nichol and Ellie Raab as the young nephew and niece provide the perfect foil of innocence for all of the adultness. A great movie to watch as a relief from the typical nostalgic and kid orientated Christmas flicks. There are so many really good Christmas stories and this one numbers among them aimed squarely at grown-ups for a change.Although Ted Demme changed the ending and is said to have regretted doing so I think it was the right decision adding one last lurch of suspense to the overall mix the first watch around. What happens?-sorry you'll have to wait to open this present yourself. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the funniest comedies I have seen in a long time. Denis Leary and Kevin Spacey are perfectly cast, and the movie features great bickering among the family members as Spacey soon regrets holding them hostage. Great lines and terrific scenes throughout.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Hilarious Christmas classic","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ted Demme's The Ref is one of my favourite holiday comedies of all time, one I re watch every and never tire of. It's the most cheerful black comedy I can think of, while at the same time being one of the most cynical, acid tongued Christmas movies on record. In spite of this pissy tone, however, it still manages to elicit warm fuzzy feelings and make you care for its lovable, curmudgeonly characters. It's also got a spitfire of a script, given wildly funny life by its star, the one and only Denis Leary. Leary, every the motor mouthed, nicotine fuelled teddy bear, is an actor who's work is very dear to me. Many times when I was younger and wasn't in the best place in my head, I'd watch various films of his, and his standup and he always put me in a better place. Here he plays short tempered cat burglar Gus, who is forced to lay low in a small town on Christmas Eve after being busted and nearly caught by a state of the art alarm system. He takes a middle aged couple hostage to hide out at their house, and goes from the proverbial frying pan into the fire. Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis play the couple, who bicker endlessly and drive Gus up the wall by constantly being at each other's throats and never shutting up. Spacey never comes up short in intense performances, whether dramatic or funny, and he owns the role, meeting Leary and Davis's manic energy with his own verve. Davis, an underrated actress, pulls out all the stops an delivers like she always does as well. The three of them are left in the house to hash out their issues, criticize each other, fight, make constant jabs at character and all that other lovely Christmas-y stuff. The hilarity peaks when Spacey's insufferable brother and his family show up for the most awkward Christmas dinner in history, as the trio tries to disguise the fact that they're harbouring a criminal from the dimwitted clan, and Spacey's tyrannical bitch of a mother (Glynis Johns). There's balance to the stressful vibe, though, as Leary's presence elevates every emotion from the couple and eventually turns things around, all expertly played by the actors for laughs both obvious and subtle. The excellent Raymond J. Barry is crusty delight as the mean spirited Sheriff, and there's great work from J.K. Simmons, Christine Baranski, Arthur Nascarella, Vincent Pastore, Richard Bright, Adam LeFevre and B.D. Wong. A Christmas classic for me, for a number of reasons, and one of the funniest, overlooked holiday flicks out there. "},{"Title":"With family like this, who needs enemies?","Date":"24 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" You look at The Ref and just know that it was written precisely for Denis Leary. It's just the kind of vehicle tailor-made for a comic with his talents; the man varies between exasperation and rage like nobody's business. And he's the source of most of the comedy herein.But it's not just Leary, who's the unfortunate intermediary for unhappily-married Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis, a duo which is the real comedic heart of this thing. They're perfectly hateful and bitter, fluent in shouting matches and their bickering forms the basis of this viciously dysfunctional (read very fun) holiday movie. It's the kind of horribly awkward family Christmas gathering you actually want to attend.7/10 "},{"Title":"Hands Down our Favourite Dark Christmas Classic","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" No Christmas would be complete without a viewing of The Ref, alongside our other fave, National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation. It features the wonderfully matched sniping of Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis as the couple on the rocks who ultimately learn to come together with the aid of the put-upon criminal ( a wonderful Denis Leary ) who is by far the sanest of the lot. Set this in the weirdly Disneyesque beauty of Niagara-on-the-Lake at Christmas ( yes it really looks like that ), throw in one of the best rants ever delivered in a movie, and you have a near perfect sugar-free Christmas classic. Careful though, it is addictive. "},{"Title":"angry dark comedy","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Caroline (Judy Davis) and Lloyd Chasseur (Kevin Spacey) are a fighting couple living in the small town of Old Baybrook. Lloyd doesn't want to talk about their marriage despite Caroline having had an affair. They don't agree on anything including his domineering mother (Glynis Johns) or their delinquent son. Gus (Denis Leary) is a burglar who barely escapes getting caught after being abandoned by his partner Murray. He takes the couple hostage. They go back to the Chasseur home but people start showing up. First the boy, then the mother with Lloyd's sister Connie (Christine Baranski) and her family.The fighting couple lends a bit of black comedy. Surprisingly, Leary is almost playing the straight man and is the least angry of the trio. Then the movie adds on two great broads Glynis Johns and Christine Baranski. The dinner is a lot of fun. It starts with the weird headgear and then they go into the wildest therapy session. The movie probably needs a few more crazy antics scenes and a little more slapstick. "}{"Title":"If you don't mind, the corpse STILL has the floor!","Date":"14 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Denis Leary plays Gus, a cat burglar who's foiled in the opening minutes of the movie by a rich mans' alarm / booby trap. Now on the lam, he decides to take a hostage. Unfortunately, his choice of Caroline (Judy Davis) is not a good one, as she and her husband Lloyd (Kevin Spacey) are going through a VERY rough patch, and can never stop sniping at each other for very long. Things aren't going to get any better, and Gus is forced to spend an untenable Christmas Eve pretending to be their marriage counselor and having to deal with Lloyds' dysfunctional family.The Ref would be an excellent Christmas time viewing choice for people who want to dispense with excess sentiment and more family friendly material. It has an extremely profane script (by Richard LaGravenese and Marie Weiss, based on Weiss's story), delivered to perfection by an incredibly well cast bunch of actors. The dialogue and situations are commanding enough that the time just flies by. The not terribly attractive bunch of characters includes Lloyds' rich & bitchy mother Rose (Glynis Johns), his weakling brother Gary (Adam LeFevre), Gary's abrasive wife Connie (Christine Baranski), and Lloyd and Carolines' troubled son Jesse (Robert J. Steinmiller Jr.), a student at a military school.One can't help but sympathize with Gus to some degree; who would actually desire to spend time with this family? Still, even after all the fighting and yelling, we see truths come out and characters becoming more honest with themselves and others. The subplot with the incompetent, moronic officers on the local police force is rather silly. None of the scenes that don't involve the family are as interesting.Leary is ideal for the lead, but it's Spacey and especially Davis who truly shine. Then again, everyone does a fine job. There are a number of recognizable actors throughout the supporting cast; in addition to Johns, LeFevre, and Baranski, there's Raymond J. Barry, Richard Bright, Bill Raymond, Robert Ridgely, J.K. Simmons, John Benjamin Hickey, Arthur J. Nascarella, and Vincent Pastore. Brights' widow, actress Rutanya Alda, has a brief cameo. Simmons plays a slimeball character named Siskel, so named because LaGravenese was getting a little revenge on film critic Siskel, who'd previously dismissed The Fisher King that LaGravenese had written. B.D. Wong appears unbilled.Good fun, with a particularly satisfying wrap-up.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Ref","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Now this is a blast from the past, well the early 90's. Back in the days when Leary was a smokin' hot comedian but not much of a movie star and Spacey wasn't that much of a movie star either!. One of those films yous saw in the videoshop amongst the other comedies but never rented because you didn't really know who the actors were, and you'd never heard of the film, maybe that's just me.The plot isn't rocket science but it is genius. Its Christmas and a robber is on the run, so he kidnaps a middle aged married couple, taking them back to their house. Little does the robber know these two lovebirds are having a bit of a marital spat and are at each others throats. To top that the whole family are on the way for Xmas Eve dinner so Leary's robber must try to control the happy couple whilst dealing with a group of nosy pestering family members.It really does sound like the next perfect National Lampoon caper for Chevy Chase, the whole film is very much like 'Christmas Vacation' accept this is more for adults. Its all very obvious really, naturally Leary uses his quickfire motormouth wit to spearhead much of the comedy and cruel attacks against various family members. Spacey's character is soft spoken but with a sharp tongue whilst Davis' character beautifully grows from calm and collected to spiteful rude and loud with her verbal assaults as she slowly gets more drunk.The main attacks fly in the direction of Spacey's mother played in a very stuffy way by the stout Glynis Johns. Of course the old mother character has money so the family normally suck up to her constantly, but this all breaks down slowly as the evening progresses which leads to some very funny moments. You can count on Leary to lose his rag in a monumental fashion with everyone as the heat builds and his window to escape slowly closes. Quite simply the film plays on the common much used comedic factors of our own relations, something that every family in the world can probably relate to. The old mother who is gruff with little tact and heavily controls one son too much. That son being downtrodden weak and always overruled by his wife who clearly wears the pants in the relationship. The other son not liking his brothers wife (his sister-in-law) because she has his brother whipped. The old mother not liking either sons wives and the wives not liking her (the mother-in-law) either. Caught in the middle are the kids who watch with glee as their parents, aunts, uncles and grandparents swear and curse at each other.All the characters are very clichéd no doubt, all the usual family stereotypes are drained of every last drop of predictable comedy completely. But it works brilliantly, watching the grown ups verbally abuse each other whilst trying to hold it together for the kids and for Christmas is hilarious. Tiptoeing around delicate issues and then bringing them up deliberately to cause an outburst, it makes you laugh it makes you cringe. Then to add to that you have Leary going nuts trying to keep everything civil whilst trying not to break his cover and trying not get caught by the old bill. The fact Leary acts as the marriage counselor for Spacey and Davis really cranks up the laughs when he verbally jousts against the mother and sister-in-law.This is one of those perfect anti-Christmas flicks that's perfect for Christmas. All the performances are really very good bringing the film to life and making the story so compelling. Its a completely character driven plot with no fancy set pieces or effects or crazy stunts, its all about the dialog. Yeah you know it will have a happy ending and you kinda know how it will pan out as your watching, but its still a dark razor sharp witty pleasure.7/10 "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey & Denis Leary = Black Comedy Gold!!","Date":"24 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Brief storyline of the film, the plot idea is relatively simple; Denis Leary plays Gus a professional burglar who after a foiled robbery seeks to make good his escape by taking married couple Lloyd and Caroline Chasseur hostage. Lloyd (played by Kevin Spacey) and Caroline (played by Judy Davis) are however going through something of a marriage crisis and poor old Gus ends up playing referee between the two warring factions of this married couple. Add in a delinquent son, a mother-in-law of humongous bitchy proportions and a drunken Santa Claus and let the mayhem begin! I have to say that the interplay between Learn, Spacey and Davis is simply fantastic with the machinegun like dialogue whizzing back and forth between them, my favourite quote from the film is Leary's character and he said From now on, the only person who gets to yell is me. Why? Because I have a gun. People with guns get to do whatever they want. Married people without guns - for instance - you - DO NOT get to yell. Why? NO GUNS! No guns, no yelling. See? Simple little equation. The black humour of the film is just brilliant and it's actually what you would expect from Kevin Spacey and Denis Leary film with past films like Swimming with Sharks With likewise the stingingly cruel comments from the mother-in-law from hell are a real hoot, as is the bumbling capers of the town's less than competent police force. What makes the film work on another level though is that the arguments and disagreements that have the family at each other's throats are not contrived or unbelievable. Both husband and wife put forward extremely credible points of view that I'm sure having cropped up in the minds of most viewers. This gives the film a lovely poignancy and all that more enjoyable.Overall, I found this a very funny movie. Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey bounce off each other hilariously, and I found Denis Leary's character just brilliant (and is now one of my favourite comedian) The script is original, the humour is dry, sarcastic and 'laugh out loud' good for a black-comedy so Great stuff! "},{"Title":"Christmas in Connecticut","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" On Christmas Eve, jewelry thief Denis Leary (as Gus) takes bickering Connecticut wife Judy Davis (as Caroline) and her husband Kevin Spacey (as Lloyd Chasseur) hostage. The captivated couple argues incessantly, driving Mr. Leary crazy. But, through it all, his hair stays perfect. Police are combing the area, so Leary must suffer as Ms. Davis and Mr. Spacey demonstrate their disintegrating marriage. Meanwhile, boozing buddy Richard Bright (as Murray) tries to help Leary from the outside. Juvenile delinquent son Robert J. Steinmiller Jr. (as Jesse) arrives home for the holiday...Steinmiller has been blackmailing a teacher at military school. When young Steinmiller is also gagged, you have to wonder why Leary didn't give his parents similar treatment - but, then there wouldn't have been a movie. Mouthy matriarch Glynis Johns (as Rose) and other family members show up for supper. Christine Baranski (as Connie) is a noticeable asset. Leary must pretend he is Dr. Wong the marriage counselor. People swap foul-mouthed insults and wear weird hats with candles in them. Dinner and the movie are distasteful, but cause no permanent damage.***** The Ref (3/9/94) Ted Demme ~ Denis Leary, Judy Davis, Kevin Spacey, Robert J. Steinmiller Jr. "},{"Title":"My Xmas Movie Tradition!","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie! I watched it when it first came out and subsequently watch it every holiday. It is the funniest Christmas movie out there in my opinion and no one but Leary could have pulled off Gus. Fantastic! Not for children,due to the swearing, but make this your own Christmas tradition and watch it every year! Fantastic! Every tradition starts somewhere! The acting is just that good that you want to see it repeatedly. I wish they would make another one actually, I think it would do really well if the same actors could reprise their rolls. It surprises me that a lot of people have never even heard of this movie. I lent it out to a coworker and she loved it too. It's certainly a little unknown gem. "},{"Title":"A very funny film.","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dennis Leary stars as a criminal who decides to hold a dysfunctional family hostage in The Ref. The Ref is one of the better Christmas comedies. It has many laugh out loud moments. It's a lot of fun seeing Dennis Leary, Kevin Spacey, and Judy Davis argue for an hour and a half. The Ref is the story of a criminal(played excellently by Dennis Leary) who decides to hold a rich couple(played by Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis), who are going through problems, and their family hostage on Christmas Eve. The criminal goes through a tough time too. He has to suffer with the most dysfunctional family alive.It's a lot of fun watching this movie. Watching Spacey and Davis argue the whole time is really funny. A lot of the scenes with the family are hilarious. I like all of the main celebrities in this film. I don't like them. I love them. That is part of the reason why I loved this film. Forget films like Four Christmases or The Polar express, and look for The Ref on DVD. "},{"Title":"Just what the season needed!","Date":"24 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Let's face it - you can only take so much of 'It's A Wonderful Life' or 'Miracle On 34th Street or the 100th version of 'A Christmas Carol' before you run screaming into the street. I watch this movie every Christmas, and laugh as hard every time. Denis Leary's frustration and fury with his hostages (and who is the hostage here?) and his hapless partner ( a - something - waste of life named Murray) and the in-laws, and his desperate efforts to assert some control over it all makes for a hilarious movie. And the Christmas eve dinner scene is hysterical. My favourite exchange Caroline He sounded upset. Gus He should be. He's going to die a horrible f**king death. "},{"Title":"I defy anyone not to laugh at this film.","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hostile Hostages (as it was originally named) is a scream.  Leary is his usual blaspheming, crude, fast-talking, hilarious self, but the funniest thing about this film is the way that Spacey and Davis bounce off each other.  The dialogue is genius, the Christmas Dinner scene is brilliant. Clever casting and a superb script.  It's hilarious.  I recommend it every time, I defy anyone not to laugh at this film. "},{"Title":"Crackling dialogue and good chemistry","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the better dark comedies I've seen in quite a while. I really liked the comic timing and excellent speaking rhythm among the cast, particularly between Spacey and Davis. Denis Leary's inserts are caustically funny. Also, don't overlook the wonderful Christine Baranski's physical humor and biting sarcasm. I could see the cast really having fun with the material and each other which made the film even more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable (Except for the End)","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie -- well-written, well directed (RIP, Ted Demme) and  the acting just couldn't have been better.It was interesting to read on the Trivia section of this movie's listing on IMDb  that the original ending was different and was reshot because a test audience  didn't respond well to it.Without giving anything away in case you've not seen it, the original endingsounds much more satisfying than the we can't release this without everything  being tied up with a nice bow on it ending that the movie has. Test audiences are a lame idea and always have been....so there. "}{"Title":"our favorite Christmas movie!","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Still one of the most sharply written movies of all time.  Brilliant and cutting!  Especially when you know someone like Glynis John's character (Mom), which we do.  These characters get to say every thing you've ever wanted to say to your most horrible relatives but don't dare have the nerve to do.  Maybe it's partly therapeutic, but watching The Ref has become a Christmas tradition in our twisted little household. "},{"Title":"A Classic Dysfunctional Christmas Movie for any family","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Ref is truly a wonderful Christmas movie anyway. Sure, it could have better writing but not a better cast of actors like Glynis Johns, Judy Davis, Kevin Spacey, Christine Baranski, & Denis Leary. IF you want a dysfunctional Christmas movie, the Ref is pretty good entertainment. Denis'character gets stuck taking a constantly arguing couple hostage. When they get to their home, he pretends to be their marriage counselor. The laughs get only better with Glynis Johns' Grandmother Rose as a female version of scrooge. I nominated Glynis Johns for a United Kingdom National Honour as Office of the British Empire. Glynis should have been given damehood by now and she is in her eighties so time is running out for the wonderful lady. She really does a superb job in her role as family matriarch. She is quite a match against Denis Leary. "},{"Title":"Not your father's Christmas movie","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm a sucker for dark comedies, so I really liked this funny, mean movie. It's definitely not for all tastes, but if you looking for a Christmas movie that will REALLY remind you of family bonding (no pun intended), then this one's pretty scathing.   Plus Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis make a terrific anti-couple, and Dennis Leary is hysterical as the thief.   Bonus  early Christine Baranski!!  The film loses it's attitude towards the end, but the first two-thirds are bitingly funny. "},{"Title":"heh heh heh heh heh","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Quite a different holiday comedy, this one is.  It's not exactly the warm fuzzy holiday movie, but at least it'll make YOUR family look better.Denis Leary is a cat burglar who's robbery goes afoul on Christmas Eve. Undaunted, he holds up a couple in hopes of hitting the jackpot. Unfortunately the two have been married for 12 years; she wants to work it out in therapy, he wants a divorce.  Need I say more, except that they drive Leary insane?One of the many brilliant aspects of this comedy is that the old Little Town vs. the Big City Which is Better? argument is blown to shreds. EVERYBODY is insane in this idellic-looking town, pretty much (and in a sci-fi story I read once perfectly put it, ho ho ho my a**!).  There's a drunken Santa Claus, an inept police force that destroys the evidence that can identify Leary (that was hilarious!), a man who saves face upon getting fired by telling his (now) ex-boss he had an affair with his wife while he was out of town, a blackmailing kid, and more.Unfortunately there's a dinner scene that drags on for too long that is short on laughs, but the rest of the movie makes up for that (oh well, it's a Jerry Bruckheimer film; most of his movies are long dig Pearl Harbor at three hours!).  Definitely worth a rent, though, if not a few, despite bad language o'plenty. "},{"Title":"A Very Good Comedy","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'v seen The Ref a number of times and it's a great comedy and a great Christmas time movie.  It's Denis Leary's best film to date, well, it's probably his only good film to date.  How can a cat as funny as Denis make so many painfully unfunny films?But no matter, there's more than enough good laughs here, a killer story about a thief taking the bickering couple from hell hostage, a great Connecticut suburban winter setting, and even a good background score. The flick has some problems thought, the oh so hot Judy Davis lopped off her gorgeous mane of red hair for this role and the relationship between Spacey and Davis needed a better resolution.But all in all, a good kickaxe dark comedy.  "},{"Title":"Mad Man has heart","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Denis Leary's soft spot is a family that includes Kevin Spacey, in this light comedy around Christmas time. It's a silly little caper that involves Leary as a thief trying to find some nice place to hide away from cops, and works very well. The comedic relief and character interaction is very good, solid. It's one of those Leary movies you love to enjoy, because his film record (though he's a great comedian) is kind of spotty. The best part about this movie by far is the fact that the director kind of let Leary have free reign on dialog, knowing full well who he'd had casted as his main actor. I'd suggest to anyone who really doesn't like the holidays that this is their kind of Christmas movie. It's definitely mine. "},{"Title":"A gut-busting laugher, Leary rocks!!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot has holes. Not too much in the way of character development. The scenery is pretty generic. Hell, this film would be nothing special (note the *would*) if it weren't so bloody funny! Dennis Leary is simply amazing. The guy is hilarious. And the greatest part about him is that he can act too! No, seriously. His expressions, his movement; one of the few comedians who can pull his weight in acting. And when he delivers his lines...always perfect, always hilarious. But don't kid yourself, this film wouldn't do it with Leary alone. Most of the cast are amazing, and the script (plot aside;) is fabulously crafted. The dialogue is amazing, and the jokes are fresh. Kevin Spacey? Need I even comment. He's long since proved that no matter the role he can pull it off with nothing short of brilliance! Judy Davis, though I don't usually like her so much (save, perhaps, in Naked Lunch) does a great job of playing off of Spacey here (though she tends to overdo it at times...) And Glynis Johns is simply magnificent,. as always. An amazing actress is every sense of the word. Christin Baranski is perfect, another great role for her. And the two kids were also excellent, their expressions were always priceless. The actor I really didn't like was Robert J. Steinmiller Jr., whiny and annoying, he was the only cast member to stick out. As well, the peripheral characters were mostly one-dimensional, the cops and townspeople were overly goofy and inept. Watch for a great little appearance by J.K.Simmons (of Law & Order/Oz) as the military school blackmailee. Overall, the ineptitude of the script is overcome by *great* lines and greater acting. This is an amazing film from start to finish, obviously not meant to be brilliant in story, but instead brilliant in dialogue and delivery. Richard LaGravenese has already given us a great story with The Fisher King, this is his great non-story;) An easy 8/10. "},{"Title":"One of the Great Dark Comedies","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You know what's wrong with a lot of the comedies that come out today?  Especially the comedies with Adam Sandler, Chris Rock, and the like?  The problem is that they never know when to shut up.  Sandler and Rock are both tremendously funny, but you can't treat a movie like stand-up comedy and have the main character incessantly wisecracking for 90 minutes straight.One of the great successes of The Ref is that the scriptwriters and the lead actor (Denis Leary) knew when it was time for Leary to just park it for a bit and let a phenomenal supporting cast (Kevin Spacey, Judy Davis, and Glynis Johns, all top-notch) elevate the movie past the mundanity it so easily could have wallowed in.  I've noticed several other people that the plot of this movie has been done so many times it's pathetic.  True, the plot is nothing new or surprising, but it is performed so well it is worth a look.However, one of the unique things about this movie is that the main character (Leary) isn't really a participant in the main plot.  The subplot of Gus being on the lam is mainly used only to set the stage for the REAL plot, the family and marital troubles of Lloyd (Spacey) and Caroline (Davis).  Leary is there, but he's not a major player in this main plot, he's more of an observer.  Hence the title.To sum up, Leary is funny when he needs to be and sufficient everywhere else, and Spacey, Davis, and Johns all give terrific performances which makes this surprisingly serious dramedy one of my favorite movies of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Funny, enjoyable to watch","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film about a borderline dysfunctional family thrown into a hilarious situation.  Denis Leary's typical short-tempered attitude mixed with the Kevin Spacey's apathetic attitude towards life made for an enjoyable and funny film.The storyline has been done before, but the actors really make this movie. This includes the main actors as well as the extended family coming to visit.  Hilarious, definitely a movie to see.My rating  8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Home Alone for Adults","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Ref is a laugh-out-loud situation comedy. One of my all-time faves. Dennis Leary, Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey are a riot. The supporting cast (in particular Christine Baranski) are dead-on. This is an example of the kind of intelligent comedy writing that seems to have moved from film to television in the last few years, leaving most movie comedies gasping for laughs or living on Adam Sandler/Jim Carrey butt crack jokes. Ain't no substitute for the real thing. Right up there with Midnight Run on my list of great low-budget comedies. A lot of folks were probably scared off by the title as it implies that the movie has something to do with sports. Rest assured that the movie is football-free and completely devoid of any scenes depicting ice skaters or midget wrestling. It is completely safe for your viewing pleasure. Go rent it. "}{"Title":"Single Greatest Holiday Movie of All Time","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know if this movie was written around Denis Leary, or if my some strange twist of fate he fell into this role, but this movie is him. If you've ever seen No Cure For Cancer or Lock 'N Load, then you'll appreciate the humor coming from Denis in this movie. Sure there are more than the fare share of one-liners but Denis' character's ability to not go insane amidst the most dysfunctional family in history is hilarious. Kevin Spacey also gives us a preview of why he was so good in American Beauty. If you ever feel blue around Christmas time, just pop this movie in and you'll realize that you're family isn't so bad. "},{"Title":"A family you want to smack, then hug","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My God, it's my household at Christmas.This movie is the perfect look at the dysfunctional family at its best/worst, which naturally happens during the holiday season. Everyone (all three of them) who managed to make it through childhood with the perfect set of parents, siblings and grandparents should be made to watch this over and over, to see what the rest of us had to endure.   "},{"Title":"This has got to be one of the best bickering films ever.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love to see bickering on the screen.  It reminds me of growing up in my family as a child, and visits to my family in the present.  Aside from the main plot, there's the ongoing undercurrent of gnarling verbal abuse between Spacey and Davis. We see more of this talent from Spacey in American Beauty so this may have been his dry run for that role with Bening.Other favourite bickering movies of mine are War of the Roses, Prisoner of Second Avenue and Torch Song Trilogy (in the latter it was between a mother an son).If you don't like bickering films I'm prepared to argue with you!  "},{"Title":"Unsung Gem With Biting Dialogue and Winning Performances","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Ref stars Denis Leary as a cat burglar who unwittingly takes bickering couple Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis hostage and ultimately ends up having to meet with the entire, annoying family for Christmas dinner.As the feuding spouses, Spacey and Davis are perfect.  They have a corrosive chemistry together and feed off of their character's biting, ill-spirited, hilarious put-downs and rantings.  Denis Leary is also crudely effective as the titular character, tortured by the couple's incessant fighting.  The family dinner is another laugh riot, with the actors hitting all the right chords as the stereotypically irritating, obligated-to-visit relatives who have an equally uneven family.Besides the family hostage story, there are also several other stories that run throughout the movie involving blackmail and a disgruntled neighborhood Santa Claus.  Director Ted Demme balances all these storylines, albeit sometimes not very developed ones, and juggles them adequately with the main act.Ted Demme's direction is also controlled and never lets up, sticking to the scripts incisive arguments and family-haranguing and not reducing this smart, sometimes dark comedy to a typical, brainless holiday flick.  The only time he falters is with the ending, of which the last minute could have been cut.  Otherwise, this is a very funny, stinging, and unusual Christmas movie that gets more laughs than most Hollywood-packaged, uninspired crowd-pleasers.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"my favorite movie of all time!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i'm surprised some people didn't like this movie. i'm assuming either they saw another movie or have their senses of humor shoved so far up their behind, that they have no idea what they are talking about!!! this movie is hysterical! grandmothers are supposed to be sweet & kind & bake you cookies. i've seen loan sharks more forgiving than you! lady, you're husband ain't dead-he's hiding! i watch this every year wrapping christmas presents & laugh hysterically still. i love all the characters, especially denis leary. how could anyone not like this movie & live with themselves? "},{"Title":"One of the funniest satires on family holiday angst","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film about three years ago and have watched it six times since.I think the dialogue is one of the sharpest and funniest I have seen in a film for the last 25 years. The traditional Christmas family reunion is tinged with the battles we all have about things we want to say to our nearest and dearest that only holidays and alcohol allow us to vent.I think the whole cast are superb and this film deserved more in terms of box office success "},{"Title":"You know what this family needs?  A mute!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the holiday film to end all holiday films, in my book.  I have friends who like Christmas Vacation a little better, but I would much rather watch Leary at his ranting finest than Chevy Chase and Co. rehashing the Griswold saga.  Leary's facial expressions throughout the film are alone worth watching for.  Spacey and Davis with their incessant bickering is hilarious too, but the big finish with the whole family makes me laugh myself sick.  Don't be dissuaded by reviews which claim the film lacks substance or that it's a rehash of other stories...Spacey and Leary are very talented, and no one ever claimed this movie was supposed to be deep and meaningful.  Gather the family around at the holidays, pop The Ref in the VCR and give thanks that your family isn't as screwed up as the Chassuer's (that's 18th century French-Hugenot). "},{"Title":"There is a warm place in my heart for this movie )","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And you thought your family had problems...try being a Chaucer.  The Ref is a delightful look at suburban life and the gaping cracks in its pseudo-perfection.  Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are brilliant as a yuppie married couple who cannot stand each other's company.  In my opinion, this is Kevin Spacey's best role to date.  Denis Leary, playing basically Denis Leary, is the thief who takes the couple hostage on Christmas Eve and is inadvertently drawn into the marriage hell they have created.The Ref is wonderfully fun and charming.  even more so, though, it is a realistic look at the progression of a relationship with all of its twists and turns, pratfalls and joyous occasions.  The supporting characters that play the Chaucer family are a delight to marvel (and eerily compare to your own twisted family).I have found that there are two types of people in this world  those who hate this movie and those who revere it.  I am part of the latter group. This movie is such a gem and should be considered an instant classic. "},{"Title":"Yearns to be something more, but still a cut above some","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	Going into this movie, I had no idea what to expect. The reviews on the box suggested it was hilarious, yet the comments here at IMDb hinted it at being average, nothing more, nothing less.	And that's exactly what it is. It could be considered the best bad time you've ever had, or the worst good time. It's not very memorable, or fun, but it's worth the rental, as long as you don't pay more than a couple bucks for it.	'The Ref' has some funny lines and one of the most ANNOYING characters in recent history in Kevin Spacey's mom, but the plot has been recycled over and over again to the point where you just start to feel sorry for the studio (in this case Touchstone) who bothers to re-package a movie everyone's seen at least a dozen times, even if it is with different actors or a different script.	Which leads me to the acting. Denis Leary, who since this has made a career out of supporting roles (Small Soldiers, The Thomas Crown Affair), sinks in the lead, he just doesn't have enough... charisma or even... talent to carry the picture by himself. Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are perfect as the bickering couple who just won't shut up, and the rest of the cast succeeds in pulling the picture out of the misery it could've dwelt in, but didn't.	The tone or mood of the entire thing isn't light enough, though not dark enough to be a horror or drama, the sets aren't very well lit and the director seems to be in charge of something other than what the writer/producer had intended. Still 'The Ref' may be worth checking out, even if it does have one (or a dozen or two) flaws holding it back from actually being a great film.6/10 "},{"Title":"IF YOU LIKED AMERICAN BEAUTY, YOU'LL LOVE THE REF","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has American Beauty beat all to hell. Denis Leary is outrageous. The family dynamics here are witty and just plain hilarious. They really push the envelope with this one, i.e., Well why don't you sleep with him and get us all off the hook, Caroline talking to her mother-in-law. HILARIOUS!!! Personally, I think this one beats American Beauty. "}{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My general opinion of this movie is along the same lines as most of the others that you can read below and above. My girlfriend and I took this movie out on a whim last week, and were very glad we did; we hadn't heard of it before, but saw that it had a fairly good cast, although the title was crap (in the UK it was released under the name 'Hostile Hostages'). As it was, the story was rather unimpressive; as correctly stated, it was hardly original. There were also one or two bits which were rather annoying, for example, the incompetent cops; what was the point? It just detracted from the rest of the movie. That said, a large part of the dialogue was sparkling, and as far as bickering goes, it was first class. Oh, and the ending was fairly crappy, but you excuse things like that when you've generally enjoyed what you've seen and heard. Overall, not a classic, but well worth the entire 99p we paid to hire it.  "},{"Title":"A must see Christmas Movie","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For some of us Christmas can be a family battle zone, but nothing puts Merry in Christmas like The Ref. Dennis Leary is great as a Thief trapped in the house of a disfunctional family on Christmas Eve. Spacey and Davis are a married couple having a few problems when held hostage by Leary. Glynis Johns does a great turn as the mother in Law who is more than a handful. Throughout the course of the film however, all their problems are solved with the help of Leary and the Spirit of Christmas! "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hilarious from start to finish! Kevin Spacey is one of my favorite actors, and he shows off some good comic talent here. Judy Davis is hilarious as well. Denis Leary never fails to entertain me, and he is exceptionally good here. I'm in hell, Connecuit is the fifth ring of hell. One of the funniest bickering movies ever. Soon to become a Christmas classic. An underrated gem. Why don't you have oral sex too, I'll go wait in the car! (one of the funniest lines) "},{"Title":"Great way to introduce Denis Leary to a friend","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of those movies you can watch over and over. You can also use this as a movie to entertain friends.  If someone is not a Denis Leary fan or even a Kevin Spacey fan, this is the movie that will win them over.Denis is a commanding actor, and in this movie he proves it and never disappoints.The ending....well...I'd like a little different end. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but funny","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"    This film is quite impressing for several reasons.  The first is the script.  The writers knew they had a predictable situation here, so instead on concentrating a plot, they concentrating on dialogue to bring out the characters.  And, these characters certainly are vicious.  Which brings us to the acting.  Dennis Leary gives an impressive performance, but Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey are forces to be reckoned with.  They take the juicy script and pounce on it, and say each would with relish and attack each other for all it's worth.  The ending may be slightly sentimental and sappy, but it's quite nice.  Overall, a very enjoyable film "},{"Title":"The single greatest vicious bickering movie ever made","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Couldn't ask for better performances by Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey (my personal acting hero).  Nuance, and vicious as hell (just wait for the discussion of why the restaraunt failed).  Wonderfully thoughtful and well done movie that ends on a surprisingly, yet right, sweet note. "},{"Title":"Very Funny!!","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've seen with Kevin Spacey in it.  But it isn't good just because he's in it.  The dialogue is extremely funny and the way that he and Judy Davis go back and forth is priceless.The story goes like this  Lloyd and Caroline Chausser (Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis) are married and don't seem to like each other much.  To prove this point, the movie starts with them fighting at the marriage counselor's on Christmas Eve.  Any couple that  goes to the marriage counselor on Christmas Eve has got ...um...problems.Meanwhile, while they're fighting at the shrink's office, Gus (Denis Leary) is robbing a house in their neighborhood.  To make a long story short, Gus' ride leaves, he needs to get away fast, he finds Caroline alone inside a store the Chausser's stopped at so they could pick up some more stuff for Christmas dinner, he takes her hostage, Lloyd is in the car, takes them both hostage, and they all go back to the Chausser's lovely suburban home. That is when it gets really funny because them their families show up and they (Gus and the Chausser's) decide to pretend that Gus is their marriage counselor or else he'll kidnap their son, but the boy would rather be with Gus anyway!!!  That is where the title The Ref comes from.It is kind of a bleak comedy with a hilarious script and you'll probably love it or hate it because it can be a little more than offensive at times, so you have to have a thick skin and be understanding of a Dysfunctional Family.Hey, I'm gonna tell you now, I loved it!!  With Kevin Spacey giving a truly funny performance and delivering lines like, Mom, do you know what I'm gonna get you next year?  A big wooden cross, so everytime you feel unappreciated for all your sacrifices you can climb on up and nail yourself to it. with perfect deadpan seriousness.  Don't get offended yet, my mom loved it too. "},{"Title":"Great situation-centered comedy","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let me precede what I have to say about this movie by saying that I saw it as part of my obsessive desire to see everything Kevin Spacey's ever been in.  And, as usual, he didn't disappoint me.  My main complaint about this movie is that it didn't play up the situation enough; Some of it was incredibly funny, though.  Kevin Spacey was great (of course) and Glynis Johns as his mother was sooo cool.  Extremely entertaining, if a little profane at times.  I won't give away the ending, but I liked that too. Somehow they pulled it off without annoying me.  Anyway, I highly recommend this one, Kevin Spacey or no. "},{"Title":"Gotta love Kevin Spacey!","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was soo good!  The quick humor was incredible, and watching Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis argue was soo funny.  Dennis Leary was really good too, and his sarcastic humor also brought a lot to the film.  The dialogue is great, and you want to watch it again, as soon as it's over.  FOUR STARS!!  "},{"Title":"Excuse Me,  Excuse Me, Excuse Me A good christmas movie","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is not bust-a-gut funny and the story has been done before but those others did not have the great actors like Kevin Spacey, Judy Davis and Dennis Leary when watching it was not boring at all it was like you are really there because if you were really there then you would be in shock of the revelations coming out of your family mouths and you would be warmly amused or wanting a divorce.Good cast good writing So all in all a *** star.(good) "}{"Title":"Enthralled with this film","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was so enthralled with this film.  I found that the actors were great in their roles and they made me believe in who they were.  It was so funny, and had such great sarcasm....that it has become one of my all time favourites. This is a film that I could watch over and over, and I actually do.  Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey's talent is incredible, they have great compatibility and I just never wanted this movie to end.If you want to to relax and enjoy yourself for awhile and do not mind splitting a gut while doing so.. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Hysterical","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen. If you enjoy Dennis Leary's fast-talking, super sarcastic wit, this is definitely the film for you. Although Christine Baranski's character is a riot as the obnoxious sister-in-law who torments her kids, the other characters are far from deep. The inevitable bonding between father and son is predictable and sort of sappy but it doesn't detract from the overall laughter. No Oscar's here - but definitely worth seeing ... twice.   "},{"Title":"Not As Good On The Second View","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" A cat burglar is forced to take a bickering, dysfunctional family hostage on Christmas Eve.After Ted Demme directed comedian Denis Leary in No Cure for Cancer, a stand-up comedy special for Showtime, they got the script for The Ref and decided to do it. Makes sense that Leary would come on board as part ofa package deal. He was not so much known as an actor at the time. Good thing he got on board, too, as his character is the film's redeeming feature.Well, that and the big screen debut of J. K. Simmons. What Simmons was doing up until this time is unclear (a debut at age 40 is unusual), but it is good to see him start out strong, right alongside the amazing Kevin Spacey. "},{"Title":"Timing, delivery, dialogue....all grade AAA","Date":"28 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies of all time. I love the characters, the dialogue, the timing is perfect. Some of my favorite scenes * the beginning with the penis on a platter dream * when Denis Leary says the wife is a liar, Capital L I A R, Liar * slipper socks scene * when Kevin Spacey tells his mom that she is getting a cross next year so she can climb up on it * when Denis Leary threatens to kill the mom and the daughter-in-law says kill her * In the end when the grandma is eating through the gagOh, gosh...there's many more. This is a smart, sharp, biting comedy. And it's one of the few movies that I enjoy just as much each time I see it "},{"Title":"Inspired!","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Tired of those sickly Christmas films where everything is wonderful?  Then this movie is for you!  Starring Kevin Spacey and Denis Leary, the plot centres around a thief, Gus (Denis Leary) who takes a warring couple, Lloyd and Caroline (Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis) hostage.  The movie begins with Lloyd and Caroline at marriage guidance, bickering, bringing up old arguments and asking the counsellor who is right.  After they leave they are taking hostage by Gus, taken back to their house and tied up while he waits for his alcoholic partner to get transport for him.  Despite the presence of Gus and his gun, they continue to argue the entire time, which irritates him.  Because this is set on Christmas Eve, Lloyd's family turn up.  The mother and sister-in-law are completely awful, which winds Gus up more.  The Christmas Eve meal, which has a unique theme, is hysterically funny.  All of the main characters are wonderfully acted, particularly by Spacey and Leary.  Watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Not great but it's a good vehicle for Leary","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's Christmas Eve and Lloyd and Caroline are on their way home from yet another disastrous session with their marriage councillor.  When they stop to get supplies at a shop, they are hijacked by a thief on the run and he forces them back to their house.  At the house the couple continue their bickering despite Gus' continual reminders that he is the one with a gun. As he tries to plan his way out of the town, Gus is forced to intervene in a family life that makes him glad to be alone.In the UK this film went straight to video due to it's US performance, and it consequently did quite poorly on that media to.  However, this is not to say that it is a bad film just because it didn't do all that well.  The plot is unlikely but has promise - promise that is not fully fulfilled I'm afraid.  The idea of Gus helping the Chasseurs is good but the film doesn't manage to get the most from it enough of the time, although it does create enough energy to carry it.  The film is pretty funny but errs too much of the side of slightly goofy slapstick at times and this takes away from it's sharper side that it should have made more out of.What saves the film from being a flop in terms of entertainment value is a collection of good performances.  I have yet to see a film that has suited Leary better than this one.  He has his usual style of humour and he runs with it; he is watchable and funny each time he opens his mouth!  Likewise Spacey and Davis are great, their bickering is natural and yet exaggerated enough for humour's sake.  The three of them dominate the film and some of the minor characters, although interesting, are very sidelined and it makes you wonder why they bothered.  In particular Barry is given little to do but support from the majority is quite good.Overall this is a better film than the treatment by distributors would suggest but it is still not a great movie.  It has a crude energy to it that works pretty well thanks to the good work from it's three lead actors but it could have had more made of it.  Enjoyable if basic. "},{"Title":"Excellent Comedy","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just love this movie.  It is so funny and some of the one-liners are great.  Connie Baranski, as the sister-in-law was hilarious. Glynnis Johns as the terrible mother was very believable. Actually the whole cast was fantastic.  Dennis Leary was great, as was Kevin Spacey. It's a movie my family and I watch over and over. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read somewhere that right before this film was made, Demme went to his primary cast members and advised them, If you have time to breathe in between lines, then you're doing this all wrong.  The result is some of the fastest-paced, sharp, acidic humor you'll ever see in any medium.  Every time I watch this movie, I find something new to laugh at.  The chemistry between Kevin Spacey, Judy Davis, and Denis Leary is incredible, and makes this film fun to watch at any time of year.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite comedies...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read somewhere that right before this film was made, Demme went to his primary cast members and advised them, If you have time to breathe in between lines, then you're doing this all wrong.  The result is some of the fastest-paced, sharp, acidic humor you'll ever see in any medium.  Every time I watch this movie, I find something new to laugh at.  The chemistry between Kevin Spacey, Judy Davis, and Denis Leary is incredible, and makes this film fun to watch at any time of year.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"This is one of my favorites!","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie because the cast is so absolutely hilarious. Denis Leary is the perfect bungling burglar and no one is more perfect for the roles of bickering couple Lloyd & Caroline Chauser (sp?) than Kevin Spacey & Judy Davis. If you haven't seen this movie, rent it! If you are a fan of either Kevin or Denis, you will love it! "}{"Title":"A Different Kind of Christmas Story","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE REF (1994) *** Denis Leary, Judy Davis, Kevin Spacey, Christine Baranski, Glynis Johns. Sharp-tongued and witty comedy of errors about a cat burglar (hostile and hilarious Leary) whose perfect crime on Christmas Eve turns into a psychological horror when he is forced to keep hostage the Chasseurs (delicious Davis and Spacey), whose marriage is on the rocks and whose bickering is more than he bargained for. Black comic overtones of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? make for a unique farce directed by Ted Demme, director Jonathan Demme's nephew. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie to just sit back and laugh at the inanity of life.","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Really, just sit back and enjoy the ride for this flick.  The subtle truths that emerge while we view the joys of the holiday season and family love are wonderful.  Dennis Leary is great, Kevin Spacey, as ever fantastic.  If you've even been to suburban Connecticut (or suburban anywhere else for that matter) you must watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Probably Spacey's best.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When Gus (Denis Leary) takes a woman hostage, little does he know that she is married, and on the brink of divorce.  This complicates events a lot, as the bitterness between husband and wife (Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis) drives Gus mad, but is also excellent for the viewer, and makes this film hilarious.Kevin Spacey and Denis Leary are brilliant in this comedy.  Many of the one liners in this film are memorable, sheer class.  This is probably Spacey's best film, although he has many brilliant films, such as 'Swimming with Sharks', 'The Negotiator' and 'Time to Kill', it is hard to say.If you like Spacey films, or Denis Leary films for that matter, then definately watch this.  If you do not like their films, of haven't seen many, then watch it any way, I am sure you will laugh at the one liners all the way through. "},{"Title":"F@#$! It's a Wonderful Life!!!","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A cat burglar who crosses paths with bickering marrieds only to find himself playing their marriage counseler for the husbands family is the stuff bad theater farces are made of.  But in the hands of the late, great Ted Demme and a cast of Dennis Leary, Judy Davis, Glynis Johns and Kevin Spacey, the film becomes a blessedly nasty holiday treat.  The Ref was received tepidly, at best, when first released but is now slowly gaining a well deserved, small cult status.It starts off with a bang, slows down some, becomes somewhat ponderous, borders on sanctimonious, then recovers quickly and turns hilarious. The script is average and the comedy low but the actors use every skill they posses, elevating this film way over countless hit-and-miss comedies. Dennis Leary's naturally fast comedic rhythms shoot him through effortlessly while the brilliant Judy Davis makes the line Lloyd, why don't you eat m-? a dirty classic alongside Julie Christie's at-the-dinner-table request in Shampoo.  Great veteran charcater actress Glynis Johns is splendidly bitchy as the mother-in-law, Christine Baranski provides a welcome antidote to her New York stage/Mike Nichols coddling, and Raymond J. Barry underplays nicely.  I first saw Kevin Spacey on Wiseguy and found him brilliant. Next time I encountered his work was here.  Charming, droll, and more sophisticated than most, he shows off his stuff and scores.Director Ted Demme's life was all too brief but he displayed a strong talent and a wicked sense of humor while he was here.  Cheers!  Give The Ref a look.  "},{"Title":"Comic genius at it's best.","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Before I say anything about how funny thise movie is, I first want to remark on the great preformances.  Dennis Leary is such an awesome actor, and he plays his role perfectly, as he does in all his films.  And, of course, Kevin Spacey is awesome as always...for you Spacey fans out there, watch the movie The Negotiator.  It rocks.   Now, back to the comedy part of this movie.  I love comedies like this, ones that don't turn into a drama or just get really weird half way through...such as Swimming with Sharks.  Instead of doing that, they stay comedy all the way through, and you can watch this movie over and over and laugh every time just as hard.  The day you see anything through, I'll stick my own dick in my ear. "},{"Title":"i thought a comedy was supposed to be funny","Date":"3 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film falls at the first hurdle for me. It isn't funny at all. I was going to switch it off after 20 minutes but decided to give it another ten in the faint hope of a laugh. It's clearly supposed to be funny but just isn't. The basic premise is that a burglar falls through a trapdoor which is part of the security system of a house he is burgling. The next thing we know he's in a supermarket sticking a gun in the back of a hostage. How he got out and why he wants to take a hostage isn't explained. I'm prepared to suspend reality for films , particularly comedies but this just doesn't make any sense. What relevance has the Police Chief saying that his cops are useless? Maybe that's supposed to be a funny bit. The ingredients are there for a comedy, i.e. gunman taking very argumentative family hostage - but he doesn't need to be there, He could walk away at any time. My advice would be - don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Underrated Comedy Which Could Be A Perrenial Alternative","Date":"26 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Ref, simply put, was a very funny movie. I liked it a lot, and there were parts which I laughed out loud at. It had a very original premise, unlikeable but intriguing characters, and the timing was pitch perfect in many areas.This movie could be considered Bad Santa before there was Bad Santa. Admittedly, however, Bad Santa was a film with a much darker sense of humor, and there are elements of movies like National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation in this film. Regardless, this movie is just funny, and is far better than many of the facetious holiday movies that have come out in recent years, including Deck The Halls and Christmas With The Kranks. I don't think it ever intended to be considered a Christmas movie anyway. The point of the movie seemed to parody both expectations during the holiday season that can't be met, and marriage counseling in general. The movie achieved both major points very well.For starters, this movie is probably Denis Leary's only starring role to date. He doesn't really play a character here, or at least he plays his famous comic persona again a sarcastic, pessimistic, chain-smoking, loud-mouthed, short-tempered, altogether angry dude. He's a professional thief, and spends the entire movie not only trying to get away with a botched robbery, but also to try to get everyone around him in control. Amazingly, in this movie, he's the most sane character, and that unusual scenario is what makes the movie so good.Kevin Spacey was not an unknown actor per se when this movie came out, but he was not as well known as he is now, nor was he a household name. Anyone who watches this movie after 1999 will notice that Spacey plays an almost mirror image of Lester Burnham, his Oscar-winning role in American Beauty. It's difficult to say which role was funnier, but in a movie that preceded American Beauty by over five years, Spacey plays his deadpan sarcasm humor very well. He also has some very funny lines in a role that probably didn't initially require his character to be funny.This movie had so many comic elements and various subplots that seemed to pile onto one another. In a lot of ways, it was good how an unusual scenario (being held hostage on Christmas Eve) weaved so well into usual ones (annoying in-laws visiting). That said, there were a few subplots which didn't quite fit. There was the drunk Santa that seemed a bit out of place, and was probably borrowed from a much worse movie. Other than his Santa costume which came in handy near the end of the film, that character didn't really seem to contribute much to the movie, and seemed a little bit like a cheap plot device. Including his character in the movie was like adding a Smiley sticker to Van Gogh's Starry Night painting.Also, the movie ended a little too quickly, and a bit more inconclusively than it probably should have. There were so many loose ends in regards to the supporting characters at the end that really needed to be tied up. Watching this movie, the characters really grew on you, so for the movie to end like it did felt disappointing at the least.Still, despite these relative weaknesses, the movie was very good and worthy of being considered a cult classic. The DVD of this movie was released in 1999, and has absolutely no special features of any kind. Really, though, the movie didn't need it. Of course, a commentary track by Denis Leary and Kevin Spacey would have been nice, but the movie itself is fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Very funny, very mature Christmas dark comedy","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is pretty funny. Hilarious at times and very crude.First of all, this movie is not for children. Sexual jokes are made frequently and there is a lot of language. Roughly, about 150 f-bombs are dropped.The general plot is that a criminal named Gus (Denis Leary), after a failed diamond theft, takes a bickering family (Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey) hostage. Little does he realize that they are having serious marital issues, let alone that family members are coming for dinner. Plus, the couple have a son who is ashamed to be with his family because of their unhealthy habits. The movie is pretty funny and tells a simple and interesting story.Without giving away too much of the plot, the movie gets funnier and much more hectic as it goes along.Overall, this movie is funny but is only for adults. Jokes about body parts and sex are made throughout the movie.Official MPAA Rating R for Language My MPAA Rating R for Language, Sexual Humor, and Brief Violence "},{"Title":"If you don't mind, the corpse still has the floor.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of Ted Demme's most entertaining films- along with one of Denis Leary's funniest starring roles- is the Ref, an under-seen movie on first release that's getting a lot of play now on cable TV. I've seen it several times, and even the scenes that I laughed at most the first time around remain pretty amusing, and there are little bits I end up laughing at harder due to the repetition of it all. It's like a spikier, briefer and perhaps less ambitious companion piece to American Beauty, where the dark comedy is given a further biting edge and the social commentary is only in spurts giving room to a dysfunctional family that gets a test through an intermediary (or Ref as the title says) through Leary's character. The premise is simple- Leary's on the run after pulling a botched heist of some Connecticut guy's house, and hides out with the Chausers (it's 18th century French-Juganat in case you forget from the multiple mentions), played by Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis as the on-the-verge-of-divorce parents of 14 year old Jesse. They're also, as luck would have it, holding their annual Christmas eve dinner, as further complications and mishaps ensue leading up to one of the funniest and sharpest arguments in 90s films.The Ref combines some deeper elements of drama with such an estranged, hurt and mixed up upper class family with a Denis Leary bit. That is, in order to not make things with the family too 'heavy' over the course of a Christmas eve night (this story could just as well be, minus the Leary character, a 19th century play by some Scandinavian or something) with a great sarcastic wit and unexpected lot of comic timing. A couple of the supporting performances are just decent (the actor who plays Jesse unsurprisingly hasn't had much work since), but for the most part Demme has assembled a top-notch cast of character actors to go alongside Spacey and the always terrific Judy Davis. Even as Lloyd and Caroline are neurotic and flawed, it's also funny to watch them work with material that could be chancy. It's a running gag, for example, that Leary's Gus can't control their marriage meltdown (I hijacked my f***ing parents is a line that sums it up), leading up to the family dinner where the over-the-top nature of it all becomes both realistic and just shamelessly amusing (especially with Glynis Johns perfect as the overbearing mother of Lloyd).The sub-lot involving Jesse is perhaps undercooked (even with JK Simmons in a role), and the police procedural is fairly standard aside from the big misstep with the video tape of the robbery. But this can mostly be put aside for any scene of the three principle characters on screen. Sometimes it's savagely cynical and silly- cat pee being another running gag- but it's all predicated on a sensibility that would be furthered upon with it's not-too-distant Oscar winning cousin, as a tragic-comic look at a family melting down. Only this time it also has the addition of Leary, who has one of his most memorable parts as a guy who for the actor, really, he could play in his sleep. Plenty of quotable lines, too. "},{"Title":"This is NOT a movie for kids, but for an older audience it's great","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a very adult film in that the movie uses very adult language. Parents are advised not to let kids see it, but irresponsible parents won't care and will show it to their kids anyway.The film is a very funny but tough to watch film about family dysfunction. Dennis Leary is wanted by the cops and hides out in the home of a family that is in meltdown mode! Mom and Dad truly hate each other and are absolutely evil in the way that they interact together. Despite their lives being at stake, they can't stop for a minute putting each other down and ripping each other apart! And, after a short time, it becomes apparent that Leary is the most normal and nicest one in the home! However, just when you thought you understood what was the heart of the problem, extended family arrive and are told that Leary will be spending the holiday with them--and the visitors have no idea the family is actually being held hostage!! It is in this situation that the true root of much of the martial discord becomes apparent and it's up to Leary to take care of it in his own unique fashion! This is a wonderful Christmas movie, though not exactly the type you normally would consider watching. The film has very clever writing and acting and definitely deserves kudos for daring to be so different! But, as I warned above, it's NOT family-friendly. So, don't invite your mother or Father Jenkins over to see this one!! "}{"Title":"Doctor Wong I Prseume","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Having serious marital problems the Chasseurs Llyod & Caroline, Kevin Spacey & Judy Davis, are about to call it quits when on Christmas Eve in Connecticut a true miracle happened. In the end it not only brought them back together but even straightened out their juvenile delinquent 15 year-old son from a life of crime and stays in prison. The Chasseurs were kidnapped and held captive by professional burglar Gus,Denis Leary,and it was that experience that changed their lives, for the better, forever.After seeing Dr. Wong, B.D Wong, a local marriage counselor the two seem as far form each other as ever with Caroline accusing Llyod of being under the thumb of his dominating and intrusive mother Rose, Glynis Johns. Rose holds her and Llyod in financial servitude by controlling the family's purse strings with personal 18% loans. Llyod is also upset with Caroline for having an affair, was it the delivery boy or Baybrooks High Schools star linebacker, behind his back. Lloyd is also ticked off in Caroline's bird brained ideas in taking courses in collage about Scandinavian cooking and reading about the non-existence of one's self. As well as taking pictures of marine life that she starts but never finishes.Going back home from Dr. Wongs office Caroline decides to stop off at the supermarket and runs into fugitive from the law Gus who's on the run, with his bumbling and drunken fellow crook Murray,Richard Bright,. Having messed up a burglary at a local Baybrook home Gus got his leg almost ripped off by the guard dog, Cannibal,and his face sprayed with cat urine when he set off the house safe alarm.Taking the two, Llyod & Caroline, back to their home as hostages Gus later runs into their bratty son Jesse, Robert J. Stelnmiller, who's involved at the time in blackmailing his Commamdant of the military school that he attends Slskel, J.K Simmons. Jesse has photos of J.K being whipped and beaten up by hookers who's services that he pays for with school money.The movie quickly changes from a hostage drama to a story about a dysfunctional family trying desperately to get it's act together by, what later turns out to be, shock treatment from non other then the fugitive on the loose Gus. Gus realizes almost at once that the family are more then he can handle but knows that he's stuck with them. The only way he can get away from the police, and Chasseurs, is by checking out of town, with the help of his intoxicated cohort Murray by sea where the police have no road blocks to stop and arrest him. Funny and, in a way, touching little movie about the night before Christmas together with a drunken Santa who so smashed that he ends up falling on his head and is out cold long after the movie The Ref is over. Both Llyod and Caroline together with their son Jesse overcome their difficulties in their marriage and in Jesse's feeling unwanted by what they go through in the movie in regards to Gus' kidnapping them. Jesse is so impressed with Gus that he wants to join him as a fugitive from the law but he's discouraged by him telling Jesse that it's not fun running from the police when your in your thirties instead of your teens.You actually root for Gus to get away, he does, since he's anything but a bad guy in the movie because he's so bad at being one. There's a hilarious scene with Llyod's mother and Caroline's in-laws attending the Christmas Eve party not realizing that the hosts are being held hostage by Gus who pretends to be he couples marriage counselor Doctor Wnog home at the Chasseurs for the holidays. As for blond blue eyed Dr. Wong's, or Gus,explanation for his obviously Nordic appearance he tell's Llyod's Mon and the guests at the party that his father is Irish? With a last name like Wong? which part of Ireland did he or his descendants come from? "},{"Title":"Very funny, but whoever did the music had no business working in Hollywood","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought the Ref was a funny look at a horribly dysfunctional family already on the verge of meltdown even before they have the responsibility of hiding a burglar from police on Christmas. One thing that I thought was absolutely horrid about this film was the music. It succeeds in successfully killing the mood of an otherwise funny scene more than once. The director as well was no genius. Still the characters were very convincing (kevin spacey is always good) and the movie still succeeded in it's goal which was to be funny and have some hidden moral in there somewhere that we're supposed to look deep within ourselves for. The film managed this despite the horrid score and sub-par directing. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Ref is about a cat burglar named Gus (Denis Leary) who is ditched by his partner in the middle of a heist and so is forced to take hostage the Chasseurs (Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis). With the Chasseurs marriage on the rocks, the couple are always arguing and Gus runs into more hassle when the couple's teenage son, Jesse (Robert J. Steinmiller Jr.) and the annoying in-laws stumble into the scene.Occasionaly the plot becomes boring, and Robert J. Steinmiller is very irritating as the son. However, it's downsides are outweighed by the good sides.Denis Leary is great as the unfortunate criminal and Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are hilarious as the bickering couple, and their are some really funny moments throughout the movie. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I though this movie was really great. It had an awesome cast, with Denis Leary and Kevin Spacey leading, and it had an excellent script. I think this movie was definitely underrated when it came out, but it's still funny as hell. The Ref is, in my humble opinion, one of Leary's best work, and I'm sure the rest of the cast is proud of it. DEFINITELY see this movie whenever you get a chance. 7 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Pass the Eggnog","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's odd to me that I haven't commented on this film yet, since it's probably in my top 10 movies of all time. But sometimes we forget about the 'classics'; the ones we could sit and watch 1,000 times and never ever get sick of. This is one of those films for me, and for quite a few people I know.Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis really are incredible, both individually and in terms of their chemistry. That's one of the most brilliant things about this film. The few moments you see real tenderness between them (particularly when they have reason to worry for their son), the love and passion they once shared is evident. Just when you think, `Why the hell are these people still married?' you see exactly why they haven't split. Yet when they begin to tear into each other, you see that two intelligent and witty people who love each other can treat one another with amazing levels of venom.As has been said before, and will be said MANY times again, Dennis Leary is masterful. It would be accurate to say he's just playing the &#145;character' he adopts during his stand-up, but somehow that doesn't feel trite or overdone. Basically imagine that the man who praises the symbiotic relationship of beer and cigarettes is also a cat burglar who gets into this fix. How would he react? The thing about Leary's performance is that, while the character isn't new to him, the scenario is, and that's where his performance comes in. His incredibly quick wit and solid reactions are only half of the performance, and those alone would've made a great film.Glynis Johns is a riot, and in a very atypical role for her. Even in her youth I don't recall her ever playing a women who was so strong and abrasive, so that makes her unbelievably hostile portrayal all the more fun. I would suggest watching this right after `While You Were Sleeping' or `Mary Poppins' for a hilarious contrast. In fact one fun little &#145;guilty pleasures' marathon could be made from the combination of `While You Were Sleeping,' `The Ref' and then `Two If By Sea'. Christine Baranski has become one of the most amazing character actresses, despite her incredible leading lady ability. Once again she shows her superior comedic timing, and an ability to make you like the most unlikable character. In fact I wouldn't mind seeing her and Leary team up in a screwball comedy about a guy who's older sister makes his life hell. They bounce off each other the way Davis and Spacey do.Among the less visible supportive cast there are also some great stand outs. Phillip Nicoll and Ellie Raab are pretty hilarious as Baranski's kids who don't get the most consideration from their mother. Richard Bright does some interesting work with Leary's alcoholic wheelman, and he gets some good laughs without resorting to drunken pratfalls. John Scurti's lieutenant of the Bay Brook police force is predominantly annoying, but his informing the pompous influential resident (well played by Robert Ridgely) that he slept with his wife 4 times gives you a serious grin. Also fans of the Law & Order franchise should keep an eye out for a brief giggle courtesy of J.K. Simmons and an entertaining cameo from B.D. Wong as the real therapist that Leary's Gus later impersonates. While the story is somewhat original, it's really the characters, dialogue and acting that dominates this piece. However the cinematography is well done, particularly in the beginning during the robbery scene. The set decoration should also be noted, both in terms of the beautiful house which centers the film, and when it comes to the &#145;interesting' Christmas feast Judy Davis' characters creates. I also thought the ending was really perfect, despite some comments here to the contrary. After all that Leary's character learns from and teaches this family, it would've been a lousy payoff to have him get caught. This is especially true after the conversation where he explains just how great his life ISN'T to the kid Jesse. You doubt he'll ever settle down after viewing quite such a dysfunctional family, but you wonder if he'll at least avoid small towns from now on.  Forget waiting for Christmas, this movie is great any time of year.   "},{"Title":"The Christmas movie for the rest of us","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Everyone knows that the classic Christmastime movies are Miracle on 34th St and It's a Wonderful Life, right? Well, some of us aren't so full of holiday cheer. Some of us have to work on Christmas. Some of us don't have anybody because the family is out of town. Maybe the house was broken into. Maybe your girlfriend/boyfriend left. This movie is for us the  anti-Christmas movie, a hilarious cup of bitterness. There could be no better vehicle for Denis Leary than this dark and twisted comedy of a thief who is forced to take a bickering couple hostage, and is forced to referee their constant disputes. The acting is superb all around and the writing is wickedly clever. Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis as the couple have chemistry the way ammonia and Clorox do. Some of the lines in this movie are so outrageous, I don't know how the cast kept from cracking up all the way through. You owe it to yourself to check this movie out. It's on TV a lot, but some of the best parts will be censored out, like when the Chausseurs unload on their hapless marriage counselor. Just rent it. "},{"Title":"Great flick but...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" ...look, whoever's comment about the ref being Learys best that is on the page obviously hasn't seen Suicide Kings, a film in which Leary's character is much more interesting and fun to watch even if (or maybe because) he occasionally doles out a few beatings. Lonny is hilarious yet respectable, Champion of the girl with the Irish drunk for a father and stalwart bodyguard of Walkin's character. Anyway, it's just a great dark comedy/drama that more people should see. "},{"Title":"Good movie destroyed by bad ending","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all this movie was extremely well done. The script was well written, and actors were well cast. Kevin Spacey as always gave a great performance, and Dennis Leary was hilarious. That is, up until the ending.SPOILER!!! When Kevin Spacey's character is going through his big moment where he decides he cares too much about Dennis Leary's character to hand him over to the police, the plot just dropped. Where did this whole caring issue come from? This ending was totally out of the blue and just felt false. Th ending just didn't work. As they say, the last 20 minutes of a film can either make it or break it. Sorry to say that this ending was the latter. "},{"Title":"Too Funny...And Too Much Like Reality!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a cast! Dennis Leary, Judy Davis, Kevin Spacey, Glynis Johns, Christine Baranski...everyone is dead on character. You'll laugh so hard sometimes...then think about how much you might identify with these characters. Or, maybe you have family members like this. If you watch it on tv make sure it's on a cable channel. The 4-letter-words are very necessary to these characters...and they'll make you laugh till you cry. I also disagree with the ending that 'almost was'...read trivia. This ending is perfect...despite what message it sends. "},{"Title":"Some Great Moments, Some Trite Filler","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Ref is one of my favorite Christmas movies, mostly becauseit serves as an antidote to the sugary-sweet pap that is prevalentat  Christmas. The storyline is a bit implausible (to say the least)but sharp performances by the cast keep it lively, and theChristmas dinner sequence is truly side-splitting.  If you likeslightly offbeat humor, and are tired of Christmas Treacle  -- TheUsually Grumpy Person Who Helped a Poor Child and Found theTrue Meaning Of Christmas -- The Ref will provide some much- needed comic relief. "}{"Title":"A great cast having a great time","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of our favorite holiday movies. The body language between Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey is worth the price of admission, not to mention the dialog. Some of the side issues with the keystone cops and the overstuffed Baybrook Council members is probably unnecessary. Lots of four letter words for 1994, but it works.  "},{"Title":"A Very Worthwhile Film","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dennis Leary can make any person laugh at any given moment.  Kevin Spacey is truly a brilliant actor who can play almost any role with extreme ease and make it look good.  The Ref may not have been the funniest movie of the year but it is a film that any person can watch and laugh.  Ted Demme has done a wonderful job, as always.  I recommend this film to any one who wants to sit down and see something they will enjoy. "},{"Title":"A great Christmas film","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A great Christmas film.From the principal cast to the supporting Santa and beleaguered Police Chief and his keystone cops, the narrative is driven by fast paced dialogue and cutting humour.  Despite the modern overtones, the film retains a healthy dose of Christmas cheer and should easily mix with other seasonal favourites.  The extended family is either entirely yours or you will recognise the odd member.  Personally, I recognised more than a few and have learned to enjoy them more because of it!Still make sure you see It's a Wonderful Life, The Bishop's Wife or A Muppet Christmas Carol this Christmas, but this film should be added as another annual treat.Fantastic.  "},{"Title":"could have been a little better","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i admit this movie was hilarious and the plot was good but the movie itself could have been a little better, it as good but not the greatest ever written if u know what i mean, me and my friends watched it a few times and we didnt like it much, well i did sorta cuz it was funny and i love funny movies but still it could have been better "},{"Title":"VERY FUNNY MOVIE","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this is one of the funniest movies of the 90's. The dialogue is very well-written and quite funny.  Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are hilarious as the married couple and the in-laws, especially the sister-in-law are very good.  There are some very funny scenes and this is definitely one you can watch more than once.   "},{"Title":"Really funny","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those comedies which is actually funny. The acting is brilliant from Judy Davis, Kevin Spacey and Dennis Leary. It's so true to life the way it is handled and last part with the whole family is great. The Ref has a great script and a great setting and you shouldn't miss it.  "},{"Title":"I LOVE THIS MOVIE !!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very heart warming. It has a wonderful script, terrific actors (especially Denis Leary - you just have to love the guy for being so superb), and a great director who delivers excellence. Watch this movie, you're gonna love it !! "},{"Title":"Amusing and heartwarming comedy, but not really high standing","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I specially liked the acting of Dennis Leary and Kevin Spacey. They were quick and bright and they must have had a lot of fun on the set. Best line in the movie by Kevin Spacey Excuse me, excuse me, excuse me, but the corpse still has the floor. GREAT!!!!! "},{"Title":"To Xmas as Plains, Trains & Automobiles is to Thanksgiving","Date":"31 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Without a doubt, the funniest Christmas time movie ever made. Kevin Spacey & Denis Leary are terrific together. Teamed with a drunken Santa Claus, over zealous Mother-in-law and over-all dysfunctional family, Leary & Spacey shine. "},{"Title":"Good talent misused yet again","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film almost worked for me, no doubt because there is a great deal of talent who worked on the movie.  But there was one HUGE flaw that seriously ruined this film.  Who was I supposed to like in this film?  The thief?  His stupid partner?  The bickering couple?  Their annoying son?  Quite simply, no one in this movie was likable, and so I didn't much care what happened to any of them.  And as a result, despite the funny moments and decent pace that kept things moving along smoothly, I just didn't care about what I was seeing...and movie flaws just don't get much bigger than that.  "}{"Title":"Not deserving of its hype, but it's okay.","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Ref tells the story of a burglar who takes a married couple hostage in their own house on Christmas Eve. Unfortunately, he picked the wrong couple. They are constantly bickering back and forth, and he can't get them to shut up. Everything is blown to smithereens when their delinquent son and the rest of the family arrives home for a large dysfunctional dinner. Eventually, the burglar ends up having to be a referee for the family. This movie isn't side splitting hilarious, but it has its moments.After hearing so many great things about this movie, about how hilarious it was, I decided to see it. I couldn't understand what all the fuss was about. Now, don't get me wrong, this isn't a bad movie. It certainly has funny moments. I chuckled a few times, and I think I let out a big laugh once. Unfortunately, this movie was described as non-stop hilarity, which is a grossly incorrect statement, because this movie is a comedy/drama, and the dramatic scenes really slow this movie down. The dialogue is pretty good though. At least the movie isn't sappy.The acting is pretty good. Dennis Leary is funny as usual (in the scenes where he was supposed to be funny anyway), and Kevin Spacey is always good in the roles he plays.Overall, this is an okay little movie, but it doesn't deserve the hype it gets. "},{"Title":"Funny but unsubtle","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ted Demme's film 'Hostile Hostages' has an awfully clunky title, but also overtones of a number of other films, most obviously 'American Beauty'. Kevin Spacey's burnt out, disillusioned middle aged man is almost a dead ringer for his character in that later film, and the hints of unhappiness beneath a superficially serene suburbia is another point in common. While the way in which a family crisis forces decades of unspoken feelings out into the open resembles Mike Leigh's 'Secrets and Lies'. But there's also a sense in which 'Hostile Hostages' is much less ambitious than either of those movies, for it's a straightforward comedy in which a gunman takes this unfortunate family hostage; the undercurrents are exploited for laughs, but not seriously explored. Laughs there are for real, however, with some great one-liners, though some of the humour is as clunky as the title (and made worse by a dire soundtrack that signposts the biggest jokes with funny noises). And ultimately, the psychology of the characters doesn't really makes sense; while Dennis Leary as the gunman is just too cuddly. Still, it should make you smile, provided you don't expect anything deeper than sitcom. "},{"Title":"Embarrassing attempt to be funny and smart (warning spoiler)","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I LOVE Kevin Spacey. His acting is remarkable in Glengarry Glen Ross, American Beauty, on theatre, etc. I also love Denis Leary with his smartass biting humor. I saw this film for them and it was rather disappointing, to say the least. The script is sickeningly pointless.....I know its a comedy but couldn't it have made a little sense? What stupid couple could argue so much to drive an armed man crazy? The scenes with the burglar sympathizing with the son made me laugh more than anything else because it was so phony and stupid. I just couldn't buy the whole tough image Leary was trying to sell and at the same time believe a family would let go and help a man who had just kept them hostage while the police were right in front of them. And the fights between Judy and Spacey were WAY overacted and unrealistic.....and I hate that stupid whiny kid.....anyway...that's my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Good but could've been better","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie tried to be a showcase and to take advantage of Denis Learys' brilliant comedy routine.  This was a great idea, and it turned out to be pretty good.  But the story that went with it was trite at best.  The story had been done before and done better.  It was also inconsistent, and none of the characters had any depth.  Again what made this movie watchable was Denis Leary simply being Denis Leary "},{"Title":"Very funny and entertaining","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Ref is without a doubt a very funny and very entertaining film. This is exactly my kind of humour people being mean to each other. But what makes this a comedy better than many comedies is the great acting Judy Davis, Denis Leary and Kevin Spacey in particular. However, they should've have left out some totally un-necessary scenes with a Santa Clause who is getting drunk. It wasn't very funny when we --as viewers -- are only interested in what happens with the family who is taken hostage.Over all though Great entertainment! "},{"Title":"Is this supposed to be a comedy?","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't see what is remotely funny about a bunch of self-absorbed overgrown children competing for each others' attention, on Christmas or any other time. I've been around people like this in restaurants, in lines, and on the subway. All I wanted them to do was shut up, and I reacted to the characters in this film the same way. I'd put The Ref in the same category as The War of the Roses, which is comedy for sociopaths.  "},{"Title":"Foul Language","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not really sure what the movie was about since I stopped watching at the 4th f word. Just don't care to watch movies that can't be funny without filthy language. Thought I would add The Ref to my collection of Christmas movies, but just couldn't bring myself to place it beside A Christmas Carol, It's A Wonderful Life, White Christmas, Elf, and the many others I have accumulated over the years. After reading the summary of the movie, I thought it would be a fun movie but I respect my family and myself too much to listen to the horrible language. My fault for not reading the rating and the reviews before I purchased the DVD.Too bad it just didn't make the cut. "}]