[{"Title":"Best of both worlds.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film represents the best of both worlds in two sets of sometimes opposing criteria.First, in terms of movies overall, I'd say this is one of my favorites technically/artistically.  The sets were great, the acting was great (especially Leigh and Scott, one of my favorite on-screen Romance-That-Never-Was duos, like Fiennes and Blanchett in Oscar And Lucinda.).But this is also one of my favorites in terms of enjoyment.  I watch it for the scenes I love, and the mood it sets.  I will probably not tire of watching and rewatching this film for a long time to come.Second, in terms of Biopics, this also rates highly.  It had enough accuracy/realism to make it a good bio, and enough drama and flare to make it a good pic.  A rare combination.  I'd say 13 Days also did that feat well. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Parker's isn't the ONLY side of this story","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"23 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  While watching this film last night on IFC, I found myself appreciating the social, historical and artistic subject matter.  Despite Mrs. Parker's obvious and overwhelming psychological dysfunctions, I felt this was a genuine true to life expression of one participant's subjective experiences.  This was a unique, if not quite legendary, circle of literary talent -- certainly deserving of serious cinematic treatment such as this.BUT....There was another side to the story -- a healthier, less appalling, less depressing side.  To discover the rest of the story, I highly recommend Harpo Marx' autobiography Harpo Speaks.  Although Harpo also recalls the scathing insults and practical jokes that were a central part of the story of this Round Table group, his book relates a number of hugely funny and sometimes heart-warming scenes that indicate that at least some of these people truly cared for each other and expressed strong positive feelings in many different settings.  In short, Harpo's stories (e.g. several croquet fanatic episodes) offer a telling comedic counterpoint to Mrs. Parker's almost continually cynical and self-pitying pathos.  Read Harpo's book to balance out the negative. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"The Dark Side of Fame...","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I found this movie totally enjoyable from start to finish.  Maybe because Jennifer Jason Leigh is one of the most superb actresses of our time (and of course ignored!!!). Or maybe because I love period pieces with lavish attention to detail in the costumes and production designing.  Or maybe because I am always entertained by true stories of humanity.  I think in this movie's case,  it is all three.  This is another portrait of the dark side of fame.  Leigh did a wonderful job being Mrs. Dorothy Parker,  a 1920s poet and magazine writer who drank (during prohibition New York) and caroused with a large, mouthy group of professionals in the writing and stage business.  It's easy for anyone to relate to the lonliness Mrs. Parker feels in this boisterous circle of shallow,  back-stabbing people.  In spite of her gift for smooth,  haunting,  beautiful poetry (much of it recited in this movie),  Mrs. Parker is not happy or fulfilled.  Rather she is misunderstood,  isolated and self-depreciating.  She ends up losing a job over salary disputes,  losing her husband to alcohol,   and falling deeply and hopelessly in love with the married Charles McArthur (Matthew Broderick),  who impregnates and betrays her. Mrs. Parker's only comfort in life is the friendship she has with Bob Benchley (an excellent Campbell Scott).  Leigh,  speaking with a facinating accent,  brings sadness and cynicism to Mrs Parker with perfection.   "},{"Title":"A closer look at the world of the 1920's through the cynical eyes of writer Dorothy Parker.","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Since watching this film I have picked up a biography of Dorothy Parker as well as a book of her verse, that is how fascinating I find her to be. Not only her, but the performance of Jennifer Jason Leigh as well, though many have criticized her voice, I didn't find it out of place at all. The film involves us in her life in the 20's, when she was a theater critic for Vanity Fair. Throughout the film are celebrities of the time, Robert Benchley, Alexander Woolcott, Howard Ross, Charles McArthur. The cast is first-rate, particularly Campbell Scott. It is a very quotable movie, full of venomous one-liners, most courtesy of Mrs. Parker. One can certainly admire her spirit to persevere and excel in a world dominated by men. It is helpful to know the members of the Round Table, but isn't necessary in order to enjoy the movie.  "},{"Title":"A fine period/bio-pic about a timless writer","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie gave a very revealing account of Dorothy Parker and her rapport with the denizens of the Algonquin Round Table. Done in flashback, this movie is easy on the psyche and filled with ascerbic darts that are bounced among the members of the Round Table. One could feel the pain felt by Mrs. Parker as she fights to survive as a writer, and a person, searches for a meaning to life, and wonders why true love is as elusive as masterpiece poetry and short stories roll from her pen.  "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jason Leigh at her best","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The movie is episodic and depends too much on the viewer's having prior knowledge of the life of Dorothy Parker and her literary friends. Its saving grace is Jennifer Jason Leigh as Mrs. Parker. Her only flaw is that, in trying to look and sound like Parker, her dialog is often hard to understand. Still, one of the greatest and most under-rated performances by an actress in an American film in the 1990s. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Parker The Tragic Romantic","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  From what I have read of and about Dorothy Parker, she was a paradoxically sad person. A woman that seemed to long for true love but seemed to keep everyone at a safe distance. She seemed to use her cutting wit and great appetite for booze, as a defence against any possible close personal relationship with her friends and peers.  The only men in her life were equally committed to keeping their distance and control. This movie captured those feelings and relationships with great acuity. Jennifer Jason Leigh was superb as Dorothy. In fact, all of the actors were fantastic. This film isn't for the crowd that, throng to the next Lethal Weapon sequel in ever growing numbers. Those of you that look for movies with intelligence and style will be greatly rewarded. "},{"Title":"Not a great deal of fun but a well put together film","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Towards the end of her career, Dorothy Parker remembers the past days when she was part of the Algoquin Round Table, a group of friends who shared interests in the arts, drink and witty barbs at each others' expense.  However behind the wit she has a lot of hurt and the story follows her through broken relationships and lost happiness.I have seen this film several times but am only writing a review of it now.  It always strikes me as being a very worthy film that is `good' and should be appreciated.  But, this doesn't make it an easy film to access or watch.  On the surface the overlapping dialogue and quick wit makes for a film hat could be accepted several ways.  I was stuck in the middle.  At once I felt that these people were pompous and condescending but then also felt that they were witty people and clever!  The same with Parker herself &#150; at times she was a good character but then at others she was mysterious and very hard to understand.I suppose this is to the film's credit that it never paints it's subjects in one colour &#150; there is room for interpretation.  The one thing that struck me (me who uses a lot of sarcasm) is how much hurt was often put behind the barbs.  As one character says, she never talks deeply with any of her friends and never gets beyond the next barbed remark.  The fact that her life slides the way it does shows the danger in this.  However the film does still allow the brighter side of her life to come out as well so that it isn't al gloom.  This still doesn't make it easy watching &#150; there is no one central narrative other than Parker herself.  This made it feel a little free floating and aimless and it occasionally felt as hollow and pointless as the quick wit shared by unhappy people around the table.The cast is pretty good.   Leigh does occasionally come over as a woman giving an impression rather than a performance but she does manage to seem more natural when talking rather than quoting.  The support cast is made up of quite a few B-grade stars (of quality and some not) and they all give good account of themselves.  Broderick, Gallagher, McCarthy, Taylor and Tucci are among the cast but really it is Leigh's film to win or lose.Overall this is a classy film.  The direction and sets really get the period right and film feels good.  However at times it seems aimless and much of the film is actually pretty depressing stuff.  I took the warning from it of opening up rather than trying to be a smarta*se all the time, but I'm not sure if that was what it was saying.  The cast do well and Leigh makes a good Mrs Parker despite just stopping short of out and out impersonation. "},{"Title":"Supervigilance required","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I think that this film was meant to be realist and naturalistic. However,there is the reality that this is an entertainment, and the audience has to hear and understand the lines. Supervigilance is required to do this in this movie. Not only does JJL's imitation of Dorothy Parker's speech affectations make the speech and musing of the main character difficult to understand, but the inclusion of background noise, overlapping dialog, and frequent muttering and mumbling of the performers make every character difficult to even hear, much less understand.Since so much of this movie is about legendary people mouthing famous aphorisms, it is frustrating to only hear snippets of their lines. I suppose the idea was to toss these famous lines away to add naturalism. However, without spotlighting the conversations of the legendary characters, however contrived this might be performed, this is just a very sad movie about a bitter, unhappy, self-destructive, unproductive writer. Not very easy to watch nor very interesting. "},{"Title":"Good cast and excellent production values, with the added advantage that a lot of the dialogue consisted of quotes from the subjects, some of the most acid-tongued and wittiest people ever to put pen to pape","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is not a great movie, but it is a good one, with an excellent ensemble cast and good production values.  The fact that a lot of the best lines were written or spoken by the people being portrayed here is a plus and an advantage that this movie has over most others.  On the downside, it is too long, the accent affected by Leigh as Dorothy Parker becomes grating at times and the film is a black hole of despair.  The documentary, The Ten Year Lunch, about these same people, is equally fascinating, without being nearly so despondent.  Perhaps if they ever do a DVD for this, they'll include the documentary as an extra.  Recommended for those interested in the subject. "}{"Title":"Terrible bio but good period flavor...","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As a bio of the witty writer Dorothy Parker, this film is a dud. We have JENNIFER JASON LEIGH, correctly attired in period costume and hairdo, but rattling about in scenes of overlapping dialog and barely discernible comments being muttered by her under her breath. A striking performance? I don't think so. Leigh strikes out here, just as she struck out when she attempted to win plaudits for her Catherine Sloper in WASHINGTON SQUARE.Nice period atmosphere, sets, costumes and music can't make up for an utterly aimless script that is as empty as the babble going on among the sophisticated literate circle Parker was a part of. She gets some nice support from a cast of competent players but since the whole film depends on understanding what makes Parker tick, it's got to be called a failure.Parker deserved better than this. Hopefully, some day someone with a sense of how to bring her to life will do so with a script that can make us sympathize with the characterization instead of the sketchy view we get here. Nor does it help that few of the characters bear any physical resemblance to the people they're portraying. Did they know what Robert Benchley looked like? "},{"Title":"Dorothy Parker read her, don't watch her","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I am a fan of many of the writers who flit in and out of this movie, but I confess I don't know much about their personal lives and habits (except perhaps for Benchley, and Thurber who is only barely mentioned in this film). This film gives the viewer a good sense of what it must have been like to be part of the wildly creative crew that surrounded the legendary Algonquin Round Table, but a very confused picture of Dorothy Parker's life. Only someone who already knows her story, and can keep her various husbands and lovers in order, can piece this mish-mash together. And none of the performers are strong enough to seem like anything more than walk-ons dressed as famous people. (The gang scenes work because of the fast pacing; the movie drags when we spend time with the individuals.) According to comments recorded here, Miss Leigh is doing a good vocal impression of Dorothy Parker. Maybe so (I've never heard Parker), but Leigh's delivery is so totally annoying that it's enough to drive the AUDIENCE to suicide. Is she trying to do Hepburn on downers? Sometimes her mannered accent veers toward Transylvanian.Throughout the movie, Parker herself denigrates her little doodad poems, but that's all the film offers us of her creative output. We never really find out about the contents of her books and plays, and how she ended up in Hollywood (and what she wrote there). After a few of her doggerel verses, they become trite. I began to wonder if people think these poems are funny because they know they're SUPPOSED to be funny.I'm sure there's probably a good movie in Mrs. Parker's life, but I don't think this is it. "},{"Title":"What a morbid question to ask...you have just won my heart completely.","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As rich an evocation of 1920s Manhattan as Mrs. Parker is, one keeps wishing it would offer more...or at least surprise us with some splendorous chatter amongst the haves and have-nots of the literary world. Dorothy Parker, married to a morphine-addicted ex-soldier and recently fired as a writer for Vanity Fair, goes through a succession of men and magazine-published doo-dads before gaining a reputation as one of the greatest wits to come out of Depression-era New York City. Hollywood beckoned, but did not satisfy her--nor did life in general, which may be why she talked in a world-weary, dry-arch style which gave the impression of a woman with many disappointments in her closet. This is fascinating subject matter for the movies, yet co-writer and director Alan Rudolph barely dramatizes the material at all; he's so closed off from what's happening on the screen, many sequences plod by without any directorial nourishment. Certainly the large and interestingly cast group of actors on display are worth watching, though there are possibly too many real-life personalities rushing by on the screen, everyone nonchalantly vying for time. Parker's goodbye-cruel-war attitude did not back her up in the end and, living until the year 1967, she survived most of her Algonquin Round Table cohorts. The film does not sentimentalize her or put her up on a pedestal, but neither does it help us to understand the tragedienne living beyond the wincing prose and words of woe. Jennifer Jason Leigh's lead portrayal divided the critics in 1994, yet she's definitely on to something special here. With a more incisive treatment, she may have delivered a true triumph. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Uneven story of fascinating people in a fascinating time","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jennifer Jason Leigh is Dorothy Parker in Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle, a 1994 film also starring Campbell Scott, Peter Gallagher, Stanley Tucci, Matthew Broderick, Gwenyth Paltrow, Jennifer Beals, Lili Taylor, Martha Plimpton, Wallace Shawn - a large, excellent cast which would be needed to tell the story of the glittering literary geniuses who were part of the Algonquin Roundtable. Oh, to have been an adult in those days ('20s-'40s) when wit and education and intelligence were so prized! Parker, a unique talent who could write with pathos and humor, was surrounded by the likes of Robert Benchley, Edna Ferber, Charles Macarthur, Alexander Woolcott, Deems Taylor and Robert Sherwood. The sad thing is that if you're a young person and you happen to catch this film on the IFC channel, you won't have heard of any of these people. Nor will you be interested enough to look them up. People don't seem to have the intellectual curiosity they once did. I realize these are generalizations - just how general remains to be seen.The atmosphere is set wonderfully in this film, which tells something of Dorothy Parker's sad life as she finds and loses love. Unfortunately, with possibly the exception of Campbell Scott as Benchley and at times Ms. Leigh, everyone is PLAYING Woolcott, MacArthur, etc. It's all a kind of let's pretend instead us showing us real people -- as famous as they all were, they were human beings. The script is uneven; the crazy, frenzied scenes at the Algonquin are the best ones, but we don't know these people well enough to be interested in smaller scenes.I had the great pleasure of seeing Jason Leigh on Broadway in Proof and she was excellent - she is a very fine actress with a broad range. But in her attempt to successfully have all of Dorothy Parker's externals, she's tripped herself up. I unfortunately only understood maybe 40% of what she was saying. Not only do I doubt that was true of the real Dorothy, I also doubt going that far with the voice was necessary - very, very few people who would see this film ever heard Dorothy Parker speak. It's a little like doing Eliza Doolittle - if you actually spoke pure Cockney, the audience wouldn't understand a word. Parker's droll tones channeled through Leigh's mouth don't work. She does, however, create a very real and very sad person who lived in an interesting time, wrote about it and who loved and drank her way through it. "},{"Title":"Prolonged Agony","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I have admired Dorothy Parker's work for many years and always found her persona to be fascinating. If someone had told me that it was possible to make a boring film about this lady, I would have disagreed. Sad to say, I would have been wrong. Last night I sat through the entire film, waiting&#x97;i vain&#x97;for are deeming moment. The script was a hopeless muddle, the acting was strenuous, the music went from bland to annoying, and the direction perfectly complemented these flaws. The only thing this wreck of a film has going for it is the costume design.Dorothy Parker's life deserves a film treatment, but this failed attempt will probably prevent that from happening any time soon, if ever. What a shame!Chris Albertson "},{"Title":"Curiously flat and affectless","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  While the performances and the writing are technically good, the overall impression is that of a lack of affect -- nobody in this movie really seems to care much of anything about anything. The only glimpses we have of Dorothy Parker (and slim glimpses they are) as anything but a sadly underestimated party girl are in her poetic interstices. Perhaps that's the point, but if so, it's lost in an Altmanesque whirl of cameos. The title accomplishes more to drive the theme than the whole of the movie; for me, that's a sign the movie just -might- have been better made. "},{"Title":"Diabolical and pretentious... Boring and unwatchable","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I didn't like ANY of the actors in this film. All of them do their jobs pretty badly. The fault for this probably lies with the director. Essentially, they told a, possibly interesting story, but they did so very incompetently. I was totally incapable to forget that the lead actress was acting. She was absolutely false from start to finish and I found myself strongly disliking her. The movie is full of scenes with Parker facing the camera in a kind of Shakesperean aside which enabled us to hear her poetry. The poetry is OK I guess but was murdered by the wooden acting and the funny voice that Parker was forcing out without a pause. The rest of the movie is just boring and I couldn't bring myself to finish the thing. I wonder if those people were really as tedious and pretentiously awful as they were portrayed as being. I guess I will never know. If you are interested in Parker, read her original work. This film will do nothing at all to endear her to you. "},{"Title":"Interesting if you know the writing of the period","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dorothy Parker was certainly a character and a witty writer, but the lives of writers are typically hard to film for obvious reasons. This movie does an adequate job and Jennifer Jason Leigh turns in the best possible performance (as we've come to expect from her). The script and the other characterizations are a bit thin but this movie is definitely worth it of you happen to be a Parker fan. Men don't make passes... "},{"Title":"Painful. Depressing. Great acting.","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Not a film if you're not in a good mood. The film does a great job in showing where Dorothy Parker's scathing humour and bitter satire came from an acute sense of her surroundings, which she realized as being superficial and yet belonged to; great emotional pain; and large quantities of alcohol to get herself going.This is a painful, depressing movie with great acting from Jennifer Jason Leigh and the whole ensemble. "},{"Title":"Like Mrs. Parker herself, talented but unfulfilled","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A couple of years ago, I visited Madame Tussaud's Wax Museum in Manhattan, where several representatives from the Algonquin Circle were meeting. It is absolutely remarkable how much the real Mrs. Parker resembled Jennifer Jason Lee, and Lee does a fine job in the role. The real stand out in this huge ensemble cast (which includes Matthew Broderick, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Jennifer Beals) is Campbell Scott, simply remarkable as Robert Benchley.The movie itself is uneven. Early on, we see Parker and Benchley in Hollywood in the 1940s, where they are cordial at best, and then a flashback to Algonquin Circle days (the 1920s) begins. We naturally expect to find the root of the estrangement, as the entire construction screams that something happened. But the movie doesn't deliver on its promise; we see a complex and tender relationship, but we never see what happened that would prevent them to continue in their fond dance of never-quite-romance. Despite its failure to provide a denouement, this relationship is the soul of the movie and very much worth seeing. Otherwise, Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle barely rises above the typical tortured artist story. Mrs. Parker was brilliant but unfulfilled. Mrs. Parker drank and attempted suicide. Mrs. Parker recites her own poetry into the camera. Yadda yadda. By the end, Mrs. Parker totters and slurs to such an extent that one wonders if this can possibly be true, it seems a parody. My sense is of a script that veered away from its own fulfillment, and wanders around the outside. 7/10   "}{"Title":"A little film that I quite enjoyed","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It seems from reading the other user comments here that one either loves or hates Mrs. parker and the Vicious Circle (I personally love the movie). I'll be the first to agree that my tastes in films don't generally lean toward the mainstream.  I personally feel that most big box office films belong to the straight to video film genre (geezzzzzzzz is that a new genre, hmmmmmmmmmmmmmm, if it is maybe I can get it copyrighted).  I tend to enjoy art house movie fare and I find that this movie fits the bill quite nicely.  If you can look for a copy of this film on laserdisc, since, it's the only widescreen version of the film available (plus it contains a short documentary about Dorothy Parker herself). "},{"Title":"Actors running around playing dress up does not a movie make.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This attempt recalls the old Judy Garland/Mickey Rooney films, wherethey all decided to put on a show!! and wore their parents clothes andtheir mom did the make up and it was a big hit! I kid, but just barely.An interesting failure, rent this to see lots of 80's actors playingdress up and saying witty bon-mots as though they understood them.Jennifer Jason Leigh, normally a fine actress, puts on an accent thatjust about brings down the film. I've heard tapes of Dorothy Parker, andshe sounds nothing like this. Campbell Scott is fine, as always, as area few of the smaller roles, but overall this is an awkward attempt atplaying grown up. Read Mrs. Parkers books, save yourself a badtime....... "},{"Title":"lots of smart drunk talk","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dorothy Parker (Jennifer Jason Leigh) recalls the 20's at the Algonquin Round Table. She's a writer at Vanity Fair. Her husband Eddie (Andrew McCarthy) had returned from the war as a morphine addict. She loses her job and Robert Benchley (Campbell Scott) quits in sympathy. They and Robert Sherwood would lunch at the Algonquin Hotel gathering a circle of friends with endless drinking, sharp comments, and biting wits. Eddie turns into an abusive drunk. She has an affair with Charles MacArthur (Matthew Broderick) which leads to an abortion. The group starts up The New Yorker. Later, she remarries to actor Alan Campbell (Peter Gallagher).I have nothing but praise for Jennifer Jason Leigh. I understand most of her words and all of her meanings. However, it is a lot of drunk talking. There are loads of biting comments but none of them really elicits a laugh. These are not those types of vicious lines. I don't review rehearsals. Most of the movie lands flat with a knowing wink. She lived a full life but I'm not that excited by this movie. "},{"Title":"It's too simple","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There must lie an interesting story somewhere in the lives of some of these famous writers but this utterly depressing, anecdotal bore doesn't seem to find any.I think I get what the director Alan Rudolph is trying to show us here, that everybody thinks it must have been a laugh-riot to live in the swinging 20s, especially if you were a member of this group of despicable people, but that the reality was quite different. Come on, there must have been somebody who gave a damn about another one in the group. All what is shown, is that these people were trying to be so aloof that they all died unhappy.I like the point, given by another comment on this page, that you really have to research deeper than watching what there is here. Get some insight from other sources than this debacle. Some have praised the performances here. I say, that there aren't any, it's just plain mannerisms. It's just people trying to look the part and trying to feel like the character they are playing. Learn how to transcend your character. This is especially true about Jennifer Jason Leigh and I think she is horrible here. She obviously wanted to take the extreme method actor's approach but for that very reason, the performance seem forced. If you want to see much better acting of a real giant in the same field, watch Cary Elwes in Cradle Will Rock as John Houseman. "},{"Title":"Misfiring prohibition biopic","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If one was going to get drunk on something during prohibition, what would it have been? Well the ensemble of Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle do, in fact, chug down a great deal of hooch but the Vicious Circle of the title does in fact refer to a number of things, not least the large circular dining table which forms the centre of many of Alan Rudolph's set pieces. Naturally there's but a short step to 'circles of friends' which is the sober bedfellow of the inebriated co-owner of the title, the avarice which possess everyone to sleep with one another.A pre-Oscar Gwyneth Paltrow is the chief draw of this perigee of the narrative, dragging Matthew Broderick's Charles into the well of sin. With the exception of Peter Gallagher's Alan Campbell, this is the absolute ceiling of the male cast... and even they are lost in the dust created by Jennifer Jason Leigh's deceptively intense Dorothy Parker. The problem I have is that she's too drole. I suspect her characterisation is highly accurate, literate; however I find her relationships, love and outrage rather incredible, a little like that of Helen Mirren's Ayn Rand. 4/10 "},{"Title":"The film is a beautiful reappearance of McCarthy in his most amazing yet brief appearance.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I love the film. I had read a little of Parkers work before I saw it and fell madly in love afterwards. I was very much impressed with J.J. Leigh's performances and dually noted in regard to M. Broderick and A. McCarthy. Much appreciation is directed towards all involved. "},{"Title":"I finally made it through this film!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  While her performance was one of her better ones, I still couldn't get past the feeling that Leigh was acting.  By piling affectation on a character who was already quite affectatious, Leigh's performance became weighted down by her characterization.  Albeit, she is the only shimmer in this otherwise flat depiction of a subject that should have been witty and intriguing. With a cast as phenomenal as this, it is unfortunate that the majority of them were simply short and two dimensional cameos that left this viewer wondering why bother telling this story at all.  At its best, it has some witty lines, but it's muddled, boring, and directionless at its worst. "},{"Title":"Boring biopic","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Alan Rudolph repeats the mistakes committed by himself in The Moderns (1988), or James Ivory's Quartet (1981) in adapting the ambient and the atmosphere of the 1920's artistic world. I don't know exactly why, but both films insist in going bored, slow-paced. Add this the fact that Mrs Parker... is a biopic about writer and screenwriter Eternally Unhappy Dorothy Parker and her pals of the Algonquin Hotel Round Table. Surely a deserved tribute to these crazy bunch, but, why so dull and preposterous? "},{"Title":"i thought it was okay","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" competent film making with more former, current, and future a-list stars than you can shake a stick at. seriously, everyone's in this movie.one of the other reviewers quipped, I didn't think it would be possible to make a boring film about dororthy parker, but here it is. i agree; judging from the source material this should have been a slam dunk. i think the problem is jennifer jason leigh's diction; her character speaks very slowly and self-importantly in a faux-British accent, which i suppose is to either give the impression that is a Great Writeress or deeply unlikeable. this is rendered even more frustrating as ms parker delivers some pretty sweet dialogue which i deduced from the appreciative laughter of the other characters and not leigh's unintelligible mumbling.was extremely impressed to learn that ms parker had been a co-writer for the original A STAR IS BORN, which if you are not aware is one of the Great Films and Great Screenplays; its myriad remakes attest to this. of course her sex life was very interesting but i wonder if the filmmakers could have better impressed us with a sense of time and place as well literary chops by emphasizing this Hollywood milestone. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Parker and the Algonquin Crowd","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" If you liked Alan Rudolph's Choose Me, Remember Me, Trouble in Mind, Afterglow or Welcome to L.A., if you especially liked his movie The Moderns, if you like film scores by Mark Isham, if you liked Robert Altman (who produced this film and a few others by Rudolph) and if you like Jennifer Jason Leigh (great, great, great, with no Oscar, while one or two other hags flaunt two), do not miss, if it ever comes your way, Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle, a fascinating cinematic biography of the even more fascinating writer Dorothy Parker, and her circle of critics and authors of the New York literary scene who were integral part of the round table of the Algonquin hotel in the city in the 1920s. A deluxe cast Campbell Scott, Matthew Broderick, Andrew McCarthy, Jennifer Beals, Nick Cassavetes, Lily Taylor, Martha Plimpton, Wallace Shawn, Stephen Baldwin, James Le Gros, Rebecca Miller, Sam Robards, Gwyneth Paltrow, Peter Gallagher, Heather Graham, Stanley Tucci, Keith Carradine.. For those who love the literary world and writers of brilliant pen, sharp tongue and smart repartee in debates, this is your motion picture. I rate it 10/10. Those who don't, it's up to them to raise objections. Beautiful film. Memorable performance by Leigh and, by the way, a very good one by Andrew McCarthy too, as Mr. Parker considering his previous works (all pretty eyes and little substance), he truly made a good impression on me. "}{"Title":"A speedy, sharp and jazzy experience by a star-cast!","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dorothy Parker (August 22, 1893 &#x96; June 7, 1967) , the embodiment of the witty, cynical and intellectual Flapper par excellence.You have to stay constantly alert to be able to fully enjoy the very swift, sharp-witted, spicy dialogues, the intellectual, anti-conventional and revolutionary verbal ping-pong between 1920' writers, dramaturges, playwrights and poets during the very much 'alcoholised' prohibition period. It depicts the members of the Algonquin Round Table, a celebrated group of New York City writers, critics, actors and wits, a sort of an American response to 1920' Paris artists congregation. We learn about Dorothy's beginning as an editor and journalist, her lovers, husbands, collaborators and her move to Hollywood. The events (filmed in colour) are juxtaposed with brief black and white insets in which Jennifer Jason Leigh is reciting Dorothy's beautifully haunting poems to immerse us into the thoughts and persona of the famous writer.My compliments to the Soundtrack and editing loved every tune of it and every note fitted just perfectly its corresponding image!Unfortunately the movie concentrates on Dorothy's emotional development and her 'Vicious Circle' (Algonquin Round Table) and left completely out her left-wing tendencies such as being an advocate of causes like civil liberties and civil rights, and her brushing with the Black List. Also, I was missing more references to the movies she actually wrote. Even if you are not knowledgeable about Dorothy Parker and her works, yet into 1930's movies, or love movies like 'The Great Gatsby', then you will very much enjoy this movie about Hollywood's Golden Age of movie making.All in all visually ravishing, emotionally titillating and intellectually stimulating, I will definitely look up some more of Dorothy's poems.The Star Cast Jennifer Jason Leigh, Campbell Scott, Peter Gallagher, Stanley Tucci, Matthew Broderick, Gwenyth Paltrow, Jennifer Beals, Lili Taylor, Martha Plimpton, Wallace Shawn, Stephen Baldwin. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies of All Time","Date":"16 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" For some reason the period around the 1920s and the early 1930s was this great flowering of artistic genius.In Mexico City you had Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo and their circle of artist and intellectual friends, which you can watch in the great film by Salma Hayek Frida I actually went to Frida Kahlo's neighborhood in Mexico City because I wanted to see her house and the house where Trotsky was killed, but it was closed that day.In London you had the Bloomsbury Group with people like Aldous Huxley, mark Gertler, Virginia Woolf, Carrington, Lytton Strachey etc. Which you can watch in the great Emma Thompson film Carrington.In New York you had Mrs. Parker and the Algonquin Roundtable. Most of these people above interacted in different ways often in Paris where Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Dali, Piccaso, Somerset Maugham, Aleister Crowley, Cole Porter, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Gertrude Stein, Anais Nin et al held forth in Monte Martre and the French Riviera.Everyone in this film is great and sometimes I think I was just born too late to hang with all these brilliant (and sometimes very unpleasant) people in so many countries.I've read a lot of Dorothy Parker's work and she has a great feminist voice that couldn't be suppressed. Many don't even know they are quoting her when they are. I just read a review of the Johnny Depp movie Libertine and someone stated that the actress showed an emotional range from A to B, which is a directly stolen Quote from Parker. Yes, she was drunken, cynical, disillusioned, suicidal etc. but she was and is also great.This movie is a whose who of actors. A lot of people don't even realize that Cyndi Lauper is in it. It was an early movie of both Gwenneth Paltrow and Heather Graham etc. etc.Watch it and love it. "},{"Title":"The Worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I made the mistake of letting some friends talk me into seeing this movie when it came out in the theaters and I have been sorry ever since. I thought the acting was horrible and the plot was so boring. This movie is my bench mark for Worst Movie Ever! Whenever I see a bad movie I always ask myself was it worse than Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle  and no movie since 1994 has surpassed it yet. You may like it if you are a fan of that period or Ms.Leigh. I have seen her in other movies before since and I have no problems with her or her acting. I Just found this movie to be hard to watch. I hope this review serves as a warning just so you know that not every one enjoys this movie. "},{"Title":"A Bit Messy But Brilliant Recitation of a Fantastic Writer's Life","Date":"14 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Dorothy Parker's life is so complicated that it really needs a 10 part mini-series. Basically, this movie focuses in on the relationship between Robert Benchley and Dorothy. If the movie had just focused on that, I think it would have been a hit. As it is, it is not very satisfying for many people, because of the enormous cast and the twenty or so subplots that do not get developed enough.However the photography is beautiful, the costumes and sets are terrifically faithful to the period, and the acting is sterling. I really want to knock on the door of every member of the Motion Picture Academy and when they come to the door punch them in the stomach and as they fall back in surprise, say, That's for not giving an academy award to Jennifer Jason Leigh, for Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle. Her performance is daring and dazzling. She did win best actress from the National Society of Film Critics.Alan Rudolph says on the director's commentary that he has a 4 hour actor's version of the film. I really hope he will release it.This is a film that needs to be watched several times to be fully appreciated. Be prepared to do lots of research to find out more about the characters in real life. Watching a few Benchley movie shorts, seeing A Star is Born, and reading a few short stories and poems by Dorothy is a prerequisite for enjoying the film.This is the best movie we are going to get on Dorothy Parker, until someone gives me 20 million Dollars to do the mini-series. "},{"Title":"Thirty-something ennui in the 1930 somethings","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" ---Who was the target audience of this film? People who were really interested in Parker would have to find this disappointing.----- so...We spend a lot of time indoors/While Leigh suffers from lockjaw/With boozy loud insufferable boors /That self-indulgent Parker sawThe costumes great, production high,/ But what is that she is saying?/ Parker did drone, but diction, sigh,/ Is needed above the other's braying.Paltrow, so often wan and fey/ Shows marvelous character actress prospect /She towers above this teeny fray /But her humor and tartness are not lost yet.Leigh is lovely, dewy and luminous /Her vocal imitation comes and goes/ Will someone unclench her jaw for us /So we can decipher her character's woes?Leigh's smaller than a umbrella stand/ Matthew Broderick is a lovely pairing /The story only starts when he enters, grand /And sexy and strong and stirring.Cambell Scott is the backbone of this /Screeching brood, he doesn't contest a fraction. /He calmly settles back in bliss/ And steals every scene, every action.Parker fans, I think, would largely not/ Feel compelled to this trendy casting spread. / With this posey art, we can bet on spot/ That she's now even more happy that she's dead. "},{"Title":"A Little Too Well Done","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the only films that I've ever had to walk out of.  I didn't find this movie boring, as many others have. I didn't find Jennifer Jason Leigh's performance (or her accent) at all grating. In fact, I found everything about this movie very well done. That's what made it unbearable.Knowing something about the tragic lives of both Dorothy Parker and Robert Benchley (for my money one of the best humorists ever) makes watching this movie, more like watching a meticulously planned and beautifully executed suicide. They are the only two truly sympathetic characters in the piece (the rest of the Algonquin Round Table is what the title of the film suggests, vicious) and you know that they are the ones who are headed towards ruin -- Parker in her disastrous relationships, Benchley in his chronic alcoholism. This flawlessly executed movie puts you directly into the lives of its subjects. The trouble is, this is a place that I didn't really want to go. Perhaps I'm an escapist, but I'd prefer to remember Parker and Benchley by their peerless writing, than by the awful turns which their lives took. I have not since been able to read their works without thinking about the movie, and this has tarnished their writings in my mind. "},{"Title":"Another Julia Philips?","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Jennifer Jason Leigh does an amazing job as she shows her true acting ability in Mrs. Parker. However, the movie in which she had an amazing performance was far from an amazing movie. While the cast of actors in the movie are terrific and the production value with the costumes are great, where was the story? Call mew crazy, but I am one of 99% of the world who does not know who Mrs. Parker was. Therefore, I was left in the dark with everyone else who still did not know who they heck she was by the end of the movie. OK, she was a great writer and poet, but why couldn't the story better portray that and tells the audience more about her accomplishments. Watching a table full of fast talking know it alls was far from enjoyable. Jennifer Jason Leigh built and built on her character but eventually tipped over when the audience stopped caring what the movie was about. If this is about her and her failed attempt at love, this was a slow melodrama that left the audience wanting more of a plot. If this was the true story of a woman that was before her time, the move was far from completion as the movie only scratched the surface at what her life was about. The ending credits did nothing for Mrs. Parker's legacy. It's nice that the movie didn't show one African American, but Mrs. Parker leaves her estate to Martin Luther King Jr.. Was that just thrown in there to give Mrs. Parker some credit for spending most of her life depressed and writing about it? Don't get me wrong, Jennifer Jason Leigh did a great job, but she received little credit for her role because the movie itself sunk with or without her performance.  "},{"Title":"Jennifer Jason Leigh is magnificant!","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Jennifer Jason Leigh is by far the best actress of our era.  She has a great screen presence and always gives everything for her performances.  Leigh was born to play the part of Dorothy Parker, she played her to a tee.  There were no flaws in her performance at all and the rest of the cast does a great job as well. This film is very sad and depressing but watching Leigh made it a lot easier to watch.  Alcohol becomes Parker's best friend and we watch as she becomes addicted to it throughout the entire film.  This is a great film, especially the performance by Leigh. "},{"Title":"not really a good look at Dorothy parker but still a pretty good film","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" In a lot of ways, this movie isn't really about Dorothy Parker. It might as well have been about a fictional poetry writer from 1920's who later went on to work on writing in magazines and writing reviews and later still, writing scripts in Hollywood with her husband. When I first saw this movie, I believe this was how she was but after reading a biography on her and reading some of her poetry, I got a totally different feeling about her and it changed my feelings for this movie too. I can still enjoy it, but don't take this as reality. Nowhere in reality has it ever been mentioned that Dorothy had feelings for Robert Benchley besides friendship. In real life, her true love was Alan Campbell (who is poorly played in this movie has a feminine type) who she married twice and they were going to have a baby together but she had a miscarriage. She was also with him when he died and worked on many Hollywood film scripts with him. Still, to spite the exaggerated lust for Benchley, I can't help but admire the way Campbell Scott played him. He really held the film together and was the life of the party and the real true friend to all those there and very dryly amusing, sort a big brother type at the round table. He actually manages to steal the film from Jennifer Leigh who slurs her words and sits around uttering her words sourly and so bitterly, I'm sure that if the real Dorothy Parker had behaved that way, she would hardly be remembered for her great wit and dark poetry. Jennifer plays her way too depressed and way too sad. It's awful to watch. It's also watch her love affair with that guy who played ferris bueller (not sure who is being here) and the guy who plays her first husband doesn't do much better. At the round table, Dorothy is seeing laughing a little but mostly listening. I thought she was famous for her quips and people were always listening to her??? what! This movie got it all wrong and can be depressing especially when Benchley vanishes from her life for no apparent reason. I think one of their last scenes together is her helping him get a whore. Again? WHAT! Why would she do that, first of all, benchley is married and secondly, isn't she supposed to have feelings for him? Anyway, it's hard to enjoy this movie with all wrong. The real Dorothy Parker died nearly forgotten in a hotel room, alone, obese, forgetful, sad with only one friend who bothered to look after her. At the end of this movie, Jennifer Jason Leigh emerges tiny and petite wearing a bun and clutching a dog, still slurring her words as though Dorothy parker was a big drunk and giving bitter lectures in her ripe old age. That just wasn't so. Besides, Dorothy wasn't bitter, she just liked to shock people and say unexpected things and did mostly for laughs. I don't think anyone who made this movie did any research. It doesn't even mention the time she had her miscarriage (it does mention her abortion though) or the time she had the house in the country with Alan Campbell or how she believed in equal rights or how her ashes were forgotten and finally what actually became of them and how she mentioned in her will that she left her money to help blacks and one of her friends protested and came off as looking racist. there was lot to dorothy parker, more than her suicide attempts or her times at the round table. it might have been interesting had the movie been more about dorothy and had a better actress playing her, not one who was in love with representing her as a just someone who suffered from depression. "},{"Title":"How can a movie with Jennifer Jason Leigh be this bad?","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  It's simple Because it is just plain boring. And besides, I used to think that the 80s were something like the *arrogant decade*, but then I saw this movie about the 20s, made in the 90s. I hate the attitude these people have, I can't bear it. And actually, most of the time, the movie made me want to sleep!The whole 20s plot completely sucks, I couldn't care less. It's like one hour and a half without anything happening. But there are also scenes, filmed in black and white, from the 40s and 50s. And I must say, these scenes excel. And here Jennifer Jason Leigh almost saves it. She acts and suffers without any restrict and she is very good especially when she's suffering and when she's sarcastic. Actually she smokes and drinks and has sex all along, and I couldn't care less about it, and her face constantly tells you everything, without being too obvious. But I couldn't care less about any other character or actor in the movie. I really felt it's just awful, most of its running time. However, the final 10 minutes really saved it.Still, Jennifer Jason Leigh is bitter to an extent that isn't easy to bear, and I don't understand why anyone bothered making a *movie* like this. For if you'd cut Ms Leigh's performance out, nothing would *move* at all! 3 out of 10 points. "}{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are only two movies that I own or have rented that I could not at least finish and Mrs. Parker... is one of them. The movie was incredibly pretentious, positively brimming with self-congratulatory smugness. Leigh's performance was the worst I have ever seen (literally, I refer to this performance anytime I discuss abominable performances). Acting teachers should use it on how not to act. It ways thirty-five minutes of fingernails on a blackboard. I would not recommend it to my worst enemy. "},{"Title":"A turn-off","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Sorry, I turned off in the middle. What is it with Americans and mumbling? Instead of dialogue,  we get a 'naturalistic' babble. The only words we can hear are the 'Hi Franz! Finished your  symphony yet?' kind. ('This is Ross! He's starting a new magazine!' 'I think I'll call it - the New  Yorker!') Maybe writers and magazine editors are more interesting when they're doing their  jobs. If I want to watch them boozing and getting off with each other's wives I'll go down the  pub. x "},{"Title":"Mrs. Parker lays an egg, one bigger, even, than Wall Street.","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In late October of 1929, Variety printed one of the most famous headlines in history ..... WALL STREET LAYS AN EGG. Along about January of 1995, Variety might have repeated that headline, with a slight variation, for this movie MRS. PARKER LAYS AN EGG. According to IMDb, this movie amassed the ridiculously puny box-office gross of $2.144. million. That might have been good -- in 1929! But in this modern era, that kind of gross at the box office would not even qualify as bus fare for Bill Gates. Thus, by those standards, Mrs. Parker and the Vicious Circle laid a bigger egg than the one laid by Wall Street 72 years ago.Just why DID this movie bomb so dramatically with the vast moviegoing public? Probably for a combination of reasons (as often is the case). One reason would be that the general moviegoing public could not relate to it in any way. Today's moviegoers are, for the most part, quite young and most of them have probably never heard of any of these people, much less actually know anything about them. And it matters not a whit how famous any of them might have been in their day. Also, this movie is nothing if not a talkfest. Most of today's moviegoers, what I like to call the three-second-cut-weaned-on-MTV crowd, need at least the occasional bang-bang shoot-'em-up to maintain their attention and keep them awake. Finally, and perhaps most important of all, the movie is not very good. It is the type of movie which is often referred to as an interesting failure. I'll even add a fourth reason why I think this movie failed I'm not sure that it is even POSSIBLE to make a good movie about this subject matter. The real-life characters who are this movie's subject(s), as a group, remind me of the famous part-quote from Shakespeare's MacBeth, to wit ..... full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.And I have yet another problem with this movie. Before writing this, I read MANY reviews of the movie, those of both IMDb users and professional critics. To a person, they commend the entire cast in all of their roles. I could not possibly disagree more! Take, for example, Andrew McCarthy, who plays Eddy Parker, Dorothy Parker's first husband. This guy has been THE WORST ACTOR IN MOVIES for the last 20 years. As such, he proudly carries both torch and scepter handed down to him by George Nader from many years earlier. When a female (of course!) IMDb user complimented his performance here, I really lost it. Or Matthew Broderick. He's a decent actor but one with a limited range (which does not extend much beyond Ferris Bueller's Day Off). Trying to imagine him as Charles MacArthur is a leap across the chasm of credulity which can only end in a fatal plunge. Even Gwyneth Paltrow, an Oscar winner, fails in this movie, playing a character who should not even BE IN the movie. Indeed, Jennifer Jason Leigh, exceedingly annoying as Dorothy Parker, is one of the few actors here who seems up to the task of playing the famous personality to whom he or she has been assigned.OK, one more. One more reason this movie failed was simply that ALL the famous people portrayed are so dislikable. As the self-appointed literati of The Jazz Age (the 1920s), how much can one stomach watching a group of alcoholics (which they surely were!) slicing and dicing everything and everyone -- including themselves -- to absolute shreds.This movie didn't just lay an egg at the box office. It was an egg-laying machine!    "},{"Title":"The decline of an alcoholic,Dorothy Parker","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a fine movie about a sad writer. It is filmatically fine and above average. Jennifer Jason Leigh is a fine fricken actress.Jennifer's dad, Vic Morrow, of course was killed by a helicopter.Not a helicopter accident. A helicopter killed Vic Morrow by impacting his head with a helicopter blade. This may have cast a sad shadow on her life and intellect. Just my opinion. This is more a movie about Jennifer Jason Leigh's acting than Dorothy Parker.You should watch it as a tutorial on fine acting by a female. You should just breathe in the lovely technique of JJLeigh.She just manifests ordinary sadness amidst Parker's brightness. This movie inserts sepia-like poems *by Dorothy* into this biography and does so, well. The movie tracks the life and times of a certain Dorothy, who doesn't find the rainbow, or Oz.This Dorothy,Parker, ain't quite a poet but her movie is a thrilling and saddening biography. Dorothy Parker wasn't quite a poet I feel because she didn't 'make/write the grand sweep of poetry'. Who am I too judge you ask? Well, Parker writes clever doggerel not poetry. I suspect she may have had the anti-poetry affliction. Kinda like ripping off the derailleurs on your ten-speed bike old girl.Just my opinion. If Dorothy wanted to be a poet, p'raps she coulda opened up the full throttle engine of language of pentameter and hexameter and tetrameter--of glorious Shakespearian good stuff-which English provides. I suspect Dorothy thought she had to be cute or post-modern or whatever in order to be considered a 'real poet'. Just a guess on my part. A poet writes the f**k out of the language in order to discover the true truth of a language. Language, at least in Western culture, has all kinds of meter in it-naturally occurring. Parker was a reductionist- or what I call 'cheap with words'. When can a writer be cheap with words? Answer Never. Jack Kerouac rolled a giant roll of paper into his remington-rand to complete his major work of writing. Moving along. Campbell Scott is pretty fine here as Robert Benchley. Jennifer Beals is wasted as the Forlorn Wife. This is a fine movie about empty people of great promise. Did I really just write that? "}]