[{"Title":"The nearest any film's ever come to breaking me...","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"68 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ...as a cynic.I, through whatever reason, am absurdly cynical. A cynic, lest we forget, is somebody who puts very little faith in the good nature of humanity. Somebody who considers all good deeds to be selfishly motivated.Somebody who should absolutely hate this film.But I can't. I love this to pieces. No film has ever done as much to give me some faith in people. If Charlie can do the decent thing and split his ticket with Yvonne to fulfil a promise, despite the demands of a furious Muriel; if despite reaching a financial and emotional low they can still invite Angel in to put some food in his belly; and if the New York public can show their appreciation by doing whatever little they can to help out; then maybe, just maybe, there might be hope for the rest of us.This. Is. Beautiful. "},{"Title":"so hard to dislike","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Warm, enchanting, simply wonderful romantic comedy plays out like a fairy tale brought to life. Cage is a gracious, good-natured New York cop who wins the lotto; against the wishes of his demanding, mercurial wife (Perez), he splits it with a hard-luck waitress (Fonda) as repayment for not leaving a tip! Predictable every step of the way, and hard to believe (though it's purportedly based on a true story), but it's so well-performed, so irresistibly charming, so sweet and romantic that you really don't mind. Not only a good showcase for the film's three ideal leads, but also a kindhearted film that gives hope to the notion of human decency. *** "},{"Title":"Excellent romantic, feel-good film!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not really the type of person that gets all excited about romantic films, but there is just something about this film that makes you feel good all the way through.Not only is the film very touching and quite romantic, but it also has something to say about honesty and greed in the world.  Although, this isn't the first movie in history to touch on these subjects, but I'm pretty sure it has never been done quite like this before.The cast in this film is just plain excellent.  Nicolas Cage is as great as always, no big surprises or let downs in that department.  Bridget Fonda is spectacular in her role.  She delivers a very heart-felt performance and looks nothing less than fantastic throughout the film.  Both characters played by Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda were excellent characters and really seem like people that you enjoy being around.  Rosie Perez was very good in her role, I actually HATED her character, not in the sense that she did a poor job, but that her character was an unlikeable person.  Wendell Pierce's character (Bo Williams) was great too, also a person you would be proud to call a friend.  Isaac Hayes was nice touch in the film.  The rest of the cast was very good as well.I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that likes Nicolas Cage, Bridget Fonda, romantic-comedies or just feel-good movies.  I really enjoyed this film quite a bit and I hope that you will too.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Sweetest romantic comedy possible","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It Could Happen to You certainly meets any criteria for a good romantic comedy.  It's got a handsome male lead (Nicolas Cage), a sweet damsel in distress (Bridget Fonda) and a villian (Rosie Perez).  Add a plot that swivels between wonderful scenes of the interested parties falling in love and the chaos erupting from the bad woman with an attitude and you have a story that captures and holds the interest of the viewer.  Isaac Hayes does a wonderful job narrating the story as it unfolds.  This is one of my favorite movies of all time and I highly recommend it for anyone who wants to curl up in an easy chair and watch an adorable romantic comedy with some touching dramatic scenes. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable piece of escapism","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The question that probably everybody once asked to himself / herself and many others is what would you do if you won the lottery? Well, I know what I would do with it. I wouldn't change much to my lifestyle, but for those who don't know what to expect, this movie gives a good idea of how gaining a lot of money in a short period of time can influence your entire life... But I don't watch movies to know what to do with my life and neither should other people. Movies are entertainment and this one certainly offers plenty of that.When Charlie Lang, a New York cop with a heart of gold, can't give a tip to Yvonne, a waitress at a small diner, he promises her that he will come back the next day to give her the double of her money or, in case he wins anything, half of his share of the state lottery. Of course she doesn't believe him, but when he comes back the next day and offers her the chance to chose between the two options, she goes for the lottery option. Only than he tells her that he has won 4 million dollars and that she will get half of that. But there is only one problem his wife Muriel. She gets greedy, certainly doesn't want to share her money with a waitress she doesn't know, but doesn't even want to share it with her own husband. As Charlie and Muriel grow apart, Charlie and Yvonne grow together and it doesn't take long before Muriel files for divorce, grabs all the money and leaves with a rich man by her side...There are plenty of romantic comedies nowadays and it is very hard to find a really good one. Well, this might be one of the few. I really liked it and there are many reasons for that. One certainly is that, despite the fact that we live in a world full of greed and egoism, some writers still try to give us hope by showing that not everything in the world is bad. OK, that may sound incredibly naive, but I really am not that stupid as you might think. I'm a business man in heart and soul, but sometimes I can really enjoy this type of positive escapism. The fact that Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda play an important role in this movie also helps of course. And it has to be said, they really played their roles well and very convincingly. But they weren't the only ones, because the same can be said about Rosie Perez. She's incredibly good as the money-hungry bitch and despite what many people might think, she doesn't exaggerate. I've known people to change into someone just like her character once they had a bit of money in their hands... Overall this is a nice, perhaps a bit naive movie with some good acting and an interesting story. I really liked what I saw and find this one of the better romantic comedies I've ever seen. I give it a score of at least 7.5/10, although I think that even an 8/10 isn't exaggerated. "},{"Title":"This is how a modern romantic comedy should look like","Date":"26 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you judge It Could Happen to you by its amount of realistic situations and characters, you'll probably give it a 4 out of 10. But, who cares about realism here? It's like a modern fairy tale, Frank Capra transported into the 90s. There's a wonderful storyline (Cop gives waitress a 2 million dollar tip), which apparently is even based on real-life events. Nicolas Cage plays the most honest cop imaginable, and he proves he can play a romantic lead role just as well as a dramatic action/thriller one. His character is not exactly 100 percent realistic, but that's not a problem, this is Hollywood for heaven's sake.Even better than Cage is his female leading lady the fascinating Bridget Fonda. Fonda is a wonderful actress who can play both a cute character like her waitress Yvonne here and more challenging roles like the LadyMacBeth-similar one in A Simple Plan. Unfortunately she never had the career of a Julia Roberts but she is in fact more talented and better looking. Throughout the whole movie she gives a good performance and looks gorgeous. If I had the choice of giving a waitress the lottery money or not and the woman looked like Fonda I might even give it to her. Of course there aren't so many waitresses out there that look (and behave) as charming as her and chances are low I'll ever win two millions in the lottery.Also notable is the wonderful chemistry between Cage and Fonda. As for the supporting roles special mention has to go to Perez. Although you wonder why Cage married her in the first place, she gives a humorous and entertaining performance. Of course there's kitsch but that's not necessarily bad. Good kitsch can be wonderful and this film, that has an absolutely great happy ending, serves as a perfect example of how a romantic comedy should be filmed. It's better than Pretty Woman. "},{"Title":"OK &#133; you can finally drop your ugly Hollywood 'baggage' right here.","Date":"27 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you haven't seen the film, just grab a Pepsi out of the 'fridge, pop up some Jolly Time with a little real butter (the kind that lets you hear your arteries harden &#150; you'll live), and take a good look at Andy Bergman and Jane Anderson's little masterpiece. You'll find the Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda you've always been looking for and never thought you'd see &#150; together. Way beyond that, but amazingly from the get-go &#150; and right in front of your very eyes &#150; you'll begin to discover a good part of your heart in the process. You know, that part that guys don't like to talk about and women always do? This cynical man certainly did&#133;'Feel good' movie? &#150; you better believe it. But don't shy away or you'll miss being human. All the 'good stuff' you ever imagined yet knew ahead-of-time is in this little caper great plot, great story line, great acting &#150; great film. And just the right amount of the right musical score. The trick is (and believe me, it's no trick at all) to put yourself in their shoes as others have said, what would 'you' do with 2 million dollars that fell into your lap? You'll be thinking so hard you can miss the magic. Don't let that happen &#133; Years ago, as my flight instructor used to say after GUMP (gear, undercarriage, mixture, prop) and right before landing, '&#133;just fly the plane, Bob.'Just watch the movie. Your own three-point landing will work itself out &#150; and, your arteries will soften&#133;8/10 "},{"Title":"Cop Gives Waitress $2 Million Tip! was working title","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've read that,among other people,critic Roger Ebert liked the afore-mentioned title for this movie as opposed to the name it actually got. Am I alone in the only one who thinks that the original title was NOT a good idea? Think about ithow easily would the title of above roll of the tongue when discussing movies or going to the ticket window? Titles that have indirect subjects in their sentences to me,seem like they're trying to test the memory of the viewer wanting to see the film as much as they are trying to get his or her attention.OK,'nuff said about that.As for the movie Unapologetically sweet,this is one part fairy-tale,one part morality lesson(like those two elements COULDN'T be one and the same thing!),using none other than the Big Apple as its backdrop.Honest beat cop Charlie Lang(Nicolas Cage in possibly one of the least conflicted and cleanest character portrayals he's given)is short of change one day and,while stopping for coffee at a street diner,uses in lieu of a tip,part of his lottery ticket to the harried but pretty and good-natured waitress(Bridget Fonda,in a wordlikable). When that ticket wins a large,metro-area jackpot,Charlie does the right thing and splits his portion of the winnings with the waitress,who needs that money desperately she's in debt to her ears and has a mooch of an ex-husband(Stanley Tucci)who won't leave her alone. This act of generosity does not sit well at all with Charlie's vain wife Muriel(a screechy,believable Rosie Perez),who eventually acts to have Charlie--and in the process Yvonne the waitress--cut from the winnings entirely.People who like to complain that movies these days have no sense of either morality or sentimentality would be wisely steered in the direction of this flick. Even though it's over a decade old,it's story is easily transferable and,while I am usually loathe to suggest remakes,would actually be receptive to a remake of this film(provided the screenwriter and director were willing to change some elements of the story,like location,circumstances or even genders). A film that seems to have been made by the ghost of Frank Capra,who would've been possessing Andrew Bergman(who successfully directed Mr.CAge in HOneymoon in Vegas a few years before). A good rent for anyone who likes a little sentimentality in their comedy. "},{"Title":"Truly romantic and a lovely movie.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the sweetest and most touching films to come out of the nineties. Anyone who enjoys touching heartwarming stories that touch the soul should watch this. The plot concerns a kindhearted cop(Cage) and his materialistic wife(Perez) who win several million in the lottery. The day they win, the cop had been in a restaurant earlier, where he came up short on money and couldn't tip his waitress(Bridget Fonda).Fonda's character is a down on her luck waitress with a heart of gold who gets treated like garbage by her boss and has an estranged husband who ran up her credit card bill and forced her into bankruptcy. So, since Cage has no money for a tip and he feels bad,he tells Fonda he has a lottery ticket and if he wins he'll split the winnings with her. When he does indeed win he honors his promise to Fonda, a woman he's met for all of a few minutes, much to the dismay of his wife who wants all the money. So she decides to divorce him and try to keep all the money for herself.Of coarse, the cop and the waitress start to fall in love but I wouldn't call this just a typical romantic comedy-It is a beautiful tale of integrity, decency and kindness of spirit.I'm not going to go into what happens to Cage and Fonda as they go through both good times and very very low times. I will say that Karma figures a lot into this story-how Cage and Fonda are ultimately paid back for what they give up is gloriously poignant and I also love the scene where Cage first tells Fonda that she's a millionaire-and her gradual realization that he's telling her the truth.The characters are very well acted, Perez will make you absolutely hate her, Fonda's character is so real I wanted to take a ride to her restaurant when the movie was over and grab lunch-she is very good in this-as is Cage as the kindly hardworking cop. The way the story is narrated is great and the last couple of scenes are some of the most heartwarming I've ever seen.This movie, I think will have the ability to make even the toughest person cry. Is this based on a true story as is said in the beginning?Maybe, maybe not but truth or fiction, the fact remainsthis is one darn good movie! "},{"Title":"Good one","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie some time ago, and I really enjoyed it.  It`s simple, nice, romantic, at times sad, and isn't that what life's about? Things and circumstances change, but the personality should remain, and the hope also.  It shows a straightforward cop, a nice waitress and a posesive and nasty wife. I liked the story, I liked the acting of Cage and the lovely Bridget Fonda.  She's cute. Good movie, I recommend it. See ya around. "}{"Title":"Cage and Fonda Deliver Nice Performances in This Nice Film.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Heart-warming little comedy that uses old Hollywood tactics to tell a fairy tale story that works really well on the big screen. New York cop Nicolas Cage does not have a tip for diner waitress Bridget Fonda so promises to split his earnings if he wins the state's lottery. Amazingly he does win. His share is $4 million and true to his word he gives half to Fonda to wife's Rosie Perez's dismay. Perez is the boss in a loveless marriage. Cage and Fonda then start to fall in love with each other and Perez decides to divorce Cage just out of spite and try to get the entire $4 million for herself. A really beautiful romantic film that works due to quiet, but highly effective performances by Cage and Fonda. Perez steals every scene here and the film's good screenplay makes it a nice success. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Basic human decency.","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On the face of it, It could happen to you could be regarded by cynics as a load of romantic slush, but it's far from that, and made even better because It could happen to you is based on a true story, and I, with my wife, enjoyed every minute of it.To start with every time she and I think of Nicholas Cage this is the film that comes to mind, in fact in our view Nicholas Cage has done nothing to equal this wonderfully beautiful and just plain nice film, since.Nicholas Cage could have been born a New York cop, because in this film he is the image of how I see the perfect cop, and this perfect cop goes through hell following a lottery win he promises to share with a waitress played by the wonderful Bridget Fonda even before he buys the ticket. Bridget Fonda excels as the hard working, hard done by Waitress whom Nicholas Cage meets up with in the cafe she works.This film is a miniature Its a wonderful life because it gives people hope, and if tears aren't in your eyes at the end, then you are just not human. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies of all time!","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Could be considered to have spoilers!!!!Its not Hitchcock, great. Its not Casablanca or Gone with the wind, great. The cinematography is nothing special, nor is the acting. The characters are cartoonishly simplistic.But the story is so special, so rich in the depiction of the poverty of the wife, and the riches of the waitress, even as she is filing bankruptcy. Brings tears to my eyes.In the quotes sectionYvonne Biasi Because of me, you have nothing. Charlie Lang Because of you, I have you.And the ending, on both sides.......simply couldn't be better. So if you need a hug, this is the movie equivalent. "},{"Title":"Why Good Things Occasionally Happen To Good People","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1954 Garson Kanin, George Cukor, and Judy Holliday made a delightful comedy/social satire called IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU, regarding the difference between earned fame and celebrity in mid-century New York City. Four decades later the issues of celebrity and it's pitfalls were returned to in this similarly titled film starring Nicholas Cage, Bridget Fonda, Rosie Perez, and Isaac Hayes. Again a comedy, IT COULD HAPPEN TO YOU is not about how fake celebrity is quickly achieved (as Holliday does it by renting a billboard and plastering her name and face on it for all New York to see), but how rival agendas can cross and fight over the rights to that celebrity.Cage is a good natured cop in New York City in 1994. He is, unfortunately for himself, married to Perez who is apparently a fun loving decent wife (and a hair dresser). Cage has purchased a lottery ticket at Perez's insistent (she's always gambling), and he goes to his favorite diner for dinner. Fonda is a waitress there, and despite salary (and tips) has just filed for bankruptcy. Cage is about to leave the diner after eating, but has no money as a tip - so he leaves half of the lottery ticket as a tip for her (he thinks there is no harm in it). Unfortunately that ticket wins a four million dollar prize, and half of that is two million. Cage and Fonda are both quite happy with this, as Fonda now can avoid being bankrupt, and can settle her debts. Perez at first is happy too, but greed slowly surfaces in her personality. She always was more forceful than Cage was, but now she sees a chance to shine in high society. And soon this begins to mingle with a growing jealousy of just how friendly Cage and Fonda are (or is Perez actually building up grounds to push Cage away from that huge sum of money too). Watching over this is Hayes, as one of moviedom's angels among us. He is narrating the story, and acts as a final kind of deus ex ma-china towards the end to settle the tale.IT COULD HAPPEN TO YOU is a fantasy - unless you do believe in angels like Hayes (and why shouldn't you?). All the performers are good, in particular Perez who probably got her signature role as the selfish, pretentious wife here. While IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU had more social criticism in it (after all, how many people win lotteries), this is a fitting follow up comedy.Now if only some clever script writer could write a third comedy called IT WOULD HAPPEN TO YOU! "},{"Title":"'40s-style romantic-comedy fairy tale","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It Could Happen To You reminds me so much of a genuine 1940's-era romantic comedy, I was surprised when checking the older movies of the same title that none of them appeared to be the original. Lots of movies try for that feel (Nora Ephron's work coming to mind), but rarely do it justice.For one thing, in a true old-fashioned New York romantic fairy tale, it helps to have an actor character; here we've got two, the wonderful co-hero Bridget Fonda as the poor kid from the sticks who comes to Broadway with stars in her eyes, only to be kicked around by life so steadily that, when we meet her, she's nearly ready to give up; and her evil spouse, the co-villain Stanley Tucci, absolutely brilliant in his small role as the parasite who uses what little acting talent he has to manipulate his moral betters into giving him whatever he wants.It also helps for the villains to be complete caricatures. Stanley Tucci as noted chews scenery like he chews Macademia nuts. Rosie Perez plays here the only role she, with her particular voice and mannerisms, could ever play well - the over-the-top money-grubbing self-absorbed shrew. I too want to hit the mute button every time I start to see her mouth move - except that, like a good old-fashioned '40s style flick, the dialog pops too quickly for that to be effective - but we have to give the devil her due, she does exactly what the role calls for.Tossing in Seymour Cassel and Red Buttons is a dead giveaway to the old-fashioned aspirations of the film - the former, smooth as silk-styled polyester; the latter, a comically under-qualified dime-store shyster in awe over the view and the genuine leather chairs in his adversaries' conference room (whose first piece of advice to Charlie should have been, spend some of that lotto money and hire a *real* lawyer!).And there's another old-fashioned element here, common in the best (imho) of the '40s-era romantic comedies - class-consciousness. The villains are both motivated by greed and selfishness, Rosie Perez in particular explicitly resenting her husband's incessant blue-collar honesty and decency, and wishing he were corrupt so at least she could live like the spoiled princess she is at heart; her hell is to be taken in by her own greed, vanity and philistinism (as fed by Cassel); Tucci's hell, as an unsuccessful actor, is to be stuck in a job where your customers can't even see your face. The protagonists are both, on the other hand, all about doing the right thing. He's the good cop who carries blind men across the street and plays big brother to the kids on the block, and she's as described above. I disagree with one reviewer above (from across the pond) who said they were too sweet; on the contrary, as proclaimed by Fonda (of Cage, but it stands for both of them), they're not saints, just honest, decent, regular people, just like the rest of us (only better). All four wind up working regular jobs; but the villains hate it, wishing to have everything handed to them, while the heroes choose it, enjoying the feeling of being useful, of putting in at least as much as they take out. Good old-fashioned proletarian values. And in the end, the big hero, who rescues our two heroes in their moment of defeat and despair, is the large and diverse working class of New York City (noted by their many neighborhoods and ethnicities), inspired by the omnipresent narrator Isaac Hayes to show that those values are not unique to these two, but are shared by all. They decided that these two really *did* deserve to win the lottery, and in $5s and $10s paid their lottery ticket money for the week direct to them. "},{"Title":"Everything clicks for Nick in the Bronx","Date":"22 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was a box office hit when it came out in 1994. And for good reason. Everything gels perfectly in It Could Happen to You. Start with a very good story, create an excellent script, choose the right cast members, and voilà! Of course, it's never that easy or automatic. To start with, for all its expertise in film-making, Hollywood often can't tell how a film will go over with the public. I wonder if the industry isn't so engrossed in its professional business (all aspects, from acting, directing, writing, stories, marketing, etc.), that it can't accurately read the public pulse. Many times, films that were supposed to be big hits have been big flops; while many more times, second string films score big with audiences. While a film like It Could Happen to You may seem to be a safe bet, it doesn't fit solidly in a category that usually scores. It's not quite a chick flick, and it's not a full fledged romantic comedy. It has some drama with a small amount of action. And, it is packed with morality and morals, however subdued they may seem. So, with all that, I'm betting that the producers smiled and breathed a sigh of relief when this one broke out of the gates and captured large audiences and a hefty box office take. I won't give away any of the plot here. This is one that people should watch without knowing the key plot points. As I said, the story was excellent. It's about decency, kindness and generosity on one side, and greed, selfishness, and dishonesty on the other side. It's also among Nicolas Cage's best performances. This was before he developed a character person that pauses and looks confused. The rest of the cast excel as well. It's a very fun and fulfilling movie about a nice love story, made all the more so because it's encased in proper behavior. While this story is totally fictional, it might have been inspired by a real incident. In the 1980s, a New York cop and a waitress won $6 million on a lottery ticket that they split &#x96; each picking half the numbers. "},{"Title":"The best Nicolas Cage movie ever!","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is my second review of this wonderful and true story movie. And this is the best movie Nicholas Cage has ever made.Bridget Fonda is also superb in this film. Her performance is outstanding.The premise is simple, a New York Cop gives a waitress in a nearby Cafe half his lottery win as a promise he made when he could not tip her last time he came in the café.The resulting events churn the stomach, but they are meant to. I've seen this movie twice, I could see it again anytime. There is something about the film that takes you in, time and time again. And it's not truly obvious what it is.If anybody reading this can tell me of a similar movie, I would like to know. Email me at, michaelt2702085@yahoo.co.uk "},{"Title":"Charming and cute feel-good movie","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" What a lovely little film. Mind you, I didn't see this until fairly recently, and when I did see it, I was glad I did so. It Could Happen to You was nice, charming and cute. There are a couple of moments that drag in the middle but that is the only thing really I could find to criticise. What It Could Happen to You is is a film that tries to be charming and succeeds.What I loved about this movie was that it has a lovely, sweet tone to it. This is complete with a nice story and plenty of lovely scenes such as when Charlie and Yvonne miss the boat and spend time together. Then It Could Happen to You has a wonderful soundtrack, striking scenery and efficient direction. And the acting is very good. Both the characters of Charlie and Yvonne are down-to-earth, sympathetic characters, and Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda both do wonderful jobs. Even better is Rosie Perez, admittedly Muriel is a character you love to hate and my impression was you were supposed to hate her, but Perez's performance was deliciously bitchy and delightful.Overall, a lovely film, very charming. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"This is definitely a movie worth seeing!","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is such a cute movie! I love how the characters-Yvonne and Charlie, win the lottery yet remain the same as they were before winning. They're still kind and selfless and I have to admire that. This is definitely a movie worth seeing. The acting is very good, I'm very impressed. I just don't know how Charlie married Muriel! They are totally different people. You have Muriel who wouldn't dare give money to a homeless man instead she would buy something for herself whereas Charlie is the complete opposite. Others come first and I think that's a lesson learned. The plot of this movie is so positive and so uplifting! I just love it! Charlie's character reminds me a bit of George Bailey from 'It's A Wonderful Life', another movie that I categorize into my favorites. So yes, you can say this is a positive review. "},{"Title":"Yvonne Because of me you have nothing.","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In the shadow of selfish greed unselfish sharing. As example the movie It Could Happen to You (realitybased http//www.snopes.com/luck/lottery.htm; Cunningham, a thirty-year police veteran, was a regular diner at Sal's, where he liked to order linguine with clam sauce and maintain a steady flow of banter with Penzo, other employees, and regular customers. True to his lighthearted style, Cunningham was making a sort of joke on Friday evening, March 30, 1984, when he offered his favorite waitress an unusual tip a half-interest in a lottery ticket. Each picked three of the six numbers; Cunningham walked across the street and bought their ticket. Penzo laughed, then forgot the incident until the next night, when the detective walked into Sal's Pizzeria after work with the winning ticket triumphantly clutched in his hand. It was worth six million dollars three million for each of them. Cunningham, who ordinarily might have left a couple of dollars on the restaurant table, had no regrets about splitting the prize. After all, he says, Penzo helped pick the winning numbers). The movie balances Capras It's a wonderful life. It Could Happen to You is hollywoodfun. Reported by NYT 3 April 1984 it is framed as a New York Post fairy tale, as the 'Cinde-fucking-rella' Pretty Womans promised fairy tale. The photographer Angel Dupree narrates the seven chapters 1. Cop gives waitress 2 $ M tip, 2. Lotto Robin Hood, 3. A night at the Plaza &#x96; Lotto Love, 4. The trial begins, 5. Lotto & waitress lost, 6. Their darkest hour and &#x96; after the first three minutes we know the happy ending 7. Cop weds waitress. Foolish peoples 'silly' but good ideas are often responded by jealous greed and to want more, more and more. The naive good is luckily hidden behind the screaming selfish 'Muriels'. When finally Muriel is unable to take more of her husbands sharing style wants divorce, happy for his A night at the Plaza Lotto Love with his waitress. She wants not only his share of the lottery tip, also the promised away. But here she has crossed for Charlie the line. Charlie goes to court The trial begins and the verdict The cop & waitress lost. The average rule to get everything, everything must be lost is part of this fairy tale. Keep falsehood and lies far from me; give me neither poverty nor riches, but give me only my daily bread, Proverbs 308. Attached the/a winning lottery ticket is the disappointment of all those who have bought a lottery ticket and lost, infecting the winner. The good example for this is Muriels sky rocking greed &#x96; and Charlie's lack to be infected, falling into the tempting trap. Charlie and soul mate Yvonne have the sharing in the backbone (as childpractised by the founder of the Camphill Movement Karl König 1902-1966 and showed to the staff for the disabled, among them dear friend Stefan Engqvist 1942-1980 (send to by food but gave the money to the needed in front of the store). When still in charge of the 'infected' money, Charlie and Yvonne try to balance with warm deeds paying for the train journeys of passengers of the subway, treating the children of his neighborhood to a day out at Yankee Stadium, small gifts here and there unnoticed. And fail. When all is lost (Yvonne Because of me you have nothing, exclaims the waitress) the as a poor customer disguised photographer Angel asks at the Café the couple for a bowl of soup. The published photos in the next day's New York Post publicly eulogizes their willingness to feed a hungry and poor man in Their darkest hour. Their generosity is answered by the citizens of New York City thousands of letters with tips are send to them. This warm gesture is the answer why the screaming Michelle had the law with her. The verdict (above the judge are the words In God we trust) tells that Gods ways are unpredictable not know but understandable then. The cop and the waitress had to win and to loose &#x96; getting everything. The 'Angel' Dupree and the 'angels' in Wim Wenders movie Wings of Desire help humans when they are able to contact their own angel, the child within. Some hear and listen, some not the screaming environment is too loud. Muriel screams and can't. But Charlie can. But was he really good all the way? When offering Yvonne the choice Twice the tip amount, or half the lottery, if he won? Charlie was tempted for a moment, forgetting what he stands for. So Yvonne, tempted by choosing the infected lottery tip. But as sharing is their second nature, they woke up, avoiding in the last second deceiving corruption. Charlie's decision to go to court remembered him to be put back on track. Not a few remember and do not listen &#x85; give me neither poverty nor riches, but give me only my daily bread, Proverbs 308. "}{"Title":"A Cute Film with Wonderful Performances...","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'It Could Happen to You' is the sort of film, that touches the core of your heart. Its a cute film, with wonderful performances. 'It Could Happen to You' Synopsis A police officer promises to share his lottery ticket with a waitress in lieu of a tip.'It Could Happen to You', which is inspired by a real-life incident, is a feel-good romantic-comedy, about people who are in need of money & love. Its entirely & unabashedly a human-story, that displays romance & life's usual hiccups with earnestness.Jane Anderson's Screenplay is well-balanced. It has its share of humor & romance. Andrew Bergman's Direction is excellent. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design are fair.Performance-Wise Nicolas Cage is wonderful, as always. Bridget Fonda is beautifully restrained, offering a performance of pure emotion. Rosie Perez is extra-ordinary. She slips into her character effortlessly. Wendell Pierce is first-rate. Stanley Tucci & Richard Jenkins are decent. The Late/Great Isaac Hayes leaves a mark. On the whole, 'It Could Happen to You' works. Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Lethargic and Overly Sweet","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It's hard to believe that the man who wrote Blazing Saddles and The In-Laws and wrote and directed The Freshman could put together such a lethargic, overly sweet fairy tale of a supposed romantic comedy.  What happened, Andrew Bergman?!  This film has none of the great energy and imagination of the other films and very little of the comedy.  And how do you make such a cutesy movie about a cop and a waitress from New York F-cking City?  They don't act like any cop or waitress I've ever encountered here.  Cage seems tired throughout most of the film, and an intriguing cast - Cassel, Perez, Tucci, and Issac Hayes! - is surprisingly disappointing.  The blame has to go to the writer.  Only Fonda seems to have much presence here, but she's stuck in the wrong film.  It Could Happen to You isn't a terrible film, it's just hard to believe it came from the pen of Andrew Bergman, though looking at his credits post The Freshman, maybe it's not so surprising after all.  Those who like the safe suburban schmaltz of Sleepless in Seattle will probably enjoy it.  If you want the tiniest bit of edge and zing, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Modern-Day Capra","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The actual story behind the highly fictionalized movie script could have made a really good movie. According to the urban legend website Snopes, the real events involved a not-so-young waitress and a not-so-young police detective who together select the winning numbers to a $6 million jackpot. There was no hint of romance between the two. But that would be too open-ended for the cookie cutter mentalities behind this movie. They must have went into a conference room or a lunch room or a diner and derived this formulaic romance between two unhappily married people.Their result was this plot bringing together a Prince Charming, a Cinderella, a the Wicked Witch of New York. But they forget to include a nice dramatic flow of events. I just didn't experience any peaks and very little emotional depth. In the end, I wasn't satisfied.At least Nicholas Cage makes the most of the opportunity to be normal and charming rather than quirky and charming (one of his first such efforts). He gives the movie whatever depth it attains. Pretty Bridge Fonda gives her usual quiet, unexciting performance. They're responsible for most of the positive rating I give this movie.Rosie Perez, unfortunately, overwhelms the entire proceedings with nasally witchiness. And that's not the memory I want to take away from a movie.Overall, it is a decent movie, a nice romantic comedy that ends happily ever after. This is a story to watch to put someone in a good mood.... it's just basically a very good movie... and it's worth watching.Overall rating 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"the sweetest characters","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Yvonne Biasi (Bridget Fonda) is an aspiring actress gone bankrupt. Charlie (Nicolas Cage) is a NY city beat cop and his wife Muriel Lang (Rosie Perez) is desperate to get out of their one bedroom apartment in Queens. He's eating lunch at a diner with his partner Bo Williams (Wendell Pierce). With no money for the tip, he promises to split his lottery ticket with her and come back with a tip if it doesn't win. The jackpot is $64 million. Muriel is angry to split the jackpot with 15 other tickets but then Charlie tells her about Yvonne. Charlie pities Yvonne and gives her a choice between double the tip or half of the ticket. However, the money isn't what brings happily ever after.It's a very sweet premise with nothing too risky. It depends a lot on the actors to make this straight romance work. Bridget is classic and Nick is restrained. They are sweeter than molasses. Rosie is as loud as heck and an annoying villain. It's a simple romantic fable that hits most of the right notes. This could have been made by Frank Capra himself. "},{"Title":"Messy schmuck-a-rama; oh dear!!","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Seriously, where did this rubbish come from? January is non-ratings time here in Australia so you can end up with pretty much anything on tele.. some programmer from channel 10 decided to dish this up on Saturday night... mmmmmm.. Nauseatingly sweet plot, badly acted by a cast who should have known better in the first place. There were a number of similar schmuck parts Nicolas Cage played in this part of his career which were equally horrible (and forgettable), hence I am not a fan... at all. Except for Con Air... Racist and condescending the way the bad people (eg the wife) are not blonde-haired Caucasian with perfect teeth and accents.. A couple of hours of my life I will never get back.. "},{"Title":"It Could Happen to Cage.","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It Could Happen to You (1994) Dir Andrew Bergman / Cast Nicolas Cage, Bridget Fonda, Rosie Perez, Seymour Cassel, Isaac Hayes Enjoyable romantic comedy about sudden change within a routine lifestyle. It stars Nicolas Cage as a cop who is devoted to serving others. Bridget Fonda plays a waitress struggling to make a living. The plot regards a lottery ticket Cage promises to split with Fonda if he wins. His wife will take him to court for his generosity. Interesting concept subdued by formula and an ill handling of adultery. Directed by Andrew Bergman with the same theme of chance conduct in his The Freshman and Honeymoon in Vegas. Cage and Fonda are likable actors who survive material where they become consumed in romantic clichés where it seems as if their relationship makes it okay for adultery. With the negative survival rate of marriages today it might be refreshing to see one actually portrayed as salvageable within motion pictures. On the flip side Rosie Perez as Cage's materialistic wife is a steal in her vindictive methods that eventually defeat her. Seymour Cassel has a standout role as someone who eventually stoops lower by overtaking the selfish. Isaac Hayes plays a poor man who becomes the ticket to happiness when generosity is demonstrated. It isn't a big role but it serves its purpose well. Theme regards giving, which the lottery cannot buy. Score 7 / 10 "},{"Title":"An 'Andrew Bergman' film which suggests that it could happen to you only if you are a true human being !! Watch this film to know what this it is all about !!!!","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" American film It could happen to you has the ability to drain its viewers emotionally. It can be said that while watching this film, audiences are going to forge different love and hate relationships with this film's actors. Those who believe in goodness above everything else would love roles played by actors Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda. Those who place money above all human relationships would love actress Rosie Perez's character. However, most people would agree that due to her cacophonous voice, her character is reduced to that of an obnoxious woman who appears quite reprehensible on most occasions. Time and again, it is said that altruism and goodness have not yet disappeared from the hearts of human beings. This is depicted through the honest yet poignant portrayal of a kind cop who decides to share a lottery ticket with an ordinary waitress. One can sense that there is some kind of ethical code at work when he agrees to keep his promise despite some serious reservations from his wife. For a long time, audiences have associated Nicolas Cage with glamor and show business. This film reveals that he is an important actor too. He would continue to deliver another fine performance in 1999 when he would star in Bringing out the dead-a Martin Scorcese film about an ambulance paramedic. "},{"Title":"Finally a movie that makes you feel good","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is a movie of good taste and true life. The story, set in New York, has a fairy tale charm to it that delivers so well that you start to believe it to the point of feeling the emotions of the characters. From laughing to crying to hating to loving, this movie has all the emotions you could expect from the perfect film. I was, surprisingly, extremely happy with the choice of watching this movie, and it turned out to now be one of my favorites. Unlike many other films of the genre, this movie does not once get boring or slow... the pace is always just right and the scenes never tire. Overall, this movie is sure to make you feel good about humanity, people, yourself, and life. I would recommend this movie 100% and hope you give it a chance. You will not be disappointed! "},{"Title":"It Could Happen to You is a Real Sweet Film","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It was some many years before I ever got around to watching this lovely film, but as I've seen it multiple times in the last five years or so, now I hold it dear as one of the fonder movies. It has such a real decency to it. It's realistic display of depicting a very kind gesture, sharing millions of lottery winnings money with a complete stranger, makes it simultaneously edgy while homely. It Could Happen to You is a soft-spoken hit film. There's not a lot of fuss to how good it is, it's just there, and it's just good. It's lead by its acting, with such good actors and actresses. Nicolas Cage, Bridget Fonda, and Rosie Perez are all very good for the viewing. I really like all three of these movie stars. This is one of Nic Cage's more appreciative films, and he has so darn many. Bridget Fonda gives a good, lovely performance starring in one of her best, most memorable movies. Rosie Perez is so good and she's doing her best to try to steal the show, but there's no way she would have been able to. The beautiful growing relationship between Charlie and Yvonne is too good in It Could Happen to You. It Could Happen to You is a great, great, great film to get lost in, really good to lose yourself in for a time. It's wonderful, and it really makes you think. After all, it could happen to you. "},{"Title":"Feels Good.  Yum Yum.","Date":"21 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It resembles one of those movies out of Hollywood in the 1930s, with people like Jean Arthur and Jimmy Stewart. It's a light-hearted comedy that warms the cockles of your heart, if your heart has any cockles at all.Nicholas Cage is a police officer who lives in Woodside, Queens, with his wife Rosie Perez. She'd love to get out of Queens but Cage has grown up there and rather likes the working class ambiance. He likes his job too. She's restless. They don't have too much to say to one another anymore, although that doesn't stop Rosie Perez from talking.One afternoon, Cage and his partner (an affable African-American) stop in a luncheonette for coffee. Bridget Fonda, who has just run out of money and declared bankruptcy that morning, is their waitress. Her caddish husband, Stanley Tucci, maxed out their credit cards and took off on her. She's a nice girl. Well, I mean, she treats guys with AIDS with special consideration, obeys her mean boss's orders to the best of her ability, is efficient, and he co-workers like her.When Cage tries to pay the bill, he realizes he doesn't have enough change to leave her a tip. Cage gives Fonda a choice Double the tip tomorrow, or no tip at all but half his winnings in case he wins the New York State lottery. She's been so battered by life that she chooses door number two, figuring nothing will come of either choice.Of course something does come of it. Life is a bed of pain but sometimes the maid leaves a bonbon on the pillow case. Cage wins four million bucks. And he's such a good guy that he honors his promise to Fonda to give her half of it -- much to the chagrin of his wife who, at this point, has begun to sound like a yapping little chihuahua.Perez gets into re-doing their apartment in a manner so ugly that even I -- who live in what looks like the reincarnation of an Egyptian whorehouse from 1910 -- noticed its ugliness. She buys expensive furs and has her boobs done, and she takes up with an older guy who knows how to make her money work for her.I leave it to the discerning viewer to guess what happens between nice Bridget Fonda and nice Nicholas Cage. I also leave it to the viewer to guess whether the two of them find that money is far from the most important thing in life.Nicholas Cage usually brings something interesting to his roles, and here he's at least believable in a part that -- let's face facts -- is essentially a challenge to our phenomenological reduction. A New York cop who loves Queens and won't quit his job no matter what. Bridget Fonda is an exceptionally attractive woman with rather broad, bony shoulders, a nice figure, and legs that slither when she walks, but this isn't her kind of part. She's not a New York waitress. She's a California surfer girl who doesn't know what we achieved independence from on July 4th. She thinks Independence Day is just an excuse for fireworks and parades.Stanley Tucci, as the manipulative husband, isn't around much but I can't think of a performance of his that I haven't admired. The rest of the supporting cast is pretty good.But now I've had time to rethink things. In that hypothetical 1930s movie? Delete Jean Arthur. She whines too much. Substitute Rosalind Russell, who is better at being driven to frenzy. "}{"Title":"A strong moral upbringing and a heart of gold may just land you in a small slump","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sometimes, a film comes subtly by and sweeps you off your feet. That's exactly the case with It Could Happen to You, a sweet, serene comedy that avoids emotional manipulation and gooey sentimentality currently plagued by many romantic comedies. This is a wholesome exercise involving great characters, a charming cast, a funny, kind-hearted script, and a delightful ode to human nature.I'm starting to loosen my grip around Nicolas Cage. Perhaps I have been relying too much on his current films to judge him as a whole. The last three films I've seen by him, this, Leaving Las Vegas, and Vampire's Kiss, were surprisingly well done, and he played a big reason why. Cage plays a New York cop named Charlie Lang, a soft-spoken, everyman with a big heart and a good moral upbringing. His wife is the ditzy, controlling diva from hell, Muriel, played efficiently by Rosie Perez. They live a humble life in the Queens, which Charlie likes, but Muriel despises.One day, Charlie and his cop partner go into a small diner where they meet Yvonne Biasi (Fonda), a hard-luck waitress who is enduring a hell day after she has been informed her credit card debt is $12,000 thanks to her unruly husband. Unable to grant her a tip, Charlie, whom bought a lottery ticket for his greedy wife earlier, says that if he wins the lottery he'll give half his earnings to her.It turns out Charlie and Muriel win $4 million dollars. It would've been a greater amount, but a bowling team gets an extra percentage since they chose the same numbers. Conflict emerges when Muriel believes that Yvonne is unworthy of the $2 million, or any amount. Charlie does the right thing, keeping his promise and awarding Yvonne $2 million. Inevitably, we can see what will happen, but the film does a great job of getting us to the expected conclusion.And sometimes, with a capable cast, a worthy script, and a nice sense of direction, a cliché story can be told like a surprising one. Not to mention, It Could Happen to You goes beyond its rom-com nature to tell a fascinating story about great characters, who are morally strong, yet are brought down in value by materialistic louses who want everything handed to them. Charlie seems like the man who deserves a good life, but instead, is always controlled and one-upped by his wife who expects him to bring home a hefty paycheck and be supportive of everything she brings up (case in point, a breast augmentation). Yvonne is beautiful, yet is leached off of by her lackadaisical husband who, again, expects her to put up with everything he puts down.These are characters we can truly side with. Some of them may be us and some of the villains may be people we know, and the film does a great job of illustrating that. The film doesn't over-exaggerate certain points just to do so. Although the story occupies a slight inkling of contrivance, the whole concept isn't entirely implausible. I've been told that this was a true story, and it bares a resemblance to those random acts of kindness stories you read in the tabloids. The film, itself, cracked my inner-cynic and made me feel warmer than any other romantic comedy in a long time. How many films could you truly say that about? Starring Nicolas Cage, Bridget Fonda, Rosie Perez, Wendell Pierce, Isaac Hayes, and Stanley Tucci. Directed by Andrew Bergman. "},{"Title":"put a smile on your face","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  After a pretty awful week I sat down and watched this film with a bowl of popcorn.By the next day I was smiling at strangers in the street and humming 'young at heart.'This film is magic.  Its the third best cure for a bad mood I can think of, next to falling in love or someone giving you half their lottery money. "},{"Title":"Amiable yet simplistic","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Andrew Bergman's amiable yet simplistic fairytale presents us with likable heroes and despicable villains, but no real substance and too much stereotype.Casting flavour of the month Nicholas Cage with the sexy yet coquettish Bridget Fonda, It Could Happen to You could hardly miss. Back this move up with Rosie Perez as the bitch from hell and you've got a winning combination. Where the pic fails is in the writing.The screenplay from Jane Anderson delivers a weak moral tale telling how the love of money is the root of all evil. Yet the bad ole bad guys end up with nothing, while the good guys who don't crave money end up with lots of it. Possibly sweet justice but hardly a lesson in life. Secondly, Anderson has created characters that are either too nasty or too nice to be true. Lastly, she has tried one too many coincidences on us. Really, this true story should never have been filmed.Friday, September 12, 1997 - T.V. "},{"Title":"Just watch it, OK?","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you ever feel a little down and think the rest of the world is out to get you, watch this. Easy to watch, predictable at every step and enough eye candy for every gender & orientation. Bridget, Hmmm... You can keep Nick.Rosie Perez shows up a mean streak I'd be afraid to show if an actor, so all the more credit to her. Let's see her in a role we can fancy her for, as she looks great. Kudos for the monster she plays this time!No spoilers. Just a recommendation to keep this on your must watch if you haven't seen it yet. If you don't like it you rate beyond my Stone Heart score and there is no hope for you. Forget the analytical reviews and have some fun with a story about human goodness.Juan & Scratch (his Ninja guard cat) "},{"Title":"I'd only change one thing.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A genuinely uplifting and funny film.I wish they had not claimed that this was based on a true story.  With this comment, my enjoyment of the movie was marred by the nagging thought that this could never have happened.Much better to think of this film as a fairytale pure fantasy.  On that level it really works. "},{"Title":"Feel good fun at its best...Capra would have been so proud.","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Policeman Charlie Lang (Nicolas Cage) is an all round good guy. He is inherently honest, good natured, kind, decent and an upstanding pillar of the local community. He lives in a small apartment in Queens with his wife Muriel, and is overly content with what he has, who he is and where he is going in life.Muriel (Rosie Perez) on the other hand, feels trapped, poor and feels that there must be more to life than to be huddled in a broom cupboard apartment, constantly strapped for cash whilst married to a saintly cop. She is sly, ambitious, spiteful and greedy. In short the anti-Charlie.Yvonne Biasi (Bridget Fonda) is a struggling actress who now separated from her husband, eeks out a small living as a waitress to help pay off the astronomical debts he has run up in her name, which as our story opens has forced her to file for bankruptcy. She like Charlie, is an honest and decent sort who helps others when she can no matter what it costs (i.e giving poor and sick customers free food at her own ill afforded expense.)When Charlie and Yvonne first meet, Charlie, unable to stretch to a tip, offers her half of his lotto winnings should his ticket prove lucky. Guess what happens next!With The Langs now $4 million richer, Charlie in keeping with his honest good guy routine keeps his promise and tips Yvonne her promised $2million, much to the annoyance of his wife and much to the interest of the city press who take the lucky threesome to their hearts crowning them their new celebrities.As the money starts to widen the rift between the chalk and cheese Charlie and Muriel, it seems to be having the opposite effect on Charlie and Yvonne, who attracted by their similar values and morals slowly start to fall in love. They have a wail of a time treating the slum kids to a baseball game in a major stadium, and treat the entire population of the New York community to their journey home on the subway.Again such actions lead to major press attention for both Charlie and Yvonne, which spurns ambitious Muriel to do what she has always wanted to do.Muriel files for divorce and claims back all the money, including Yvonnes half, leaving the two new lovers penniless and blackened in the eyes of the press, he as the erring two-timer and she as the gold digging beauty content with breaking up a happy marriage for her own financial gain.But when the public are presented with evidence that Charlie and Yvonne's relationship is in fact true love and that their recent ordeal has done nothing to extinguish their feelings and obligations towards other more needy people, they are taken to their hearts once again and present with a life changing tip, donated by the people of America, for just being the kind of people they themselves wished they had time to be.This is without doubt a fantastic film, although it does lose points on the fact that in real life such different characters such as Charlie and Muriel would never have been together in the first place.This is a modern Frank Capra classic, and despite the fact that this was made fifty years after Capra's feel good heyday the comparisons are hard to ignore.The film contains all the elements of Capra classics, and pretty much presents them as a montage of Capra's collected works.We have the upstanding decent human being who is suddenly the proud receiver of a substantial financial fortune (Mr. Deeds Goes to Town.)A man content to use his money and influence, to help the needy and highlight the plight of the poor. (Meet John Doe.)A Man whose unswerving sense of right and honour is questioned and then ridiculed to such an extent he has to defend it publicly in court. (Mr. Smith goes to Washington.)A man who's warm generous spirit and decency touches the hearts of the masses that they all chip in to help at the end. (It's a Wonderful Life.)If any one of the aforementioned Capra gems touched your heart, then this film, that combines so many, will leave you dizzy and emotional for a week.If only people such as Longfellow Deeds, Jefferson Smith, George Bailey, Charlie Lang and Yvonne Biasi actually existed, the world need not have anything to fear.An Excellent Movie and a surprisingly successful adaptation to the modern world, of a genre of film they just don't make anymore. "},{"Title":"It Could Happen to You","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I didn't realise that this Frank Capra like titled film from director Andrew Bergman (Honeymoon in Vegas, Striptease) was based on a true story, so I was certainly going to try it. Basically New York police officer Charlie Lang (Nicolas Cage) has a heart of gold, and when unable to give coffee shop waitress Yvonne Biasi (Bridget Fonda), he promises to give either the tip or half his lottery winnings, if he wins, to her the next day. Unbelievably, Charlie and his wife Muriel (Rosie Perez) do win the lottery jackpot, sharing $4,000,000 with seven other winners, and of course Charlie still wants to stick to the promise he made to Yvonne. Muriel of course is mad that he made this promise in the first place, and is sticking to it, and Yvonne is shocked to be given $2,000,000. Over time, Muriel is demanding a divorce from Charlie, wanting the full cash settlement, plus what he gave to Yvonne. It is when Charlie and Yvonne have fallen for each other, after the split, that they are both determined to win their case. They don't win the case to keep the $2,000,000, but in the end they get lots of the money back from generous senders who know they deserve to do something good with it. Also starring Wendell Pierce as Bo Williams, Isaac Hayes as Angel Dupree, Víctor Rojas as Jesu, Seymour Cassel as Jack Gross, Stanley Tucci as Eddie Biasi, J.E. Freeman as Sal Bontempo, Red Buttons as Walter Zakuto, Richard Jenkins as C. Vernon Hale and Robert Dorfman as Walter. Considering it is based on truth, this is a nice charming film with the romantic comedy theme, with Cage, Fonda and Perez all making top form performances. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"A wonderful happy feel good movie","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is perfect for making anyone in a good mood.  The actors illuminate the screen with their chemistry.  The characters are bright and fun to watch.  I recommend this movie to anyone who likes happy, fun, enjoyable movies. "},{"Title":"Pure candy...","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are one of those people who think a movie can actually make you feel good...YOU'RE RIGHT.This movie actually made my heart swell.  Embarrassing but true. The story is manipulative, but the acting makes up for it (with Perez incredibly believable as Cage's witchy woman).  See it. "},{"Title":"Anyone would like it","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  An honest, sweet fairy tale that is concise and heart-warming.Why it wasn't screened in Singapore, I don't know. Guess it was the Forrest Gump phenomenon. And I didn't even really enjoy Forrest Gump.It's a movie few would dislike. A wonderfully creative ending too.  "}{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked this movie. Terrific performance by Bridget Fonda. She looked really cute.  Fonda plays a waitress who's declared herself bankrupt before the angels finally smile down at her, and your average good guy appears in the form of Nicolas Cage. They fall in love and the rest, as they say, is history! Or is it?! You'll have to watch the movie to find out. One of the best releases in 94, It could happen to you is definitely going to leave you with a smile on your face. As I said earlier, Bridget Fonda was terrific, and Nicolas Cage wasn't too bad either. Check it out. "},{"Title":"Sweet funny morality/fairy tale","Date":"19 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sweet funny morality/fairy tale with wonderful performances from the two leads, some truly funny dialogue and a couple of hilarious one-liners. So nice to come across such a fresh upbeat old fashioned film. How come this was ignored at Oscar time while the overlong and overrated Forest Gump cleaned up. Go figure !!  "},{"Title":"A film that shows that decency still exists","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  At a time when we rush around and in many cases not see what is around us, we wonder what has happened to the nice, ordinary, caring and word keeping people. Then this picture comes along and we see that there are people that are nice, are hard workers, care about their fellow man and keep promises no matter what.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Outstanding","Date":"26 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie about a down on his luck cop and is brassy wife. Played by Nicholas Cage and Rosie Perez, these two characters come to life. One day, Nicholas Cage doesn't have enough money to tip the waitress, so he says he would give her half the winnings of his lottery ticket if he won or double the tip.  Well, he wins $4 million.  And decides to do the honest thing and give half to the waitress, beautifully played by Bridget Fonda.Anyway, they end up falling in love in a sweet and wonderful ending that is sure to put a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"A Rom Com With a Heartfelt Message That Money Can't Buy You Happiness, Or Love","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I am generally not a huge fan of Rom Com movies, but 'It Could Happen To You' is one of the best examples to grace from this genre.Before he hit the big time as an all- action movie star with hits such as 'Con Air', 'Face Off', Gone In 60 seconds' and 'National Treasure' to his resume, Nicolas Cage was making a name for himself in 'Raising Arizona', 'Leaving Las Vegas', 'Wild At Heat' and 'Moonstruck'- so called non-action adventure flicks. He also starred in this effort,'It Could Happen To You', in which he plays a cop with a heart of gold named Charlie who with his wife, wins the lottery. He then decides to donate some of his winnings to a waitress Yvonne, played by Bridget Fonda, alas Charlie's kind gesture eventually invokes the wrath of his moody and volatile wife, Muriel (Rosie Perez). Materialistic, selfish and incredibly vain and brash, she has a short fuse and temper that will no doubt get on people's nerves. Clearly obsessed with wealth, she also pays very little attention to other people's feelings. In particular, her husband's. Both Charlie and Yvonne are down-to-earth, sweet, honest hard-working people, who seem to be unaffected by what has happened. Of course, throughout the film we see the after affects that the wealth has on each of them, and thus, whilst this is of welcome relief to the people, it isn't long before the negative after effects set in and affect their personal lives. Alas, it is no sooner that Charlie and Yvonne's relationship suddenly breaks down, and thus this in turn leads to Charlie questioning his morals. Does money buy happiness? Does money buy love? Does Charlie want Yvonne to fall in love with him, simply because he is rich? The answer to all three is no; and when Charlie ends up losing all that money he had won, you would've thought at that stage Charlie and Yvonne's relationship will go downhill from then on. It doesn't- if anything it helps consummate and consolidate their relationship by drawing the pair closer to each other's hearts. And it is towards the end of the film where Charlie realises it isn't the money he is interested in, but in Yvonne, it is her-not Muriel as the two fall for each other towards the end.The performances are great, especially Rosie Perez. As much as I despise that character, she successfully made Muriel as horrible and dislikable as she could with a barnstorming portrayal of a gold-digging-type of villainess. Bridget Fonda shines too in the movie, and she gives a really noteworthy performance in a type of film that she isn't generally associated with; i.e romantic comedy. Nicolas Cage excels as usual, bringing charm and warmth to his role as he really turns on the magic.Unlike other Rom coms, this one isn't too sappy, but at the same time it maintains a standard within the cross genre, whilst emphasising an important social message which is encompassed within the narrative itself. 'It Could Happen To You' doesn't come across as being cheesy, cynical or cringing. The 'materialistic'element of the film seeks to highlight and stress how being rich can not only be the start of one's problems, but that it could also lead to one's problems that can, in turn, ultimately affect the lives of those around them. Whereas nowadays we live in an age where money talks, it is of worth to stress that for all that money, wealth, fame, talent etc, it is things like family, friends and love which grounds us and makes us whole as people that determine one's happiness.The main theme of this film is love, this is a Rom com film after all, but in Yvonne and Charlie, they are central to the film's main plot and narrative because whilst their experiences and personal and work lives differ from each other, their 'coming together' and consummation as a couple through the time they spend together and the experiences they encounter is what makes this film worth watching.It Could Happen To You offers an interesting-yet subtle take on the Rom com formula, without being too conventional, sappy and sentimental for its own good.Highly recommended.8 and a half out of ten "},{"Title":"A Movie Displaying Integrity","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a refreshing movie.  It deals with integrity when a human heart might say to do otherwise. Most people have been in situations where doing the right thing is clear, but do they do it?  See this movie. "},{"Title":"This fabulous film says a lot about positive character.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides the delightfully spirited writing, directing and acting, It Could Happen to You, placed me, as a viewer, to 'what if I were Charlie Lang, would I behave in his manner of honor? Since I teach youth, film, this movie gave me a wonderful opportunity to get 'kids' involved in the morals of the characters and 'what would you do if...?' conversations. There ought to be many more affirmative movies like this.      "},{"Title":"This fabulous film says a lot about positive character.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Besides the delightfully spirited writing, directing and acting, It Could Happen to You, placed me, as a viewer, to 'what if I were Charlie Lang, would I behave in his manner of honor? Since I teach youth, film, this movie gave me a wonderful opportunity to get 'kids' involved in the morals of the characters and 'what would you do if...?' conversations. There ought to be many more affirmative movies like this.      "},{"Title":"A nice relaxing movie to watch.","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nicolas Cage plays a New York City cop, and Bridget Fonda plays a waitress working in a diner. Cage comes short with a tip from his meal and promises Fonda with half of the earnings from lottery ticket. Cage's wife played by Rosie Perez told him not to give the money to Fonda. Cage does the honorable thing to give half the winnings to Fonda, but it is only the beginning. If you are sucker for romance, then this your movie. "},{"Title":"a tear in one eye, a laugh on the other and a smile","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  He (cop) is to good to be true, She's too dumb to be true (cosmetician) and the other she is too sweet to be true (waitress). All three protagonists are performed great by their respective actors. Outstanding performance by Bridget Fonda.Sure, the movie has its lengths, especially when you don't watch it for the first time. But then again, even after four years I remembered almost all of it.And the end, though in principle clear from the beginning, got a special touch which adds one more tear - and one more smile.Peaceful. I like it. "}{"Title":"Impossible-to-dislike romantic comedy","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Completely irrational. Highly implausible. Extremely exaggerated.And still, I cannot find a way to dislike it. Sometimes, you like it when a movie extracts precisely those bits of reality that you like, and emphasizes them.Some of the scenes are superfluous, and do not add to the overall storyline - but the main thread is simply charming, even if you're not a sucker for romantic comedies. I am not, so I can tell ;-) The characters are portrayed in such a way that you choose sides quickly - from the start of the movie, you know who's Good and who's Bad. But they are also portrayed in such a way that you stick around to support the Good Ones. And you're not disappointed. "},{"Title":"Annoying comedy","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rosie Perez plays the shrewish wife well beyond reasonable boundaries.  The movie trots out every nasty New York cliche in the book.  Nicholas Cage stumbles through the movie like Jackie Gleason's Poor Soul.On the plus side, Bridget Fonda scores well as the waitress whenever she is given the opportunity. Seymour Cassel is marvelous, stealing every scene in which he appears.But, it's too mean-spirited and trite for me to ever wish to see again. "},{"Title":"It Could Be Cynic-Proof","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Very underhanded, this one...I give it a 2 just for the sly craft.It's about buying a winning ticket (the ticket to the movie), and sharing the winnings (the feel-good message of the movie) with like-minded people; naturally, only the bad people (any critics of this movie) suffer consequences. The journalist (the movie's writer) is the prime mover. The couple lives happily ever after with a nice stipend (it posts a modest success at the box office).Other than that, it contributes a whole lot of nothing to the art of romance/comedy/date movies. If you want charm, see Moonstruck (it even features the once-capable Cage); if you want intelligence, try Eternal Sunshine... But this pottage really cannot be a vessel for romantic flights of fancy. "},{"Title":"warm comedy from new york city","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Saw this film again recently and surprisingly it hasn't dated at all.Bridget Fonda as Rose and Nicolas Cage as Charlie have a very strong chemistry on screen aided and abetted by a strong screenplay from Andrew Bergman.Basically a fairytale premise of new york cop who does the right thing in giving over a half share of his lottery ticket to a beautiful waitress called Rose.Charlie's wife who claims the ticket's numbers came to her in a dream via her dead father.Rosie Perez as Muriel is very amusing as the 'woman with a heart of gold'.Nice cameos from both Red Buttons as Charlie's incredulous lawyer Seymour Cassell as Jack Gross the scheming 'strategist'and Stanley Tucci as Rose's ex-- love it when he takes her nuts.Nicolas Cage brings a lovely and quiet integrity to his role as Charlie and Bridget Fonda is sweetness personified as Rose. "},{"Title":"If it had 50 years less,, it would be a Capra's classic","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Let's put Capra as director, let's change Cage for the great James Stewart, and Fonda instead of Donna Reed; now, let's close our eyes and let's go back 50 years in time and, in the period of the black and white movies, this would be a master piece. Let's not under estimate this movie because it's from the 90's because,the message is as beautiful as those we find in the great classics, a jewel.I would highly recommend this film to all those who've ever felt down but still keep a bit of hope and faith in their hearts; this is what this movie is about; it shows how people can still be such great human beings. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Charming movie with luck, fate,coincidence, and romance all rolled into one. Nicolas Cage and Bridget Fonda are simply wonderful and make it hard to resist this movie. Although it may seem totally illogical, the two leads play it out with warmth and conviction. A movie that everyone can enjoy, even those who aren't fans of love stories. 3/4 "},{"Title":"This movie makes bright your day!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie may not be the best film in the world but it was simply so warm, romantic and cute that I could watch it again. The plot was very easy to guess, the characters were pretty simple, people were good or bad, nothing in between. Nicolas Cage was very sweet and tender as Charlie Lang. Bridget Fonda was a waitress easy to love, cute, humorous and sweet. Lang's wife was so awful that it made me to think why a man would even marry that kind of a woman. The wife was bad and so it didn't make Charlie a bad person if he fell in love with another woman. This movie made me feel good after seeing it. The film was romantic comedy (something that men would never like to see) and a good change for me after many weighty movies. I believe that many women would like this...at least I liked. The actors were good too and made their nice characters very lovable and bad characters very hateful. Don't wait anything big from this movie, just simply enjoy it's warm atmosphere. "},{"Title":"This movie makes bright your day!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie may not be the best film in the world but it was simply so warm, romantic and cute that I could watch it again. The plot was very easy to guess, the characters were pretty simple, people were good or bad, nothing in between. Nicolas Cage was very sweet and tender as Charlie Lang. Bridget Fonda was a waitress easy to love, cute, humorous and sweet. Lang's wife was so awful that it made me to think why a man would even marry that kind of a woman. The wife was bad and so it didn't make Charlie a bad person if he fell in love with another woman. This movie made me feel good after seeing it. The film was romantic comedy (something that men would never like to see) and a good change for me after many weighty movies. I believe that many women would like this...at least I liked. The actors were good too and made their nice characters very lovable and bad characters very hateful. Don't wait anything big from this movie, just simply enjoy it's warm atmosphere. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic films ever","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I recently bought and rewatched the DVD of this movie. I was absolutely delighted from start to finish. I'm a romantic movie fan, watching a lot of foreign films in this genre as well. I have to say that I'm surprised It Could Happen To You is not more widely regarded as a classic. It is easily the equal of Sleepless in Seattle or When Harry Met Sally. The storyline is sweet and funny and leaves you feeling good about life. I found the screeplay and the production quite good. What really puts this movie over the top though are the actors.Who would believe Nicolas Cage, bad boy extraordinaire of Vampire's Kiss and Wild at Heart could so sweetly and convincingly play a nice guy? In Cage's hands, Charlie is utterly believable and real. You completely buy his fundamental decency, his inability to break a promise or not do 'the right thing'. And he is just so generally charming and attractive in this movie. If I were handing out Oscars, Cage would get one for playing Charlie. I can't remember when I've seen such a completely natural performance. Bridget Fonda is outstanding as well. She matches Cage's believability and charm. And the chemistry the two of them generate together is heady stuff from the moment they meet. Rosie Perez is very funny as well, but she is obviously doing humor -- a spoof. Cage and Fonda play it like the real thing and hit at a much deeper level.I watched this with my 11 year old daughter and husband and they both really liked it as well. I would give it 5 stars, but I was disappointed that the DVD didn't have any bonus features. I would enjoyed some interviews or a 'making of' featurette.This is one to watch again and again. "},{"Title":"This is the kind of movie that should always be made","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It Could Happen To You rates a big 10 on a scale of one to ten, with ten being the best.  This movie is one of the best in its genre.If anyone wants to see a movie that will boost their spirit, this movie will do that for you.Ms. Fonda was perfect as the sweet and innocent woman who shared the lotto winnings with Mr. Cage's cop character. I really felt as if though I was standing there witnessing everything that they were going through as if it had all really happened in real life. That is one of the marks of a very well made movie.I will look on this website for the writers, directors of It Could Happen To You and see what other movies they have created since then.As of today the movie Hannibal is the number 1 movie.That says a lot about America. Scary.Remember just a few years ago it was Beavis and Butthead? And right after that it was the dark American Beauty. Americans are a little too fascinated with their dark side. Maybe they are fed up with their lives.  The humdrum.Well movies like It Could Happen To You are the remedy to getting America out of its dark movie rut.  "}{"Title":"A  true Love thy neighbor as thyself story...","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen. Nicolas Cage plays the part of the big-hearted cop most convincingly.  No movie is perfect, but the fact that this is a true story about truely loving your neighbor, takes it beyond a mere review.  It really renews your faith that there are a lot of wonderful and noble people still out there in that big cold world. I think the basic message, to me, was the importance of not putting yourself first in this life. It certainly shows what happens also to those who do. A great story. "},{"Title":"Quite simply one of the best romantic comedies of all time!","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm a bit of a sucker for romantic comedies, but each time I see this film, I enjoy it more and more. An excellent cast with Nicholas Cage excellent, and Bridget Fonda is brilliant, playing a lovable leading lady.A great film!! "},{"Title":"A great 'fairy tale'","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  What can I say of Nicolas Cage who is always in the right movie all the time. He may not have a great look but this make him more appealing because every guy can compare himself to Nicolas Cage. Every guy can be like Nicolas Cage. It will be very hopeless if one try to be like Tom Cruise or Keanu Reeves.I was touched by this story of an honest cop who promised to share his won lottery with a waitress; and all of this happened in NEW YORK, mind you.Sometimes a good film does not need highly advanced special effects but only a good 'fairy tale'. "},{"Title":"Predictable but pleasant","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of course you know from the third scene or so how this movie will end. But it's worth the ride if you're not looking for anything too intellectual, and you want something that you can watch with kids in the room.I've never seen Rosie Perez in anything else -- does she always sound like that?  She is either a great actress, or extremely irritating.  "},{"Title":"Could there BE more chemistry?","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Cage and Fonda light up the screen in this classic romance.  Rosie Perez plays the perfect bitch but is overrun by the love that sparks immediately between Charlie and Yvonne.Not a lover of romances, it amazes me that I'll score this film as highly as I will.Every scene is incredibly well-written and well-placed within the story; production and direction is tantamount in the overall output of the movie.Write this down, kids, because this is one of the few times you'll see me huff up a romance...My dish  7/10 "},{"Title":"The best Romantic Comedy I've seen for a long time","Date":"25 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I somehow missed this film at the cinema but watched it last night on video. Its the sort of film that leaves you feeling good about yourself, the world and life in general. Great performances from both Cage and particularly Fonda make you actually care about the people they portray.If you have not yet seen this I recommend a visit to your video store.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yesterday I was zapping my way through my cable tv and I got hooked up in the middle of this wonderful movie.  Cage really moved me with his interpretation of a police officer whose word is sacred.  By doing what he thought was correct, he found the love of his life (and I gotta tell, Bridget is a marvelous actress).  Snif, this movie really touched me... "},{"Title":"The Charming Romance","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Bridget Fonda and Nicholas Cage headline this romantic comedy about a cop who promises to split a lottery ticket if it wins as a tip when he is short of cash. The unbelievable happens and it wins for millions. A man of his word, he splits the prize money and this sets off his money hungry ultra witch of a wife played perfectly by Rosie Perez. Soon Cage moves out on his wife and he and Fonda start a romance as his marriage falls apart when his wife files for divorce and contends that all the money that was won should be hers. Now this is a movie where the romance, while the set up is hard to swallow, is believable. Here Fonda is at her most charming sweet style, and Cage portrays the cop with a slightly goofiness that has been his trademark in most of the comedies he has done. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Pretty Nice, Touching. This is that kind of Saturday Night movie. It's that kind of movie that you can't really not like.  If you have nothing to do on Saturday this would be a great movie to take. Of course in real life for something like that to happen is VERY unlikely but hey it's a movie. It's a great Ben & Jerry's movie -)7 Outta 10 "},{"Title":"Cute.","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a cute movie.  There are two reasons to see this movie.  The first and most obvious is if you are on a date.  The second reason is if you have been corrupted by movies like Starship Troopers and think all movies are about nothing.  This movie is about something.  Roger Ebert wrote this week, Great films make audiences better; bad films make audiences worse and I couldn't agree more.  This movie may sound preachy, but its not.  If a cry for love and human decency in the face of materialistic America is being preachy, then we can throw anything we have faith in out the window right now. "}{"Title":"Title sounds vaguely threatening...as well it should","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anemic comedy suffers from a fatal case of the cutes. Cop Nicolas Cage is forced by a promise to split his Lotto winnings with a good-hearted waitress (played by Bridget Fonda, giving us evidence why her career stalled in the late 1990s). Anyone who loves--or even mildly likes--a picture such as this doesn't understand the intricacies of movie romance. This is sub-Sleepless In Seattle (if that's possible). There is nothing visually interesting happening, nothing emotionally worthy occurring at any time, and there are no characters worth giving a damn about. Absolutely bankrupt, and one of the worst films of the decade. NO STARS from **** "},{"Title":"Bad Movies Can Happen to Good Stars and Directors, too","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I never thought I could rate a Nicolas Cage film this low...but then I saw this wretched movie. Originally given the much better title of Cop Gives Waitress $2 Million Tip, it probably would have relied more upon humor in its storytelling than it does. The moments of comedy throughout the film are engaging and fun; however, dullness takes over for the heavy drama scenes that beg for lightness. Every time the story touches on the drama, I was left gasping for air and waiting in misery for the story to move along.I remember when this was released that Andrew Bergman disowned the film. I applaud him for doing so; the studio hacks that insisted that he mess this up by adding the drama and changing the title deserved to have been summarily dismissed from their job duties for forcing those changes into what might have been a good comedy. "},{"Title":"A Comedy about a cop who won the lottery","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The argument of this film is difficult to happen nowadays in the developed societies, too much egoism and very little althruism, but the message of this comedy is really good. A cop won the lottery, his wife as an ambitious person denies any possibility to help others while her husband (the cop) is the opposite. To complicate more this matter, the cop did not have any money to pay a tip for a waitress and as a man of honor he promised her that in case he wins, part of the lottery will be given to her. He won and did it what he promised and the waitress was in fact the type of person he needed to live with. Again the message could be considered innocent, but it is good at present particularly where in the societies of rich people.    "},{"Title":"Money can't buy happiness","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I bought this DVD movie and think it is a good idea to see what the story looks like.It is a wonderful story with lots of love and laughter but some parts has miss the common sense.The character played by Nicolas Cage is simply too ridiculous. How can a person win 4 millions share half to a waitress. He seems like an angel. Half a million might be possible. Another thing that are not quite right is there seems no story about the needs to save money in the bank. You don't just spend everything and doesn't care whether in the future you got money or not.Overall, quite good. Script can be better with more dialogue. "},{"Title":"Overly sentimental and 'nice' but it works if that is what you are expecting from it","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Charlie Lang is an honest hard working cop who has modest ambitions and enjoys his life in his local neighbourhood in Queens. When he buys coffee at a local diner he feels bad because he hasn't got enough for a tip &#150; and instead offers her half of his winnings if his lottery ticket hits. When it hits, he keeps his word and gives Yvonne half of his money, $2 million dollars. She is blown away even though Charlie's wife, Muriel, explodes when she finds out. Muriel's plan for the money is to keep every cent and use it to make more money, however both Charlie and Yvonne are kinder people who want to use the money to do good.I remember this film as it came out at roughly the same time as the UK set up it's own national lottery programme and the publicity from both of these things helped the other in some way. However, aside from this connection, the film is pretty unmemorable while still managing to be quite 'nice' for the most part. The plot sees nice people doing nice things and being nice with their money and then falling slowly in love like good nice people do. However the bad person who is greedy doesn't like it and she becomes increasingly bad and threatens to spoil the niceness of the nice people &#150; and thank god for the 'bad' person or this would have been almost unbearably nice! The film tries to give a nice warm feel but it is too clean to do that and it is only the greedy side of the film that prevents it becoming way too nice and almost falling into a coma for lack of pulse. Muriel gives the film a bit more bit, although it would have been much better if the nice characters and the greedy characters had been a little more balanced and less extreme, but I suppose that was not the point of this film.No the aim was to be a 'nice' film with so much syrup that it would kill a million ants and in that regard it works. It is fun and it is overly sweet but if you are in the mood for something insubstantial but cheerful then this is OK if instantly forgettable. Cage is bland but he comes across as a nice guy without being so nice that it is unbelievable. Fonda is about as sweet as white bread comes and is a 'nice' character. The downside for some audiences is that both of these characters will be hated by some viewers on the basis that they are both sickeningly sweet! Perez is annoying but that is the point of her character; she does good work and lets herself look bad to the benefit of the film as she manages to make it more interesting. Hayes is a nice addition as the narrator and the cast also features some well-known faces including Red Buttons, Stanley Tucci, Cassel, Jenkins and Freeman.Overall this is a sickly sweet film that is horribly sentimental but is OK if that's what you are coming to it for. It is hard not to feel 'nice' at some point of the film and only the most cynical of viewers wouldn't hope that this was real life and there were really people like this. The presence of the exaggerated Perez really helps &#150; even if you don't like her you will still have to admit that her greedy character does well to take some of the syrup out of the film and make it a little more enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"Boring, vaguely racist, and flatter than an empty wallet","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is one of the few films I've seen, and would not sit through again. It's that boring, that empty-headed, and that flat.The dialog is lifeless and uninspired, as are the performances. I defy anyone to recall a line from the movie, a week after watching.The casting is sadly inadequate. For example, all the bad guy characters are non-white (e.g., Rosie Perez as the demanding hausfrau) and the main characters, Nicholas Cage and Bridget Fonda, are blond-haired white folks.Worse, Bridget Fonda's elegant good looks are an extremely poor match for her role as a waitress. Compare her waitress to Helen Hunt's from As Good as it Gets to see the pits juxtaposed against Hunt's heights.Nicholas Cage has done well in some romantic roles (e.g., Moonstruck) and in comedies (e.g., Raising Arizona), but in this film, he's phoning in the performance while thinking about his stock portfolio.The few times I've seen this film, I've been utterly unable to enter the story and the world portrayed in the film. I would compare its flatness and unbelievability with Good Burger (from Nick at Nite).Instead of this film, I'd highly recommend Crossing Delancey (1988) or, to a much lesser degree, Moonstruck (1987) for New York flavor, good performances, and believable, touching romance.If it's a refreshing good man story you want to see, then I'd strongly recommend the Christmas classic It's a Wonderful Life (Jimmy Stewart) or Emma Thompson / Ang Lee's Sense and Sensibility instead. "}]