[{"Title":"The most misunderstood Vampire film ever made","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"30 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I've just read all of the reviews on this film on this site and nobody even mentions what this film is really about. Like any good horror story it works on different levels. Like the Zombie films of George Romero there's an underlying message to this film that has nothing to do with it's horror exterior. But you have to think about what Michael Almereyda is trying to say with this story. This isn't just true of this film, but of all good horror. Dr. Jeckyle and Mr.Hyde-Addiction to substances, Frankenstein-Man playing at being God, Dracula-Hate poisoning the mind and soul. The main theme of this film is wanting to change your life but not being able to escape your old habits and break loose. It's even mentioned outright several times during the film by different characters. There's a lot of philosophical discussions by different characters on this through the film.This film has black humor, meaning of life philosophy, camera work that serves a purpose to enhance the story and heart felt dramatic performances by all of the actors and actresses. One of the things that I really like about this film, (and one of the things that many people didn't understand or like) was the use of the toy camera pixel-vision effect. I found it to be a perfect way of economically expressing the intoxicating effect of being under the influence of a vampire. If you watch the film and think about the scenes where it's employed it will be obvious. It isn't just a random attempt to be arty as many of the reviewers seem to think. It's a visual depiction of the impaired state of mind that you might experience if a vampire was psychically manipulating a mortal. And it enhances the film it doesn't detract from it. Whether you like it or not, film-making is an art. Just like painting, drawing, writing or any other form of expression. Some filmmakers just don't have any sense of art, they only wish to mindlessly entertain. That's why people say things like TV rots your mind. Well, I guess that if you watch anything in a mindless manor that could be true. But film that has something to say, something to think about is a worthwhile use of time and intellect.I have a fairly large collection of horror films and Art House and I can tell you that Nadja is one of my all time favorites. Every time I watch it I see something new, get a different little joke or notice different connections that I didn't get before. I also enjoy many of the Mindless entertainment variety of Vampire films,and so a quote from the writer David Goyer who wrote the screenplays for Blade, Sometimes you just want to see somebody kick some ass!.Most people don't realize how huge the genre of Vampire Cinema really is. Dracula is the definitely the most filmed character in film history, and the greater tree of Vampire films in world cinema is so big that it almost impossible to accurately list. Of the Art House and Vintage, comedy and Vampire Hunter categories I would recommend checking out some of my favorites. Many Vampire films are a hybrid of two or more of these categories,but they all have different points that I find attractive,humorous, exciting, entertaining and thought provoking. Again, I haven't seen but a small selection of the huge list of Vampire cinema, so it's likely that I'll be leaving out many excellent selections and maybe some of your favorites in this list. I'm giving this list because the film Nadja could very well be enjoyed if you like some of the films that I like and have been entertained by.Art House and Vintage Nosferatu 1922 (The original granddaddy Vampire film from the silent era. The Kino Version is worth paying for with an excellent soundtrack option featuring musicians from Art Zoid), Nosferatu the Vampyre (Werner Herzog), Shadow of the Vampire (a fun comedy-fictional story based around the making of F.W. Murnau's Nosferatu-1922), Vampyr (Carl Theodor Dreyer's atmospheric masterpiece, even though part's of the film were created by accident!),Dracula (1931), The Hammer Dracula series (feartuing the great Christopher Lee), Dracula-Pages from a Virgin's diary (a modern silent film of a Canadian Ballet company filmed by Guy Madden), Blood for Dracula (also known as Andy Worhol's Dracula), Immortality, Ganja and Hess, Habit, Near Dark, Salem's Lot (Based on the novel by Stephan King-the original mini-series, I haven't seen the newer remake) Bram Stoker's Dracula (The love it or hate it classic by F. Coppola). Some of my favorites from the Vampire Hunter sub-genre The Blade Series (Again one of those Love it or hate it series for some.), John Carpenter's Vampires (This one is hard to classify, lots of comedy too.), The Captain Kronos-Vampire Hunter films by Hammer studios, The Forsaken, and the British TV series Ultraviolet (an X-Files type mini-series). Also worth mention is the Japanese-Anime films Vampire Hunter D-Bloodlust (You'll forget that you're watching a cartoon, the story's that good!), and Blood-The last Vampire (A short but well done film).Some of the comedy genre Innocent Blood, Modern Vampires, The Breed, Dusk to Dawn (I've only seen the first one, a hybrid of Tarantino's crime style and Robert Rodriguez's horror style), Vampire's Kiss, and Interview with the Vampire (I find this Ann Rice film quite comedic), and Lost Boys (A local favorite being that I live in Santa Cruz).Nadja is one of the jewels of my collection because it is truly a multi-faceted piece of film-making that defies categorization. "},{"Title":"A modern masterpiece.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This film received its fair share of support from critics and fans alike. However, despite good reviews and a loyal following it is still a vastly underrated film. Michael Almereyda has crafted a film which will have to endure time to receive the appreciation it deserves.A Dracula-esque modern day myth with subtle humor and shades of Poe this film is truly a work of genius.  The story is remarkably tight and the characters around which it revolves are rendered in incredible depth.  Wry humor lends to the tale with brilliance.  At one point a title card reads Transylvania and to illustrate the location a small boy hops around with a Mickey-Mouse hat on his head.  Not quite the wolf-ridden moors you expected, but still...Elina Löwensohn shines as the title character, it is not every actor who can so elegantly work with  dialogue such as this.  She delivers with a candor that is almost absent from films of the last few years, the major ones at least.  Galaxy Craze shines brightly opposite Martin Donovan.  Peter Fonda is perfect as the Van Helsing character.  Suzy Amis,  Jared Harris, and Karl Geary do not fail to impress.Look for Jim Denault's lush 35mm cinematography.  He deals out light sparingly to accomplish with sheen and brilliance what most cinematographers dream of.  An image so seeped in mood that any one still-frame contains such power as to function independently from the whole.Nadja transcends the limitations of its medium to become something that is truly rare in the modern cinema landscape... A work of art.  "},{"Title":"a most entertaining and original movie","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Nadja is a very refreshing version of the redundant vampire movies out there. It had beautiful and intriguing cinematography that at times seemed like a livening photograph. Although the average viewer that is used to watching spoon-fed movies that do not require any viewer intellect or imagination may find this movie to abstract for their taste, It will Certainly be their loss for this movie is a must see if you are any kind of a movie aficionado. I am very happy to have added this movie to my movie history repertoire. Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Blood Suckers Were Never So Hip","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A strange, disarming feeling sits over this film, as if everyone is in a semi-comatic haze. That's a good thing. While a bizarre mix of humor, horror flick, and psychodrama, it also draws from (and pokes fun at) the vampire flick tradition. Full of highlights, not the least of which is a ratty haired Peter Fonda.  "},{"Title":"My personal favorite movie of all time","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's a gorgeous film. Elina Lowensohn is amazing, Peter Fonda has to be seen to be believed--all the performances are excellent--and the dialogue is somehow equal parts profound and hilarious.  It's profound in an almost but not quite tongue-in-cheek way that makes it cool rather than cheesy. And it's hilarious in a highly intelligent way rather than a wacky way.  Every scene is a treat.  The pixellated scenes are done with a toy Fisher Price camera and they look great.  The music is powerful, moody, perfect.  Smart, interesting, compelling, beautiful, cool--what more do you want?  Genius!I saw this in the theater and completely loved it from the first three seconds into it, and it never let me down after that. I'll admit I'm on the obsessive end of the spectrum with this film--I went back and saw it seven more times that week.  I've been waiting for the DVD for three years and my prayers have recently been answered. "},{"Title":"Subtle, noir-esque reworking of the Dracula theme","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  A striking departure from the Wes Craven/Tarantino vampire treatment of vampirism of late, Almereyda's artful black and white piece gives us intimate psychological portraits of the count's wayward son and daughter, and their sexual exploits - specifically as they involve a married couple whose terminal ennui is exploded by the entrance of Nadja - dracula's twin daughter, who falls in love with Galaxy Craze's (am I the only one who finds this name a little disturbing, and slightly reminiscent of porn-names)character and abducts her to Transylvania.Peter Fonda does a brilliantly and comically paranoid Van Helsing and Dracula himself. David Lynch, whose wife Mary Sweeney produced the film, has a cameo and much of the film's heady cutting and profusion of cigarette-smoke seems to echo Lynch's work - definitely qualifies for an amazon.com-style Customers who bought Blue Velvet also bought Nadja.Criticisms would include a slight over-reliance on fairly blatant visual puns (Martin Donovan's character is asked can you picture that and responds yes, I can picture that to visual accompaniment, and this device is repeated), and perhaps gratuitous use of smoke machine technology, but on the whole a fresh, artful evocation of one of the more encrusted thematic territories in film. "},{"Title":"A Thoughtful Arthouse Vampire Flick","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Nadja is not your ordinary vampire film. Though it builds upon the foundation of the classic Bram Stoker Dracula story, it is more about post-modernism, the state of modern spirituality, and the alienation and emptiness of modern life.Avant-garde cinematography combined with music by Portishead and others frame near surreal dialogues that more philosophical than horrifying. At the same time, the confused and frenetic pace of the movie is almost comical at times.Altogether a great film if you are a fan of film as art. If you prefer gore and sex over mood and introspection than you'll probably be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Darkly laconic.","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Nadja falls into a category of films I would describe as 'vampire movies for adults.' Viewers seeking an action-packed gorefest along the lines of From Dusk Till Dawn (1996) or Blade II (2002) should bypass Nadja. Moody, opiated, and dreamily ethereal, it is similar in this respect to Guy Maddin's more recent Dracula Pages from a Virgin's Diary (2002) and not most other modern vampire flicks. Its emphasis on the emotional and evocative rather than physical aspects of the genre puts it in the company of Tony Scott's The Hunger (1983) and Po-Chih Leong's Immortality (aka The Wisdom of Crocodiles) (1998). Shot on black-and-white film, a dying art form, with a good musical score by Portishead, it avoids sinking into pretentiousness with occasional, self-parodying irony (example He says he's dying ... for a cigarette.). A major drawback to the film is director Michael Almereyda's overuse of the Pixelvision camera, a technology he has used in the past and should have left there. The acting is spotty, but that's of little importance in a film emphasizing atmosphere over character portrayal. Elina Lowensohn in the title role and Peter Fonda as Dr. Van Helsing (played as he has never been played before) do stand out from the rest of the cast. I'd rate this as 'must see' for aficionados of vampire films, if only to take a break from the less imaginative schlock that overwhelms the genre. Rating 7/10. "},{"Title":"Interesting experimental vampire film.","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Dracula's daughter Nadja wanders New York City,melancholy and driven by her need for blood.She seduces and drinks from the depressed Lucy.Meanwhile Lucy's husband Jim is asked to help his friend Van Helsing who has been arrested for staking Dracula.But then the two of them realize that Nadja is drinking from Lucy.As they try to hunt her down,Nadja and her self-described 'slave' Renfield flee back to Rumania.Nadja is a post-modern vampire flick which is actually a black-and-white reworking Dracula's Daughter(1936).The film was produced by David Lynch who also played a small cameo as a morgue attendant that gets hypnotized by Nadja.The film is splendidly photographed in a glorious black-and-white and offers tons of mesmerizingly dreamy atmosphere.Overall,Nadja is much better than overrated and too philosophical The Addiction.The soundtrack by Portishead and The Verve is fabulous too! "},{"Title":"Nadja","Date":"20 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Low-key, off-beat, somber, existential, avant-garde modern retelling(partially)of Dracula's Daughter has the exotic beauty of Elina Löwensohn put to good use as the Romanian Count's predatory vampire daughter, Nadja, roaming New York City for fresh victims, finding a potential love interest in melancholy Lucy(Galaxy Craze)whose unhappily married to her gloomy alcoholic husband Jim(Martin Donovan). Jim and Lucy love each other but never display an appropriate affection or fireworks which truly exhibit on the outside, if anything their relationship seems destitute and glum. But, once Nadja initiates a spark with Lucy after meeting her in a bar, their love and marriage will be tested as the vampire wishes to conquer her, capture her very soul through the draining of her very life-source, the blood. Thankfully for Jim, he knows Dr. Van Helsing(Peter Fonda, in a very kooky performance, clearly enjoying his role's chance for eccentricity), the very one who thrust the stake in Count Dracula's heart. Van Helsing's desire to end Nadja's existence, ridding the world of a bloodsucker who has been draining New York of it's citizens through her various rendezvouses with male victims, opening the possibility of sexual activity, shutting the door on such opportunities by killing them. Nadja travels with her human slave Renfield(Karl Geary;very different than the countless nutty incarnations of the character whose often molded after Dwight Frye, young and attractive, quite laconic and mysterious, yet can be quite dangerous when provoked)as they pursue and hunt. NYC provides quite a backdrop for Nadja, a vast supply if she so wishes to feed. Löwensohn's face is glamorously shot by director Michael Almereyda's cinematographer Jim Denault, and the dialogue, often spoke by the actress as a vampire who is having quite an experience in a city of such diverse and eclectic people, is quite thought-provoking and poetic.The film's narrative shifts somewhat once Nadja finds her ill brother Edgar(Jared Harris)and his beloved nurse Cassandra(Suzy Amis). Nadja wishes for Edgar to join her and takes an interest in Cassandra. Van Helsing needs to kill Nadja so that Lucy can be spared and to remove possible danger from Cassandra, his niece.The aspect of director Michael Almereyda's style that rather left me cold was his use of a camera which pixilates image, specifically during Nadja's vampiric activities. I thought the gorgeous B&W photography was fine on it's own and gave this film an alluring look to match it's titular female vampire. All the performances, the characters, remain subtle, almost zombie-like and distant..this might drive traditional and casual horror fans away and seems to reflect a society of lost souls, emotionally empty and depressed. The music score is quietly haunting and seems to fit the mood of the characters and their stories. This is definitely an art film, with the director giving the vampire genre a different flavour and tapping into contemporary themes that traditional horror fans might find ponderous and pretentious. I liked this a lot probably because of Löwensohn and it's refreshing change of pace from the normal brand of storytelling in regards to the vampire genre, which is oftentimes artificial, predictable and by-the-numbers. While this film does operate using themes associated with vampires(..needing blood to sustain life, not adept to sunlight, with a stake to the heart killing them), I like how Nadja is given a chance to show that she has feelings and often expresses herself with others regarding life and love. I appreciated the additional scene featuring Lugosi(..from White Zombie), lending his face to the Dracula spoken of by her siblings in the film. Fonda, with long hair, plays Van Helsing as if he were an oddball(..the way he should be portrayed, I think, because of his knowledge in strange things most humans wish not to know about), an outcast of society who lives, it seems, to serve mankind in ridding the world of dangerous vampires. Martin Donovan and Galaxy Craze play their roles rather sullen and without emotion, which is probably what the film calls for considering their supposed to be aloof. "}{"Title":"Pretentious, Artsy, Boring Crap","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I had never heard of Nadja until it turned up on a 4-film budget priced Vampire Collector's Set DVD that I recently purchased, where it shared space with three other low budget bloodsucker films. I'll be honest, from the package description Nadja didn't sound like my cup of tea from the get-go, so I wasn't expecting much from it to begin with. Sometimes when I go into such films with my expectations lowered, I am pleasantly surprised, but not this time. Nadja was 90 minutes of plodding, occasionally irritating art house crap disguised as a vampire film.I pretty much knew I was in trouble as soon as I saw the words DAVID LYNCH PRESENTS... flash across the screen (though he can't be fully blamed for how badly Nadja turned out as he was only a producer on this film), because to a B-Movie kinda guy like me, David Lynch's name is pretty much Kryptonite. I've got nothing against Lynch, I know he's got a lot of fans, but he just doesn't make my kind of movies. So knowing he had a even a small hand in this thing was already one strike in my book.Anyway, getting to the story (what little there is of it) as I understand it Nadja transplants the Dracula myth to present day New York, with the famed bloodsucker's daughter prowling around Greenwich Village looking for a random hookup. She meets Lucy, a depressed, bisexual night owl, who soon falls under Nadja's spell, much to the dismay of Lucy's drunken doofus of a husband. Fortunately hubby's Uncle (Peter Fonda, who appears to be the only cast member having fun in this film) happens to be Van Helsing himself, and he of course knows how to handle a vampire problem. From there...well, there's a whole lot of pseudo-philosophy, endless talking, a lot of cigarettes being smoked, a lot of self important dialogue, and not much else. Eventually Nadja's estranged twin brother hooks up with Hubby and Helsing and they travel to Nadja's lair in Romania, where... awww the hell with it, I'm not even going to bother describing the rest of this nonsense. Let's just say if you can make it to that point in the film without feeling an urge to drift off to sleep (or change the channel), I salute you.At first I thought the film being made in stark black and white might be distracting in this day and age, but I'll admit the B&W photography in Nadja is really cool...for a while. Then along came numerous segments where, for no discernible reason whatsoever, the picture would suddenly go grainy and pixellated for minutes at a time. At first I thought something was wrong with my DVD, but it turns out that director Michael Almerayda shot those particular scenes (which turn up randomly throughout the film) with a Fisher-Price kids' toy camera. He's probably got some artsy fartsy explanation for why he did those scenes that way, but to me it only served to antagonize an already bored audience.Ultimately Nadja comes off like one of those 1990's Calvin Klein commercials stretched out to feature length, complete with its hip (for the time period) soundtrack (The Verve, Portishead, My Bloody Valentine, etc.). It's nice to look at (occasionally, when it's not pixellated) but doesn't have an ounce of soul.I'll (grudgingly) give Nadja two stars for two reasons Number one, the lesbian seduction scene between Nadja and Lucy was pretty cool, (though it's got nothing on the Catherine Deneuve/Susan Sarandon scene in The Hunger, its obvious inspiration) and number two, the song In the Meantime by Spacehog plays over the end credits, and I've always liked that song. Otherwise, I can't recommend this one at all. Judging from the other reviews on this site, Nadja appears to be a film that people either love or hate. I guess it's obvious which side I'm on. Avoid!!! "},{"Title":"Nadja (1994) **","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" A sometimes-interesting black and white independent art house cheapie produced by David Lynch that's sort of like a homage to Dracula's Daughter (1936). In New York City, another daughter of Bela Lugosi's Dracula (public domain closeups of a bearded Bela from WHITE ZOMBIE are utilized to sub for her Old Man) deals with her own vampirism and hopes to be freed from her curse, since her infamous dad was recently destroyed by Van Helsing (Peter Fonda!). The leading actress is good but Fonda is rather awkward. Of course the film finds it necessary to over-do the lesbian angle. Too many distorted camera shots at times, but worth a look for the heartfelt tribute to old Universal Horror. It's played very serious, at least ... perhaps too serious. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"A good watch mostly.","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Seems that yet again this movie is a case of you'll either love it or hate it. It's a movie that takes a more unusual and artistic approach to its story, which makes this clearly not a movie for just everyone.As it often turns out, I don't mind movies taking a bit of a more artistic and unusual approach to its story. It often makes the movie a very compelling watch, even when you don't really fully understand what is going on.But as far as somewhat more artistic movies go, this movie is mostly perfectly understandable and easy to follow, since it might be somewhat pretentious with its style at times, it isn't with its story luckily. It makes this a pretty accessible movie, so also don't let the name David Lynch scare you off. His name got mostly put on the cover to cash in on it but his involvement with this movie was very minimal, though you could still really tell that director Michael Almereyda really admires David Lynch and his style.Basically you could see this movie as a modern take on the Dracula story, or rather said the story of the official Dracula sequel Dracula's Daughter, from 1936, which isn't that well liked but was a movie I still absolutely loved. Perhaps that's also who I still really liked this movie as well. It strays away from the original Dracula story but I really don't mind that. There are so many different versions and interpretations of the original Dracula story out there, so I'm glad that this movie is featuring a story of its own, with still all of the familiar characters in it, such as the count himself (though very shortly), Van Helsing and Renfield.But even though the movie is mostly a compelling watch, it still isn't that interesting of a movie. I mean, it's one you could easily do without and one that even makes a bit of a pointless impression. It sounds strange, since I was still definitely enjoying it while watching. Perhaps it also was because I was starting to loose a bit interest at times, especially toward its end. You could say that the movie keeps building up to a climax or satisfying conclusion, that just never comes.It's not a movie that's not only heavy on its style but also really on its atmosphere. I though that the movie did a great job at creating a sort of old fashioned horror atmosphere, even though never anything scary or anything else horror related ever really happens in the movie itself. It was also real great to see Peter Fonda in this. He played a great Van Helsing and he even plays Dracula as well, while he was at it. He plays both parts quite differently, so some people might not even realize it's the same guy.A very stylish and atmospheric movie but I can understand if you don't like it.7/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Terrible art house vampire movie","Date":"8 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I'm one of the very few people who saw this back in 1994 at an art house cinema. It's basically about a VERY strange family which includes a vampire named Nadja (Elina Lowensohn). She's being hunted down by Van Helsing (Peter Fonda).Pretentious and boring horror film. If there is a point to it it totally escapes me. Also some of it is shot in a pixilated (or something) way. This adds nothing to the film and you can't make out a thing when they shot that way. Seriously, what was the point of that? Acting doesn't help. With one exception everyone is pretty bad--especially Lowensohn and an actress named Galaxy Craze (seriously). Only Fonda is good. He briefly jump starts the film. He's having lots of fun with his performance and it helps but not enough. When I saw it the audience was quiet at first. Then it got restless and there was actually some muffled laughter during the stupider sequences (the one that got the most reaction was Nadja's psychic link with her brother--which comes out of NOWHERE!). People walked out muttering about how boring and stupid this was. If you're a true horror fan avoid this like the plague. A 1 all the way. "},{"Title":"Enter the absorbing world of Nadja","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Dreamlike, absorbing film draws you in with eerie, ambiguous imagery and a twisted plotline. Feel for Nadja, alone and wishing for death. Hope that she will find peace. I could not take my eyes off the screen when watching this film. Although in parts it is confusing, just lose yourself and drift with it "},{"Title":"a dark tribute to bram stoker, film noir and portishead","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  perfect movie for anybody who likes to ponder and feel sad and be desperate, because this is what radiates from the screen all the time. you will share the feelings with nadja, lucy and jonathan. relieve the whole sad truth about vampires and life itself. very tender and very contemplative movie. please vote for it so that more people learn about it.  "},{"Title":"Frightening, funny and stylish at the same time.","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw Nadja at the Vancouver Film Festival, and was struck by its freshness. The use of the toy camera with the pixelated (fuzzy) image during the more violent scenes added a nightmarish quality, making it more frightening. Good performances, especially from Peter Fonda who played a wacked-out Dr. Van Helsing character.One of the more original vampire movies of late. Not just for the goths.   "},{"Title":"Crappy art-house vampire trash","Date":"17 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Nadja is hands-down one of the worst films I've ever had the misfortune of sitting through. The film is basically a different take on the classic vampire story. It's shot in black and white and features a contemporary soundtrack. Director Michael Almereyda obviously thought all this was very cool; but in reality it's extremely dull. The plot actually makes the film sound like it might be worth watching and focuses on Dracula's death, and the resulting plight of his dysfunctional family, who are also being hunted by Dracula's nemesis, Van Helsing. The film reminded me of something that could have been directed by Jim Jarmusch, although it's only a cheap imitation. The plot runs really slowly and it wasn't long before I was starting to get bored with it. It's all very arty, though unfortunately the artiness isn't used in the best way possible. Sure, there are a few memorable images; but not enough considering what the film was trying to achieve. The director shows his experimental side by shooting some of the film with a Fisher Price Pixelvision camera, but to me it just came off as arrogant and pointless. Overall, Nadja is a very disappointing and boring attempt at a vampire film and I'd recommend everyone avoids it. "},{"Title":"Just a comment to comment on the comments of the movie","Date":"6 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  As I just said in my Summary, this is just a comment to comment on the comments that have been made about the movie.  This is not the typical vampire movie. It's NOT action packed. It is filmed in black and white using techniques that are meant to mimic an older movie while adding a touch of modern film-making at the same time. You can see a bit of Lynch's influence in the way that Michael Almereyda directs the camera.The actors in the movie don't do their absolute best but do a very good job. And Elina Löwensohn's eyes really are hypnotic. They are truly the eyes of a real Dracula descendant. The real female Dracula would need to have those eyes and facial expressions. Casting her was a very good decision.In my opinion it's a good movie that is meant to disappoint normal vampire-movie buffs. Keep an open mind and remember that this is a real horror movie(like the older films. There are no screaming adolescents waiting to be killed in a very stupid way). It's not a terror or action movie. Now, ten years after it was released I give it an 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Elena Lowenstein is enchanting.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  There are some people who try to reclaim 'Nadja' - along with Abel Ferrera's 'The Addiction' the most stultifyingly pretentious film ever made, bludgeoning the audience with Wim Wenders-like globs of pseudo-philosophical gabble and supposedly 'arty' screes of visual incoherence - by suggesting it is comic.  But laughing at what, exactly?  Horror films?  You have to know what horror films do before you can mock them, and director Almedeyra hasn't a clue.  American indie films?  Probably, but it replicates that mind-numbing  mindset so faithfully, it forgets to be funny about it.  Students, whose existential angst and elevated notions of 'beauty' find expression in My Bloody Valentine records?  Definitely.  Elena Lowenstein as Dracula's Daughter (and Breton's Nadja?) is so gorgeous in her designer Grim Reaper cape, she may even replace Death from 'The Seventh Seal' as my iconic nightmare of choice. "}{"Title":"Worthwhile-Recommended (6.5-7.5/10)","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" At first glance Nadja is different from the conventional screen vampire.  She smokes a continuous stream of cigarettes, dances at a nightclub, and converses with her victims about happiness, her past, and philosophy.  But peel back the layers of this modern, chic take on the genre and all the myths and interpretations of the vampire tale are present.To begin, the vampire as aristocrat, exploiting/feeding off the common people.  Nadja is of &#145;noble' blood and the class system is mentioned in an early conversation.  Second, vampires as victims of illness, contagion, (venereal disease, lust, love) is easily discernible i.e. one vampire is bedridden, the transfusion, etc.  Vampirism as fear of death, ageing, mortality, is linked with the illness facet. Vampirism as sexual liberation/perversion Nadja is bisexual and her predation technique is similar to seduction/dating, its consummation likened to copulation/orgasm (as in most vampire tales).  The alienation/isolation aspect is a major theme; all its characters (both vampire and human) suffer from this.  Penultimately, the vampire as the epitome of evil.  In Bram Stoker's Dracula, the Count was irredeemably wicked.  Some modern tales (e.g. Interview With The Vampire etc.) have toned down or discarded this trait.  In Nadja only Van Helsing (who else?) regards the vampires as an evil to be purged.  Finally, the vampire as entertainment, novelty, and consumer product is illustrated in the toy figure on the Christmas tree.  Note that Nadja does not like it; it reminds her of her father, perhaps her true nature or even the desensitisation of the vampire myth.As Nadja was produced by uber-weirdo David Lynch (who has a cameo appearance as a morgue security guard) you expect it to be off-kilter, dark, surreal and pretentious.  It is.  Filmed in entirely black & white, with the occasional lapse into blurred focus and even pixellation.  Images are superimposed, the narrative is fractured, the dialogue is profound (i.e. forced and unnatural).  It is also inundated with mid-nineties pop-culture the flyers on the wall, the &#145;hip' soundtrack.For a modern vampire tale, Nadja displays its origins with relish.  A number of character names are lifted from Bram Stoker's novel Dracula.  The fleeting visage of Nadja's father, Dracula, is similar to that of Bela Lugosi's Dracula. However the overall feel of the film is closer to the dream-like world of Dreyer's Vampyr.The realisation of the Van Helsing character seems to have been inspired by the elder vampire hunter in Polanski's The Fearless Vampire Killers.  Both are primarily comical figures far from the urbane and erudite professors of Tod Browning's and Terence Fisher's Dracula films.  Beneath the veneer of comedy, Helsing could be seen as the most socially isolated of all the characters, obsessed with rooting out evil and unable to relate to the world in any other way.*spoiler*The main theme of the film is the importance of family in terms of both its good side (love, belonging, unity, etc.) and its bad (abuse, dysfunction, estrangement, etc.).  Note all the main characters are ludicrously inter-related, mostly due to the presence of the Cassandra character.  Also the main goal of Nadja is to be accepted by her estranged brother.  However, the final soliloquy discloses that fundamentally we are all alone, fettered by our individuality  "},{"Title":"Romanian Stake","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" What West Side Story did for the oft-told tale of Romeo and Juliet--updating it and setting it on the harsh streets of NYC--Michael Almereyda's 1994 offering, Nadja, does for the story of Dracula. I'm not really good for much of anything, Nadja, the 200-year-old daughter of the late count, tells a bar pickup when we first meet her, but as this film proves, the gal IS more than adept at following in daddy's footsteps and procuring a nice blood nosh for herself. During the course of the film, we see Nadja find a new girlfriend (played by the wonderfully named Galaxy Craze), look up her estranged twin brother in the wilds of Brooklyn, and tangle with a descendant of Dr. van Helsing. The film has three main selling points that make it a must-see for fans of modern-day horror. The first is Peter Fonda, portraying van Helsing as a long-haired hippy type in a wonderfully charismatic manner. Then there is the picture's absolutely gorgeous B&W photography, which transforms Nadja into a genuine work of art; DOP Jim Denault and his crew are to be commended for a splendid bit of work here. Indeed, the film looks so very impressive that its oft-discussed pixel FX (which are used seemingly at random and only to ratchet up the disorientation factor) struck this viewer as a mere distraction. And then there is Nadja herself, played, appropriately enough, by Romanian actress Elina Lowensohn, a woman with a striking accent, a distinctive way of emphasizing her lines, and a decidedly off-kilter beauty. Elina has been perfectly cast here (and looks terrific in a cowl!). Nadja also features bits of well-integrated humor (as when Nadja refers to her dad as a night bird), and although its story line is a bit too dependent on (double) coincidence, it remains enthralling nonetheless; a significant contribution to the Dracula legend. "},{"Title":"Atmospheric and moody independent vampire movie...","Date":"6 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" 1st watched 10/2/2011 -- 7 out of 10(Dir-Michael Almereyda) Atmospheric and moody independent vampire movie that does a lot of different things with camera techniques and shading that makes for a unique experience for the viewer. The movie is basically about the siblings of a formidable and well-known vampire that is un-named, but is obviously referring to Count Dracula -- adding the special famous shot of Bela Lugosi in the role for one brief moment. The female sibling is mourning her father's death, who was killed by a vampire hunter -- played by Peter Fonda in a very quirky role. Nadja(the daughter) is the main focus of the movie and is displayed as weak and misunderstood initially, but as the movie goes forward her evil is revealed. She becomes obsessed with a young wife, who is discontent with her husband and her life -- she goes home with her after a visit at a bar, and then puts her into a zombie-like state after having sex with her. The husband and wife then get the help of the vampire killer and the twin brother, as they try to put away Nadja. The twin brother's nurse(whom he is in love with) is taken hostage by Nadja -- giving him a reason to take his sister out. Despite the horror movie storyline, this is really more a quirky vampire drama than a scary movie. Fonda is given some really strange dialogue that I believe was added to give the movie some humor, but it's very tongue-in-cheek. There is also some very corny dialogue, but the unique feel of the movie lets you forgive them because you're glued to the screen trying to figure out what direction the movie is going next. Overall, this is a very unique and sometimes sexy movie that shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"...the pain of fleeting joy.","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Nadja I'm such an idiot. I think I'm in love. Rensfield Why do you say that? Nadja Because I feel terrible.Nadja is not like any other vampire movie ever made.It is creepy, thoughtful, and very funny. You can tell by other comments that this movie has viewers divided. Obviously the people who hate it did not get the humor, which is subtle and dark.Nadja is the daughter of Dracula living in modern day New York. She describes her father as a cruel and distant man. For the most part, this film is about the psychological damage caused by growing up in a single parent household with a vampire as the parent. She says things like the pain I feel is the pain of fleeting joy. Instead of saying I want to suck your blood, she says I want to change my life in a heavy Transyvanian accent.Like all Dracula films, the arch nemesis is Van Helsing. In this film, he is the crazy uncle. He rides a bicycle and sleeps in a piano.Nadja's crazy sidekick is Renfield, but we do not find that out until a third the way through the movie.If you liked films like Blade and Underworld, you are going to hate Nadja. Nadja is for people who normally hate vampire films and looking for great dialog, stylish camera work, and have a quirky sense of humor.This is easily my all time favorite vampire movie. "},{"Title":"a most entertaining and original movie","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Nadja is a very refreshing version of the redundant vampire movies out there. It had beautiful and intriguing cinematography that at times seemed like a living photograph. Although the average viewer that is used to watching spoon-fed movies that do not require any viewer intellect or imagination may find this movie to abstract for their taste, It will Certainly be their loss for this movie is a must see if you are any kind of a movie aficionado. I am very happy to have added this movie to my movie history repertoire. Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful vampire flick","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a very clever and enjoyable vampire movie.  The film employs beautiful black-and-white photography (with scenes of Pixelvision) and an abundance of understated humor.  Elina Löwensohn is both graceful and hilarious as Nadja, the daughter of Dracula.  Peter Fonda gives a splendid performance as the world-weary Van Helsing.  A delightful rendering of the 1936 film, Dracula's Daughter.  "},{"Title":"shamefully unrecognized","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was just about to turn of a television, when I discovered a beginning of some movie on some efemeral tv channel. I do not know what dragged me to persist in front of the magic box, exhausted and tired. Maybe the music, or acting, or sets, or story, told on the very out of the ordinary way. It was Nadja. I couldn't understand why i haven't seen it earlier, why i didn't hear anything about it. Nadja still circles in my mind. Husky voices. A very fine experience. "},{"Title":"Nadja the femme counterpart to it's male counterpart vampire film; vampire journals","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" shot in black and white, this film has an eloquent beauty. I love it. It's the ultimate vampire film since vampire journals. Peter Fonda gives it a lasting performance, as well as Lynch's cameo, which makes the film its eerie mood. all in all it kicks ass! What appealed to me was the girl on girl action in the film, very beautiful. This film is similar to 'the hunger' its that awesome. I enjoyed every bite to the jugular vein after another. and on and on. The film wasn't frontin(g) at all. damn it's got to be on DVD. it's hot. The plot was that of momento and sin city. her lips were red as roses. sink your fangs into this morsel, you won't regret it. some movies shot in black and white are classic, but nadja isn't only classic it's just damn sexy!bloody kisses, Jade "},{"Title":"The greatest vampire film EVER.","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" The hilarious and well-written dialogue featured in Nadja is enough to categorize it as an instant cult-classic. If you can't add at least ten of history's most unforgettable one-liners to your personal collection after viewing this film you are hearing-impaired and should seek medical attention. The style and cinematography follows in the theme of general nuttiness provided by the script, and anyone who's sense of humor is not so moth-eatenly archaic that they can't appreciate ingeniously formulated nonsense is sure to wet their pants with laughter. Nadja also features the wonderful acting talent of Elina Löwensohn and Peter Fonda, and has a great soundtrack which includes Portishead. The film is not intended to be scary (although the bizzare vampire sexuality is a little) but overall it is an entertainment masterpiece worthy of owning, and I give it two fangs in the neck of unenlightened criticism. "},{"Title":"Gives art film a bad name","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I'm probably one of the few people who saw this movie in the theater on its release... and I never, ever want to see it again. Easily one of the worst movies I've ever viewed. There are some good people in this cast, but how can they do anything with such awful, angsty, pretentious, self-important twaddle? And how can they act against terrible performers like Galaxy Craze, who delivers the worst acting job of the decade? (I see she's still working, I hope she has improved!) To make matters worse, a few weeks after seeing this, I saw Ferrara's The Addiction and it just brought up bad memories of this one again. I'm not sure which one is worse... on second thought, at least this one gave me a laugh or two toward the end. "}{"Title":"Dire Art House Crap","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Derek Jarman meets David Lynch  is how presenter Bill Bailey described NADJA . If I was a presenter I would have described as a big pile of art house crap but  Derek Jarman meets David Lynch  is the same difference . I've nothing against art house horror , I thought THE ADDICTION was okay while I loved the visual style of THE KEEP but there has to be a limit and NADJA goes way beyond that limit and ends up unwatchable for those of us who aren't obsessed with pretentious nonsense The story follows eponymous vampire Nadja who steps foot in America in a bizarre remake of DRACULA'S DAUGHTER . Everything in the narrative is sacrificed for the visual style and more often than not it's impossible to understand what the hell is going on since the picture fades to pixellated shots that are out of focus , cross fades , slow motion sound fade outs and other directorial tricks from Michael Almereyda . No doubt the director thought he was being clever but it makes the story unfathomable and isn't helped by some very poor performances indeed . It's impossible to believe that any of the cast - Including Peter Fonda - are professional actors A very poor film that will only appeal to art house junkies and if it wasn't for the great soundtrack by Portishead , My Bloody Valentine and The Verve this steaming pile of ostentatious excrement would have received even less than three out of ten "},{"Title":"A real sleeper gem","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Really, this is a sleeper. I was drinking all the coffee I had in the house just to try to stay awake and it wasn't working.This movie is bad and boring.Many users have given the film rave reviews for its story, its look, and it philosophical script. These are likely the same people who understood and loved Lost Highways. You see, when Wes Craven includes a character named Van Helsing, it can be a bit of a gas. It is funny, mildly relevant, a bit respectful, and ultimately lost in the wake when the film provides some genuinely frightening moments. When this movie puts Peter Fonda on the screen as the drunken, acid-laced Van Helsing, you want to laugh. But, the movie takes itself so seriously that funny is not a viable option. And the fact is, there is not one sequence in the film that can elevate the pulse above comatose, let alone frighten.The story is a mess. The wonderfully philosophical script may be thought provoking for some, provided they do not possess anything more than a third grade education. For those of you who were unfortunate enough to have manage you way into the fourth grade, look not to this film for intellectual stimulation. Fans of Anne Rice's vampires may not mind that the monsters are written as more fascinating than frightening. However, these vampires are just plain confusing. Is Nadja's brother a vampire? Who knows? He never drinks blood. Is Nadja's slave a vampire? Who cares, he's a compete bore.Rarely do I feel the need to really trash a film. However, I actually bought this video based on the high ratings given by IMDB user comments, and hope that these words may save someone else the same fate. Read a vampire story. Watch Buffy re-runs. Twiddle your thumbs and count the cracks on the wall. Do what you will, but avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"A little too arty and pretentious but otherwise inventive and interesting","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  In New York City Nadja, her brother and their slave come to terms with the murder of their father by Van Helsing.  Meanwhile the girlfriend of Helsing's nephew, Jim, is taken as a drone by Nadja.  Jim and Van Helsing set out to stop the reign of the Dracula family and stop their blood lust.I didn't even know this was about the Dracula legend when I sat to watch it, just the title drew me and the cast sounded quite promising.  The black and white, shaky shots, post modern slant and grainy camera work were both a draw and a turn off for me.  On one hand it was very arty, deliberately sticking a finger up to the mainstream. I dislike this feeling - one that the multiplex crowd are unworthy of any film and that the director wouldn't care to have their film be successful and hence uses such things with abandon.  However it also made the film much more imaginative and interesting if it had all been full Technicolor with steadicam and nicely framed shots, it was pretty hip and I enjoyed it even if I felt like it was aimed at the art crowd rather than just being a film for anyone or everyone.The story is quite good, albeit just a twist on the old story of Dracula. The script is where the main difference lies.  It is quite talky a film but it is better for it.  The dialogue is a little pretentious at times but it is interesting and involving.  In terms of characters I'm afraid it falls down quite badly - the grainy images and dialogue that is far from `down to earth' stop the characters from ever being real people or even characters that I felt deeply involved in - but happily it wasn't to the point that I was completely disinterested in them.  That's not to say it was great - but it was different enough to keep me interested, even if I wasn't gripped by it at any point.  Likewise with the direction, I felt there was imagination but that it went too far to the point of just being experimental and arty for the sake of it.  If you are making a film with as good a cast as this had then why on earth would you use a child's camera unless you were trying to be arty?  This mindset did feel through the whole film and it was, as I've already said, a pretty big turn off for me.The cast is great on paper but they struggle with the pretentious dialogue and the fact that the film loses them in a grainy black & white world.  I will always watch Donovan but that doesn't mean he's any good.  Here he is alright but has precious little to actually do!  Fonda is better and plays his character with a sense of humour that the wider film could well have benefited from - I wonder if the director got annoyed by Fonda not playing it straight when he clearly had arty aspirations.  Lowensohn is not only beautiful but acts well in the title role but the astonishingly named Galaxy Craze was pretty much cardboard as Lucy.Overall this is an interesting movie but it struggles under the weight of it's own pretensions.  I found it to be different enough visually and script-wise to be interesting and even I found the apparent concerted effort to alienate the mainstream to be slightly off putting.  An interesting effort but one that will irritate far more viewers than it will please. "},{"Title":"Utterly boring.  Genius??    Hel-lo...??","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Did I see the same movie as the positive reviewers, below?I didn't know a Dracula film could be this boring.  I needed 10 cups of coffee just to stay awake for 90 minutes.  This film makes Abel Ferrara's THE ADDICTION (1995) look like unmitigated horror classic, and that's not saying much since I almost slept through that one, too.I can put up with a b/w film for 1994, but watching this with the pixelvision camera parts is enough to make one go blind.  There's also a lot of philosophical, boring talk about the meaning of life, but do I really give a sh#t?It meanders on and on and on...2 out of 10   "},{"Title":"maddeningly pretentious","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Nadja is a woefully pretentious music-video style gloss on the early Universal vampire films (it's even photographed in black-and-white) crossed with modern-day nihilism and a more-hip-than-thou attitude that's painful to watch. An experienced cast of indie-film veterans (including Martin Donovan and Peter Fonda) and David Lynch in the executive-producer's chair does little to help what is, at heart, a stylish yet poorly calculated gloss on an ages-old premise. The use of black-and-white film stock, combined with the utterly random inclusion of pixellated images, does nothing but accentuate Nadja's shallow, showy pretentiousness. "},{"Title":"Unforgiveably stupid writing, sadly amateurish production","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  I cannot believe how lame this movie is.  The acting is terrible, and seeing as all these performers have a decent repertoire, one can only blame the writing.  Cliches abound  a pet tarantula named Bela (oooh--you're soooooo Goth), ridiculous Romanian accents with forced ESL dialogue (e.g., Why you show me this?, pathetic Philosphy 101 ruminations (We've lost touch with God...I don't mean the man with the beard, the father, the punisher, but the Source---oooh, deep), etc.  My personal favorite laugh comes at the title character's large black hooded cape.  Her description of her birthplace (I won't ruin the one true comic gem of this film) is similarly laughable..I had to rewind twice...Was this project the brainchild of high school Goths, creatively malnourished and trapped in their under-stylized 80s haze?  It truly looks like the directorial efforts of a novice who desperately wanted to update The Hunger for a new generation of bat-cavers.  Too bad, cuz it doesn't hold a candle.The video box describes two vampires hiding in the NY afterhours scene, but all we see of that potentially exciting scene is a quick montage of some fake club and a tiny bar with one other customer.  Perhaps the most annoying attempt at hipness is the use of a highly-pixelated camera to show vampire vision.  DORKY!!!!  The lack of consistent perspective makes this tool useless--whose vision is this?  Nadja's?  Her vampire brother's?  God the Punisher's?  LAAAAAAME...I love the blood that spews forth from one actor--thicker than hershey's syrup and about as convincing.  Things pick up a bit in the ending, but good luck making it that far.  I can't stress enough how bad the writing is.  It almost has to be seen to be believed, but why waste your 90 minutes? "},{"Title":"Pretentious bubblegum","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" I like a good vampire film as much, if not more so, than the next person so imagine how I felt when I had the misfortune to see this so called 'artistic' effort. Out of focus passages and pretentious dialogue doesn't make something arty, it just serves to make it so boring as to be a complete waste of film. It brings nothing new to the genre in fact it only seems to repeat the same stale old clichés that have already been done to death - I mean female vampire as lesbian seducer? Now where have I seen that before? Oh just about every vampire film since the early 1970's!In one word - AVOID! "},{"Title":"This bloated corpse is guaranteed to nod'ja off","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  What was the purpose of this gibberish unless to aggravate all lovers of vampire film. Amateur hour performances, exhausted dialogue, totally ridiculous use of the camera, and then there was the big finale a concoction as stale as last week's salad. Two fangs down to this empty casket.  "},{"Title":"I want my money BACK ! ! !","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  ALL the MAIN scenes is pixelated -In a heavy Mosaic filtering- ! ! why they didn't pixelate the entire movie?!The story is good but not the film; you will see the Dracula's daughter -no fangs ! !- smoking cigarettes from the beginning to the end of this poooor movie.That's what you will remember if you seen it.It worths nothing.1/10  the (1) is for the story ! "},{"Title":"Blood is like chewing gum to these creatures. Absolutely awful & no there's nothing wrong with your TV it's meant to look like that.","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":" Nadja starts in New York one night as a Vampire named Nadja (Elina Lowensohn) talks to a man (Nic Ratner) in a bar & explains that she & her slave Renfield (Karl Geary) have travelled to New York from her homeland of Transylvania because her Father Count Dracula (Peter Fonda) is dead & that it is hard to find good food in New York after 10 O'Clock. Shortly after in a car Nadja drinks his blood. Meanwhile Van Helsing (Peter Fonda again) is tracking Nadja down with the intention of killing her & he enlists the help of his friend Jim (Martin Donovan) to aide him. Jim's wife Lucy (Galaxy Craze, yeah right that has to be a false name) has met Nadja & taken her back to her apartment where Nadja & Lucy engage in a bit of lesbianism & blood drinking. Van Helsing & Jim become aware that Lucy is under the control of Nadja & in another bizarre coincidence Van Helsing's Sister Cassandra (Suzy Amis) is looking after Nadja's ill Brother Edgar (Jared Harris) who Nadja intends to visit, both Van Helsing's & Jim's desperation to kill Nadja becomes even greater as the people they care for the most are in danger because of Nadja's blood drinking activities...Written & directed by Michael Almereyda I hated just about every second of this supposed film. The script is slow & boring, nothing memorable really happens & is a bit of a chore to sit through. There are only a few character's in the film & I didn't care one bit for any of them, I've heard of minimalist but this is just ridiculous. As a whole Nadja doesn't make a lot of sense & just didn't grip, engage or entertain me in any way whatsoever. So the story & character's are crap can the film deliver in other areas, well no because Nadja is one of the worst looking films I've sat through. If black and white is your thing then fine & I have no problem watching black and white films but Nadja just looks so dark, bland & uninteresting. Then there's the shots which look like they were shot on a faulty camcorder, I'm sorry but they are incredibly annoying as the screen becomes an absolute mess of pixelation & blocks. To add insult to injury director Almereyda uses various irritating techniques to try & convince the viewer that their watching 'art' like soft focus, blurring, slow motion, shots where the background action runs at a different speed to the foreground, jerkiness, skipping frames & bizarre scene transitions. I hated how Nadja looks & was literary praying it would finish within the first 30 minutes but never let it be said I don't give a film a chance & I (just about) stuck it out to the end which was also crap. With a pretty reasonable budget of about $1,000,000 Nadja is a poor show, very few character's, no effects & a cheap feel throughout & I have to ask myself where all the money went exactly. There is no atmosphere, scares or tension & while I accept some people may like this black and white art-house nonsense I don't & that's all that matters to me, I simply cannot see how anyone could gain any sort of viewing pleasure from such a film as this & I certainly didn't. There is not one single aspect of Nadja that I can say I enjoyed apart from the central performance by Romanian actress Lowensohn who makes for a striking & seductive female Vampire. Fonda just looks stupid sporting long hair & reflective shades. Forget about any special effects or any proper blood or gore. If you like this sort of bizarre boring, black and white art-house stuff then Nadja is probably right up your street so I can recommend it to you but if your looking for a proper film with decent horror & an actual story then avoid this piece of crap like the plague, that's just my opinion & I'm sure there is an audience out there for a film like Nadja but it's not for me. "}{"Title":"oh Ugh  Amateurs","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror","Review":"  Geez, makes Carnival of Souls look great.  Gonna watch Space Ghost tapes. Love campy but this is way too sad.  Sorry for actors who just must be in something, anything.  I'm an act-or.  Let me act. At least we have option to tune out. "}]