[{"Title":"disappointing if you've heard their albums.","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie could have been a lot funnier if only they didn't use almost the exact same dialogue from their prank calls. Seriously some of the scenes from the movie are almost word-for-word with the calls. If you haven't heard their jerky-isms (rubberbeck, sizzle-chest) then this might be funny to you. Anyway the movie is about two low-lifes from Queens, two late-20's guys who can't get a job who still live at home. They end up calling a random number which just happens to be a local mob boss. Johnny Brennan does his hilarious Frank Rizzo voice claiming to be childhood friends with the guy who becomes infuriated after being called fruity-a$$. (the only really funny scene.) Once they meet the boys in person, an arrogant local boy Brett Weir sees them at the same restaurant and clues the mafia in as to who the Jerky Boys really are. So the rest of the movie is basically them trying to outrun the mob. Some scenes following were okay, with a cameo by Ozzy Ozbourne and the NY hardcore band Helmet. In the end when the gang kidnaps Johnny's mom and fits her for a pair of cement shoes, Johnny and Kamal call the newspapers up to expose the mob. The end. A lot of people said the plot was clichéd. Not really, I thought it worked good, it just wasn't EXECUTED properly. And by properly, I mean humorously. The first time I heard the call about the old man with the Mexican immigrant worker it was funny. I kicked him in his little hiney The second time it seemed rushed, like they had to create a scene where the actions would fit perfectly with the call. This one happens to be made over a call box on a warehouse where the bad guys are standing near, to distract them while the boys escape. Some of the actors, who have played distinguished, critically-acclaimed roles in other movies (Alan Arkin, Vincent Pastore, William Hickey) seem like they're having a REAL hard time saying their lines. They must have needed money. I won't tell you not to see it, because as far as i know it has not been released on DVD. And I can guarantee you can find it for a buck or two at almost ANY movie store. So if you have or haven't heard the prank call albums but you still want to see it, you'll only be a few bucks short if you don't like it. "},{"Title":"Not bad, jerky!","Date":"4 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Johnny Brennan and Kamal play themselves as a pair of prank callers who find themselves crossing wires with the mob.  This is not one of the greatest films of 1995, but not very bad.  More than half the pranks are based on their popular albums.  If you're a true fan of The Jerky Boys, you might enjoy this film.  Personally, I like the albums better.  Later, tough guy! My evaluation ** out of ****. "},{"Title":"Funny Enough","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This was bottom of the barrel cinema when it came out. Its not anything you should really have high expectations for when you start into it. That being said, compared to the bottom of the comedy barrel these days this movie is a worthwhile and entertaining entry. The supporting cast actually isn't too bad. Other reviewers have questioned the appearance of Alan Arkin in this film, and maybe it is weird, but whatever he's in it. So is Vincent Pastore (Big Pussy Bonpensiero from The Sopranos) and cameos from Tom Jones and Ozzy Osbourne (a particularly rare depiction of him when he still had some vital essence left and decked out in appropriate mid-90's high fashion.)Speaking of the the mid-90's, there's a lot of great footage of New York City in the years right before Giulianni started cleaning the place up. Anyways, the movie is funny. Its not the funniest movie ever, but the ad hominem attacks, creative profanity, and silly voices will make you laugh. Its nice to see their skits made into live action, even though the real genius of their humor on their tapes was that the calls were real and the calls in the movie are scripted. Its a solid B-grade comedy. If you're expecting more, you have the wrong idea. "},{"Title":"A very funny comedy with an actual plot!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I enjoy a good comedy, but it must have a good plot.  Dumb and Dumber and Road Trip are my two other favorite comedies.  This film is not only damn hilarious, but it provides an awesome story.  The mob elements arent cheesy either, they are actually pretty good. "},{"Title":"Best Left to Audio","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yeah, this is a moronic movie. For those who haven't heard the boys' prank calls (which I find funny, and even sometimes clever), their jokes will fall pretty flat. They just don't work on-screen. And for those of us who HAVE heard their old stuff, the movie serves as a rehash and seems old hat. The only reason I rented this was to get a look at the faces behind the voices--doesn't Johnny B. look like a chubby Sean Astin with a mullet-like hairdo? Stick to their audio-only work. "},{"Title":"Occasional laughs, but mostly a disappointing comedy starring a talented duo","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Jerky Boys are a famous comedy duo known for making prank calls which have been recorded and released on albums. I knew about them by the time I first came across a copy of this film for rent at a video store recently, but didn't know they had their own movie until then. Released in 1995, long before I was old enough to watch R-rated movies, The Jerky Boys is a comedy starring the two prank callers, John G. Brennan and Kamal Ahmed. By the time I watched this, I had heard many of their recorded prank calls (it seems they were falsely credited for several of the ones I heard, but most of them really were from the duo), and thought they were generally funny, but since I was aware of this film's lack of popularity, I wasn't surprised by its overall mediocrity.Johnny B. and Kamal are two lowlifes from Queens who have been making prank telephone calls since they were kids. John's mother warned the two of them what they would be like when they grew up if they didn't change their ways, and sure enough, they have since grown up and turned out to be exactly what she predicted, two unemployed idiots still living at home. Making prank calls is still a major hobby of theirs, and they've had certain jobs in the past, but due to their stupidity and incompetence, they didn't have them for long. Unfortunately for Johnny and Kamal, their prank calling gets them into serious trouble when they call the local mafia and Johnny pretends to be a crime boss from Chicago named Frank Rizzo, and the two of them then pose as two of Rizzo's hoodlums when they go to meet members of the Queens mob in person! They soon find that not only are the local mafia after them, so are the police! Shortly after I began to watch this 1995 flop, I did find myself laughing or at least smiling at times, but not enough to make me think it was a actually a good comedy, and I didn't care for the part with Johnny and Kamal (as kids) watching a boy getting in trouble with his mother after they prank called her, and what the mother says she'll do to her son when they get inside. None of the gags in this movie are among the most revolting I've ever seen, but one fairly lame scene is the one with hot dogs made from human bodies! Most of the film is basically just mediocre, unfunny, and boring. The plot also isn't that interesting, with the two pranksters getting into more and more trouble. I certainly did laugh at times, such as the drive-thru scene and the part where the main characters (the Jerky Boys playing themselves) steal a cab and Kamal poses as the cab driver. These laughs definitely weren't always just small ones, either. Still, for the vast majority of the film, I kept a straight face, and cannot give it a high rating.This silly comedy was apparently panned by critics and seems to be fairly obscure, but it seems that some Jerky Boys fans like it. However, it also appears many of those who have seen it think it's atrocious, and I'm sure a number of the duo's fans have been disappointed by this movie of theirs. As someone who has never listened to any of their albums from start to finish but has heard enough of their recorded pranks individually to be convinced that they know how to be funny, I sure would have been disappointed if I had expected this film to be as good. Apart from occasional funny moments (some very funny and some mildly amusing) and a cameo appearance from Ozzy Osbourne as the Band Manager, there was hardly anything in 1995's The Jerky Boys (a.k.a. The Jerky Boys The Movie) that appealed to me. If you're not a Jerky Boys fan at all, I suggest you skip this film, and if you are a fan, I can't imagine how you could watch this without finding anything in it funny at all (though you never know), but don't be surprised if you find that it doesn't live up to the duo's audio recordings. "},{"Title":"Read This Review Or I'll Wrap Your Head In A Ratchet!","Date":"30 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Man, at the time this movie came out I had already been a fan of the Boys for several years. To me these guys will always be the Kings of the prank call. I was literally in tears when I first heard the albums; so when I heard about a movie coming out I was psyched! I learned the movie was going to be a PG-13 and I was a little disappointed because the Boys are known for vulgarity. Upon seeing the movie I was entertained, it certainly had its funny moments. I believe you have to go in having an open mind. It is a movie with a plot, so their normal comedy of getting unsuspecting people is not there. I think they do a good job at comedy and the movie overall is funny, I think a lot of people expected their normal stuff but this was an attempt to broadening their audience and take them into the realmainstream. If your a die-hard Jerky fan, I think you will enjoy it and if you like comedies I believe you will enjoy it. If your expecting for it to be just like the tapes then you will be disappointed. Aside from a couple of my favorite characters missing I enjoyed it, laughed, and will watch again. "},{"Title":"Jerky Boys vs. the mob","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am a huge fan of these two. I know the majority of people hate these guy's, but I think they are brilliant. This movie was widely panned over by critics and movie goers, but it is just another great example of the genius that is the Jerky Boys. You have to know their prank phone call background to fully appreciate all the jokes in this movie. And to listen to their prank call CD's, you start to see how quick witted these two are, to come up with the calls they do is pure genius. Listen to the CD's and then watch this movie, you will laugh your butt off, I can almost guarantee it ! Just watch the 'drive through' scene in this movie to see one of the funniest bits on film ever ! "},{"Title":"A highly Underrated watch, hilarious in parts","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" To be fair the title itself doesn't really get this film off to the best of starts and i was not really impressed by the DVD case or anything about it, however never judge a book by its cover, as i came to find out. The jerky boys main strength lies in the quality of 'Gangster accents'' portrayed by the lead characters. The whole idea of two 30 year old men sitting round making obscene and very funny phone calls all day would in principle sound like an unattractive watch. In saying this though the jerky boys has some hilarious moments which left me and my father in fits of laughter, (no exaggeration),. IN terms of a plot the jerky boys doesn't come off so well which is why all included i feel it overall deserves a 6. To conclude if your looking for a quick laugh, nothing special or something funny to watch with friends I highly recommend the jerky boys. "},{"Title":"I loved this","Date":"6 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this movie and busted a gut laughing at the first 10 minutes. Basically, the first ten minutes of the movie is by far the peak of the film but there's still some laughs in between. I haven't seen this movie all the way through in at least 3 or 4 years and I would love to see it again. I just remember loaning my video of this to my Aunt and she never returned it because she loved it more than I did. The scene at the burger joint is hilarious and the one at the construction site is also one of the funnier parts of the movie. I hope they bring this movie to DVD one day. It's nearly impossible to find in video stores and it rarely ever comes on TV. It would be a great addition to my DVD collection next to 'Freddy Got Fingered'. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Caution  Do not watch this film with milk and/or twinkies in your mouth","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Seriously watch out because I am still cleaning up the milk and twinkies off of MY LIVING ROOM FLOOR (because I laughed so hard)!!!!  I am a 33 year old woman and not to hip with the latest trends, sorry VH1 all the way for this girl, no MTV, but I must admit The Jerky Boys are funny.  I mean these guys were just playing around making funny (prank) calls when they accidently call a mob boss, needless to say hillarity ensues.  They team with a rag tag crew of homeless children and one mean ol' rappin granny and attempt to take back the streets from the mob.  I won't reveal the ending, but I will say a hanky maybe needed, who knew that these two comic geniuses could also make you weep.  The good news is the ending was left open enough for a sequel, come on Paramount get on the ball it has been seven years, and the chemistry between the two leads may start to fade.  I heard they actually adlibbed most of the movie, and spent weeks making actual prank calls to get into character.  Add Kamal and Johnny to the list of fine comedic duos such as Martin and Lewis, Abbot and Costello, Cheech and Chong, and Stallone and Getty.  A must see for lovers of the cinema who aren't afraid to laugh at the human condition that is reflected so poignantly in this fine film.  On a side note why don't they actually make a record of prank calls and release it?  I am sure it would sell.  "},{"Title":"Two out of work pranksters. Pull one prank too many when they get mixed up in the mob.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie will have you laughing out of your A$$!!!. The Jerky boys bring their weird sense of humor to new heights in this low budget movie. This movie isnt for everyone and its definitely not a family film. If your are bored on a Saturday afternoon go to the video store and rent this. You wont regret. I give this movie an 8 out 10 rating.  "},{"Title":"Unfunny, monotonous, and a general waste of time.","Date":"3 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Why turn an unfunny series of prank phone calls into a movie?  Whose idea was this?  Why does this movie have Alan Arkin in it? Watching this movie will not answer any of these questions, it will only make you inquire Why am I watching this movie?  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was incredibly funny and refreshingly original. The two boys play great roles as the jerkiest prank callers ever seen, causing trouble and getting into hilarious dilemmas. I found the movie excellent and I think any one with a not-so-serious personality would find it a great film.I give it ten out of ten because it is far ahead of its genre, matching, if not beating such similar films as Dumb and Dumber and Wayne's World 2. It establishes its comedy on simple humor and doesn't derive itself from ridiculously complex politics, boring celebrities, and doesn't rely on sexual overtones (although it would do great with them). I would put it on par with many other funny movies I've seen and I must say, I would be very happy if it was aired on television for once. "},{"Title":"stretch 22","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Jerky Boys is mostly an excuse to be silly. The plot is that slackers Johnny and Kamal spend their lives making prank phone calls and inadvertently call a mob boss (Alan Arkin), pretending to be another mafioso, thereby starting a wacky chain of events. I actually thought that the best parts were the pranks. Still, the flick's an overall fun romp. Far from the funniest movie ever, but OK for a viewing. As it was, I saw this movie right after I first learned of Alan Arkin by seeing Catch-22, so this was a real surprise. And now he's won an Oscar! Anyway, pretty funny. Also starring William Hickey (the mob boss in Prizzi's Honor and the patriarch in Mouse Hunt). "},{"Title":"A Screaming Riot!!","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I never laughed so hard in my life! The language is quite raw, so those with sensitive ears should find an edited-for-tv version, and if you're looking for academy-award-winning material, pass this one up...but if you're just looking to have fun and laugh yourself stupid, this video is a must-see! My sides ached for three days after watching this movie. Johnny Brennan nad Kamal Ahmed are two of the funniest comedians that have ever rolled into public view. These are just two guys having fun and taking you with them, as if you had an extremely hilarious brother and his equally funny best friend. And EVERYbody has had a Brent Weir in their life at one point...and its a scream how they torment him throughout the film! If you're not anal about perfection but just like to let your hair down and have fun without judgement, grab this one up. You really wont regret it!! "},{"Title":"Only Clifford was worse...","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some friends and I went in search of bad movies recently, and we stumbled upon a truly awful movie - The Jerky Boys.Whew - where to start?  OK, let's start by saying that the Jerky Boys weren't that funny when they were doing phony phone calls let alone a movie.  Hey guys, the whole reason why anyone found the phone pranks amusing is that real people didn't know you were goofing on them and their reactions to the goofing makes the bit funny.  Now that we have actors saying whatever lines make the bit the most funny (at least funny to whatever hackneyed writer you used for this piece of garbage) - IT'S NOT FUNNY ANYMORE. sigh - will Hollywood never learn?Now on to some specific comments...SARCASM ALERTThe Jerky Boys seem to love using certain words, chiefly the noun lips  (which they pair with adjectives to form such memorable put downs like liver lips and meat lips) and the adjective sizzle (which they couple with nouns to make even more memorable hilarity with taunts like sizzle chest and sizzle neck).  To be honest, the most surprising thing in this film is that the obvious pairing of what I would think would be their favorite adjective/noun combination never took place.  Alas, not hearing sizzle lips was a blow I could hardly recover from.The few sight gags in this movie were so predictable (and so bad) that they almost leave you speechless (almost - see my friend's comment below). For example, when the Jerky Boys are locked in a meat locker by the mob and then try to escape out of a window (in a meat locker ?!? - pa-lease...) they turn to groan strings of hotdogs to use to repel down the building.  One of my friends went so far as to shout No, NO, NO F-ING WAY! as soon as the Jerky Boys asked aloud how they would get down from their prison.And poor, poor Alan Arkin.  He must have been on some serious drugs to ever agree to do this film.  (Did he ever read the script?)  Arkin must have needed several months of rigorous therapy to recover from his participation in this abomination...OK - I know you can't take a movie like The Jerky Boys too seriously, but honestly, a comedy should at least be funny.  I'm not entirely positive, but I'm not sure if we ever laughed during the film at all - well, except maybe in disbelief at just how bad it really was.  This film gets the rare honor of being one of the worst films I've ever seen - and I've seen a lot of 'em.  Only Clifford (see my IMDB review on that one) was worse. "},{"Title":"An Insult to their fans","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Jerky Boys first audio tape was a huge success, and I enjoyed many hours of laughs from it. The second audio tape wasn't as funny, but still had some great jokes, and I never listened to any more after that. But I saw the movie on video, and boy was it bad. It was just the same jokes from the first tape, only not as funny. And the token plot, ughh. They wouldve been better off just showing them make the calls. Alan Arkin as a mafioso????? A psychiatrist, yes (see Grosse Point Blank) but he went beyond miscast here. Everyone I know who saw this film thought it was bad, but the ones who never heard the tapes before thought it was somewhat funny, while fans of the Jerky Boys expected a whole lot more. Now Johnny and Kamal's 15 minutes of fame are up, but at least they had a good run (Perhaps they'll make a comeback someday).  "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a big waste of time! I found myself yawning than laughing at this picture. It's soooooo boring. I laugh at the movie, Godfather more than The Jerky Boys. UGH!!!!! What a dumb movie this is.I can make much better prank calls than the people in the movie, those fools don't know how to prank call anyone. This film is so moronic. It make me want to puke.1/2* "},{"Title":"Shockingly bad","Date":"18 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is really pretty awful, but whatever feelings of 'shockingly bad' are generally overcome by mundanity (in other words, it is not a 'so bad it's good' kind of film, rather it's one that continually leaves a question mark in the back of the mind, and as a result perhaps it's why I sat watching the film to end, curious as to just how the train wreck would wrap itself up). I recall laughing at the pranks as a 20- something, but whatever creativity that was present in the original tapes it not present in the movie. Every joke and every scene is so contrived that it is a wonder at all that Alan Arkin agreed to take part in the romp. I'll give the film a little credit for offering a couple of laughs, but it is nowhere near enough to excuse itself for somehow wriggling its way into existence. As someone else alluded, this creation exists solely because some executive heard the product, thought of the genius concept movie and immediately saw dollar signs.As for character development, it is of course non-existent, as the shorter, mullet-toting John Brennan generally finds himself spewing animosity to anyone and everyone in an awkwardly driven attempt to rehash nicknames and one-liners from the old tapes. Kamal shares less lines and mostly acts as the naive, passive sidekick stumbling into an absurd scenario involving mafia, sausages and lots of running away that ultimately makes no sense. Each scene is set up to derive from the previously established pranks in such a way that we always see the joke coming from a mile away.I am at a bit of a loss as to how glowing some of these opinions are. All i can say is I hope the reviewers were either really stoned while watching this one or mistakenly watching a different movie altogether. But to each his own.Bonus William Hickey playing Don 'Uncle Freddy' Frederico "}{"Title":"I Liked It","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Okay, I know this film is about as dumb as it gets but man did my friends and I get a laugh out of it. I started listening to the Jerky Boys many years ago and their first two audio recordings were some of the funniest stuff I ever heard (that and the Tube Bar recordings). When I heard a movie was actually coming out, I new it was going to be bad and filled up with old jokes from their earlier recordings. But that was what I was hoping for. I wasn't really looking for anything new, I was just looking for some live action versions of the calls, and that is basically what I got.The story is Johnny and Kamal are two losers who have been hanging out since little kids making prank phone calls. They grow up and haven't changed a bit. One day they see an old school friend (not really a friend) who says he is working for the mafia. So what do Johnny and Kamal do? They call up this mob boss played by Alan Arkin. They say they were sent by Frank Rizzo and basically they completely make a fool of him. Well, the story continues like this and they get in all sorts of trouble and have to incorporate much of their alternate personalities to survive from being lynched by the mob at the end.This is incredibly stupid, but a lot of fun. Don't expect to much out of the movie but if you are a fan you should get some laughs out of this. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Quite a niche movie","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Simply stated, if you are a fan of the Jerky Boys from their CDs, and then perhaps watch this movie just to see who these guys are, you will be entertained by some of the movie. If you are not a fan of the Jerky Boys -- or worse yet, have never heard their stuff -- you will be completely puzzled about why this thing was ever made or even what it is supposed to be. There is lame story buried under all the random bits, but that can't hold it together. Although it is nice to see Brett Weir finally get his, I would rather Sparky the Clown just stay in my imagination. (especially since on the album, the Sparky routine was hilarious) I am a huge Jerky Boys fan and I still can't muster anything above a 5. In fact even if you are a Jerky Boys aficionado, it wouldn't hurt to have a few beers before watching this flick. "},{"Title":"I fine Comedy full of laughs","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" a movie featuring Ozzy Osbourne, a Monkees Reference, Ali Tarbash, Tom Jones singing a Killer Rendition of a Lenny Kravitz Hit. and Johnny Brennan and Kamal plus Alan Arkin, and all those former Members of the hit show the Sopranos. He called you fruity ass. The people who gave this movie a one have no idea what a hit is.Even the opening Credits are great. When the Caravan pictures promo comes on and Johnny Brennan and Kamal start ripping on the guy walking away on the screen. And say come back shane. Think the Barney Look alike should have gotten more time. I even liked the Deleted scenes they only showed in the regular Television version of the movie. The Jerky Boys are Pranking Fools. Wish I had them to call my Boss, or the people I work for and give them headaches. "},{"Title":"not the best, but u know what? not bad either.","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I laughed my ass off when I first saw this flick in middle school, and i still see it today. This was the funniest flick ever, with some of the grossest punchlines ever. I'm gonna give a 3 star rating for just being damn funny. "},{"Title":"As bad as any movie ever made.","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Some movies are good bad, like Plan Nine from Outer Space.  Some are bad bad.  This pathetic thing would have to improve a great deal to even be considered bad.  This is not a movie to set lightly aside; it should be hurled away with great force. "},{"Title":"We knew it had to happen sooner or later.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, the summary says it all.  When the Jerky Boys got popular in the early-mid 90's, we could see spoof flick written subliminally all over their CD covers.  Personally, I find the Jerky Boys crude and off-color humor to be pretty good, when unleashed on unsuspecting businesses and John Doe's at home.  And it's rumored that they get releases from these people before a bit makes it to a CD, so that makes it somewhat acceptable.  These guys are like Alan Funt in the 90's.However, this movie, while containing stupid hi-jinks and some of the prank calls along the lines of those found on the CD, just isn't funny.  It's not even so stupid it's funny funny!  Frankly, it's a bore.  The plot is terrible, and often non-existent, there are certain comedy sections in the movie that contribute nothing to the non-existent plot and probably shouldn't be there, and Kamal adds absolutely nothing.  (In my opinion, he doesn't add anything on the CD's, either.  Kissel doesn't even hold a flame to Sol OR Jack Tors!)Overall, don't bother.  Only if you are a rabid Jerky Boys fan, own all the CD's, or consider yourself a phony-phone caller needing some pretty poor material, should you rent this movie.  Heck, the funniest part of the whole film is the prank call to President Clinton at the end!  (In case you were wondering, my final rating is based half on this particular prank call... the rest of the movie, frankly, doesn't deserve to be rated.)My Rating  5/5 "},{"Title":"Passed Out Laughing","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first time I saw the Jerky Boys, I passed out from lack of oxygen as I was laughing too hard. And it keeps getting funnier every time! How come almost nobody else likes it? Is it because it was mixed in a big studio instead of recorded on a cheap answering machine?! This is one of the funniest movies ever, no question. "},{"Title":"An all-time favorite","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have seen this movie at least 5 times and every time I see it I still get a good laugh.  Sure, the plot is a little weak but who cares.  This movie isn't about such banal and things as character development and plot, it's about good old fashioned fun and laughs, which, this movie delivers plenty of. "},{"Title":"It was funny.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I found that the movie was funny, although not very moral.  I don't see what all the commotion was about not having a plot.  I found that this movie had a great plot.  The movie was funny, original and it had a cleaver script. "},{"Title":"FUNNY!!!!!!!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't know why this movie got so many lousy reviews!  I thought it was terrific to watch and laugh at.  I admit the Jerky Boys (Johnny G. Brennan and Kamal Ahmed) are a little dorky, which may be somewhat detracting, but they are incredible impersonators and they can make someone wet their pants laughing.  I've seen the movie, listened to all the albums thirty thousand times, now I seem to be a Jerky Boys expert. Catch y'all later, sizzle chests! "}{"Title":"so many people to blame, so little time","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  just think of it this way... If we lived in a world where everything was the opposite, it would be one of the finest movies ever made. But we live in the real world, so avoid it. If you must watch it, just mourn the loss of time and money and celluloid wasted on this. "},{"Title":"1 funny movie!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is so funny, I liked it. I am now getting their cd's. The plot They dialed the wrong number & got the mob & now the mob are out to get them in this hilarious film. Watch for the bathroom scene where Johnny & Kamal are together & 2 mob guys are looking for them. Its worth seeing even if u arent a Jerky Boys fan. Its only 1 hr & 21 min long, so its short, for those cry-babies that cant stand long movies, he-he, jerky. "},{"Title":"Simply should not have been made.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When something comes successful, the corporate folk behind it always feel the need to somehow push it into every medium through which they can profit from it - even if it makes so sense creatively or logically.The Jerky Boys movie is a prime example of just that - turning a mildly successful series of records in which two guys assume various characters and prank call people into a scripted, plot-driven feature film.  The Jerky Boys were good at catching people off guard and generally making fools out of them.  But that is the fun - the off guard and the fool.  In this movie, it takes away the reality & humor from any of the prank calls - and the only fools are the actual Jerky Boys (or the people who paid to see the film), turning the entire formula around and making the whole thing completely unfunny.  This isn't even an attempt at depicting their actual rise to fame, day-to-day lives, or to put their characters into a story - just putting the actual Jerky Boys (who can't act) into a contrived, cliched plot where the mafia chases after them and they re-enact prank calls from their first album to scripted actors.First there was some amusing albums, then a book (now out of print), a TV special, and then this horrible movie.  It just begs the question - how much money is enough? "},{"Title":"It's called loses something in translation - look into it","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Whew, this is ultimately in the top two of my all time most feared and wretched films.  I can't say whether it's #1 or #2 until Joel Schumacher decided to Batman 5 or not.  On to the film at hand When I find my self saying, as I walk out of the theater, Gee, not even cameo appearances by Alan Arkin, Ozzy Osbourne and the minimalist punk-metal group Helmet made that movie watchable at all!, I feel the cold hand of evil around my heart. This movie could have been something if it had had a script... or sets, or even a clear sense of plot, but it didn't, so it wasn't.  Rating Manure (no stars)  "},{"Title":"Two unemployed lowlifes get more than they bargained for!","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is too much to handle!  It should have a health warning on the box.  People with heart trouble, high blood pressure or any other health problems should not watch this movie!The story begins with our star heroes as little boys, making a crank phone call.Then it continues, 20 years later.  Our heroes are older but not wiser, just more devious with their crank phone calls.They dial a crime boss and mess the mob around, getting them in all sorts of trouble with dear old mom, the mob and the police.Although I am not a fan of MTV or any of the stars of MTV, the Jerky Boys are an exception!  This movie was so funny!  I was laughing so hard that I got severe stomach cramps.  So I had to turn the VCR off after watching only 20 minutes of the movie.The next day, I was able to sit through the whole movie.  But I was laughing so hard that I almost fell off my chair.  By the time the movie was finished, my voice was hoarse and I had stomach cramps from laughing so hard.  After watching the movie 5 times, there were still parts that were still so funny that I laughed until I was out of breath!This movie is too funny for words.  Watch it as your own risk! "},{"Title":"It was so funny I about wet myself","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie will go down in history as an all time classic. I place it in the realms of Cheech and Chong and the Blues Brothers. Not many Guys could pull off making crank calls into a Big-screen comedy. Fast paced action and wacky impressions make this movie a winner. Even though it was a box office flop I bet video rentals more than made up for poor ticket sales. This is a stay home, 12 pack type of flick. "},{"Title":"one of the greatest comedies of all time","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is one of the greatest comedy films of all time. I can watch this over and over again and still laugh. The characters are very memorable. I don't want to say more about the film so as not to spoil it. Unfortunately I don't think this film exists on DVD so you have to get the VHS out of the closet or garage to see it. Good performances also by Vincent Pastore, Alan Arkin and Kamal Ahmed.Johnny Brennan is probably the greatest comedian of all time and for sure the most under-rated comedian of all time - no question about that.Go see it now liver-lips, or Frank Rizzo will split your nuts from your head to the back of your ass! "}]