[{"Title":"EXCELLANT, LOVED IT!!!","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who like their films stacked with dark humour and well-written characters should check this out! It's Natural Born Killers-esque in style here and there, but was actually made before that movie. Absolutely stunning performances all round. I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Not a rip-off, actually fairly good.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty good movie that has been pretty unfairly treated over the years. It has some flaws, but in general it stands out owing to outstanding performances and ingenious direction. It's been called a copy of Natural Born Killers, but that comparison is both unfair and inaccurate. Unfair because the movie was completed *before* Natural Born Killers was released, and inaccurate because the characters are fundamentally different. Natural Born Killers was about two people who were by nature violent and evil, whereas this movie is about two who are by nature *not* violent.Check out the movie yourself, and rather than listen to accusations that it's a rip-off of movies that actually came after it, give it a shot as what it is -- a better-than average entry in a long-standing film genre, the outlaw couple on the run. And where it's due the director gives nods to his influences. Note one item that struck me as an inside joke -- the addition of Peter Fonda, the star of one movie that truly *is* a predecessor of this one Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry (1974).  "},{"Title":"Little known wonder of a film","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Tarantino-esq action thriller which is worth a look and will not disappoint fans of Quentin's films particularly True Romance. It has (lots of ) violence, rapid gun fire, white trash characters and a large dollop of that comic book humour that has got Quent where he is today. It is easy to see that this film takes its inspiration from the aforementioned film, but it does stand on its own feet as the script and the action is good enough to entertain you throughout. Bellows and Zellwegger are good in the leads and the supporting Rory Cochrane is great fun as their psychotic madman 'friend' out to settle a few old scores. Peter Fonda is a standout as Zellweggers' dad. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Fun film!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great for fans of the crime-on-the-run films. . .  funny and unique twist on the genre with great characters and some very, very funny moments.Similar to Tarantino, and miles above Stone's horrible Natural Born Killers, Love and a .45 is a delight. "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you want to see a movie that has no reason for being.... you'll enjoy this. If you want to criticize a movie for looking like Reservoir Dogs or whatever...dont get this one. It's a very good film and the acting is great. But take it for what it is...A MOVIE! This was Rene's last Indy film before taking off with Jerry Maguire and the film is just fun. Dont dig deep in it...just enjoy it. The DP was aweful and the lighting is bad at times but that adds to the film. "},{"Title":"Pretty good!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie late one night and was pleasantly surprised at how very good it was.  Of course, it lacked in certain areas, and could have been better developed but I believe that if the budget was better, it would have succeeded.This movie has a decent plot, really well-developed characters and very creative screen shots.  I recommend this movie to anyone who is interested in Tarantino's style but by a different director.  Definitely a cult classic. "},{"Title":"White Trash Genre Rating 9/10","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For the genre I thought it was pretty good.It's not so much a Tarentino ripoff, as has been suggested, as another in a long line of White Trash on the Road movies which started back with Bonnie & Clyde & Easy Rider and continues with movies like Freeway, Natural Born Killers etc.The characters were great.  They're supposed to be overdrawn and the balance between the main characters bad deeds and that piece of goodness they have that no one else in the film possess was struck just right.Rightly so Renee Zellweger has built a career since this but I'm surprised that the Director, CM Talkington went nowhere from here and the lead Gil Bellows (who is charming here) has had little success either.And who would have thought that Creepy would go on to direct a ton of TV shows! "},{"Title":"Surprising Crime Romp","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit, I was pleasantly surprised by this film. All I'd heard prior to seeing it was that it featured the world's first celluloid skull tattoo (it does, but that's another story). After seeing it, I highly recommend it to fans of the crime/road trip genre.Gil Bellows and Renee Zellweger are Texas lovers in trouble with the law after killing some cops after him for a robbery/murder. Rory Cochrane, as his crazed ex-partner, follows the two to Mexico. The trip south of the border comprises most of the movie, and what a trip it is. Co-starring are Jeffrey Combs, excellent in a non-horror role, and Peter Fonda as --what else?-- a burn-out. The mostly rockabilly soundtrack is very good.  "},{"Title":"This is an Awesome Movie","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I took the time to register just so you can see an awesome flick. This film is right up there with Pulp Fiction, Snatch, Lock Stock and 2 Smoking Barrels, even Fight Club.I am not gonna do a critique here, but it has it all - its funny at times, and deadly serious at others. It has a great flow, and the soundtrack is perfect. I'd never heard of the Reverend Horton Heat or Mazzy Star, but they rock this flick.Frankly I am very surprised that we haven't heard from the Director in any other films. I just checked, and this and something called Killers Head are about it.Anyways, watch it and it might become one of your favorites too! "},{"Title":"This movie is an ABSOLUTE MUST SEE!","Date":"17 June 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie right after it came out and bought it immediately afterward. Though not as multi-faceted & complex as Tarantino's masterpiece, the critically acclaimed Pulp Fiction, Love & a .45 filmed here in Texas,(Austin/Bastrop area), will keep the viewer glued from beginning to end. It is by far one of the best movies released in 1994. From the Texas drawls to the family names mentioned by Dinosaur Bob & Creepy Cody, all can be found in the area.Bravo! to the casting directors for this film, for their choices clearly were well thought out. Each actor brought their own concept of Texan to the screen.I've read a lot of reviews here on the IMDb about how this movie is a rip-off of Pulp Fiction -- NBK, another film comparison made here, was also released in that same year...my question is this How can it be a rip-off if all 3 films were released the same year? Why not reference the 1992 film by Robert Rodriguez-El Mariachi, exploding on the scene with his own brand of creative artistic Texas filming...and let's not forget about that OTHER famous Texas Director, RichardLinklater who made his debut that following year with his 1993 explosive hit Dazed and Confused...where Rory Cochrane plays an unforgettable role.Let's just say that 1994 was THE year for Creative Artistic Direction.One thing I do want to ask Did Big Red Bottling Co. have anything to do with the making of this film? I mean, every scene has some sort of reference to the soft drink Big Red. Could this be Free Advertising at it's best? "}{"Title":"Unfairly Maligned...Clever, Violent, and Funny","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Some lazy and uninformed Critics and Reviewers can't help themselves and immediately lash out at this Movie's similarity to others Directed by Tarantino, Rodriguez, Stone, and Lynch. Truth of the Matter is that when Films are so near in release dates it is unfair and somewhat inaccurate to claim thievery.It is more likely and a bit Metaphysical that these Creative Folks were all tapping into that Akashic Record thing or what may be called the Hundred Monkey Theory. Whatever. This is a very good, Fun-Frolic Road Movie with White Trash Anti-Heroes and a Kick-Ass Soundtrack. More quirky characters than have a right to exist in any one Movie and some Witty Banter that makes it all quite a Rolicking Ride.It is over the top, around the bend, down the rabbit hole and off into outer space. Nutzoid and Naughty, Dirty and Delightful, with a Cast that cries out Cult Movie. It is proudly self-conscious, Violent, and Funny enough for it to become part of the Zeitgeist that was working in its Day and can not be ignored. This one will do nothing but gain Reputation and Admiration acquiring more Fans every Year. It was an easy thing to miss and dismiss this in the Mid-Nineties but if nothing else, the Success of Renee Zellweger will have the curious seeking this one out as a Career Starter and while she is a standout here, this Movie has more to offer and does so with layers of interest far beyond anything as shallow as Star Power. It gets its energy from a Chemical Compound and a Cultural Milieu that is forever Fascinating. "},{"Title":"LOVE AND A .45 review by jeff callaway","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" LOVE AND A .45 is a hip electric road trip road movie from hell that takes place on the black top back country roads and highways of the great state of Texas and all the way to Mexico. With brilliant acting as well as casting, this shotgun blast of a movie was released in 1994 by genius Texas director C.M. Talkington, whose amazing writing, characters, plot and style make this film pop with crisp imagery and storytelling. Vibrant cameos by Peter Fonda and Anne Wedgeworth, and simply perfect classic Texas outlaw roles Watty and Starlene, played by Gill Bellows and Renee Zellweger deliver. Every single performance adds the heart of truth to this entirely original classic violent modern Texas gangster film. The comfort in their parts and swagger in which the entire cast carry themselves in the movie is truly famous. Not to mention, an amazing soundtrack that adds a thump to your stomach and a rockabilly jingle of guitar by the likes of the Reverend Horton Heat, who also plays music behind strippers in the movie. Electric chair Huntsville prison stories, cops blasted in the face by psychopathic tweaked out ex cons, robberies gone awry, gruesome bloody scalp tattoos, shots of meth from high powered air needles, soul mate outlaw lovers on the run to freedom and life, burnt up hippies, and bumbling idiot thugs, this movies got it all. The best movie I've ever seen. RIP Dinosaur Bob!!! -Jeff Callaway, Texas Outlaw Poet "},{"Title":"It's worth it","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Following in the footsteps of low budget movies like El Mariachi, Love and a.45 is a very entertaining movie if you forget about comparing it to stuff like Pulp Fiction and Natural Born Killers. It's formula isn't anything new or original, or even very prolific, but it certainly gets the job done. Like Kalifornia and Natural Born Killers, this movie is about a trailer park couple, a convenience store robber and his girlfriend played by Rene Zellweger. This is one of the few Zellweger roles I've seen where she isn't all quirky and awkward, instead she plays the more provocative 'Juliette Lewis' white trash role. Anyway, basically the two have to run away together after killing two fascist cops, while being chased by a group of baddies who have their own quarrels with the couple.The above summary doesn't do the story much justice because there are numerous plot twists which keep it interesting. There's hardly a dull moment in this movie. Two things really stand out in it Firstly, the editing and direction are great, there are some excellent shots in here. Though on the counterpoint of things, there are also some very amateur-like handycam kind of shots which are very shaky. Nothing major however. Second, the characters are pretty unique in this movie. Renee Zellweger's voicebox-less hippy father is worth the rental of this movie alone, VERY entertaining. Aside from some predictable elements, this movie is incredibly entertaining and definitely worth a rental. If you like movies such as Reservoir Dogs, Natural Born Killers and the like, go ahead and check this out. 8/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is guilty of me wanted to try out dope !!","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" After seeing this movie again today and thinking back at the time when i first watch it on VHS back in 95 ,do i realize it is part guilty of me wanted to try out dope for the first time!!(gladly kicked that habit). This is a classic road movie with the right Tarrantino feel . Its about two sweethearts on the run from the law & some creepy speed freaks after the two companions Watty Watts(Gill Bellows)and Billy Mack Black(Rory Cochrane) attending in a robbery gone bad. Good entertainment and good Texacan dialogs . It clearly an underestimated movie that should get much more credit that it has received . This is also one of Renée Zellweger first major movie role. "},{"Title":"Yes It's GREAT","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Screw what the movie mavens are writing about this being a ripoff and all that twaddle. It is fun. Further Renee Z in those shorts just gets the cherry flavor. Only her second flick and yummy yummy. Gil lines are a hoot, esp the risk management one.   I've always loved these ride movies and if you do, ride along.   So there are some setup characters.  Game is to see what they can and will do with it.     More satire than Badlands or Bonnie & Clyde.   If you just want an entertain escape from the ho hum, he it be.     PS  IFC showed an Exit Poll had 75% of viewers believing thatthe two characters were not guilty -- seen the TV poll within film. "},{"Title":"Yes It's GREAT","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Screw what the movie mavens are writing about this being a ripoff and all that twaddle. It is fun. Further Renee Z in those shorts just gets the cherry flavor. Only her second flick and yummy yummy. Gil lines are a hoot, esp the risk management one.   I've always loved these ride movies and if you do, ride along.   So there are some setup characters.  Game is to see what they can and will do with it.     More satire than Badlands or Bonnie & Clyde.   If you just want an entertain escape from the ho hum, he it be.     PS  IFC showed an Exit Poll had 75% of viewers believing thatthe two characters were not guilty. "},{"Title":"Renee rocks","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is heavily inspired by Quintin Tarentino and does lack some originality. But that having been said this is a very enjoyable film. It's mainly a love story of two people who are on the run from the law and on their way to Mexico. The film is full of quirky characters and dialogue that will keep you entertained and enough violence to satisfy an action junkie. What i really love about the film is Renee Zellwegger. this is the first movie I've seen her in and I've been in love with her ever since. In this movie not only is her acting terrific but her wardrobe  consists only of tank tops and little cut-off shorts. She may have the best legs in hollywood. "},{"Title":"If the idiots that call this a Tarantino rippoff had a computer","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  10 years ago they would have been accusing Tarantino/Stone/Bright etc of ripping off other directors that had passed before them or inspired their work. The truth is Love & a 45' is a highly entertaining road movie that may be compared to Natural Born Killers, Freeway, and others but has the strength the stand on it's own two feet. Personally I think it's a great ride and after watching the comparison films thirty or forty times I dont see any comparison to speak off. What the hell is wrong with you people? Whacky characters and crazy scenes galore and it is fun to watch. Who cares if the styles are similar. Jeez! 9/10 "},{"Title":"What would happen if Natural Born Killers were made with a brain and a heart?","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hard to believe that this essentially came out simultaneously with Pulp Fiction and Natural Born Killers, since it shares so much with them it's eerie. This movie is very much Natural Born Killers made with heart, soul and intelligence and with elements of Pulp Fiction mixed in. I personally intensely disliked Natural Born Killers. Supposedly it was making some big statements about society, but it was really just an excuse for a lot of completely pointless and excessive violence committed by totally unlikeable characters. Unexpectedly, I actually liked this film more than Pulp fiction. It was obviously made with a much lower budget, which in this case gave the movie character and charm. There is quite a bit of jarring violence in this film, and you can't really claim that the lead characters would qualify as exactly desirable human beings in real life, but I still really liked this film a lot. Again, the best way I can put it is that it's what Natural Born Killers should have been. "},{"Title":"Two for the Road","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Texas convenience store robber Gil Bellows (as Watford Watty Watts) and his blonde sexpot Renee Zellweger (as Starlene Star Cheatham) get into trouble when a hold-up gets unexpected bloody. As a rule, Mr. Bellows commits his robberies with an unloaded gun. Never rob a store with a loaded gun, he advises, never. We're supposed to ignore the fact that he breaks the rule immediately; the young clerk in the opening minutes would have relieved tension by pulling the trigger after hearing it wasn't loaded, if not sooner. Next to break the rule is crazy strung-out accomplice Rory Cochrane (as Billy Mack Black)...The bloody mess results in Bellows and Ms. Zellweger leaving their romantic trailer park for Mexico, in a baby blue 1972 Plymouth. Before booking, Bellows sticks a fork and a knife in Mr. Cochrane, thinking he's done with the dude. Turns out, he's not. Along the violent road trip we meet director C.M. Talkington in a tattoo shop. Suburban hippie Peter Fonda and passionate wife Ann Wedgeworth also appear. They disappear, alas, but leave behind a trippy bottle of Sandoz...In one of the funniest of a few good laughs, the comedy's co-stars turn on the TV as a favor to a bound and gagged reverend; horrifically, they leave it tuned to a home shopping channel. Bellows and Zellweger are and attractive couple, but do not even approach older outlaws Bonnie and Clyde (1967) or contemporary Natural Born Killers Mickey and Mallory (1994). Bellows is a scruffy Sal Mineo. Zellweger is a Southern Kelly Bundy, acting with her legs first. It is refreshing to see the actors shake more than the cameras. Consisting of appropriate oldies and original music by Tom Verlaine, the soundtrack, is a main strength.***** Love and a .45 (9/10/94) C.M. Talkington ~ Gil Bellows, Renee Zellweger, Rory Cochrane, Jeffrey Combs "}{"Title":"Totally off the wall and over the top, I saw it for Renee Zellweger.","Date":"24 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I found this one on Netflix streaming movies, when I was searching for Renee Zellweger movies. I like her as an actress, ever since The Whole Wide World, plus she grew up and went to school right close to us, in Katy, Texas just off the western edge of metropolitan Houston. I found this in a 1997 Texas Monthly feature  All reliable evidence suggests that she (Zellweger) did not dream of being on the silver screen from day one. Growing up in Katy, she was more jock than drama queen, running track and cross-country and playing basketball. When she left Katy to attend the University of Texas at Austin, she wanted to be a writer. As an English major, she says, I went all over the place, from Puritanism to British lit to the Victorians, to Hawthorne to Faulkner to name it. When she began to act at age twenty, it was to pay the bills; doing commercials for beer companies and fast-food restaurants may have been an unglamorous grind, especially with all the trips to Dallas to audition for parts she didn't get, but it was preferable to work-study or the lucrative but equally unglamorous time she spent as a waitress in the Austin topless bar Sugar's. She certainly has had an interesting path to stardom. Here she is the half-wit girlfriend of an ex-con, Gil Bellows as Watty Watts. Zellweger's character is Starlene Cheatham . One of Watty's ex-con friends is Rory Cochrane as Billy Mack Black , just about as weird a character as you will find. They are petty thieves in east Texas (areas between Dallas and Tyler, they mention) and when one robbery goes especially bad, and the clerk is shot and killed, everyone goes on the run. Eventually heading for Mexico, leaving a trail of dead bodies. Peter Fonda has a small but interesting role as Starlene's dad, Vergil Cheatham, who early in his life had his vocal chords ripped out, and now uses a type of vibrator held to his throat to speak, of sorts. This is not a good movie by any usual stretch of the imagination. Almost every scene has one crook or the other pointing a gun at someone's head, and everyone spouting foul language. It seems it is supposed to be a dark comedy of sorts, I enjoyed seeing Zellweger in her early 20s and just getting started in her career, but I could not recommend this to anyone for any other reason. "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, but comes out blazing","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Love and a .45 is all about doing the Tarantino thing. Style, violence, humor, quirky characters. It has no shred of originality, only out-of-this-world situations and how the story's characters will swim through the chaos. A professional robber and his gal are on the lam after killing law enforcement types. On their trail is a screwed and screwed-up ex-partner.But that isn't to say this flick isn't entertaining. It's a wild ride to tell the truth. If Tarantino copies aren't your ilk, this one movie will ruffle your feathers. If it doesn't bother you, check this film out. Talkington seems to have some talent for making flicks, and if he could dig up something more clever, he could be a contender. "},{"Title":"why was this film forgotten?","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, we should thank the movie God for PULP FICTION, but it shouldn't have made people forget about this little cult item here. It premiered at the same time as PULP FICTION. Which other reason exists for the few votes here? "},{"Title":"An average road movie","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I love road movies and I have seen just about every one that has come out in the nineties.  Love and a .45 rates above Lewis & Clark & George, but definitely below U Turn and Natural Born Killers.I've noticed that biggest problem filmmakers have with this genre is ending the movie.  This one is no exception.  The climax has nothing new and is actually kind of corny, not to mention the rip on Tarantino and John Woo with the three-way gun pointing (you'll understand when you see the movie). Nevertheless, it's still worth a watch if you are a lover of the genre. 7/10. "},{"Title":"A pretty mediocre road movie","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Back in the early 90's there seemed to be a plethora of films about young outlaw couples on the run from the law. They were a combination between the road movie and the crime-thriller. Wild At Heart, True Romance, Natural Born Killers and even Thelma and Louise are examples of this phenomenon. Who really knows why they were so popular, but whatever the reason, Love and a .45 is yet another one from this cycle. I think it would be only fair to say that it's a minor entry, and it doesn't compare too favourably with those other movies mentioned above.Also in common with these other flicks, this one has a pretty strong emphasis on humour too. And perhaps this is one of the main flaws because, generally speaking, most of the supposed laughs aren't that funny. Its dependent on its characters who are supposed to be quirky and left-field enough to raise a smile. But the two gangsters and the psychotic 'friend' are mainly pretty annoying; while Peter Fonda's hippy dad may talk through a voice box but that accounts for one initial smile and gets old fast - he's essentially a one joke character.The story is a fairly generic bit of crime fiction. Its certainly serviceable although not especially memorable on its own terms. In the movie's favour is the fact that it does have a fast pace and it never truly outstays it welcome. That said, it isn't really too much of a shock that director C. M. Talkington didn't go on to forge a film career, as his direction of everything isn't too good. There is some potential here for a much more entertaining story but the writing, the performances and the direction aren't strong enough to make it so. Overall, this isn't a bad film particularly but its no more than a fairly mediocre entry in a well-worn sub-genre. "},{"Title":"Zellweger's first Independent Spirit Award","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Fairly good independent film in the same vein as Natural Born Killers, but with the exception of Peter Fonda, contained an unknown cast. It wasn't noticed at all when it came out and was only in limited release. Now it is easily located at major rental chains because it contains an unknown actress by the name of Renee Zellweger. She steals the film from her co-stars and frame by frame takes over the movie. It is worth renting just to see her in her first major role in which she walked away with the Independent Spirit Award in 1994. She won another in her very next film The Whole Wide World and then came Jerry Maguire and she hasn't looked back since. "},{"Title":"Funny but also rather disturbing","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I stumbled onto this movie in a fit of insomnia. It entertained me largely because it's so outrageously unapologetic about its goofiness. The plot moves at about 500 miles an hour, but that's not a problem, because there are no twists, just constant action and movement and happenings.The violence is downright grotesque a few times, and I knock the movie down a notch for that. At bottom, it's such a good-hearted story that the sudden and extreme violence is jarring. But it's also cartoonish violence and hard to take seriously. And if I recall correctly, all of the people getting greased had it coming.Beyond that, the most significant remark I can offer is that I could have sworn...I mean, I was utterly sure...that the leads were Brendan Fraser and Christina Applegate. It took me a while to realize that it was Gil Hodges. I still could swear that it was Applegate instead of Zellweger. Oh well, whoever she was...she was looking pretty good in this movie. "},{"Title":"my dad was in it!","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Yeah my dad was in the movie, he worked for Bigred and there is a scene where they are showing the front of a little store in the middle of nowhere, and a Bigred truck drives right in front of the screen....and my dad was driving the truck. he says it was his BIG 10 MIN OF FAME! but it was more like 7.2 sec's loll but He's still proud of it...Love you dad! )...anyways i loved the movie and i now own it. lots of people say that it is a knock off or whatever but i think that its original and funny.... plus with my dad being in it i cant really say anything bad about it. but i will say it is a bit corny and the filming is not the best but it is still a really great movie so see it and look for my dad! "},{"Title":"Fun little movie","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie provided me with something not many movies have been providing lately A good time. This is the kind of quirky, edgy, but ultimately warm hearted independent movie that I grew up watching, long before the Neil LeButes and Kevin Smiths of the world sucked all the fun out of everything. Love and a .45 is no great shakes, but, if anything, it will make you nostalgic for the good ol' days of independent cinema, back when indies were sorta...you know...fun and wacky.   "},{"Title":"So-so Gen X road movie saved by a cool soundtrack and a great performance by Jeffrey Combs.","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The video case for 'Love and a .45' managed to name-drop 'True Romance', AND 'Pulp Fiction' AND 'Natural Born Killers', always a bad sign in my book (what I call the Tarantino blurb rule), but this movie surprisingly a) doesn't completely suck, and b)isn't really all that Tarantino-like. I'm not saying it's actually all that good mind you, but it's passable, especially if you're a fan of Jeffrey Combs or Peter Fonda. Personally I think the movie was more inspired by David Lynch's 'Wild At Heart' than Tarantino (and let's face it, of those three movies mentioned only 'True Romance' actually preceded it, and the lovers on the run genre is an established one, with important milestones like 'Badlands' and 'The Getaway' in the 70s, 'Bonnie And Clyde' before that in the 60s, and even the underrated 'Gun Shy' back in the 40s). Gil Bellows, best known now for Ally McBeal, and Renee Zellweger, now a big time Hollywood star, are the white trash lovers, and Rory Cochrane ('Dazed And Confused') Bellows ex-partner who is out to kill them. All three are okay I suppose, but nothing special. Zellweger does look cute I must admit, but the Southern accents eventually become profoundly irritating. Writer/Director C.M. Talkington drops in little in-jokes referring to 'Pink Flamingos' and 'Easy Rider', which made me think he was pretty hip, but sadly the movie really fails to add anything new or interesting to this Gen X road movie genre, unlike Gregg Araki's subsequent 'The Doom Generation' or Matthew Bright's 'Freeway' and 'Freeway 2', which are kinda similar movies but much better. The only real reason to watch for the cool soundtrack and some of the character actors in supporting roles. Television's Tom Verlaine composed the score, The Reverend Horton Heat performs, and the movie features songs by Mazzy Star, The Flaming Lips, Johnny Cash, The Jesus And Mary Chain and others, as well as a rare duet between Kim Deal (The Breeders/The Pixies) and Bob Pollard (Guided By Voices). The supporting cast includes a great turn by horror legend Jeffrey Combs as speed freak Dinosaur Bob, cult figure Peter Fonda as Zellweger's burned out hippie father, and bit parts from David Lynch regular Jack Nance ('Eraserhead'), Ann Wedgeworth ('Scarecrow'), Michael Bowen ('Jackie Brown'), Wiley Wiggins ('Waking Life') and Charlotte Ross ('NYPD Blue'). 'Love and a .45' is a difficult movie to get enthused about. It's not an absolute stinker, but it's just not all that good and there are many more enjoyable and interesting movies out there in a similar vein. "}{"Title":"Very good copy of Tarantino and Stone","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very entertaining movie, but it copies the style of Quentin Tarantino when you look at the dialogs, the kind of story (a lot like True Romance and Natural Born Killers) and the use of surf music. The direction looks a lot like Oliver Stone's in Natural Born Killers (shots of view, amateur-style image). Still, it was funny, it was entertaining but it wasn't innovative. "},{"Title":"Watch it for Renee","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The only reason to watch this is to complete a study of Renee Zellewegger's work.It's a B movie. Don't read the reviews and then think you will see anything near the value of Tarantino or Stone even at their worst. I cannot understand how this movie could even be compared to True Romance, for instance. TR is amazing--brilliantly written and packed with excellent performances by too many good actors to list. This one has Renee in a forgettable part. That's it. Gil Bellow is mis-cast entirely. The acting is mostly sub-par, caricature. Cinematography 101. Even Renee delivers a so-so performance, but she's never unwatchable, which again is my reason for seeing it. There just isn't much entertainment value at all. Unless you know someone on the production, or maybe for study purposes, you should definitely pass on this one. "},{"Title":"not worthy even of being called a 'Tarantino ripoff'","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good Peter Fonda character, and Zellweger is pleasant to look at, but this movie was weak.  See any Tarantino, or Rodriguex, or Woo, instead of this. Is it so hard to be original? If it is, find other work. "},{"Title":"Fair fare","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the 90s, movies about quirky criminals and their misadventures were especially popular. Love and a .45 aims for Raising Arizona and falls somewhat short of Spun. A charismatic and Eastern philosophy following convenience store robber and his aspiring movie-star girlfriend have to go on the run after a run-in from the cops caused by their friend Billy Mack making the mistake of loading a gun and getting high before a robbery. A self-consciously wacky Texas road trip movie ensues with creepy loan sharks, insane druggies, and aged hippies speckled throughout, with more than enough references to Bonnie and Clyde.Gil Bellows as Watty certainly keeps the movie rolling with his pleasantness and charm. He's the really interesting character here; Starlene (Renee Zellweger) really slows the movie down with her incessant rambling about being on television. Rory Cochrane is all over the spectrum, and in the right mindset he can be really funny or incredibly obnoxious. Jack Nance and Peter Fonda make appearances for all you cult cinema lovers out there, and... well... that's about it, really, as far as what this movie offers that's different from anything else.Well, it does have a splendid Southern-themed soundtrack.I think, overall, that the movie was a decent ride but that the director should have removed himself a bit away from an obvious liking to his characters. The movie is very aware of how quirky the characters are, and thus spends more energy staging them than letting them drive the storyline. In a romp of this nature, cutting things that drag is somewhat necessary.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Glad I didn't pay money","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Hollywood over does the PWT genre. Almost turned it off several times but for some reason I sat through every tortuous minute. If the people it depicts really exist then same folk will like this movie. Otherwise it is stupid and pointless. So was Pulp Fiction. Also, since I have to commit 10 lines in order to be heard, I'll say the nickel plated Government model was cool but the scene where he gave away the blued Colt didn't fit. Love and 45 must have been edited by committee, or it ran out of money, or it was just a drill for junior actors, actress's, and writers developing their skills for future movies. Looks like Barbarella's brother played himself almost. "},{"Title":"Mirrors Pulp Fiction - just not in quality","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ack! Ack!! I think I coughed up a hairball at the moment I realized the scriptwriter really was trying to pen a love story and not simply another violent comedy piece. there was a heavy whiff of Natural Born Killers of course, but it really almost copied Pulp Fiction exactly. both Love... and Pulp Fiction were done in 1994, according to a quick Google. Love... seems to be a caricature of Pulp Fiction, especially regarding the soundtrack, which was good but could not even hope to salvage a particularly horrific script. I'm hoping someone can tell us what movie(s) might have spawned this particular genre of comedy-thriller that seems to require a battery of guns, violence, sex, cool-drug music and surf music, drugs and way-too-cool lines. Please drop in a Comment. Thx. "},{"Title":"Counterfeit Cinema","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  False. Ugly. Hollow. Cheap. Worshipfully amateurish. A shameless Tarantino rip-off with snickering contempt for the intelligence of its audience (the writer-director, Talkington, does have some visual panache, thus it's a little surprising he's done virtually nothing since.) The sort of thing impressionable, uncritical viewers eat right up. It's all a big dumb joke; if you listen closely you can almost hear its dopey, guffawing laughtrack. The movie has no core, no reason to exist; it's gimmick piled on gimmick piled on gimmick.Gil Bellows is a personable actor out of his element here. His talents are geared for television, not film. He's unable to project danger or darkness. For this sort of movie to work the outlaw MUST possess those qualities. Zellweger has fun with her splashy, trashy part, but is betrayed by an attention deficit disorder script. One minute she acts as the brake on Bellows' criminal impulses and yearns for domestic tranquility; the next she's a gun-toting hell-raiser delighted with her sudden celebrity. Gee, I wonder where Talkington got those ideas?Then there's this Rory Cochrane fellow. As Bellows' psycho buddy, he's grotesque and nearly unwatchable. His acting is a desperate, shapeless mess. He doesn't know what he's doing up there, so he empties his whole bag of tricks. A few will mistake this for brilliance. Most will not be fooled.The soundtrack is, unfortunately, very good (you wish it was attached to a legitimate story) and the convenience store robbery opening with that fine un-actor-ey kid, Wiley Wiggins, from Dazed and Confused, is wise and understated. It's the only REAL scene in the movie. After that it's just Talkington ripping off or paying homage to, well, let's see - Raising Arizona, Reservoir Dogs, Bonnie and Clyde, Badlands, True Romance, Wild At Heart, Natural Born Killers and on and on and on.Okay, Talkington, you're a movie fan. We got it. Now try making a good one.       "}]