[{"Title":"classic Newman","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"52 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Newman uses a lifetime of acting experience to give a burnished, affecting portrayal of Sully, a dysfunctional father and husband who is basically well-intentioned but has never been able to connect with anyone or live up to his responsibilities. His family arrives back in town and he begins the long-delayed process of reconnecting with his son and grandsons.Like Mr. & Mrs. Bridge of a few years back, this is a low-key, slice-of-life drama, a type of film that can be deadly dull in the wrong hands but which in this case, under director Robert Benton's guidance, and aided by a fabulous script and wonderful cast, is totally engrossing.The script is spare and lean and all the more effective for that. It never goes for heavy emotional effects, but makes its points in a powerfully understated way. The many moments of humor stand out in high relief. Excellent acting all around (this was one of Jessica Tandy's last films; also in the cast are Bruce Willis, a better actor than he is generally given credit for, and Melanie Griffith). The feeling of life in a down-at-the-heels northeast U.S. town in midwinter is superbly brought across; the movie has a real 'lived-in' atmosphere.A definite A+.  "},{"Title":"newman's best","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"45 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's next to impossible not to like Paul Newman on screen, so it's a tremendous active achievement when he plays an unsympathetic character. Sully, his greatest role since Hud, depicts Newman at his worst and thus at his best. Tom Hanks was remarkable in Forrest Gump, but Newman deserved the 1994 Best Actor Oscar for Nobody's Fool. The movie's greatness lies in the relationships between Newman and two other characters. Jessica Tandy is closer to Newman than her own son, played by Josef Sommer (who it's revealed is a white-collar crook and thus a bigger scoundrel than Sully, whom he despises). Likewise, Newman connects easier with co-worker Rub than with his own son, who can't see beyond his father's betrayal during a wayward youth. The reconciliation between Sully and Rub on a back porch may be the greatest of Newman's career (Peter's my son. You're my best friend, Sully says in terms that even the slow-thinking Rub can grasp instantly). Robert Benton, who also directed the heartwarming Places in the Heart, gives us an equally personal, but more disciplined work. He assembles A-list performers (Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith are magnetic on screen), gives them marvelous dialogue (You're a man among men, Griffith tells Newman twice in the movie but with different meanings) and melts our hearts. But acting honors go to Newman, whose complex Sully becomes if not loving, then at least a responsible, functioning, vital member of the human race. And, in the end, nobody's fool.  "},{"Title":"Perfection","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"44 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my eyes quite possibly one of the most perfect movies ever made with a stellar cast acting as you would expect them to when you want them to and acting completely out of character when you'd least expect it and enjoy it most. Look for a brilliant Melanie Griffith, a brilliant Bruce Willis, a fantastic ensemble all around, and at the centre the wonderful Jessica Tandy and the immortal Paul Newman in the role of his life. There is a point to this movie, painted in such subtle brush strokes that you just have to exclude all else and - what can I say - enjoy it, and let it warm your heart. "},{"Title":"No Fooling Around.","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman's (Oscar-nominated) amazing performance as a small-town man who tries to bring his somewhat meaningless life together is a real triumph in this fine motion picture from director Robert Benton. Newman is exploited throughout by boss Bruce Willis, but takes it all in stride as he flirts with Willis' beautiful wife (Melanie Griffith). When son Dylan Walsh and his family moves back to town, Newman must finally come to terms with his family and take responsibilities that he has ignored for the duration of his life. Jessica Tandy shines in her swan song. A really great homage to Newman, one of Hollywood's very best from any era. 4.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"why i like it","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can feel this movie deep inside. It is a reflection of the type of characters I have known and it relates well to real life situations that every working stiff goes through. Newman easily fits the character of Sully. Haven't most people seen these characters in any town anywhere in this country. The production is well performed by all and has good locations. There is just enough humor in it so that it balances the harder things in life. A chance to laugh at frailties and unsung heroes. I get the feeling that I am right there with these guys and would like to cry in my beer with them. It is worth watching over and over and it could almost become a seasonal classic. I have given this movie to friends as a gift and recommend it highly. "},{"Title":"Great film, see this one!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a gem! Apparently this film did have a theatrical run, but I had never heard of it until I saw it on cable a few years ago. Paul Newman was, as always, masterful. So was Jessica Tandy. As unlikeable as Bruce Willis is, he is a great actor and does very well here. And even though it was a fairly small part, I think this is Melanie Griffith's best work ever. The script, directing, everything came together seamlessly. I highly rcommend this film. Grade A "},{"Title":"And yet ANOTHER great performance by Paul Newman","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Paul Newman is Nobody's Fool in this 1994 film also starring Jessica Tandy, Bruce Willis, Melanie Griffith, Dylan Walsh and Philip Seymour Hoffman. Newman magnificently portrays Sully, a 60-year-old man living in a small town in upstate New York. He has a bad knee; he's suing his boss, the hard living Carl Roebuck (Bruce Willis) for back wages; he flirts with the boss' wife Toby (Melanie Griffith); he rents from his old school teacher Beryl Peoples (Jessica Tandy) who depends on him; he plays poker and drinks at the local bar; and he plays the Trifecta every day. When his son Peter (Dylan Walsh) comes to town, Sully has to come face to face with the man he abandoned as a child, as well as his ex-wife. (The scene where he sneaks out of her house as everyone screams at each other is a riot.) He gets to know his little grandson, bonding with him as he never did the boy's father. Sully, who in his own way has been taking care of a lot of people in town - and driving some other ones crazy - learns the importance of a family connection and what it entails.A marvelous script, a marvelous cast, great direction by Robert Benton - Nobody's Fool is a small movie with a big message about life. Newman portrays Sully with all of his complexities. He's more a son to Beryl than her own son. He takes care of his workmate Grub (Pruitt Taylor Vance) as he never did his own son. He is there for Toby as she talks about Carl's infidelities, but he was never there for his own wife. What's most wonderful about the script is how character-driven it is and how all its messages come out of the characters. The audience is not beaten over the head with them. When Sully speaks bitterly about his late father, he turns to Peter and says, That's what you'll say about me when I'm gone. You were gone, dad, Peter says. I've already said it. Yet the two men try, without ever verbalizing that they are trying. He's there for Tandy, without a sentimental scene.Tandy is excellent as a woman who fears the loss of her independence, and fans of Nip/Tuck will get a kick out of seeing Dylan Walsh as he was 14 years ago with his mop of hair. He does very well in his role. Bruce Willis is amazing - relaxed, funny, cheating with a smile. Philip Seymour Hoffman, before stardom hit, has a hilarious role as a policeman trying to nail Sully and not having much luck.You can't really call what Newman does acting because you won't catch him doing it - he just IS Sully. He creates an unforgettable character in this must-see film. "},{"Title":"Newman's best","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has to be Paul Newman's most enjoyable, best acted, and heartwarming movie.  Everyone works very well together, and give great performances(with the exception of Melanie Griffith, who thank god only had a small role!). Many heartwarming scenes between Newman and his Grandson. Also some funny moments(especially when Newman kept on steeling Bruce Willis' snowblower. This is a great movie to watch if you like Paul Newman or anyone else in the cast, or just like heartwarming films about family. ****1/2 ot of ***** "},{"Title":"Great Newman acting - solid entertainment","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Newman is acting just perfectly in this small town movie in his role as a 60 years old man who has not achieved much in his life, but begins to realize this when his son, whom he hasn't seen since he left his family, shows up with his kids, Newman's grandsons. The complicated (or maybe not so complicated) married life of Willis and Griffith add to the plot. Some quite witty scenes and lines make you laugh heartily, although the film's general tone is more on the serious side.  "},{"Title":"Little movie Big essence of Paul Newman","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"12 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sure, he's done a lot of other huge movies and lived a full life as a racing driver and a working philanthropist, but to me none of his work in the movies or on stage compares to this perfect swan-song film of 1994, Nobody's Fool. The nice thing about movies is that to appreciate them you only have to receive them who cares how they come about or who makes it possible? (Tho of course we do care.) What distinguishes Nobody's Fool&#151;not to mention it is literally Jessica Tandy's final film&#151;is how the lead character Donald 'Sully' Sullivan is more like Paul Newman, the real person, than any other he's done (IMHO)....For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2008 "}{"Title":"Tandy's next to last role, and an astonishing Newman in a clumsy but warm script.","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nobody's Fool (1994)A stunning mix of moving, touching performances and dialog with some awkward directing and editing. The movie feels a bit cheap or sloppy, even, and yet there are moments when it shines and when you feel its depth and it's potential.And then there is Paul Newman. He's the lead throughout, the title character no doubt, and he gives an utterly convincing, nuanced, unflinching portrayal of a tough old guy in a small town. He isn't quite the lovable one that everyone loves despite his flaws--that would be too much of a cliché, and the movie avoids at least that one big cliché perfectly. With Newman's help. He's a bit too gruff and makes too many truly hurtful decisions to automatically make him a diamond in the rough, a sweetie with a leather exterior. But the viewer can see soon enough how genuine he is, thoroughly thoroughly genuine. He doesn't coddle, he doesn't waffle. He knows what he's about. And he really is admirable for steadily getting small things done for the good of others, though you can hardly tell sometimes. The fact that he ignores common decency (like driving his pickup truck on the sidewalk) is not quite charming, but it adds to his honesty, ironically.The rest of the cast sounds impressive but doesn't have nearly as much to do, not with any depth, though with sincerity in the performances. Bruce Willis has a role that constrains him more than you'd think, as a younger building contractor who is a bit of a rake. Jessica Tandy is a sharp, lovable older woman who rents to her upstairs to Newman. Melanie Griffith has a small role and is charming in her distinctive way, and we even see, briefly, Philip Seymour Hoffman in an unlikely role as the local cop.The director (and screenwriter) is Robert Benton, who is best known (to me) as the director (and writer) for Kramer vs. Kramer. I'm guessing it was because of that, and the kind of interpersonal story at stake, the allowed him to gather such an impressive cast. It would be a wild guess to understand why it doesn't quite work--my first inkling is merely that he was screen writing about someone else's original story and it was something he didn't know about first hand. Some of the lines are off, some of the humor gets silly, and in one or two cases you just want to say, no way.Even with the elevating humor to the tale you expect it to maintain its realism which it mostly does. It's set in the mid-Hudson Valley, where I've lived for 30 years, and there were lots of familiar places. They got the feel of the little towns slightly down on their luck really nicely, and the damp cold of winter adds to the overall ambiance. (There are directing quirks here, too, like never plowing the streets, and anyone who lives in an area with snow knows that the main streets, and even the smaller ones, get plowed often and well. But hey, it looks good, all that white.)What's to take away from this? A beautiful sense of integrity. The father-son dynamics are too forced to work, the seeming true friendships that exists or not between some characters isn't always fleshed out, and the weird relationship between Newman and Willis is crude and off-kilter. It's not a great film on many terms. But the development of Newman as a persona, as a type of person, is amazing. And he's amazing. Enough to see the movie just for his contribution. "},{"Title":"Unmissable Americana","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A slice of life from Smalltown, USA, where everyone seems connected to everyone else. Bittersweet and comical in turns with first-rate performances all round, particularly and as usual from Newman, and from Willis, a million country miles from Die Hard and Armageddon. The ensemble cast is top-notch and propel the tale through the ups and downs of Newman's character's attempts to come to terms with - and redeem himself from - a wasted life in which he took no part in the upbringing of his son and in which, we suspect, he flitted from job to job, home to home and woman to woman.Nobody's Fool is a classic slice of Americana and, in its category, unsurpassed. One of the best films of the nineties and one enjoyable to watch again and again and again, for the acting, for the dialogue and for its warmth. Don't miss this one.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Benton has signed another masterpiece with this touching, refined and profound movie. The acting deserves tons of Oscars (Jessica Tandy and Paul Newman are amazing the latest is acting one of his best roles). The support characters are excellent, so is the beautiful cinematography, the delightful dialogs and the screenplay. You OUGHT to watch this very underrated movie, woefully unknown. There is nothing cheesy about this aging man working on little odd jobs to make a living. He is known and tenderly loved by all his neighbors, even by his enemies. He is not flawless but has got a kind of wisdom through the simplicity of his life and through his attempt to correct the mistakes of his past. The character really grows on you so is this unpretentious art film. "},{"Title":"Another Paul Newman and Jessica Tandy Masterpiece!","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a Connecticut resident, I had the rare privilege of meeting film great's Art Carney (who I best remember for TV's The Honeymooners and the Oscar-winning Harry and Tonto), Katharine Hepburn (who I best remember for African Queen and The Philadelphia Story), and Paul Newman (who I best remember for Absence of Malice, the Oscar-winning Color of Money, Nobody's Fool, and The Road to Perdition). Eugene Wilder's Our Town, the theater, and Westport Country Playhouse were also hallowed places for Paul Newman. He enjoyed the footlights and the stage, as well as movies. Indeed, Paul Newman is a thespian, who is a priceless one of a kind. Paul Newman's legacy lives on through his matchless performances and his wonderful deeds that continue on with Newman's Own, a exemplary example of commitment, dedication, humility, and selflessness. He gave his all, and he gave his best.In Connecticut, Paul Newman is known as a regular guy, but he is also known as a consummate professional, who is missed in Hollywood and around the world.My favorite Paul Newman film is Nobody's Fool (1994)--and, indeed, he was Nobody's Fool in real life, as well as on the stage and screen. Quite frankly, I believe that Paul Newman deserves an Oscar for his moving and sensitive portrayal of Sully. The film is a tear- jerker--and my tears flow like a river, every time I view this movie.Paul Newman is universally loved, and so it is quite a triumph for Paul Newman to play an unsympathetic, yet winsome character. Sully has got to be at least one of Paul Newman's greatest roles since the Oscar-winning Hud.This movie's superb qualities are definitely supported by Paul Newman's relationships with the interwoven characters throughout the film. But, it must be said that there are relationships that stand out. Jessica Tandy's superb performance, and her relationship with Paul Newman. Once again, through Jessica Tandy, we can see what is Driving Miss Daisy. This movie is dedicated to Jessica Tandy, and this film great is also sorely missed. Sully's relationships with Rub and his own son Peter's my son. You're my best friend. And, then, there's Paul Newman's relationships to the matchless Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith. These are electric and magnetic performances generating the reflections of another Robert Benton masterpiece, the heartwarming Places in the Heart.But accolades go Paul Newman whose performance melts our hearts, as he changes Sully into a functioning, loving, responsible, and vital member of his community and the human race. But, this is not a surprise to me because, like Julia Roberts, Paul Newman is a hero to myself and to all of the people he continues to touch.As Melanie Griffith triumphantly proclaims to Paul Newman, in Nobody's Fool (1994) ...(Paul Newman was, and continues to be,) a man among men. Paul Newman is that, and more. I rank this film a 10 out of 10. To Paul Newman, Jessica Tandy and all of the excellent cast members, I say 'Bravo'! "},{"Title":"Standout film in every department","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nobody's Fool is on par with Terms Of Endearment and Ordinary People as a fantastic human drama but it also has a lighter and irresistible approach that's no less captivating.Paul Newman plays blue-collar working stiff Sully, a man who's not lived much of a life; at least according to his landlady (the always wonderful Jessica Tandy). Having deserted his wife and child as a young man, Sully, in his old age, meets up with his son as a grown man and develops a relationship with him and his grandson in the proceedings. Also we get too see the people in Sully's life; his obnoxious boss (wonderfully played by Bruce Willis), the boss's wife (Melanie Griffith's best ever performance) who Sully is constantly harassing, his landlady and her son, his best pal and and a mean ass dog.Director Benton gets first rate performances from the entire cast and handles all the proceedings well. The small town atmosphere of Bath, New York, is wonderfully captured and it's one of these small towns you'd just love to live in. The script is expertly written and has unique and wonderful characters, multi layered and interesting.Nobody's Fool is a standout film in every department, a perfect example of what a good cast and a good director are capable of pulling off when the material is good.One of my top 10 films ever. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Nobody's Fool","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent movie. I love Paul Newman and all of his movie's he's one of the all time greats! I would like to know the name of the theme song throughout the movie.It's a great song and fit's the movie perfectly. If anyone know's the name of the song please let me know. The story has a great plot and human interest. It reminds me of day's gone by when we were younger. I loved his free spirit in the movie especially when he gave the town policeman all the trouble he could handle and the policeman thought he had won, but then the judge told him what a fool he was. It was funny. I also loved the way he took care of his landlady. He was truly her best friend and treated her better than her own son. Thanks. "},{"Title":"Understated Gem","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a movie for all those who hate pushy salesman and others of their ilk. The production is a gem, but not a flashy one. More like an opal than a diamond. It doesn't push itself at you, but it hooks you all the same.Paul Newman is ... well, what can I say? Whatever I chose, it would be inadequate. He is the classiest actor in Hollywood, and this movie proves he hasn't lost his touch. Supporting cast Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith in really fine, juicy roles giving inspired performances. Jessica Tandy in her final role leaves a rich, feisty memory. Philip Seymour Hoffman is priceless as the dumb cop, providing most of the movie's out loud laughs.A gentle movie, delicately woven, with glorious moments of understated humor. Case in point the conversation between Sully and Rub sitting on the steps outside Rub's house. No wish to spoil it for you ... watch it for yourself. If you don't have a darn good chuckle, maybe you should seek professional help. "},{"Title":"Forgotten gem Why oh why?","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a rare movie, indeed. This is my favorite movie as well. I never understood people who actually purchased movies, for once I've seen a film, I'm usually done with it. I bought this one. I should say my wife bought it for me, three years ago, a used VHS, E-Bay copy, as a gift, not long after a discussion of our favorite movies.Watched it again tonight, 'bout my fifth full viewing, gets me every time. Favoite scene This movie is so beautifully woven, it's hard to choose, but the one that I always look forward to, is the scene where Sully lets Will steer the truck through town, It's a nice truck Will says. Yeah, it is a nice truck Sully says, smiling in a way that comes more from Paul than Sully. Truly rare. "},{"Title":"Nobody's Fool?","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, we all agree that everyone loves Paul Newman but I don't get why everyone seems to love this movie. It is depressing and and much of it makes no sense at least to me. Even the title makes no sense. Is Sully (Newman) nobody's fool because he lives by his own rules? Is it that he seems to have a life free of responsibility? Or is it because he is grudgingly respected in his own little world? Probably all of the above but wait a minute. He apparently couldn't take married life so he long ago walked away from his wife and small son and never took any interest in them again...until the long lost grown up son (Walsh) and his own family show up. Are we supposed to admire him now for attempting to be the father he never was? And having no responsibility also means that he has next to nothing save that long lost family he abandoned to show for his life. He is a laborer living in a dreary upstate NY town with a broken down truck and a best friend who is borderline retarded. He has nothing but his self respect (I guess) so he is nobody's fool. This has to be it but I didn't take that way. He is of course accepted and you might say that he is the king of his own little world which includes some very interesting characters. There is his aged landlady (Tandy) who he looks out for and who respects him more than her own crooked businessman son. There is the shady small time construction company operator (Willis) who he works for and is always trying to get the best of. And there is the Griffith character who Sully lusts after (sort of) but when she offers herself to him he backs away. You don't know if he is being honorable or just avoiding commitment. There is a haunting quality to all this and nobody doesn't love and respect Newman but so much of what happens just doesn't ring true. Even the thing with the dog doesn't make sense. He drugs the dog so we are supposed to accept that the dog (a Doeberman) is afraid of him for that? "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Late Period Newman Vehicle","Date":"23 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have a theory that everyone remains a teenager until they day they die. Not the teenagers of the Porky franchise or the airheads of Clueless necessarily, but the mature, emotionally headstrong old souls of The Breakfast Club and Flirting. Some grown-up teenagers are more jaded, considerate, and successful than others, while the remaining irresponsible hooligans look like adults but, in a Shallow Hal-ish twist, are actually fifteen- year-olds still in search of an identity. Look at those middle-aged men and women with graying hair taking your order at Wendy's are they not a regretful little girl or boy who doesn't quite realize they're trapped in an adult's body?Sully (Paul Newman) belongs in the camp of the charismatic loners who never took the time to accept their responsibilities and actually grow up. He has freelanced in the construction industry his entire life, most recently making the most of his aging body by suing Carl Roebuck (Bruce Willis), the local contractor, to get extra pocket change. Years ago, Sully left his family at an important time, leaving his now grown son (Dylan Walsh) emotionally stunted, his ex-wife understandably jilted &#x97; why he did it is hard to explain. Commitment was never very attractive to him, and having a family hardly supplemented his lone wolf instincts. Part of his psyche is tarnished by guilt, but the other side reminds him, time and time again, that being a father, a husband, was never for him anyway.Currently, Sully rooms with his former eighth grade teacher, the elderly Beryl Peoples (Jessica Tandy), and passes the time doing dirty work around town and flirting with Carl's long suffering wife (Melanie Griffith). This has been his routine for years, decades even. So when his son comes to town, his wife and kids in tow, Sully is forced, after years of ignoring his most personal problems, to decide whether or not he wants to make up for lost time and finally become the father his son deserved, or ignore the facts and continue living in his own form of sheltered reality.Paul Newman, even when playing the bad guy (a rare case), has never done anything besides be likable. In Cool Hand Luke, he was a should-have-been tarnished anti-hero; in The Verdict, he was an alcoholic grouch who felt it necessary to punch Charlotte Rampling right in the kisser after she betrayed him. Fact is, even when portraying a man at his lowest point, Newman has always been the guy you want to be friends with, the guy who wish was your father, your uncle, your grandfather. There is something starkly humble, and believably all-around good, about him, on screen or off.In Nobody's Fool, he plays a hustler we should, in our good senses, despise. Every character trait that shapes Sully is negative; what good has he done in his life besides make friends with barflies and keep his former teacher company? But damn it all to hell it's impossible not to root for anyone portrayed by Newman. The film finds him nearing seventy, on the last legs of his long career. But hardly aged is his ability to give a face for the everyman, and, yes, the man-children who weren't fantastic youths but, hesitant or not, want to make up for it. Does Nobody's Fool provide for one of Newman's greatest performances? It's hard to say he doesn't have to stretch his abilities like he has had to in the past. What he does do, though, is remind us why he is the movie star Hollywood, I'm sorry to say, can hardly muster today.Robert Benton, whose The Late Show has recently become a favorite of mine, writes and directs. A filmmaker who seems to specialize in the complexities of human relationships (Kramer vs. Kramer, Places of the Heart), Nobody's Fool is masterful in its characterizations near instantly, each character feels completely drawn, as if we have known them for years, as if we have heard all the town gossip that surrounds them. The knotty relationship between Sully and Toby Roebuck (Griffith) especially rings true &#x97; both are so fiercely independent that their flirting with one another comes less from a romantic place and more out of a desperate one. So unhappy are they that a mutual affection comforts their lonely ills. Romance, though? It requires too much commitment and dedication, and both have been too scorned by the past to do anything about their already shaky feelings.The characters of Nobody's Fool are almost abominably flawed, but we find their scarred personas more soothing than bothersome. We feel like we know these people, as if we also live in North Bath and have nothing better to do besides confide in our neighbor. Benton and his actors bring a world of lonely hearts startlingly to life; as messed up as they are, we want to be lonely with them. "}{"Title":"Paul Newman Is Not a Fool!","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nobody's Fool is a genuinely heart-warming film that features an excellent Paul Newman performance that stands out in a crowded field of them. The main theme is about reconnecting with family and movie shows that in the most pleasing way. I also liked how the movie is very funny. Paul Newman knows how to be funny, and that banter of his with Bruce Willis is one for the ages....as well as how he keeps trying to steal his snowblower. Robert Benton's film is about a man named Sully, who lives in a small town and is rapidly approaching retirement age. He lives with an elderly landlord, who has a son who is plotting plans on development of the town. When by chance, he runs into his estranged son and grandson, he begins to take on the responsible role of grandfather, but it may be harder than it looks....Paul Newman does an amazing job and this might be his best performance of his career. He is quite funny as the grouch, but he also manages add a caring, emotional side to himself. Bruce Willis does a fine job as Sully's employer, Carl whom both love to bicker at each other. Dylan Walsh does a good job as Sully's son. I wasn't sure if I could completely buy Melanie Griffith's performance, but I sure as heck loved Philip Seymour Hoffman's over-the-top performance as one of the town's cops. Overall, Nobody's Fool proves that Paul Newman is indeed not a fool by choosing great roles such as the one in this movie to star in. He is one of the greatest Hollywood actors, and I wish he was still alive and working today. Nonetheless, this is an endearing, heart-warming film about family and love. Not only is it moving, but it is also quite funny. A beautiful movie to watch!My Grade A "},{"Title":"Not just another Grumpy Old Man.","Date":"25 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" How many of those hormones did you take? That's what Jessica Tandy asks Kathy Bates in Fried Green Tomatoes, and she should ask Paul Newman the same question here. Newman is a neer-do-well that can't seem to do anything right, yet he's got a lot of people on his side. Tandy is his old elementary school teacher, landlady and confidante whose powerful son runs the local bank and despises Newman. Melanie Griffith is the estranged wife of Newman's obnoxious boss who can't pay him. Josef Sommer is Newman's one-legged attorney who is there for each dumb thing that Newman does. When Newman's estranged son and family come for a visit at Thanksgiving, Newman has a chance to make amends and get to know one of his grandsons, especially after his son's wife leaves him.This is more of a character study with multiple stories about how what people see in you is not always true. Newman's character may be flawed, yet he is filled with a wisdom that he, himself, is unaware of. It takes these circumstances to make him aware and remain who he is while becoming a better man in the process. There are some nice character bits (particularly Margo Martindale as a local bartender and Philip Seymour Hoffman as an idiot cop with resentment towards Newman). The gratuitous cursing, nudity and vulgarity is unnecessary yet fortunately brief. Focus on the hidden wisdom in the script and ignore the rest. "},{"Title":"Newman plays a George Bailey from the south side of the tracks","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Many reviewers have already cited the excellent acting and the sheer high quality of the movie, so I'll suffice to say I echo their sentiments. I will add that Bruce Willis earns respect as a real actor; his star was well towards its apex when he played this role which could really have been done by many character actors who specialize in playing weasels. Willis took this ordinary supporting role and made it into a very memorable and even likable character.What I love about this film is the story itself, in that Sully Sullivan, an aging handy-man, APPEARS to be struggling with his life and what it meant, when in reality an entire town depends on Sullly to be....well....Sully. He is the thread that weaves the whole town and its many stories together. Even the few people who don't like him depend on him.(Possible spoiler) Toward the end, his son sums it all up and even pays him the ultimate compliment when he says to Sully It's not easy being you. Simply a great movie on so many levels. "},{"Title":"I Feel Good...","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is like Grandma's quilt on a crisp December night while sitting in front of a nice fire.Watching Paul Newman and Jessica Tandy interact in this movie is a treat. If you watch carefully you can see their youth shine through. It's captivating. Melanie Griffith and Bruce Willis do a nice turn of small town people with big problems. I wished they used someone different as Paul Newman's son but at the time I guess he was a good choice. He played his lines well and is a good supporting actor, but it just seems like something was missing with him. The character actors in this movie are the ones that keep it glued together and give it a foundation. Phillip Hoffman is terrific as the bungling but angry cop. One seems to know that he'll win an Oscar one day. Come to think of it I wish Mr. Hoffman played Newman's son and maybe even someone like Jason Alexander as the cop.Maybe I should be a casting agent.Anyhow, no matter my opinion this movie should make you feel good. There is good philosophy and realistic banter and outcomes in this movie. Good movie watching. "},{"Title":"Rambling Comedy-Drama","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An aging blue-collar worker tries to bond with the adult son that he abandoned as a child. This low-key, small-town character study has its moments but it doesn't quite come together, mainly due to the shortcomings of the rambling script by director Benton. The interaction among the characters is not interesting enough to make up for the lack of a plot. Perhaps a little more humor and less sentimentality would have helped. Newman is always worth watching, but it's a little awkward watching his romantic overtures towards Griffith, more than 30 years his junior. Tandy turns in a fine farewell performance after a sixty-year career. "},{"Title":"Perfect for a quite night and a fire","Date":"31 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nobody's Fool has to be one of the nicest movies of the 90's. It doesn't try to solve any major social ills or make any earth shaking commentaries on life. Instead you get to watch a couple of hours of likeable people getting through each day.We see genuine people adjust to changes in their life and like us they don't adjust easily. It never gets sappy and that's a credit to Robert Benton's screenplay. The characters are very real and are the type of people you might interact with each day and not think twice about their lives except that you like them.Certainly the performances put the picture over the top into the 5 star category. Newman gives a another hall of fame performance. Sully isn't deep or complex, he's real and reliable to the people who matter to him - his friends and he's trying to find out how to be reliable to his son and grandson.The big name actor's in the film will draw notice but Gene Saks performance as Wirf, Alexander Goodwin's performance as Sully's grandson Will and Margo Martindale as Birdy are just as good.What's so underrated about this film is Howard Shore's score. It quiet, simple and sweet - just like the film. "},{"Title":"One of Paul's Top 5","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Easily one of the top 5 performances of Paul Newman's career. Ranks right up there with Cool Hand Luke, Butch Cassidy and The Verdict. My favorite scene is when he tells Rub that he is his best friend. Good male bonding stuff there. Every character is believable...well maybe not the drunken lawyer but it's still a fun character. WHY isn't this film on DVD!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Acting, Acting, Acting.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sharp dialogue in a smart script.  Check.  Real issues and real heart? Check.  Acting that will knock your socks off?  Oh you better believe it's a Check!  Paul Newman again proves why he's the greatest actor of all time; he crackles with intensity, wit, and humanity in every frame.  Sully is one of the best, if not the best, performance by a man who wrote the book on great performances.  Newman is surrounded by a remarkable supporting cast, including the wonderful Jessica Tandy and the uncredited Bruce Willis in what is easily the best performance of his career.  The only weak point is Melanie Griffith, who shares all her scenes with Newman, and just can't keep up.  But the way Newman clicks with Tandy, Willis, and Dylan Walsh as Sully's quietly suffering son.  This is not a big movie, but it is a little story that will stay with you.  Never cliched, never overdone, real life is rarely depicted with as much heartfelt reality as it is in this movie. "},{"Title":"Best little known film","Date":"14 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nobody's Fool is destined to become a true class. Paul Newman (in an academy award nominated role) plays Donald Sully Sullivan. The movie is just a slice of life from a small town in New York. Newman has never been finer, and the Directing by Robert Benton (Kramer VS. Kramer) is his greatest work. The entire supporting cast are truly brilliant. This picture is probly the best little know movie ever. So if your looking for a wonderful story, Nobody's Fool should be it. "},{"Title":"Newman's Best","Date":"26 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman plays a ne'er do well in this film, but despite the hardships he faces (a painful bum knee, underemployment, poor or non-existent relations with his family...), his life seems one to envy.  This has something to do with the picaresque town of Bath, N.Y. in which he resides.  This snowy small town looks like it was painted by Norman Rockwell for the cover of a Christmas issue of The Saturday Evening Post.  It also has to do with the people who populate the area.  Why even Bruce Willis is tolerable as the curmudgeonly boss.  This may not have been one of Newman's most challenging roles, but he has never been more appealing.  This is his best film and one of my all-time favorites. "}{"Title":"Nobody's Fool is a good film.","Date":"28 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nobody's Fool is a good film from 1994. It is currently available on NetFlix Instant Download Streaming. The director is Robert Benton. The novel is by Richard Russo, and the screenplay is by Robert Russo.What a gem! Apparently this film did have a theatrical run, but I had never heard of it until I saw it on cable a few years ago. Paul Newman was, as always, masterful. So was Jessica Tandy. As unlikeable as Bruce Willis is, he is a great actor and does very well here. And even though it was a fairly small part, I think this is Melanie Griffith's best work ever. The script, directing, everything came together seamlessly. I highly recommend this film. I gave it 6 stars. Dale Haufrect "},{"Title":"I should have known better than to hire a one-legged lawyer","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a brief review of Nobody's Fool (1994) and Twilight (1998), two films by director Robert Benton, both starring Paul Newman.The better of both films, Nobody's Fool stars Newman as Donald Sullivan, an elderly man who lives in small-town America. Perpetually down on his luck, Fool's first act watches as Sullivan struggles to claim unpaid wages. For the next hour, things only get worse for Sully he loses bets, loses money, almost loses his leg, is revealed to be estranged from his family and gets thrown into jail.The film's great joke, though, is that Sully is never sullen. Always giving as good as he gets, Sully repeatedly steals machinery from his boss, and flirts with his bosses wife (Melanie Griffith). As the film progresses, we the audience also begin to appreciate just how many people rely upon the unlucky Sully, how lucky they are to have him in their lives, and how upstanding a guy he is when compared to many others in his community.Which is not to say Sully is without flaws. Indeed, Nobody's Fool's climax features the usual improvements and reconcilliations typical of the genre. Sully learns to be a better man, a better father, and attempts to correct mistakes in others he once committed himself. This is all painfully routine. Where the film shines is in Newman's lovable performance, Benton's ceaselessly witty dialogue, and his willingness to sympathise with major and minor characters which lesser films typically villainize.Released four years later, Twilight again stars Newman. This time he plays Harry Ross, an ex-cop and one-time private detective. Like Nobody's Fool, the film's first act watches as Newman damages his leg. Again like Nobody's Fool, the film then begins to question the impotency and disloyalty of its lead character.Throughout Twilight, Newman plays a now familiar archetype the ageing private detective. He's an old timer, washed up, and mocked by all. To make matters worse, everyone believes that Ross lost his penis in a gunfight. Ross' presumed impotency is mirrored to the film's other ageing characters a washed up actress (Susan Sarandon) in her twilight years, and a dying actor (Gene Hackman), both of whom are friends with Ross. The film's moral dilemma hinges around all three characters. Did Hackman and Sarandon collude to kill a man, is Ross helping them, and more importantly, will he cover-up a murder to protect a friend? To say anymore would be to spoil the fun.Twilight is set in California, home of many great sun-bleached noirs. It's also home to Benton's earliest noir, The Late Show, a 1977 feature which starred Art Carny as Ira Wells, an ageing private detective who, like Harry Ross, is accused of being long past his sell-by date. Both films allow their ageing heroes one final blaze of glory. Both films are also unable to transcend the conventions of their genre. Twilight's climax in particular is rife with clichés.8.5/10 - See Cutter's Way and Flesh and Bone (1993). "},{"Title":"Paul Newman - The Legend Lives On...","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Nobody's Fool' showcases & salutes the impeccable talent of the Late/Great Paul Newman. The legendary actor delivers a career-best performance as an aging nobody, who realizes family values & comes clean at last. Newman's performance demonstrates this human-drama, with charisma & aura. Its a class act!'Nobody's Fool' Synopsis Sully is a rascally ne'er-do-well approaching retirement age. While he is pressing a worker's compensation suit for a bad knee, he secretly works for his nemesis, Carl & flirts with Carl's young wife Toby. Sully's long-forgotten son & family have moved back to town, so Sully faces unfamiliar family responsibilities.'Nobody's Fool' is beautifully Written & Directed by Robert Benton. His Screenplay, which is based on the 1993 novel of the same name by Richard Russo, delivers a story of pure emotions & redemption. Its heartbreaking & heart-felt. His Direction, as usual, is subtle. He, however, should be credited the most for churning out Newman's greatest performance to date. Performance-Wise Its pretty evident that Newman is the life of the film. He's never been this good. Bruce Willis is efficient. Dylan Walsh gets some wonderful scenes with Newman & he enacts his part with sincerity. The Late/Great Jessica Tandy is restrained in a pivotal role, while The Late/Great Phillip Seymour Hoffman shines in a cameo. On the whole, 'Nobody's Fool' proves, that Nobody's like Newman. "},{"Title":"Russo meets Rockwell","Date":"2 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nobody's Fool is an excellent film of a superior novel, old fashioned in some ways, and yet homespun and timeless; a rough edged version of Norman Rockwell, who I do not mention as a criticism. With Philip Seymour Hoffman almost unrecognisably young, as the local cop; and Melanie Griffith, delicate and emotional, vulnerable, and sweet on Sully, the main character, played by Paul Newman. Jessica Tandy, a fine actor, born in England, who emerged with a late acclaimed career in the States, and whose last film was this quiet undramatic and pitch perfect film. Tandy, a successful stage actor in Britain and America, was passed over for the screen role of Blanche DuBois, although she won a Tony for it on the New York stage. Bruce Willis reveals a different side of himself, outside his tough guy roles, and all the better for it. An array of great American character actors, people we see again and again, pop up throughout; playing cards, eating in the diner, truly supporting. Names like Philip Bosco, Josef Sommer, Dylan Walsh, Margo Martindale and Pruitt Taylor Vince; a solid, in depth, pack of North American talent. It is directed by Robert Benton who also wrote the screenplay. "},{"Title":"As simple as an American story can get .","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" NOBDY'S FOOL As simple as an American story can get to .Essentially about an American real estate boom hinging on a theme park project that never takes off , guess what &#x85; the have's pack up and leave whereas the have-nots happily keep whatever little they have .Stellar cast with Bruce Willis , Melaine Griffith , Philip Seymour Hoffman but the high point is the magnificent and towering presence of the actor in Paul Newman . As a working class do gooder he takes his life easy , at times irresponsible but preserves humane values within , values relationships , cares for friends and the elderly , finds true love and free from guilt and greed . Jessica Tandy of the classic Driving Miss Daisy makes her last appearance on screen in this movie !!! A well deserving Oscar nomination earned by him , Paul Newman at his best . Wondering why all the good left leaning stories are made using the capital raised from just the opposite. Sure shows how the wealthy 1% ( occupy Wall street jargon !!! ) knows how to keep the other 99% amused watching their own miserable low lives . "},{"Title":"Kind Hearts and Irregular Folk","Date":"29 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Paul Newman, may he rest in peace, will always remain a symbol of virility and strength in cinema history. Even in the twilight of his career, in roles such as Sully, he shows what an actor is capable of if he takes care of himself. Physically, but also mentally, Newman embodies all the elements most actors could only hope to obtain at such a late stage. He commands nearly every scene he is in, bringing with him a level of gravitas and realism which without this story could not work.Indeed, it still may not. Adapted from a novel by Richard Russso, director Robert Benton is certainly capable of breathing life into a vast sect of quirky, independent characters who at the very least are a little memorable. After all, he did co-write Bonnie and Clyde (which does not escape this movie without a sly reference). Yet, throughout Benton seems confused or at least unsure as to what exactly he wants to say with these characters. Setting up much of the small town of North Bath, New York takes very little time. The real challenge is where to take them. The result, I am afraid, leaves much to be desired, unless of course one is keen on various plot threads not far beyond the level of a sitcom or hour-long drama on TV. By the end, most have reached their predictable conclusions all to the dissatisfaction of us. It's not that the end is completely unjustified; it's just that one would like more.Technically, Benton remains on the soft side of filmmaking. His camera work is minimal, the cinematography is rather lax, and the town itself looks like a series of studio backdrops although it was filmed on location. What is most annoying, though, is Howard Shore's oppressive and sticky score, weighing down nearly every scene, causing one to think we are seeing a series of climaxes when in fact they are simply transitions. Besides Newman, the only other truly moving performance is, surprisingly, Melanie Griffith as the attractive wife of Lothario Bruce Willis, who flirts with Newman yet lacks any real confidence to use him to get back at her husband. Throwing in a subplot regarding Newman's attempts to re-connect with his son, stay vital in the community, get ahead and remain out of prison, what we're left with is a perfectly mediocre and innocuous representation of small-town, blue-collar life in northern New York. "},{"Title":"No Edge But Nice","Date":"28 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Small, depressed working class towns are grittier than the one portrayed here. But to the script's credit, there is at least one reference to gritty reality, which was the violence of the Newman character's drunken father during Sully's (Newman)childhood.The essentially mild-mannered characters and sappy Irish flute music throughout, neutered the grit. Having said that, I still loved this film.If you stay in a small town, a portion of the same characters you knew in your childhood, will continue to populate your world. You all grow old together. Hence it was not strange to me that our main character rents a room from his old Junior High teacher. If your parents and your teachers live long enough, you will all be Senior Citizens together eventually.The character is Nobody's Fool, because he sees through people, and even ultimately sees through himself. It took him a lifetime to arrive at this level of wisdom, and he's still working on it, but don't try to trick him. He respects honesty.What I got from this movie was that people are multi-dimensional, and a small town creates a kind of welcome interdependence, that often breeds a caring nature.Newman's character did not require acting out extreme emotion. There are many scenes of him quietly contemplating what someone just said, and what it means about himself. But he did have to portray a sort of quiet resolve about his fate, and he did it well.I also like his portrayal of a man who despite being a Senior with a bad knee and no prospects, still longed for sex, money, love, companionship, and redemption. I'm sure there are subtle acting techniques involved in such a portrayal, that are harder than they seem.The two nudity scenes are gratuitous, but fun for men. I suppose seeing Bruce Willis shirtless may bring some joy to women.Jessica Tandy could have delivered a hackneyed portrayal of a spirited old lady, but instead balanced the traits of vulnerability and optimism perfectly.Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith played themselves basically, but that's o.k., because a lot of us enjoy their appealing screen presence.Taylor Pruitt Vance has done this role before, but that does not detract from the palpable emotion he conveys with the sad eyes of his nowhere man.Dylan Walsh brings a fresh face and attitude to the screen. His character is taking in the portrait of his boyhood home with a grain of salt and wide eyes, while he reconciles with his father. I'm o.k. with the choice of Walsh as the son, although I suppose other actors could have brought a different take. I appreciated his portrayal of a grown man who is still hurting from abandonment issues.There was plenty of good dialog too. I particularly liked a line or two from the little boy, and the exchange between Bruce Willis and Newman, when Willis says he hopes he doesn't wind up like Newman.In summary, manipulative music, softie characters, and a few clichés, but still a very satisfying and thoughtful picture. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"There's only one thing about this movie...","Date":"21 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well, maybe two. Or maybe three.Everything was perfect, except for the cinematography. Maybe that was the cinematographer's fault or maybe it was the director's fault. Or maybe it was the editor's.There is a quote from John Ford about why he didn't like to use close-ups. His response I use them when I think they're necessary, but generally they're all that necessary. Or something to that effect.And he was right. I dare you to name a John Ford film with a lot of unnecessary close-ups.There are are very, very few long shots in this movie. Consequently, you don't get get to see the characters interacting with each other simultaneously. My impression of this film is that is mostly an interminable series of jarring close-ups of 1-2 seconds close-up of one character saying something, followed by the recipient's reaction, and back and forth ad nauseum. Almost enough to make you sea-sick.Consider the feeling that long shots would have imparted when you watch this otherwise great film, when you could see two or more characters interacting simultaneously. You never get to see that in this film. You get the impression that each actor was hauled before the camera alone to recite their lines and react appropriately, all for a second or two or three, then the camera switches back faster than stink to the character they're supposed to be talking to. Not a long shot to be seen.John Ford aside, consider the way Frank Capra shot films. A Capra-esque feeing about this film has been noted before. Same philosophy as John Ford. When you see James Stewart saying something, you see Donna Reed's reaction at the same time. Long shot.That's what's missing from missing from this movie. Bad framing throughout. It's hard to place the blame Was it Robert Benton (director), James Bailey (cinematographer), or John Bloom (editor)? Hard to pinpoint.Otherwise a wonderful, if flawed film (reasons noted above). "},{"Title":"Fools Rush In","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is almost a definition of 'Indie' and it's the kind of movie that gives 'indie' a good name. Overall we retain an impression of superb ensemble acting yet when we look withing the ensemble we are hard put to dismiss any one performer as less than excellent - though if I had to ditch one it would be Ruby. It's more a less a given that Paul Newman is going to come out on top in virtually anything in which he appears but here he is given honorable opposition by Jessica Tandy, Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith. The atmosphere of an upstate New York town in winter is evoked to a fare-thee-well and there is one superb shot reminiscent of a Breughel landscape with figures. Full marks for everyone concerned. "},{"Title":"A sweet, good natured comedy/drama character study with a brilliant Paul Newman","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film wouldn't be nearly as successful without the wondrous understated performance by Newman. He plays Sully, a small town man who has long since lost his family due to his drinking, and who never amounted to much in life, but still has a sharp sense of humor, life, sexuality, and even rage burning in himself at age 60. It's also a genial slice of small town life, related to Benton's 'Places in the Heart', but less treacly, and with a less Hollywood spin. The characters (a terrific supporting cast including Jessica Tandy, and both Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith doing some of the best work they've ever done) are off-beat, without it feeling like writer/director Benton was sweating hard to create 'quirky'. Nothing all that much happens in the film, yet people grow and change, just like in real life. Not quite a great film, but it still captures a sweet, almost Caprasque Americana, without becoming cloying. The movie, like Newman, never pushes hard, and that goes a long way. "}{"Title":"Paul Newman taught us all how to grow old","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Paul Newman as a working stiff, a failed father and husband in a snowy, grim upstate New York town. I won't recapitulate the plot. Suffice it to say that this film is my favorite Paul Newman film, arguably his best, and includes several enduring scenes. His flirtations with the much younger Griffith are charming. Look for a brief scene in which she flashes her breasts at him -- his take of a few mere seconds conveys longing, gratitude, and humor all in a glance. In a later touching scene Griffith, who is leaving her cheating husband, invites Newman to run away with her to Hawaii, a fantasy they have indulged frequently in jest. His refusal, having learned that he has another chance at being a father and a chance to be a grandfather, is so gentle as to be almost fatherly. His scenes with Jessica Tandy are, like her, timeless. Perhaps the best scene, again brief, has nothing to do with romance or family, but with friendship. Sitting on a stoop, he reassures his hired hand and friend,Rub, played by Pruitt Taylor Vince, of the bond of friendship in an understated, exasperated, guy sort of way. This film has a number of guy moments, which may be Paul Newman's greatest gift as an actor. This is my favorite Paul Newman film, perhaps because I am approaching the age he depicts; perhaps because Paul Newman aged so well, acquiring a ruefulness that tempered the bravado; perhaps because it suggests that you can still be a father even if you louse it up for a long time; perhaps because Newman's character seems to mirror his admirable personal character, which became apparent as the years passed. His performance, while no doubt a contrivance of great craft, is lent veracity by our knowledge that Newman was, as he portrays here, a man of decency, humor, and courage. "},{"Title":"Love and Redemption, With a Little Contempt for Flawed Authority","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My sentimental favorite Newman film exemplifying some of my deepest values. Sully lives his love for the common folk of his town and his contempt for arrogance and greedy authority figures. Favorite line, spoken to Rub, his mentally-retarded coworker Peter's my son; you're my best friend.The setting is superb, a small town in New York in the winter -- a metaphor for society at large. Newman's character, Sully, looks after the poor and meek while awakening to the importance of his role as a father and a grandfather.The cinematography is excellent; rarely can you tell when the natural lighting is enhanced. The script is clean and crisp. Doesn't drag anywhere and keeps me guessing. Newman's his usual great self, and the supporting cast is superb, making this film flow like silk. Philip Seymour Hoffman nails his role as an overzealous cop. Melanie Griffith is brilliant and beautiful. Jessica Tandy plays her (final?) role with perfection. Bruce Willis plays his wise-cracking typecast role to perfection as well. "},{"Title":"It's a small town thing","Date":"13 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now I can imagine where Clint Eastwood looked for some inspiration to play Frankie Dunn in his Million Dollar Baby. Donald Sullivan, or Sully, is the main character of Robert Benton's Nobody's Fool. Paul Newman is certainly no fool, and he plays Sully as a grumpy old man, unimpressed by anything or anyone, short of words and emotion. However, Sully describes himself as someone who grows on people, and apparently every time he feels he's done something right, he hits the closest thing to him&#133;Twice. It's a wonderful performance by Newnan, whose character believes in luck. Well, while Frankie Dunn probably didn't, there's something that connects them both besides their human qualities (being grumpy may not be something nice, but it's still a quality), and that's the fact of living a life knowing they haven't been the best of fathers. A movie like Nobody's Fool, written and directed by someone as experienced as Robert Benton, is always going to be a winner, but it's interesting to know why. It may not be the easiest thing to develop an almost two-hour film in a small town where essentially, as it occurs in most movies of the type, nothing happens. But this statement is confusing, because a lot of things take place in Nobody's Fool, that if you look at them from a greater scale, they're still nothing.Benton takes the time and dedication to show us the lifestyle in this town, Bath, and the characters that inhabit it, more precisely the ones who are involved in Sully's life. That's how we meet his friends the stubborn Rub (that Pruitt Taylor Vince), Wirf Wirfley (Gene Saks)- Sully's one-legged lawyer-, the old lady he lives with-and loves him more than he imagines- Mrs. Beryl (Jessica Tandy's last performance); and his enemies his boss Car Roebuck (a charming Bruce Willis), who owes him a lot of money and cheats on his wife Toby (a beautiful Melanie Griffith), with whom Sally gets along well; and Raymer (a young and Great Philip Seymour Hoffman), a rookie police officer who wants to put him in jail because he doesn't pay traffic tickets and who knows what else. As Sully himself says, he's a well-known, loved man; so that's why we are surprised when he encounters his son Peter (Dylan Walsh) and they both behave like total strangers. As I mentioned, a lot of things occur in the film and various plot lines are unfold, but there is always one that has to highlight above the rest. In Nobody's Fool, that plot line is the father-son relationship, which comes with a grandson. Luckily, as it happened with Eastwood in Million Dollar Baby years later, Newman has the expertise to take enough distance and keep the movie from turning into an intense melodrama. The script throws in a couple of dramatic scenes where the wrong actor could have taken it too far. Newman also takes advantage of the few funny lines he's given and establishes a distended mood of performance that affects the film, in which you can laugh. The truth is that Benton wrote a predictable and cheesy screenplay (and Howard Shore composed a predictable and cheesy score, however pleasantly 'little town-ish'), but somehow a certain honesty prevails. Maybe it has something to do with Benton wanting to respect Richard Russo's homonymous novel, but Nobody's Fool is a winner because due to that respect we don't miss a thing and we believe and appreciate the things we see. Sully really grows on us too, and the same happens with his friends and even his enemies, who fight and steal things from each other, but at the end of the day meet at the same table, in the same bar, to play a good game of poker. "},{"Title":"Newman's own Cool...","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You gotta love the man! I have had a respect for Paul Newman from the point that I enjoyed his ever-wide performance in The Color Of Money (1986). I saw him (in a magazine interview, with a picture) at the race track in Seattle with pit crew way back in 85' . I enjoy his versatility, but mostly his intense passionate serious with a hint of funny delivery. He has a different style. At the same time he's like an enjoyable old friend who comes around to chat and have a drink. I don't know why I feel that about him, I just do. At any rate, I put Nobody's Fool on my list of fun performances with a heart felt story. A man who has failed in the past with family comes back and tries to make ago of it again, only to learn more about his 'limitation's. He is a 'sneaky-pete' of a character, Newman as 'Sully'. Even the an-tag, pro-tag relationship to Bruce's Carl was a very funny and interesting exchange of competition, between the two. Melanie Griffith, what can you say, she always seems to be herself as a character. I haven't remembered too much difference in any of the roles she has had unless, I missed one that was a true departure. I still like her regardless. Sullivan's pitiful, but lovable side-kick is quite a comedic down to earth type character, way down to earth, like in an alleyway maybe. A nutty bunch, that make this story a feel good, glad you are not in that town, or situation type thing. Paul Newman just brings on a more solid and respected persona to this film and his character. He is Newman's Own Cool. I rate this an 8/10. (recommended highly). "},{"Title":"One of Paul Newman's best and one of Jessica Tandy's last performances.","Date":"7 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As far as the film is concerned, it's a nice, charming nugget of gold that might possibly be overlooked.  That would be a mistake.  Paul Newman does a fine performance (although I'd go watch Paul Newman read the Uniform Code of Military Justice) but it is an ensemble film and the performances of just about the entire cast fairly dance off one another, particularly the principal players.  Jessica Tandy, in one of her last performances, gives a magnificent effort and the interplay between she and Newman is perfect.  Bruce Willis plays Newman's foil, part friend, part rival and Melanie Griffith gives one of the best performances of her career.  I suspect that making this movie was probably as much fun as watching it was and is.  See it for the performances, but the script is also excellent.  Well worth your time.  Very much Recommended. "},{"Title":"A real gem.","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a truly beautiful film - something which seems to be becoming increasingly rare.  You won't see Bruce Willis blowing up airliners or killing bad guys, but this is engrossing material.  The director makes the utmost of some top class acting and a snowy backdrop which complements the mood of the characters perfectly.  As usual, Paul Newman performs so naturally that you forget he is just acting.But the real beauty of this film is its simplicity.  It revolves around the consequences of Newman's desertion of his family and his subsequently facing up to these.  The fact that this story is made as compelling as it is is a tribute to the acting skills of all involved - right down to little Wacker and Will.  Another thing that sets this movie apart is that the characters are so real - Sully may be an extraordinary guy in some ways but he is 100% believable.This film is way, way underrated, if only for the fact that it is Jessica Tandy's last and it has to be said that she is magnificent as ever here. This film is a must for anybody who appreciates true quality as opposed to some of the commercially orientated, sfx fuelled garbage we see so much of - this is the perfect antidote.     "},{"Title":"One of the best dramas I´ve ever seen","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film for the first time some months ago and I was really impressed. It´s a very good film with a really really wonderful and talented cast. I usually can´t stand Bruce Willis but this is one of his few movies that I really like. Of course it´s Paul Newman who´s the main person in the film and he does really good job.It´s funny, it´s sad, it´s great.I give this 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Book is better","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie with great expectation because I absolutely loved the book (Richard Russo is an incredible author).  However I was fairly disappointed.  The movie strayed far from the book; main characters were eliminated, and the ending was changed.  Not a bad movie, but if you read the book, prepare to be disappointed as well. "},{"Title":"Simple film about a simple town becomes one of the best of 1994.","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman redefines himself as one of the best natural actors of this generation with this wonderful slice-of-life film about real life and real people. Newman is Sully, a lowly 60-year old who moves from one odd job after another. After nearly 30 years, he meets up with and reassesses his relationship with his son and his grandchild. He also has to deal with a sleazy and irresponsible employer (Bruce Willis), as well as a possible romance with Willis' wife (Melanie Griffith). Jessica Tandy also stars as his landlady. This is such a wonderful piece of film-making that only comes around once in a blue moon honest acting, understandable storyline, and a sense of freshness that only Paul Newman could deliver. A heartwarming, sincere portrait of a town where action does not have to occur accompanied by the sound of gunshots. Rating Four stars. "},{"Title":"Truly human characters","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What makes this movie particularly special is its depth and richness -- even the minor characters are carefully drawn and entirely individual.  The interactions of the characters are not just plot, but grow out of the nature of the people themselves.  The changes that take place are real and convincing.  And the whole movie has a gentle humanity that is all too rare. Without question, one of the best American movies of recent years.  "}{"Title":"Life as a movie and a movie as life.","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The thing that makes this movie so great, besides the great script and subtly powerful acting, is that it shows real life, where people are accepted as they are because everyone accepts that everyone has a role. They don't blame people for the roles they play; they accept the roles and love them anyway. The Paul Newman curmudgeon, the Bruce Willis exploiting boss, the over-conscientious policeman, the wise-cracking judge, the resentful son they all naturally do what they have to do, but they don't blame each other for it. It's life as a movie, and a movie as life. "},{"Title":"What a great movie! Newman is like wine, the older the better","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a great movie! Superb writing, superb casting, superb acting. A film this rich is indeed a pleasure to watch from beginning to end. It's so amazing to see Paul Newman just keep getting better with age. It's almost as though he knew Donald Sully personally, but then again, that's why they call it acting and him an actor. His performance is so fluid and rich, he is a true professional. I've seen it more than once but it's like visiting old friends. When I looked at the screen I saw Donald Sully not Paul Newman, that acting at it's best! Along side Paul Newman you have Bruce Willis, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Jessica Tandy, and Melanie Griffth. I was very surprised to see Melanie in this part but she was excellent, she held her own with Newman in several scenes, lucky girl! In the scene where Newman's character and Hoffman's character have a run in and the subsequent hearing with the judge is priceless. Bravo! "},{"Title":"I'm Somebody's Father and Somebody's Grandfather","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very few players have had the wisdom of Paul Newman in choosing film properties that have allowed him to grow old gracefully on the screen and never lose the public's favor. In Nobody's Fool, Newman emerges as a blue collar every man from a depressed area who realizes that he's made a whole lot of wrong choices in his life.That fact comes home to him when his son and his family come home to Bath, New York for Thanksgiving with his estranged wife. Right afterwards the wife splits and takes one of their two sons with her, leaving Dylan Walsh with his other son who move in with Newman. Walsh is an unemployed teacher who's finding jobs real scarce and he joins Newman doing contracting work. Of course they bond, but not without a few bumps on the road.Very few films have ever been made about modern upstate New York State of which Bath is a sadly typical example. There's been a depressed economy here for years. You hear a lot of talk in Nobody's Fool about the men wishing some company would relocate there and jobs come back to the town. Both political parties have had a field day blaming the other for the state of things, but no solutions are at hand. Bath is the county seat of Steuben County, located near the Finger Lakes.I'm sure Newman's characterization rang true with a lot of seniors who regret a lot of choices made in misspent youth. Not many get the chance Newman does to make amends somewhat.Look for nice performances by Jessica Tandy as Newman's landlady, her stuffy banker son Josef Sommer, Bruce Willis and Melanie Griffith as a contractor Newman works for and his wife Newman has a thing for and Philip Seymour Hoffman as an uptight small town police officer.Nobody's Fool is a nice film about the pitfalls and loneliness that can accompany growing old. It's a universal theme except for those who depart this mortal coil early enough to avoid the pitfalls. "},{"Title":"Newman's Own","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  NOBODY'S FOOL (1994) **** Paul Newman, Jessica Tandy, Bruce Willis, Melanie Griffith, Gene Saks, Dylan Walsh, Pruitt Taylor Vince.  Sterling performance by Newman (Best Actor Oscar nominee) as Donald Sully Sullivan, a lovable ne'er do well facing some moments of clarity namely his estranged son and putting into perspective his failed yet colorful life.  Wonderfully funny and at times perfectly poignant.  Filmed in picturesque Upstate New York. Sadly Ms. Tandy's final and warmly perfect role.  Adapted by Richard Russo of his best-seller and directed expertly by veteran Robert Benton. "},{"Title":"A great Newman vehicle, but pretty forgettable.","Date":"31 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nobody's Fool comes from that breed of easy, quaint small-town character dramas that are warm and enjoyable while you watch them but you know you're going to forget about entirely by the next day. It's a very nice, comfortable viewing but there's not really anything in it that will make it last. The story focuses on Sully, played by Paul Newman with excellent world-worn weariness, and his interactions with the many different people living in his small town around Christmas time.Within the first half an hour you can guess where everything is going to end up, and you wouldn't be far off on any of it. It's definitely not the kind of film that you're going to be thinking about after it's over, but it's nice and easy while you're watching it. It also suffers from way too many endings syndrome, where the last half hour is basically one scene after another of big emotional payoffs with Sully wrapping up his story with each individual character and it's kind of brutal to get through, but the whole thing is made slightly better than it would have been with a group of quality performances.Jessica Tandy delivers her last screen performance and it's one of genuine charm and presence that I enjoyed thoroughly, and it's great to see Bruce Willis take on the role of a total sleezebag whose teeth you want to knock down his throat the moment you meet him, but the film undoubtedly belongs to Newman. Sully is the kind of old rascal that you love to root for even when he's making mistakes, and it's the type of character that Newman has made a career out of excelling at. He's a born loser, as it were, but he plays it with such a warm heart that you can't help but smile watching him.Sully is a cantankerous old man and Newman plays him with the appropriate amount of anger, resentment and arrogance, but there are small moments, like the one where he lets his grandson drive his truck on his lap and a big smile comes across his face, where he lights up the room and you can see the potential of this man.In a lot of ways, Sully feels like the appropriate evolution of those cocksure heroes that Newman found himself playing often in the '60s, and he mixes this one with that same blend of charisma and human flaws that made him the icon he is. He would still act for another decade after this, delivering a few more quality performances, but this one felt like the ultimate swan song for one of the great American actors and it was one wholly appropriate for his skill and inspiration. "},{"Title":"Not that good, really. Newman's been better, and the writing is poor.","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Quirky small town comedy about a likable curmudgeon (Paul Newman) who becomes reacquainted with the adult son he left years ago, as well as his son's son. Honestly, I just didn't like the film. It comes off like a poorly written novel, with scenes and characters the author thinks are funny but which just aren't believable. And when put on the screen, the weaknesses become all the more obvious. I thought the whole film felt phony. Some of the performances were good, especially Newman (though I certainly wouldn't consider this among his best work). Also good are Jessica Tandy, Pruitt Taylor Vince, Melanie Griffith and Bruce Willis. The biggest hole in the cast is Dylan Walsh, who plays Newman's son. He went on to star in the F/X series Nip/Tuck. Incidentally, the woman who plays his wife, Catherine Dent, also went on to co-star in an F/X series, The Shield. "},{"Title":"Sorry but this is tripe","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I hate to be the one to tell you but this film is the sort of crap that Hollywood thinks is a film about real people ie the working class. And maybe the book, which I've not read, is about a real working class town but the film they made from it is so predictable, so covered in self-congratulatory ooze about its curmudgeonly hero and so bathed in hero-worship for Paul Newman that it becomes a Hallmark Hall of Fame special. And I like Paul. And his performance is fine but the whimsy is leaden and the quirkiness of the characters weighs you down with its lack of invention. For example Has Pruitt Taylor Vince taken a patent out on his slobby slow sidekick who aches with human feeling. (see Heavy). Don't get me wrong (I'm sure you will anyway)...this is a well-made Hollywood product with good performances by all (I even thought Melanie Griffith was half-way believable) but the whole construct is made by cynical minds who want to neuter the people of this town with a treacly gloss that would have embarrassed Frank Capra. We all want to honor the memory of Paul Newman but this film is a poor memorial. Frankly I find it depressing that so many people thought this was a good film. TV has rotted your brain, people. Now go watch Hud as penance. "},{"Title":"Nice Man... that Sully","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nice Man ... That Sully .... Sure he has his bad days... a lot of them ! But he is learning as he goes and trying his best to be true to himself and to his friends and family. He is re-meeting his son and meeting his grandson and learning .. always learning.One of the best characters, for me, is Sully's friend Rub Squeers ... wonderfully played by Pruitt Taylor Vince. I know this character actor only as LaRouche on The Mentalist and found his performance outstanding. Jessica Tandy !!! What more needs to be said ?Melanie Griffith is terrific as Toby.. both flirter and flirtee with Sully.Bruce Willis is .. well .. Bruce Willis, as usual, with a bit of a twist.Even the Doberman is entertaining and the grandson is tolerable... the other crummy one is disposed of early in the story. ! All in all .. a generally good movie and worth seeing ! Bring Kleenex. "},{"Title":"Nobody's happy","Date":"4 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Donald Sully Sullivan (Paul Newman) is a weary old man living in the small New York state town of North Bath with a wonky knee. His lawsuit against Carl Roebuck (Bruce Willis)'s construction company isn't going well at all. Nevertheless he gets a job from Carl off the books. Sully flirts with Carl's wife Toby (Melanie Griffith) who is tired of her broke cheating husband. While hitchhiking, he gets picked up by his son Peter (Dylan Walsh) and his family on their way to Sully's ex-wife Vera for Thanksgiving from Hell. Peter hasn't seen him in 3 years. Sully rents a room in Miss Beryl (Jessica Tandy)'s house but her banker son Clive Jr (Josef Sommer) wants to kick him out and sell the house for a big development. Sully has an idiot friend Rub (Pruitt Taylor Vince) who he hangs out with at the Iron Horse Saloon along with others including Carl, the sheriff, and his lawyer. Scully's grandson sneaks a ride in the back of his pickup truck and he reconnects with Peter. Police officer Raymer (Philip Seymour Hoffman) is tired of the malcontent.Everybody is grumpy about everybody else. What this movie needs is a more humorous sense. Paul Newman needs a nice funny sidekick to compliment his surliness. Newman's great but the movie needs to be much funnier. The whimsy in this movie isn't funny. It also rambles and meanders with way too many characters and side stories. They are all weirdly fascinating but the movie feels scattered by the numerous characters. "},{"Title":"A near perfect motion picture","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Robert Benton's Nobody's Fool is more than a pretty good film it is a good film, the movie tells the story about a character named Donald Sully a man who is at a rascally ne'er do well retirement age.. While he is pressing a worker's compensation for a bad knee, and secretly works for his nemesis Carl Roebuck, and flirts with his young wife Toby. Sully's long forgotten son and his family have moved back to town for not only for thanksgiving dinner but for Sully's son to spend time with him and so that his father can meet his children. The movie stars Paul Newman as Donald Sully who gets to see his long forgotten family but when he first sees them when he hasn't seen them in a long time. Gets anxiety about unfamiliar family responsibilities. This movie compares to The Descendants by Alexander Payne but in which both of those 2 films have two things in common, more drama than comedy, and one funny part in both. Director Robert Benton copies the directorial style of Alexander Payne with his direction for the movie. The movie also stars Jessica Tandy (who gives an overrated performance.), Bruce Willis ( as Sully's nemesis.), Melanie Griffith (as Roebuck's wife), and Phillip Seymour Hoffman as a police officer in the film. Based on a novel by Richard Russo this was a complete enjoyment for me. "}{"Title":"A great film that gets better with time","Date":"8 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not many movies really have as much heart as this movie because few movies have the talent to do it effectively, this one has it all.Paul Newman is Sully, a working class, blue collar guy who is eking out a life in an upstate New York town doing construction way past the age he should be. His life is one of limited responsibilities and he has wrapped himself in since abandoning his wife and young child decades before. His son come back into his life with Sully's two grandchildren and issues of his own, namely a failing marriage.The movie is what I like to refer to as a slice of life movie. It doesn't have a lot of set pieces, no big action sequences and no guns, or CGI. It is the story of what one man's life is like when the family he tried to escape comes back into his life and gives him a reason to care about someone other than himself.A great script and strong supporting characters are plentiful and it all adds up to a beautiful and poignant film that makes for a good time. See it! "},{"Title":"Great actors in a small town drama","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" North Bath is a peaceful and snowy New York village.Donald Sully Sullivan is a free-lancer in a construction business.He lives as a tenant in the home of miss Beryl.Then his estranged son Peter pays a visit.It's time to reconstruct their relationship.Robert Benton is the director of Nobody's Fool (1994).I had seen the movie once before seeing it now on a DVD.I can't picture anybody else doing the part of Sully Sullivan better than Paul Newman.He was nominated for an Oscar.Jessica Tandy is absolutely marvelous in her second last movie playing Beryl Peoples.Bruce Willis is very good in this non-action movie as Carl Roebuck.Melanie Griffith is wonderful as Toby Roebuck.Dylan Walsh is terrific as Peter Sullivan.Pruitt Taylor Vince does excellent job as Rob Squeers.Gene Saks is most brilliant as Wirf Wirfley.Josef Sommer is great as Clive Peoples Jr.Philip Seymour Hoffman is superb as Officer Raymer.Philip Bosco is very good as Judge Flatt.Catherine Dent does very fine job as Charlotte Sullivan.Great child acting by Alexander Goodwin and Carl J. Matusovich, who play Will and Wacker Sullivan.The movie provides some good drama.It doesn't offer any big, larger than life feelings.It also moves at a small town pace, with no hurry anywhere.It's one fine scene where Sully is in his childhood home, the home of bad memories.Or when Sully and his son follow Rob by car on the sidewalk and Sully ends up punching a cop.You have to see this movie if you want to see some brilliant performances by some great actors. "},{"Title":"Nice Paul Newman Picture","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Enjoyed this picture which takes place in upstate New York in the town of Bath, N.Y. The story is about a man (Paul Newman) who abandoned his family,and is now getting old and wants to find himself in life and at least create a relationship with his grandson. Of course there is always problems where a parent abandons their family and it causes mental problems for the entire family and their acceptance and confidence is not easy for them to give back. Paul Newman along with other veteran actors made this a rather bitter sweet film and at the same time a few comical scenes. There is a scene during a poker game and Newman is enjoying his long neck bottle of Bud and a girl sits next to him naked, he even gets flashed by another famous star. I know Newman enjoyed making this film. "},{"Title":"Warm, Witty and Absolutely Unforgettable!","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This story of a ne'er-do-well who's loved by everyone despite all his mess-ups is one of Newman's best performances ever, one of Tandy's most memorable and a truly heart-warming winner. Every performance no matter how small, is well-drawn and the Screenplay is among the best I've ever seen; Sharp, funny dialogs, Great wintry locales, perfect characterizations and casting and a terrific finale. Pruitt Taylor Vince's character receives a worthy performance. My favorite scene Melanie Griffith flashes her boobs!!! and remember You know what burns my ass? You didn't even know it was Thanksgiving if Rub hadn't said it! A real treat for movie lovers. catch this one! "},{"Title":"Boy, a guy goes to jail for a couple of days, the whole town goes to hell.","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I can't pinpoint exactly why I enjoy this film so much, I like to call it one of my favorite movies that no one's ever heard of. I think it might have something to do with Paul Newman's character reminding me of my own father. Not that my father stole snow blowers or ever hit the trifecta, but it's just that affecting manner that makes a senior citizen a respected member of the community by dint of a lifetime of being just a regular good old guy. There's also the methodical way of speaking and listening, and coming to terms with the life one has led, even if it means having never left the small town in which you've grown up. It might also have something to do with the location of the story, since I'm from a small upstate New York town too, but heck, this could have taken place in any Smalltown, USA and it still would have connected.The story has some great dialog, with Sully (Newman) having the best lines, like addressing his arrogant employer Carl Roebuck (Bruce Willis) - I used to believe in brains and hard work until I met you. Or taking on the wanna be big time lawman Raymer (Philip Seymour Hoffman) - This is where a smart guy would get out of the truck. You would have to have grown up in a town of sixteen hundred residents to know that every public incident is just that, public for the whole town to know about in the blink of an eye. You know, you can't pick your family, but you can pick your friends. The thing is, by the time the picture was over, Sully was able to pick his family as well. Son Peter (Dylan Walsh) figured out Sully wasn't such a bad guy after all, and grandson Will came to learn that being scared was OK. There are some lessons you can take away from a worn out retread like Don Sullivan, you just have to recognize the limitations - I am hurrying, it just looks like slow motion.Now that I think about it some more, Beryl Peoples (Jessica Tandy) could have been my own grandmother too. And every small town has a Rub Squeers, I can picture that guy from my past too, even though he's passed on now. The only thing that hurts to remember is how things have changed since this film was made, not quite two decades ago. Fifteen dollars for a traffic violation! - I paid one this year for a hundred eighty dollars! I should have brought a Toby Roebuck with me to court. "},{"Title":"Movie is terrific","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Really a terrific, engaging movie. Lots of stars and up and coming actors. Of course, Paul Newman stole the show. He plays a delightful, neurotic curmudgeon who is still trying to work through major psychological roadblocks in his life. He's let a lot of people down, and yet he's a big help to many as they face the challenges of life. There are many interesting and unusual relationships in this movie. Definitely a hidden gem. One very interesting part is that of Paul Newman's son, played by Dylan Walsh of Nip and Tuck. Newman walked out on his family when his son was an infant, and both are still trying to deal with the aftermath, carrying around a lot of emotional baggage and trying to move beyond the past. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman steals the show","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Paul Newman played his best role and that is the reason why everyone could watch this movie.You can also see some very good actors like Bruce Willis,Melanie Griffith,Jessica Tandy,Philip Seymour Hoffman and Dylan Walsh(from Nip/Tuck).The plot is also good and it is realistic.It's a story about 60 year old man Sully Sullivan,who lives in small town,without money and without any luck.He works for Carl Roebuck(Willis) who is cheating his wife(Griffith),most beautiful girl in this little town. As he remembers of his father,who used to beat his mother and him,he also realizes that he is a bad father too.He abandoned his wife and son and moved few streets away.His son(Walsh)is coming home,with his family,to visit his mother because he has no contacts with his father.But Sully wants to make things right so he decides to establish contact with his son and grandson.Movie is directed very good and you can see Robert Benton's style.It is very warm film about family matters with great Newman performance.This is his greatest role and it's ashame that he wasn't rewarded for this one.Another Academy mistake.Although I watched this movie several times I never watched it till the end.Know I correct my mistake.It took me 13 years to do it and I'm not disappointed.Very good movie with Newman's Oscar worthy performance. "},{"Title":"Touching Without Being Sappy","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's touching without ever being sappy. It has goofy characters but you can still take it seriously. It's rich in dialog without being overly talky. It's NOBODY'S FOOL, a largely forgotten gem from the mid-1990s. Paul Newman stars as Sully Sullivan, an aging handyman in a wonderfully colorful small town who embarks on an unexpected reunion with his estranged son and his family. The result is a surprisingly fun, upbeat film with a message that never comes across as pretentious. Co-stars Melanie Griffith and Bruce Willis give some of the best performances of their careers, and Newman is perfectly cast in the lead. This one's highly recommended for all viewers old enough to see it. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" if you wander about the meaning of life...if you considered once going to a psychologist trying to unravel the mysteries of life or asking yourself whether your life could have been different if you had taken different choices or whether if you had different parents then now you would have been someone else...so this movie gives an interpretation..simple one... no complex philosophy...no waste of time with psychologist..all you have is just to watch and take or see one perspective about life,human behavior,our ability to understand ourselves,how destiny may trick us and so on...and all that in humorous movie full of love to the simplicity of life and the simplicity of people. Enjoy. and of course i forgot to mention the one and only one amongst Hollywood movie players...Paul Newman.(a man among man). without him the movie wouldn't be what it is. "},{"Title":"A gentle gem","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is based on a wonderful novel by Richard Russo and is a moving representation of how foolish, pathetic, selfish and ultimately admirable people can be.Newman and Tandy are charming and the film is lazily amusing and exasperating in turn. It is true that the film does not quite capture the spirit of the book but it is a fine attempt. The gentle pace and Newman's sardonic grin make for a truly pathetic (in its best sense) film.I did have doubts about Bruce Willis being in the film but he does a good job of it. Newman and Tandy are as faultless as ever.If you enjoyed Driving Miss Daisy then this will delight - it a subtle picture of how extraordinary the ordinary can be. "}{"Title":"Not a big film, but a very good one.","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman plays the almost classic loser who can't seem to get anything right. He plays Sully who is estranged from his family, hurt on the job, and is running out of options. He accidentally bumps into his son and family on their way to his ex-wife's for Thanksgiving dinner. He begins the process of building the relationship with his son that he never had and building a new relationship with his grandson. Along the way, he teaches and is taught why human relationships make life worth living.Newman is classic in this role. He is capable in his role without overshadowing his fellow actors. He interacts well his supporting cast that includes the likes of Jessica Tandy, Bruce Willis, Melanie Griffith, Phillip Seymour Hoffman, and Pruitt Taylor Vince. This was Jessica Tandy's final role and the scenes with her and Newman are wonderful. Their experience and talent show through as each builds their character with each new scene.The screenplay and direction are capably handled by Robert Benton(Kramer vs. Kramer, Places in the Heart, and Twilight). The storyline is somewhat unspectacular and could have been boring in someone else's hands. Benton does a fine job of providing crisp dialogue and thoughtful pacing.A movie well worth your time!!!  "},{"Title":"Better than you can expect","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Paul Newman is a virtual god in the acting community, and for good reason. He has been ridiculously successful in his career for playing roles as the handsome yet rebelious lead (The Hustler, Cool Hand Luke, Butch Cassidy & Sundance Kid). Nobody's Fool is as far away from the Paul Newman we've come to know in the film world. As Sully, he is a pathetic worn down loser who is fighting a chronic knee injury, and eagerly trying to collect from his employer (Bruce Willis) for the work accident.  Now if there are lines drawn between heroes and antiheroes in films, this film scrictly doesn't adhere to such a notion. No one is either truly good or truly bad in a sense, and the characters that conflict with one another in one scene are just as likely to be seen kicking back a beer together in the next. That is the success of Nobody's Fool, it is refreshingly understated. When you watch Newman's performance, you don't see Newman, you see Sully. It's incredible that this iconic actor would take such a muted and pathetic character role, and it makes the film that much more intriguing.  Robert Benton has once again shown his careful understanding of broken family dynamics as every character is going through a family hardship, but it isn't sensationalized to rub your face in it. Now true, the little kids in this film were poorly casted, they are young and often look forced into their lines. Thiers is the only scenes that are somewhat distracting. But Newman balances it out, so do Melanie Griffith, who is ridiculously gorgeous in this film, Bruce Willis, and Phillip Seymour Hoffman as the jerk cop in town. A satisfying rental, mainly for a quick Melanie Griffith boob flash. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A wonderful cast of characters","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember seeing this film when it first came out in 1994 and I loved it immediately. I watched it again, on tape, a couple of years later and watched it recently on DVD. I still feel the same way about it.The characters are all interesting, even the ones with only a few lines, and utterly believable. The way they interact with each other in the various environments,(the bar, the diner, etc, )you can't help but think they all seem to know each other, that they belong there. This is an indication of just how good the acting is and the production as a whole. The snowy setting, Howard Shore's music and Robert Benton's quiet (but very sharp) direction and script all add to the warm atmosphere of the film, and it is one I shall revisit again and again.  "},{"Title":"Paul Newman still has it!  God bless him and long may he live!","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As an aspiring filmmaker, I find this character study one of the most illuminating windows into the soul of a man who truly finds himself out of place in a world that is quickly changing, not necessarily of the better.Only someone like Paul Newman can do justice to a script like this.  I hope someday to be producing something for him.Victor Casals, SAG "},{"Title":"This is one of Newman's best films.  He shines as usual.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I highly recommend this film to all adults, young and old.  This is a great script, very well directed and has a terrific cast lead by the great Paul Newman.  Bruce Willis also shows up out of nowhere, since is name does not appear in the opening titles.  This movie made me want to live in the small town of Bath.  The characters in this small town are exactly that.  You have your crooked banker, immature cop, one-legged lawyer, and many others including the very likeable character played my Mr. Newman.  This is a feel good film that should be on everyone's to-rent list. "},{"Title":"A 2-hour Warm Fuzzy","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching this one for the 2nd-time around.  This 1st time I remembered thinking to myself what a nice movie about absolutely nothing. After the 2nd viewing, I realized that this is definitely a wonderful movie, because at the end I had a big smile on my face and a warm feeling in my heart.I thought some of the other comments about this movie as to what it was all about were off the mark.  I thought this movie tried to express that even though one has an insignificant life and does less than honorable things in that life, one can still be happy and fulfilled in that existence.  This all comes out in the Sully's relationships with his estranged son, the Doberman, his employer/nemesis, and his best friend.For those who want a significant plot and some sort of related/pointed conclusion, you will be disappointed.  This movie is about the relationships in our lives and how important they are to our happiness/contentment (witness the look on Newman's face in the final moment of the movie).The performances by the cast are excellent.  By that I say, if you hate Bruce Willis, you will like him in this one.  If you hate Melanie Griffith, you will like her in this one.  Of course, Newman and Tandy put in a typically wonderful jobs in their roles. "},{"Title":"I liked it...","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I like this kind of American movies, about ordinary people, usually in the small town, somewhere in the USA. Movies like A Day to Remember (or Two Bits), The Ice Storm, Wonder Boys, The Search for One-eye Jimmy...Nobody's Fool is exactly that kind of movie, and it's really great one.There's nothing spectacular in its story. I mean, there's no some big twist or unexpected act in it, but you'll be interested from the first scene to the last one.Dialogues are great! Not like in Tarantino's movies, where people speak all the time (which is great too, but in a different way). There's not a single sentence in this movie that's not in its place.The acting is superb! Paul Newman is magnificent! I've seen a lot of his movies and I think this is the crown of his career. Jessica Tandy is great, Bruce Willis too, and all the others as well. I think that this is the first time that I haven't been annoyed by Melanie Griffith's role. I even liked her.And, at the end, I have nothing else to say but - see the movie if you haven't seen it yet! "},{"Title":" Nobody's Fool A story You Can't Help but Like","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Nobody's Fool is on of those rare contemporary films about the hectic struggles in life that just keep a smile on your face all through the film. Paul Newman as always is just brilliant, but unrated.  Its a film that makes you think, yea I know somewhat just like that, nothing really phases this guy.Its a must seem film if nothing more to watch Paul Newman in his golden years. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"The small town life","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  When it comes to describing the happenings of the characters in a small town, I think that this film hits the nail on the head.  It's true that all the characters seem to have a snappy answer and comment for any moment, but that's what makes it all so fun.  It only slows down at the appropriate moments in order to allow time to let the message sink in.  I have also read that this contains Jessica Tandy's best performance.  Even though it might have been her last, I can't agree with that.  She does a great job of adding to the atmosphere of characters that have been greatly influenced by Newman's Sully, but also succeeds in being one of the few that can talk some sense into him at the same time.  Enough of my rambling, if you haven't gotten a copy of this movie yet, go buy it, sit back, and take some time to visit North Bath. "},{"Title":"If Sully is a fool, I wanna be one, too.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie appeared in Germany in 1995, and it was the best movie of the year in my eyes. It is of a class, which is not interesting for the industry, or why there are no more films like this today ? A warm, human film full of values which doesn't seems to fit in anywhere. But, this is life (or it should be). The characters are reliable, like you and me. The whole making is perfect, because there seems to be no pressure anyway. Only with this calm Benton could create such a perfect movie. Newman seems to play himself, Tandy seems to play herself,and so on ... is it a documentary feature ??? (O.K. it's irony !!!) An additional fact for the movies' outstanding is, that Willis is not mentioned in the film opening credits, and it doesn't look like he was angry about it. So why had he done this, huh ???I love this film, hope you will do so, if you see it (SEE IT !!! SEE IT !!! SEE IT !!! - unconscious influence). TEN points - full strength, and ... if Sully will be put to his grave one day, I wanna be a porter of his coffin and believe or not ... , I will find a place for the snow plough, too ! "}{"Title":"Seriously...","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you want to impress your friends with your fake movie appreciation, rent this one and tell them how long it has been one of your favorites.It's one of those flicks that gets better each viewing, where you see yourself wanting to be the despicable Sully for no other reason than He's a man's manEnjoy this movie.  Paul Newman has never been so underrated. "},{"Title":"It's a Wonderful Life on crack","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't know what to make of this movie. It's trying so hard to be heartwarming and quirky and full of irascible charm, and it misses on every count.It comes off as simply contrived, poorly written and cloying. The acting is mediocre. The story wanders around aimlessly with numerous plot points that go nowhere and then it just sort of peters out all together and the credits roll up. Uneven doesn't begin to say it.It's not overly long, but, being as the story never really seems to develop, it seems like it. It's not the worst movie ever made, but I think maybe it was trying to be. "},{"Title":"Best for die-hard Newman and Russo fans (and PSH completists)","Date":"13 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A dissenting view--I enjoyed Nobody's Fool when it came out and thought I'd take another look when it turned up on streaming Netflix. Maybe it's too slight to stand up to a second viewing; despite an outstanding cast and the familiar-looking Rustbelt locations, on the small screen the storyline just comes across as listless, contrived and sentimental. At this stage, Newman just seems too serene, too much of a living Buddha, to be playing a hand-to-mouth working class scrounger like Sully. Jessica Tandy is the only cast member who really seems to inhabit her character and breathes some life into the scenes she's in; by comparison, everybody else is just doing shtick of one kind or another. The out-and-out slapstick stuff--not one but two of Bruce Willis's tarty-looking secretaries end up losing their clothes at a poker game-- and a Capraesque subplot about a real-estate deal gone bad certainly don't contribute much. Philip Seymour Hoffman (!זיכרו לברכה) completists should be aware that he turns up briefly as a sorehead small-town cop. Newman and Richard Russo fans will surely enjoy; others should approach with reduced expectations. Just read up above that w/d Benton wanted Nick Nolte and Kim Basinger to play the Roebucks and Jeff Bridges to play Sully's son&#x97;that might've made a difference. "},{"Title":"Paul Newman. Not much else matters in this movie.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some actors don't quit when they should. Marlon Brando is a good example of someone who should have quit several movies ago. Paul Newman is an example of the opposite. No matter which age range he was in, always at the top of his acting craft. His performance in 'Nobody's Fool' is no exception, and only shows that he in most ways simply gets better with age. I bought the DVD, it is a 'budget' DVD, but a very nice one. 'Sully' has a bum leg, is a rebel in a small town of fools. Bruce Willis is the local businessman cheating on his wife, played by Melanie Griffith. Throughout the film there is an ongoing 'flirting' between the Griffith and Newman characters, they talk of going away to Hawaii together, but we are not certain if they really will.  There is a cute and funny scene near the end, the men and Willis' new 'secretary' are playing strip poker and Willis and his secretary are pretty well down to their socks.A good movie, but mainly because Paul Newman is in it. "},{"Title":"this movie's a great trailer ... for the book","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Great chemistry, if you can believe it, between Newman and Tandy. (Not romantic.) But that's about it. Maybe I'm not the first to gripe that a 550-page book can't be turned into a 2-hour movie with everything intact. Notably, the female characters, who in the book are richly developed and major players, are nearly invisible here. (Even Tandy, playing the retired 8th-grade teacher who knows a little bit about everybody in town, is superficial -- reduced to the stereotypical wise old lady.) No mention of the Newman character's girlfriend; so little mention of his wife that her role isn't even credited. No Mrs. Gruber, sallying forth. No Rub's wife, who shoplifted enough from Woolworth to decorate an entire home. No Joyce, girlfriend of The Bank (Tandy's son). Hattie's funeral comes out of nowhere in the movie (it must baffle anyone who hasn't read the book).Not to be a snob. On the contrary -- I almost never read novels, and never-ever read them just before seeing the movie. So perhaps this is a ho-hum complaint that wiser people have learned to deal with. "},{"Title":"Newman received another Oscar nomination...but this time just for showing up","Date":"25 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From Richard Russo's novel involving ne'er-do-well, trouble-causing construction worker in upstate New York, at odds with his smug employer over money and considering an affair with the boss's unhappy wife. Robert Benton-directed drama-lite, which he also adapted, puts the squeeze on us right from the start (with 'lyrical' shots of a small town in winter set to Howard Shore's saccharine score). It only figures that the characters are all written in the same cutesy way, and that the relationships between the people on-screen are laid out for us in maddeningly pedantic terms. Paul Newman received an Oscar nomination for Best Actor (as did Benton for his screenplay), but there isn't one sequence in the film that stretches Newman as a performer. Hardly the prestigious actors' piece many professional critics were conned into believing it was, Nobody's Fool is a sitcom...and a creative dead-end for all concerned. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Excellent little film","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've only seen the TV version of this movie, so the profanity and nudity the stupid producers added to get an R rating was cut from it. If only they had been smart enough to make the final cut a PG movie, it would have sold a ton more tickets in the theaters, because it's THAT GOOD! This is a classic character driven movie; there are barely any scenes that would even require a stuntman, let alone CGI or a second unit. I may be a little partial to this movie because I now live in Beacon, NY, where much of it was filmed. I saw this soon after moving to Beacon in 1999. I've never figured out why Hollywood people think an R rating will help a movie, when almost all of the biggest blockbusters in history have been no worse than PG rated (Passion of the Christ may be one of the few lone exceptions). If you are able to buy this for cheap, or do a pay-per-view, or netflix, or whatever, it will be worth your while. "},{"Title":"cursory interpretation of the novel","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" the casting is excellent, but far too many subplots omitted. granted, 560 pages is tough to do justice to in a single movie, but where was the meaningful imagery concerning sully's father? the film sterilizes the fate of Rasputin the Doberman, sugar coats peter's relationship w/ sully, and simply doesn't do justice to Toby roebuck. Totally ignored is the darker side of sully, as are sully's thoughts about his behavior resembling big Jim's. This would have been much better served as a six to eight hour miniseries. Sully's best friend Rub is totally re-characterized, and as such is practically wasted. Big Jim's ability to both terrorize those he knows and ingratiate himself with those he doesn't go a long way in fleshing out sully's character, and the movie simply does not address this, instead utilizing well lit shots that focus on the famously blue eyes of Newman- good, but not a substitute for Russo's depth. "},{"Title":"Nobody's Fool","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Newman still has that great charm, panache and that smile. All you can do is take a look at that grin and see that things only get better with age.  "},{"Title":"A good quietly acted movie","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A virtual all star cast Newman, Willis, Griffith, Tandy, star in this very well done quiet drama about life between a father and son.Understated acting by the cast and great writing makes this a very worthwhile movie. One of Griffith's finest performances 6 of 10 "}{"Title":"Wonderfully acted mundane film","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sorry, but it's totally mundane, and has oh-so-predictable, almost comic book complexity (i.e. none), montages that if they weren't executed so well would place this pretty near the bottom of the heap. Partial spoilers will appear at the end to justify the above.Dylan Walsh and Pruitt Taylor Vince definitely take the credit for delivering the most believable performances, but Paul Newman and Bruce Willis certainly don't shame themselves. The female contingent was a bit weak, but Jessica Tandy takes the honours as being the perfect gentle old lady. Melanie Griffith let the side down, I believe she was trying to charm the male viewer, but it was painful to watch.Content-wise, as I say, the story's mundane, and is stuffed with the kind of emotional schlock to which only the likes of Billy Chrystal (but in a different way, obviously) stoop. However, if you don't want an action movie, this fits the opposite role perfectly. There's nothing intrinsically wrong with mundane storylines if done well (c.f. Take Care of Your Scarf, Tatiana by Kaurismaki).Action movie fans should definitely look out for the car chase scene, which also contains the film's biggest shootout, and the most impressive brawl!Honest ;-)(partial spoilers here)Examples of the low-points were the utterly predictable parts such as - there was obviously going to be some ultimate denoument with the cop (the 'chase scene' above). - his luck would come around at cards at the end. - the kid being persuaded to be brave near the end. - after the repeated references to the daily trifecta bet and the 'low' of Sully not being able to make the bet the only day he would have won it, we are force-fed the high of finding out the son made the bet for him after all. - Toby was obviously going to try to hitch up with Sully towards the end of the film._Painfully_ predictable, I have to say.The 2-second highlight of the film, however, is when Sully throws Carl, half his age, out of the window. Particularly good as we get to see it more than once. "}]