[{"Title":"The Paper Delivers!","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"26 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A funny, fast-paced and fascinating film, THE PAPER delivers. Michael Keaton is remarkable as Henry Hackett, a newspaper editor torn between the two loves of his life his exhausting job and his long-suffering (and pregnant) wife. This juggling act plays itself out during one particularly frenzied day in which Hackett must weigh a better job offer while trying to outscoop his deep-pocketed competitors on a murder story.It's a cliché to say so, but there's never a dull moment in THE PAPER. The multi-faceted storyline sucks the viewer in and doesn't let go until after the exciting, root-on-the-good-guys finale. An interesting film could have been made about any one of the angles explored here, be it the incredibly hectic behind-the-scenes workings of a major daily, the personal toll such an operation takes on its employees, or the media's tendency to oversimplify. To combine these into one film results in an infinitely mesmerizing piece of work. And let's not forget Ron Howard's direction, which is smooth and virtually flawless. The writing is equally brilliant. Whatever reaction the film tries to inflict -- laughter, excitement, surprise -- it inevitably succeeds.The performances in THE PAPER deserve special mention. Everyone is so well cast that it's impossible to picture anyone else in these roles. Keaton has never been better in a starring role that is tailor-made to his comedic and dramatic abilities. Robert Duvall is on top of his game as the publisher whose job has cost him so much in other areas of his life. Marisa Tomei, as Mrs. Hackett, proves MY COUSIN VINNY was no fluke. (The scene where she glares at her husband in disbelief as he tells her he has to miss an important dinner with her parents is absolutely priceless). Randy Quaid is as quirky as can be as the paper's resident columnist. And although his appearances are brief, the late Spalding Gray is unforgettable as the head of a rival paper. This group of actors may very well comprise one of the most talented ensembles of the 1990s.It's a shame THE PAPER has never received the attention it deserved. Had it been released 50 years ago, in a less cluttered era, it would most certainly be widely hailed as a classic today. "},{"Title":"Why can't I stop watching this?","Date":"3 August 2007","Score":"18 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I usually find Ron Howard's work a tad self-indulgent - you only have to watch Apollo 13 to know what I mean. However, with this, Ron really delivers a fully watchable film.There are classic comedy moments - the Glenn Close I light a cigarette... line is just brilliant - while also providing true pathos with an excellent performance from Marissa Tomei (a disappointingly under-rated actress in anything she is in - witness her performance in Mel Gibson's otherwise rubbish Whast Women Want).I saw this in the cinema, and own it on DVD - it features in my regular rotation, and it doesn't matter how many times I watch it, it is still good viewing. A sign of a classic film is how often one can view it without finding scope for criticism - nothing yet! "},{"Title":"A 90s Sleeper  intelligent humor, A-list cast, don't miss it","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie...a real 90s sleeper. It's hard to determine why some films don't get the attention they deserve. The Paper is delightfully acted by an A-list ensemble in their prime. It's hilariously funny, with great timing and pace, and some poignant overtones on commitment, loyalty, family, friendship, work and the workplace, and big city journalism.Feel-good and sardonic at the same time, I did NOT find it completely predictable. The screenplay is terrific, with thoughtful, intelligent, brisk dialog. Not a dull moment; completely entertaining. A film for grown-ups. More kudos to Ron Howard.Renting it just to watch the superb Glen Close's character, especially in the stop the presses scene, is worth the time/money alone. A charming Marisa Tomei perfectly cast. Robert Duvall, Jason Alexander, Jason Robards, and of course Michael Keaton...what's not to like? One of those films that can be watched many times by men and women alike. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Frenzy!!!","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have never liked Ron Howard films until now. I was shocked to learn that this was his work. I find them rather boring and lifeless, dry and without a personal stake in the story and its characters. The literalness in his shots and film structure is cumbersome in his dramatic works, but in a comedy like this, it works--it emboldens and accentuates the humor, rather than making the film boring to watch.This film captured the chaotic energy of the newsroom floor and got me swept up in it. The ending had me cheering and laughing along with the characters. The film felt very personal, and it was easy to tell that a lot of love went into the production. The script was amazing, and the acting, superb. Yes, the plot is contrived. But that's not the reason for the storytelling in this film. The story is about its characters. Every character is incredibly well-drawn and each actor is very much immersed and invested in their characters. Seeing the characters react and interact brought huge involuntary smiles to my face. The characters came alive, and as a result, the story made sense! What an awesome ensemble cast. It's my favorite so far in film. They make it evident that the paper is a force in itself, an idea, that drives these characters and consumes their lives. I think the film offers a view into the lives of these people--from their point of view.Ahhhh!!!! "},{"Title":" We Never Knowingly got a Story Wrong, until tonight, that's what Henry Meant ","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are not too many solid Newspaper stories which ever make it to the silver Screen. Occasionally one does comes along and if it's message is important with respect towards the audience, it deserves attention. Such a movie is,  The Paper . The star of the movie is Michael Keaton who plays Henry Hackett a city editor who's boss is Bernie White played by noted actor Robert Duvall. Jason Robards is the Publisher, Graham Keighley. Their newspaper is about to print a story about a local derailment, when a small item arrest in Williamsburg NY, inspires Hackett to risk his position and a promotion with 'The Sentinal'' a prestigious uptown Newspaper. There are a number of hurtles to following up on the Williamsburg murder of three prominent bankers who lost several million dollars of the Mafia's money, primary of which is Alicia Clark (Glenn Close) an envious supervisor who is more interested in saving money than the reputations of two black youths. She explains that without more information on the dead men, additional corroboration or a quote by the tight-lipped police, she is running the subway derailment story. Confident he is right, Hackett pulls out all the stops to beat a four hour deadline, attend his wife's (Marisa Tomei) social life, protect his top reporter (Randy Quaid) from a gun-toting parking official (Jason Alexander) and file the story by press time. The movie possess all the exciting impetus of a modern front page story including the daily problems confronting the staff and the personal lives of all concern. The film is powerful in it's direction and will in time be seen as a Journalistic Classic. Easilly recommended for all. **** "},{"Title":"A Slick but Superficial Comedy Drama with an Impressive All-Star Cast","Date":"8 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE PAPER was a glossy but substance-challenged comedy drama that is supposed to provide an incisive look into the daily running of a large metropolitan newspaper. Michael Keaton stars as Henry Hackett, a maverick reporter trying to get the facts accurate on the biggest story of the decade while simultaneously chasing down a better job at another paper. The impressive supporting cast includes Glenn Close, Robert Duvall, Marisa Tomei, Randy Quaid, Jason Alexander, Catherine O'Hara, Spalding Gray, Lynne Thigpen, and a classy cameo by Jason Robards as the paper's publisher. No, there's not a lot going on here, but the all-star cast makes it worth a peek. "},{"Title":"The paper does deliver","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Kudos to my fellow Canadian from Manitoba who got it dead on! This is one of those movies that can should be played during college and university recruiting presentations. Being a newspaper journalist myself, this one kept me up until 2 or 2 in the am on a Sunday night. It was that good. The end of the movie makes it all worthwhile. I am surprised I had never heard of this movie until the day I saw it. Mchael Keaton, Glenn Close and Randy Quaid were excellent and this movie gives you a very good look at what it's like to be working in the newspaper business, with deadlines, dealing with superiors and the things you have to go through sometimes in order to get the job done. I guess it's a little late to be wondering about a sequel to this one but hopefully another director can take a stab at creating what this one just did. "},{"Title":"Candy Floss","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film tells the story of a single day in the life of The Sun, not the British tabloid famous for its Page Three Girls, but a struggling New York newspaper. The main character is the editor Henry Hackett. He is a workaholic who enjoys his high-pressure, high-powered job, but has been offered another position with the New York Sentinel, a prestigious broadsheet. Although he fears that he will find this largely administrative post less fulfilling, he is being pressured to accept it by his pregnant wife Martha because it will involve shorter hours and higher pay. Among the other characters are Bernie, the hard-bitten hard-drinking publisher, Alicia the bitchy, unsympathetic managing editor and McDougal, the paper's star reporter who has been running a campaign to discredit the city's parking supervisor.The main drama centres on the murder of two white businessmen in a predominantly black area of the city. This is initially assumed to be a racially motivated killing, an assumption shared by most of the press, and two black youths are taken into custody by the police. Hackett, however, has a hunch that the two are innocent and that the killings are in fact linked to organised crime. When, late in the day, he finds a policeman who confirms his suspicions he is presented with a dilemma. Under pressure from Alicia he has agreed to lead the next day's edition with a picture of the two men being taken into custody and the headline Gotcha! (once famously used by the British Sun in a different context) which will imply the men's guilt. Although the edition has already gone to press, Henry wants to stop the presses and use the same photograph but with a different headline emphasising their innocence. Alicia, however, puts financial considerations before journalistic accuracy and is reluctant to stop the print run because of the extra costs involved.The film could have been made in one of two ways, either as a satirical comedy about the press or as a serious drama about journalistic ethics. Unfortunately, it does not fall into either of these categories but rather falls somewhere between the two. The overall tone is too light for a serious drama, and some scenes verge on the farcical. I am thinking particularly of the one where Henry and Alicia have a stand-up fist fight while he tries to turn the printing press off and she tries to stop him. I have never been Michael Keaton's greatest admirer, with his rather frenetic style of acting (or overacting), but if the film had been made as a pure comedy he might have worked well as the frantically overactive Henry. He did not, however, seem convincing in his attempts to make Henry into a crusader for truth and integrity. The scriptwriter must also bear some of the blame for this; it is hard to regard as a paragon of virtue a journalist who steals a story from a rival editor's desk while being interviewed for a job. The best acting performance was probably from Glenn Close as Alicia, but even she was something of a comic villain- the Cruella de Vil of the newspaper industry- rather than a rounded character.On the other hand, the film is insufficiently biting and cynical and too sentimental to work as satire. It has been said of this film that even when Ron Howard tries to make a semi-serious film he ends up reducing it to cotton candy. To be fair to Howard, he has made some reasonably good films since 1994 on serious themes, such as Apollo 13 or A Beautiful Mind, but with regard to The Paper this comment seems spot-on. It is neither a drama, nor a comedy, simply candy floss. 4/10. "},{"Title":"stop/start the presses","Date":"31 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper does seem slightly more serious and less sentimental than most of Ron Howard's movies. Focusing on an overworked reporter (Michael Keaton) getting torn between a big story and his wife (Marisa Tomei), it's worth seeing. I wonder how many movies there can be about someone getting between his family and his job, but combining that with something about the media - specifically a newspaper - makes it a little bit more interesting. In my opinion, the most interesting character was Glenn Close's incarnation of the bitchy executive (there always has to be one of those, doesn't there?) preferring to stick with policy rather than investigate the story seriously; you're not sure whether she makes your skin crawl or whether she's kinda likable.So, this isn't the greatest movie ever - certainly not the best movie focusing on the media - but worth seeing as a look into situations slowly but surely spinning out of control. Also starring Robert Duvall, Randy Quaid, Jason Alexander and Clint Howard. "},{"Title":"Typically Good Ron Howard","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ron Howard has assembled an all-star, A-list cast to dramatize a day in the life of a New York City tabloid. And they do a great job of it.  Ron Howard is not a director to choose the edgy themes, and The Paper is no exception. The main plot focuses on the decision of whether or not to publish a sensational story that the editors and writers suspect is false, but will nonetheless sell lots of papers.  This thread is supported by a variety of minor, intertwining stories that weave in and out of the main tale.  It's very enjoyable stuff, part drama and part comedy. Ron Howard has made a movie that is just right for that weekend rental for the family. "}{"Title":"One of the films that inspired my career choice","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Knowing a lot of other journalists, I can assure readers I was not alone in watching this 1994 Ron Howard film and thinking that's what I wanna do! Looking at this as someone who's worked at newspapers both small and big, and recently back to small again there are scenes in this that perfectly capture the base insanity of those who catch the journalism bug. It's a strange profession. When you are in a groove and rolling there is no job like it. The diversity and breadth of people you meet, stories you cover and publications you have the opportunity to work for are simply incredible. When you are in a rut and struggling to string two paragraphs together, it can be the very definition of hell.The film belongs to Michael Keaton, who is having the type of day that anyone who's been in the job for more than a few months can relate to. He has the story, knows what really happened, but is banging his head against a brick wall looking for someone to confirm it. I love that I recognize some of the other characters in this. The guy with the comfy seat, the guy who wants to know if there's a better word for...., the frustrated boos who just wants you to get to the damned editorial meeting on time, and the cynical secretary you're honest, ethical and I want you out of this building. And it is that editorial meeting which captures the actual process so well.There are so many great actors and performances in this movie. Glenn Close as a woman in what was then a man's world (three of my first four editors were female so it's less so now, but city papers definitely have a ways to go), trying to be taken seriously, Randy Quaid as a typically useless columnist. Marissa Tomeii as a pregnant woman who really can't handle taking time off from the job (which reminds me of many a colleague who would make their way to the office as far into their pregnancy as 9 months).This is a comedy first and foremost, and so it has license to go over the top, but Keaton's journey, apart from punching his editor in the face in the final scene, is entirely authentic for anyone who's ever felt that frustration of having a story written and ready to go and trying desperately to get confirmation without which it can't be printed. I need it! Right. Now! TO. NIGHT! I guess if you worked in saner papers than the ones I have (I hold out hope that somewhere there are some) or have never worked in a paper before, some of the stuff in this may come across as odd, but I loved watching it when I was young and was shocked to find how close to reality some of this was. There's a reason why they play the editorial meeting scene from this film in first year university media classes. Of course not all of it rings true, and some of it is just plain naïve, but it tries. Just sit back and enjoy a fun, engaging and at some points, accurate, look at a profession like no other. Enjoy a superb performance from Michael Keaton supported by a fully functioning ensemble. The Paper isn't a perfect story, but would make Page One most days. "},{"Title":"Overproduce and under deliver","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yet another big budget, Hollywood movie about the wild, fast paced world of journalism. It is not exactly an exciting premise but Hollywood keeps romanticizing this profession. Don't expect All the President's Men, Absence of Malice, or even the Pelican Brief here. This is just Ron Howard stockpiling a bunch of big names much like the Yankees do. I read reviews where this is a realistic look at news...yada yada...so what? That doesn't make good cinema. There is much shouting, arguing, fighting including a fistfight between Close and Keaton to show just how much convictions their characters have. I don't find anyone or anything particularly likable or interesting in this tedious piece. "},{"Title":"Commercial.","Date":"22 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's the story of the staff at one of New York's lesser newspapers, their professional trials and personal tribulations. The cast is seasoned and the performances professional. No complaints. Marisa Tomei gives what is perhaps the most credible performance with Robert Duval close behind. Michael Keaton is fine in the lead.The problem -- and it's getting to be a big problem these days -- is that there isn't an original idea in it. The script seems to have been written in accordance with some kind of algorithm developed by the MBAs who now run Hollywood. Let's say it's viewer friendly for viewers who think of continental food as swank.When we first meet Marisa Tomei as the wife of editor Michael Keaton, for instance, she's preposterously pregnant. There is not a single moment of doubt in the savvy viewer's mind that there is later going to be a scene in which she gives birth or miscarriages or something on the screen. It would never occur to the people who greenlight this sort of pabulum that a movie can have a pregnant character who doesn't deliver, as in the Coen brothers' immeasurably superior Fargo. I dislike political correctness as much as anyone, and this is political correctness gone berserk. Duval is editor-in-chief. He's old and sick. His prostate is the size of a bagel and he has a hacking cough -- and he smokes CIGARETTES! OMG! Nobody else among the frenzied staff of this tabloid smoke. We're clearly meant to feel sympathy for a generous boss but we also think, Why doesn't the stupid jagoff quit smoking? That sentiment carries a good deal of contempt. In a sense, Duval is getting what he deserves for his filthy habit.And when Marisa Tomei meets an old friend, Catherine O'Hara, for an al fresco lunch, O'Hara consumes more white wine with the salad than Tomei, who looks on worriedly. The stringest norms don't leave anyone much wiggle room.Keaton is a vigorous young man who is offered a job at a higher salary at the prestigious New York Sentinel (read Times), but when we see the job interview we know at once that Keaton won't take it. The interviewer is Clint Howard, the director's brother, and while Duval is in his shirt sleeves over at the New York Scuttlebutt, Clint Howard is cool in his blue dress shirt and bow tie and weirdly stylish hair cut. It all goes with his built-in sneer.The story has its amusing moments but they're punctuated by the pathos that a good commercial product must carry. But Howard's not alone in his hackitude. He's had plenty of company, like Penny Marshal and Rob Reiner.I guess you can tell I didn't like the script much. Sometimes -- sometimes -- it feels as if we're all being strangled by bourgeois values and the need to be PC. I can't even take a Saturday night's walk in my fishnet stockings and crimson stilettos without all these proper people howling with laughter and throwing empty yogurt cups at me. Tsk Tsk. "},{"Title":"Best newspaper movie ever","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I think this is another underrated and under-seen movie. Twenty years old now (2015) but it plays nearly as well now as 20 years ago.This movie has it all. The writing is exceptional, with believable dialog and totally true to life little office stories going on in the background. Truly a cast of top actors. Michael McDougal might be Randy Quaid's best part. Also, Michael Keaton, Robert Duvall, Glenn Close, Marisa Tomei,plus the lesser supporting parts all written and acted well. I wonder what it would cost to get that cast together in a movie today!And kudos to Ron Howard. Even in 1994, he had come a long way since Grand Theft Auto! He, may be the next Mike Nichols--a director who has as much ability to attract and audience as the actors. "},{"Title":"Ron Howard triumphs again!","Date":"18 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was disappointed in Ron Howard's 2006 The Da Vinci Code, but The Paper is everything the overblown Da Vinci Code is not, namely exciting and suspenseful with well-rounded but solidly interesting and highly believable characters, plus lots of quite breathtakingly imaginative use of real locations. Despite Howard's equally adroit use of actual city streets and buildings in Da Vinci, the over-all effect was boring rather thrilling, ho-hum rather than Wow! Let's see that scene again! Of course, The Paper is more down to earth. Its plot and characters are far more convincingly realistic &#x96; and the players really do them justice. Even minor roles &#x96; such as Spalding Gray's Paul Bladden and Jason Robards's Graham Keighley &#x96; are so cleverly integrated into the plot that they hold the viewer spellbound and keep him or her &#x96; especially him &#x96; asking for more. As the hero, Michael Keaton, does a really first-class job and keeps the viewer rooting for the character even when he over-steps the mark by his verbal badgering of the other characters and even his out-and-out stealing. Fortunately, the screen writing Koepps provide him with an important principal &#x96; As far as I'm aware, the paper has never ever gone to press with a front-page story which we knew was wrong! &#x96; and the Keaton character's adherence to this principle tips the scales in his favor when Alicia Clark (superbly enacted by Glenn Close) decides against halting the print run and Keaton's Henry Hackett sets out to attack her both physically and verbally. Yes, it may be a bit over the top &#x96; I haven't even mentioned another ten or twenty gripping incidents &#x96; but The Paper is so fast-paced, so enthrallingly plotted, so charismatically directed and so brilliantly enacted by the entire cast &#x96; there's no time to stop and think that maybe all these wild incidents strain credulity just a little, here and there! Available on a really excellent Universal DVD. "},{"Title":"Excellent Slice of NYC Life","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The cast is first rate, the story engaging and it doesn't drag that much. It almost knows when to give you a break to catch up.Without repaving covered ground. it is a great movie to pop in and enjoy. Only a few characters are one dimensional. Howard and the writers give almost every character some depth. The subplots are given just enough space, most are resolved, but they get you to the end without being too disappointed when a couple are not.. This movie felt that it could be staged for a sequel, but it stands on its own nicely.I like any movie that gets the mythology right. This movie does, right from the start. "},{"Title":"An exceptional film","Date":"12 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I very rarely give an 8, but this is one helluva movie! First, the basic story is terrific. It all centers around a second-rate NYC newspaper that tries its hardest, and although it seems as if there are several separate stories, they all do come together as the film progresses. You have the competition between Glenn Close and Michael Keaton over who should manage the newspaper. You have the tension between Michael Keaton and his pregnant wife, Marisa Tomei, over which Keaton loves more -- the newspaper or his wife and soon-to-be-born baby. You have Robert Duvall struggling with a major illness and his estrangement from his daughter...all simmering while he tries to serve as the publisher of the newspaper. You all have a struggling young news photographer, and assorted odd reporters. And all this is operating while 2 young Black men are being held for apparently racially motivated murders they didn't commit. And all this is a 24 hour period.Michael Keaton is wonderful as Henry Hackett, and it made me realize that I miss his presence in today's cinema. He was a fine actor, and hopefully is regenerating his career.Robert Duvall is an actor I often dismissed, but have come to appreciate more in recent years. He's good here, although this is far from his finest role; he does have his moments, however. Glenn Close is -- as always -- very fine in her role. Marisa Tomei is excellent in her role, although I think the director might have played it just a bit differently. Randy Quaid is okay as an odd reporter. It is nice seeing Jason Robards in a cameo role.Ron Howard directed, and his job was close to flawless. One of his best films.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"I Miss the Old Days","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper is one of those movies I revisit every once in awhile, after having seen it multiple of times when I was younger. And with visit, I fall in love with it all over again.What's funny, with this 8/7/13 latest viewing, is that they knew their kind, back in 1994, was on their way out. Talk about foreshadowing!Now, the newspaper business isn't extinct yet, but probably will be soon. I know I haven't subscribed to a newspaper in probably 15-16 years, but I did love reading them &#x96; despite the black fingers and stacks of old papers to be taken out as downfalls.I digress. My point is, if anyone watches this today, for the first time, they may find it completely outdated. Case in point (chain) smoking in buildings, beepers and least of all the newspaper business trying to be the first to nab a story when it only publishes once a day and at night.This is sad. This movie is literally action and suspense-packed from minute one. I enjoy the progression of these characters, their deadlines, stress, movements, dialogue and depth. I believe this movie is incredibly made well, fun, funny and is worth every minute of screen time. So, if you're a first time viewer, just think 1994 and move on and along with these fantastic characters.I also fancy 24-hour movies, or films that take place in one day'ish. This one begins in the morning, and follows reporter/editor Henry (a fantastic performance from Michael Keaton) for one complete day and his plight to tell the truth vs. what's easy to publish that might ruin two boy's lives. They're accused of murder and this particular newspaper's front page (alone) might convict them. He needs to fight deadlines, problems, his own superiors and the pending birth of his first child. You feel every bit of his stress and love it at the same time.Every single actor in this movie gave their 100% and had incredible depth and believability. But, namely, I loved Keaton's Henry, Glenn Close's Alicia, Robert Duvall's Bernie and Randy Quaid's Michael. Notably, and as a TV's The Incredible Hulk fan growing up, it's awesome to see the name Jack McGee show up in the credits. (He's a minor character, but that name&#x85;in association with a movie about an all-but tabloid&#x85;is gold for a fan of the Hulk series like me.)I don't award too many films with 5/5 stars (or in IMDb's case, 10/10,) but besides the fact I grew up wanting to be a journalist (and studied it in college many moons ago,) I fall more and more in love with this film as the day progresses with each viewing. I love the story, the fast pace, the cinematography, the comedic lines and above all else, the characters. I absolutely love this film.On a side note, it's sad to say, in 1994, and in 2013&#x85;racial tensions and crimes almost match. This makes this movie relevant, even today, but not for good reasons. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the cast","Date":"3 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper's strong suit is its second act, when it's actually being a newspaper movie. Sure, the whole movies set in the offices of a second- rate New York City paper, but most of what goes on in those offices is human drama ... and actually kinda soap opera-ey, at that. Keaton's torn between a better job elsewhere and doing what he's hard-wired to do. It's like His Girl Friday, but there's no tension or interplay between his character and whomever would substitute Cary Grant, here.And although Keaton is the shining star, there are some good performances from the ensemble cast Glenn Close, Robert Duvall, Marisa Tomei, and even Randy Quaid). And I did like the uses of wry humor to add levity to the darker scenes. Still not a fan of the blood in the kitchen scene; felt contrived and didn't really go anywhere (did Keaton learn anything from it? Will things change?). Decent movie; at its best when it focuses on the wrongfully-convicted teens story.6/10 "},{"Title":"imPRESSive","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Beginning with Five Star Final in the early thirties the Talkies have been punctuated with movies about the fourth estate, Bogie did one as did Jack Webb and here is yet another with a not-quite A-list cast but none the worse for that. Essentially it's 24 hours on Grub Street with the likes of Marisa Tomei, Glenn Close, Randy Quaid, Michael Keaton and Jason Robards combining to turn out a Bulldog edition of stylish entertainment. The several plot strands come together when necessary and are otherwise kept apart with the whole offering a satisfying glimpse of life in tabloid land. With luck it should stand up to another viewing via DVD. "}{"Title":"Finally got around to seeing it, and am glad I did.","Date":"12 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie came out right ahead of the surge of DVDs and the phasing out of VHS. It also was a couple of years before I retired, and we weren't watching many movies then. So we missed this one. Finally, today we saw it, very enjoyable with some of our favorite actors.Michael Keaton is Henry Hackett, news editor for a fictitious 2nd-tier newspaper in New York. He is somewhat of a workaholic, to the dismay of his pregnant wife who seldom sees him arrive on time for anything. Now she fears she will be virtually alone to raise their child. Marisa Tomei is his wife, Martha Hackett, in this role right near the same time she won an Oscar for her role in My Cousin Vinney. She was in her 20s, while Keaton was already in his early 40s. But they make a good match in this newspaper movie.There are several themes, one being Henry's opportunity to leave for a better-paying job with a larger New York paper. Also his feud with the managing editor, the bean counter worried about cost, Glenn Close as Alicia Clark. But the core newspaper story involves two men being gunned down in their car, and two young black students being seen near the car. They didn't do it, but were arrested and Henry wants to get to the bottom of the real story, while Alicia wants to get the paper out on deadline. After all the union drivers are waiting, and it costs $12,000 for every half hour they delay!Always reliable Robert Duvall is Bernie White the publisher, fighting his own battles, prostate cancer and an estranged daughter.All in all a good movie. "},{"Title":"The Paper","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Directed by Ron Howard (A Beautiful Mind, The Da Vinci Code) and with an all-star cast, it was impossible for me not to give this comedy drama film a go, and I am so glad I did. Basically, it is 24 hours in the life of an ailing tabloid, with Henry Hackett (Michael Keaton) the editor of the New York Sun, he is a workaholic who loves his job, but at the same time he is struggling to keep up with life with his pregnant wife Martha (Marisa Tomei). Also in the building are publisher/editor-in-chief Bernie White (Robert Duvall) facing financial problems and putting work first instead of family, and Henry's nemesis, managing editor Alicia Clark (Glenn Close) who is planning cutbacks, telling him to consider leaving the New York Sun to be managing editor for the New York Sentinel. The big story on this day is the murder of two white businessman in a race-related killing, and two black brothers passing by are the suspects wrongly jailed. It is when Henry wants a source, he stole the name of, to tell him the truth about the brothers' guilt that the film really gets gripping. He needs a good picture of the brothers, he needs the quote from the source himself, and most important, he needs to change the article that they will release, so he needs to stop the presses! Alicia is not prepared to stop them, and says they will run the innocence story the next day, and she and Henry have an aggressive fight to get to the stop button, but even after Henry has stopped it, she fires him and they restart. Thankfully though she realises her mistake, but a gun shot in the local bar stops her finishing the phone call, and at the same time, Henry's wife is going to hemorrhage, needing anaesthetic for the baby, but don't worry, all problems are solved in the end. Also starring Randy Quaid as Michael McDougal, Jason Robards as Graham Keighley, Jason Alexander as Marion Sandusky, Spalding Gray as Paul Bladden, Catherine O'Hara as Susan, Lynne Thigpen as Janet and Clint Howard (Ron's brother) as Ray Blaisch. I will admit it didn't grip me for the first 20 or so minutes, but after this, it is a engaging and absorbing film all the way. With wisecracking dialogue, well cast actors, especially Keaton and Close, and fantastic manipulative moments, it grips you so much, you are desperate your prediction of events will be right. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Song for Randy Newman's Make Up Your Mind. Very good! "},{"Title":"the paper","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Things can change in 24 hours. One of the quotes from the movie The Paper I have learned a lot from this movie, it showed me how things got done, what is the competition and what can change in 24 hours. With an all-star cast of Michael Keaton, Robert Duvall and Marisa Tomei and more, they used there acting skills to show what the characters would be like in a real paper business. Well throughout the movie I have noticed that everyone is always working from sun up to sun down, this is a curial thing to make sure that there news is the most up to date as it can be. Throughout the movie they are covering a story about two African American kids that were blamed for a murder, except for they did not do it, they were at the wrong place at the wrong time. So throughout one day in the movie the Paper they were trying to see if the kids were not guilty so they can be the only ones to print the right thing on there front page. This shows journalism at its best, they had teams that went to different places trying to get all the information they can get to prove this innocence's. After hours and hours of trying and going to places and getting shot down, they finally went to a cop and got what they needed, saving it just in time, printing what they wanted to print. Another thing was that just like in the real world there were chains of commands, this was broken a lot in this movie to get what the wanted for the story, but there was some scud things, such as the bar fight and the fight in the paper room. The story gave a great example at what goes on in a paper room and what can happen or and will. "},{"Title":"good acting, compelling story","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper This movie was about a newspaper in NYC, it's not exactly the New York Times so it is interesting to see all of the Drama that goes on behind the scenes. The main role is portrayed by Michael Keaton, he plays a head writer for this news paper and throughout the story he must decide whether it is worth it for him to stick it out that this paper or leave to a more prominent one. His wife is pregnant and he knows that with a baby on the way he must try to find a better paying job. To many people this would sound like a clear and easy decision to make but sometimes the most practical things can be the hardest to do. He loves his job and this is obvious when he spends the entire day trying to track a story down, he puts aside his own career opportunities, even his own wife to break the story.He has to deal with many obstacles on his way to actually getting the story. One of which is a character played by Glenn Close, she is a cut-throat somewhat kneiving journalist and in the movie seems to be one of Michael Keaton's characters biggest challenges. She doesn't think that his story is valid and insist that he not run it, instead she wants to go for a safer less controversial cover. On the same day he has an interview with a competing much more renowned newspaper, he has to squeeze it in his schedule so this just adds to the pressure. He also has a dinner date with his wife and parents, whether he makes it or not I will not tell but I will say this, the ending is a heartfelt one and for the most part everyone ends up happy.The Paper was over all a pretty decent movie considering that it's not a movie that I would usually watch. The story line was touching and very unique. It gave viewers the insight on the thrill and the rush you get when working for a low budget paper. That especially interest me because It is a career choice that I am still considering. I was also pretty surprised to hear that it was nominated for an Oscar, I'm sure that the A-list actors had something to do with it. "},{"Title":"The Paper World!","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film depicts a day in a life of a hardworking newspaper editor named Henry Hackett. From the start this film blew me away with its fast pace action and movements. The movie crunches the film in a 24 hour period. From the time the day starts to the time it ends, it leaves the audience wanting for more. These are the kinds of movies that are very well directed and contains superb talented actors/actresses. The movie is an excellent form of education to those aspiring to be employed in the paper industry. Though the film does exaggerate some scenes, it is a perfect movie to learn about the actions going on behind making a newspaper. The movie can also be called a documentary, because it visualizes a wide variety of expressions that is based on an attempt.Overall, I recommend this film to anyone that loves fast pace films. "},{"Title":"Fast-paced, funny, credible (at some level)","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper begins with an excellent script, a superb ensemble of actors, and a story-line that will seem incredible to anyone who's never been in journalism. However, with a little exaggeration removed -- not a lot -- it portrays, more-or-less accurately, an era of relentless competition among the sensation-mongering tabloids that pretty much ended when more and more papers folded as television news began to dominate. This may be the best work Ron Howard has done in his career as a director. Michael Keaton, Glenn Close, Robert Duvall, Marisa Tomei and Randy Quaid are pitch perfect in their respective roles and others in the cast are also excellent. As an ex-journalist (with a newspaper far more serious than the Sun), I thought it did a much better job of capturing what it's like in the newsroom than the much ballyhooed movie about Watergate. Sure, The Paper isn't a serious film but journalism needn't be treated reverently it's often a comedy -- though not always a lot of laughs as this one is. "},{"Title":"Another classy production for Howard","Date":"25 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Former 'Happy Days' star Ron Howard can't seem to do wrong after 35 years as a director, receiving critical acclaim for such films as 'Cocoon,' 'Backdraft,' 'Far and Away,' 'Apollo 13,' and 'Cinderella Man.' With so many fine titles connected to one person, it is perhaps not a surprise that his 1994 comedy-drama 'The Paper' has slipped into obscurity and maintains something of a cult audience.Several inherent things work against 'The Paper' that will probably condemn it to a minor place on Howard's résumé. First off, it is a film that centers around the print journalism business, which is not to everyone's liking. There is a load of technical jargon that may confuse an average viewer and the film moves at a breakneck speed that is difficult to take in. Secondly, it has a New York attitude that many will judge as in-your-face and offensive. And thirdly, 'The Paper' is based on character development rather than action, which leaves the story at risk of being forgotten over time. If there is any hope of 'The Paper' breaking through its current status, it will derive from the stellar cast, a Who's Who of Hollywood and its various circles from the past two decades. For those willing to take the plunge, it can be an immensely entertaining two hours.'The Paper' is a screen writing collaboration of brothers David Koepp, recently known for 'War of the Worlds,' and Stephen Koepp, who owns experience in the journalism industry. Their story focuses on Henry Hackett (Michael Keaton), metro editor of the New York Sun, a fictitious tabloid that is struggling against three real-life dailies the New York Daily News, the New York Post, and the now-downsized Newsday. In search of a better job to support his pregnant wife Martha (Marisa Tomei), Hackett is offered a position at the New York Sentinel, clearly satirizing the highbrow Times. At his follow-up interview with editor Paul Bladden (Spalding Gray), he is annoyed by the Sentinel's condescension to tabloids and steals from Bladden's desk a lead on the murder of two investment bankers in Brooklyn.Convinced that two Black teenagers arrested in the murder case are innocent, Hackett pushes for editor-in-chief Bernie White (Robert Duvall) to make his story a Page One item. A face-off erupts between Hackett and the widely disliked managing editor Alicia Clark (Glenn Close), who demands that a headline of guilt be printed. Juggling between work and his wife's impending delivery, Hackett is given until The Sun's evening deadline to collect whatever information will make his article legit.Besides a fascinating look into the journalism business, 'The Paper' is a solid ensemble piece that covers wide ranges of character and emotion. The irony of Hackett's story - the fact that two teenagers' reputations may be saved after unethically stealing a lead - is never forgotten and sometimes we need to ask whether Hackett considers his job or his family of greater importance. In his caustic relationship with Clark, we also see a desire for truth partly fueled by a desire for payback.Michael Keaton, a likable personality who has dropped off the radar somewhat, gives a memorable, driven performance and has good chemistry with Tomei. Robert Duvall, as an older journalist stricken with prostate cancer, beautifies the story in trying to make amends with his estranged daughter (Jill Hennessy). Glenn Close is her usually vicious self (no complaints here), while Randy Quaid gets the job done as scruffy McDougal. Geoffrey Owens ('The Cosby Show'), Jason Robards, Jason Alexander, sports commentator Bob Costas, and defense attorney William Kunstler also highlight the supporting cast.'The Paper' contains Ron Howard's familiar stamp subdued photography, a busy camera stand, and exchanges of dialogue that never seem artificial. Editing was nicely supplied by Daniel Hanley and Mike Hill; the economical but fluent score was penned by Randy Newman, whose title song 'Make Up Your Mind' earned the film's only Academy Award nomination in 1995.No better example of this film's neglect is the failure by Universal Studios to re-release since its original DVD in 1997. There are tons available for purchase on the Internet, but they were made during DVD's infancy and thus offer full frame only. Production notes and short biographies of the cast are included as extras. Hopefully, 'The Paper' will have a DVD resurrection in widescreen, with an interview or two. The theatrical trailer would also be rather nice.*** out of 4 "},{"Title":"Super Entertainment...","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ron Howard is a legendary filmmaker, no two options on that! His body of work is truly admirable, as he has made dozens of memorable films. 'The Paper' is another feather in his well-decorated cap, a film that exposes the behind-the-scenes of a newsroom.It beautifully depicts 24 hours in a newspaper editor's professional and personal life. Howard makes the most believable characters in a subject like this. Each character has a interesting story to tell, which is the U.S.P of this rush-hour flick. As mentioned, It offers Super Entertainment in those 110 minutes.Howard's direction, as always, deserves brownie points. David & Stephen Koepp's screenplay is super, with memorable dialog. John Seale's Cinematography is perfect. Daniel P. Hanley & Mike Hill's editing is flawless.In the acting department, Glenn Close is fantastic. She plays her character flawlessly. Michael Keaton is lovable. One of my all-time favorite actors! Robert Duvall, like always, is restrained and cool. Marisa Tomei is excellent. Randy Quaid is funny, and gets it right. Jason Robards in a cameo, is fine.On the whole, 'The Paper' is a memorable film. An Ideal Sunday Afernoon Watch! Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"A Nutshell Review The Paper","Date":"24 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've been to a newsroom only twice in my life. First, it's to collect some lucky draw winnings, and I had a sneak peek into the hustle and bustle of a newsroom from behind a glass panel. The next one was more up close and personal, because a journalist friend brought me right up to his desk (and an incredibly piled up one at that), and I had first hand view of how news got made. Or at least it seemed that the next day's articles were done up because there were few people left in the office, and there was a group huddled at one corner.Ron Howard's The Paper was one of those films that I didn't catch at the cinemas (at that time, the teenage me only recognized Michael Keaton of his 1989 Batman and 1992 Batman Returns fame), and missed a number of scheduled telecast and re-runs on television. So it's no surprise that I snapped up the DVD the minute I saw it in the discount bins at the store. And I wonder just why the heck it took me so long to get down to watching this, with no regrets (save for the technical aspect of the presentation).Keaton plays a Henry Hackett, a sub-editor for a small time tabloid in New York. Being a go-getting workaholic, he often puts his family life aside, which of course puts his very pregnant wife Martha (Marisa Tomei) under a lot of stress especially with her pregnancies woes, and not being able to get out there and do stuff. For their financial stability, one of the many subplots here involves her getting Henry a job interview at a larger paper, The Sentinel, and threatens him not to sabotage his own opportunities for advancement, which we learnt that he does so quite frequently in order to stay where he is.And it's not rocket science why too, as the bunch of folks he's working with is really madcap, and I think I too can thrive in such as a stressful, chaotic, but totally livewire environment. Each character presents a separate subplot which intertwines with Henry's life, and in one scene which I was totally mesmerized with, was when everyone dropped by Henry's office, and it went just off the hook. Wonderful stuff there, especially when you have Glenn Close as a rival sub-editor who happens to be the office bicycle (erm, that means everyone had had a ride), Robert Duvall as an ailing editor stricken with cancer and trying to reconcile with his estranged daughter, and Randy Quaid in a totally hilarious role as the bummer in the office.All these while the team had to debate with the front page story for the next day, centered on reporting what's accurate and doing what's right &#150; the social responsibility in being a paper, with pressure on them because they had missed the previous day's scoop. Everyone's preoccupied with their own personal agenda, set against an office where the air-conditioner isn't working and driving temperatures and tempers up. It's work and family over a period of 24 hours, and I felt that this film had a story that ranks itself up there with other films that deal with their narratives over the same time period.You'd have come to expect a certain assured standard from director Ron Howard, and this film demonstrates nothing less. Everything naturally comes together perfectly toward the end like the birth of a new dawn, with relationships bruised but not battered, and what I also enjoyed here was John Seale's superb cinematography which had this extremely fluid motion when bringing us in and around a newsroom for that office tour each time we run around like crazy with Henry. The paper would be one of my personal favourites, and my only regret (besides the technical aspects of the DVD) was why it had taken me this long to uncover this gem of an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"THE PAPER  A Nice Companion To PARENTHOOD, Though Not Quite As Good...","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE PAPER This is the kind of Ron Howard film I enjoy... and I hope he goes back to films like THE PAPER sometime soon.I found a brand new VHS of this film in my mall for $2 and, knowing how much I loved Ron Howard's PARENTHOOD, I figured I'd give the movie a shot. After all, it's cheaper then renting it would have been.THE PAPER is no where near as good as PARENTHOOD (Ron Howard's true masterpiece IMO)... but, it is a fun/lightweight film in the same vein. It follows a similar formula by taking one central character, in this case Michael Keaton, and following the busy lives of the many people around him.THE PAPER offers up an incredible ensemble of actors. Even the smaller roles utilize genuinely talented actors, for example, a woman as amazingly talented as Catherine O'Hara has only one scene. And the ensemble really delivers in their roles.The script for THE PAPER relies a bit to much on the frenzy of a New York newspapers daily operation, and neglects extensive character development. But I guess that's the nature of a piece meant to realistically show the lives of people working in such a crazed profession. On some level, these people don't have much depth to their character beyond their work. Yet, in the end, each and every one of them have a moment in which life becomes more then work and it makes for a satisfying ending to this romp.The strongest aspect of the film though is the charisma being exchanged between all the performers. The meetings in Duvall's office between the entire staff features some incredibly strong and fluid ensemble work.This might be Micheal Keaton's best performance, though the man certainly relies very heavily on those eyebrows. His chemistry with Marissa Tomei, as his very pregnant wife, is great. And for anyone who thought Tomei didn't do anything between MY COUSIN VINNY and IN THE BEDROOM, check out this film. Her performance was actually my favorite in the film, she brings more layers to her character than most of the other actors, and she exudes charisma.Glenn Close, Robert Duvall, and Randy Quaid are all entertaining and fully invested in their interesting (though not too defined) characters. Each is given a gimmick more than a personality... Close the frigid bitch who turned her back on true journalism, Quaid the odd reporter always afraid for his life, and Duvall the lovable old man who lived his work and is now ill. But they are all actors with enough experience to keep the audience from realizing how thankless their roles are.Overall, THE PAPER is more detailed than your average comedy, and it's fun to watch as an ensemble comedy. Ron Howard needs to return to this style of ensemble comedy material, cuz he handles it very well.... B- ... "}{"Title":"A charming comedy with a great story and some very funny characters","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper is a wonderful story about Henry Hackett, a workaholic editor for a small-time New York newspaper. Henry's wife, who used to work for the same paper, is very pregnant. Problems arise when Henry's work and home life begin to conflict with each other as he chases the truth to a racial shooting and races against the looming deadline. More pressure is put on Henry as his wife questions how much he loves her and when he is offered a high-paying job at a big-time paper in town.The Paper is a perfect example of Ron Howard's style of directing a comedy. Viewers will notice many parallels with Howard's more famous comedy, Parenthood. The story is based on Henry, and we do have some insight into what the other characters around him are like, but not too much is revealed about their lives beyond work. The story progresses quickly and fluidly. Howard is a master at creating films that work.Michael Keaton is pretty much perfect in the role of Henry. He oozes talent and intelligence yet also gives off an aura of impatience and nervousness. Robert Duvall is also well cast in the role of the sickly newspaper patriarch who gave his life to his career and is now very ill. Although The Paper relies largely on its all-star cast (Michael Keaton, Robert Duvall, Glenn Close, Marisa Tomei, and Randy Quaid), the result is not disappointing. Some of the most funny moments in this film are when most (or all) of these characters are in the same room together.The Paper covers a very broad range of comedic styles. Everything from low-brow jokes and physical slap-stick comedy to the intelligent remarks that will take you a second to figure out are represented here. In this way, The Paper is almost guaranteed to make you laugh, no matter your preference of style. It's a charming comedy with a great story and some very funny characters. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Simple, A pretty good movie with many stars.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's a simple, decent movie. 7 out of 10.Don't expect too much just because of all of the very good actors in the movie. It's a simple story about a power struggle at a newspaper, between one side trying to get the story right, and the other just trying to do their jobs.This movie could have been alot better. The general storyline is good, but not much was done with it. The middle does drag a little bit, and not much drama is introduced until a very good sequence at the end.The performances were very good but the script was so-so. "},{"Title":"Ron Howard Delivers!","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Paper, another good film by Ron Howard, is a well-acted comedy that proves why Ron is such a good filmmaker and how he makes his movies interesting. Ordinarily, the 24-hour cycle of a newspaper company would be pretty boring to watch on the big screen, but here we have a clever story with well-developed characters, a great score, and a fine mixture of well-timed comedy mixed it with some dramatic, realistic incidents.Howard's film is about an editor named Henry Hackett who likes his job working at the Sun, but he is facing pressure from his pregnant wife to find a better job so he is contemplating on working for the Times. Meanwhile, his publisher Bernie White is facing financial and family problems while his second-in-command is imposing not-so-popular cutbacks.The acting is pretty darn good. Michael Keaton delivers a balanced comedic role. Robert Duvall is always good so there are no surprises here. Glenn Close is worth a mention because she and Keaton have some very good scenes with each other especially near the end. I also liked Marisa Tomei as the incredibly moody wife.Overall, this is a solid, well-acted film that is way better than it should be. I wasn't expecting much, but with a Ron Howard film here, I had to check it out. While it's not the best journalism-related film out there, it's still worth a watch. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Superb satire","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've seen The Paper many times and always try and catch it when it airs on TV. Tightly scripted and genuinely funny, it offers an intriguing glimpse into the pressurised world of journalism. The cast is excellent, with Michael Keaton delivering one of his standout performances. Two white men are murdered and the finger of suspicion points to two black youths, but they are innocent, as Keaton suspects, and so a battle to run the headline 'They didn't do it' instead of 'Gotcha' ensues. A battle of wills over journalistic integrity with Glenn Close develops. Close personifies the ultra-80s 'power' woman. The film is a fantastic satire and the jokes come thick and fast. Ron Howard certainly knows how to make a good movie! "},{"Title":"Implausible storyline, but well acted film on inner workings of a tabloid paper","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Paper' is solid entertainment. The film shows the high tension jobs of reporters working in a big city tabloid paper. The plot is rather implausible, but the film has a cracking pace and good performances all round. Michael Keaton is dynamite as the workaholic editor of the paper who's immersed in his job and neglecting his pregnant wife Marisa Tomei. Robert Duvall, Glenn Close and Jason Robards all do well in supporting roles. The ending is full of loop-holes but somehow manages to work. Worth watching for it's energy and fine acting.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"Work or Family - You Decide","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a great film that showed how work interferes with family. It often happens that you must choose to be successful. Michael Keaton is trying to do both and is doing badly at each. This is probably the best film I have seen with Marisa Torme. I really like her and she did a fantastic job here as Keaton's wife. Glen Close was brilliant as the bitchy supervisor, and Robert Duvall did a fantastic job as he usually does. This was a very good film about the newspaper business, but it was more about relationships and taking care of your family. Ron Howard's direction was great and the story flowed smoothly. All in all, an enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Rock, paper, scissors.....there's no reason not to pick the Paper!","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Henry (Michael Keaton) has a very pregnant wife, Martha (Marisa Tomei) and a job as a managing editor for a NYC daily. He often spars with his boss (Robert Duvall) and his co-editor (Glenn Close). One day, the newspaper totally misses an important news story, unlike the other dailies. Henry is not going to let that happen again. He starts to investigate a story angle of a recent murder with certainty that he has it right. Unhappily, the paper is close to being printed, his wife is demanding his presence at a dinner with his parents, and the co-editor is fighting him tooth and nail about his hunch. Where are Henry's priorities? This is a nice look at the behind the scenes milieu of a daily newspaper. The big scoop is very important and true newspaper people are unwilling to let anyone stand in their ways to get it. Or, so it seems. Keaton is great as the man who loves his wife and loves his work and has to make impossible choices. Tomei is irrepressively sunny and charming and the wonderful cast of Duvall, Close, Randy Quaid, Jason Alexander, and others make for a first rate film. The New York City setting will always be popular and the costumes are nice. Then, too, the script is bright and sure in its knowledge of the newspaper biz. If you are curled up in your seat on a quiet evening at home, pop in the Paper and stir things up. Everyone loves to see reporters and editors try to outdo one another, at work and at life. "},{"Title":"One of the better films of the 90s","Date":"25 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an extremely enjoyable film to watch. The plot takes place over 24 hours and the pacing is fast. Memorable performances by the underrated Michael Keaton showcasing his superb sense of comedic timing and Marisa Tomei giving one of her best comedic performances as well. Glenn Close gives a nuanced performance as an editor from hell who really does have a heart underneath the tough bitch exterior. Robert Duval turning in another top notch performance as a gruff, no nonsense Newspaper Editor In Chief who's trying to run a newspaper while dealing with health issues and personal family matters. Randy Quaid in a smaller part creates yet another quirky, off beat character as a reporter who's seen it all and done it all and is just this side of paranoia. Sports and movies buffs should keep and eye out for a cameo by broadcast personality Bob Costas standing at a urinal. Jason Robards gives one of his last performances in a brief role displaying all his acting subtleties in moments portraying a well healed, powerful newspaper publisher.This is one of those movies that you will reach for in your video library over and over again when it's a Saturday afternoon and you're in the house and your surfing the net or re-arranging the family room and you want something interesting and entertaining and sure to entertain on the TV.Really an excellent well written, well paced comedy with great performances, strong conflicts, plenty of tension with a neatly wrapped up storyline.If nothing else, watch it for the memorable slugfest scene between Glenn Close & Michael Keaton. Now when's the last time you saw a really good fist fight scene between a man and a woman?  "},{"Title":"1 dull December night","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you may of heard of, but never really thought to yourself oh, i would love to see that!.  One dull December night when nothing else is on, the TV announcer comes on and introduces 'The Paper'...so i think to myself, why not?Why not indeed, as i found 'The Paper' to be one of those magical films that fills you with warmth and generally lights up your day. As with most of my favourite films, i held no expectations for this movie, leading to an increased sense of enjoyment on watching the film.The performances are all top-notch, with Michael Keaton giving his best ever.If you can't find any decent current releases down at your local video shop...look around for 'The Paper'. "},{"Title":"Go See","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Simply a mainstream movie that has got it all right -- story, pacing, actors, sound track, credibility, suspense.  And having worked as a journalist, I can vouch for its authenticity -- newspaper journalism really is like that (minus being happily married to Marisa Tomei).This movie would have deserved a bit more lime light and box office success than it got;  having seen Jerry Maguire yesterday, I was reconciled that there are movies which can be entertaining and commercial without insulting the average viewer's intelligence. "}{"Title":"What's the time","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  On top it is a soft comedy about the workings of a news paper.It has the funny scenes as the controvesial story being chased is eating up the chasers. Are they guilty. Are they innocent. Does it matter. The characters are all fantastic with Micheal Keaton pulling off one of his best performances as the adrenaline filled Henry Hackett. But below all this, below the great acting and the soft comedy there is something else. Something serious. If you look properly then you will see it is about people who suffer from stress and how they deal with it. It shows us the destined destruction of those who live with it constantly.  "},{"Title":"Ensemble Cast; pretty good.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ron Howard gets good work out of his ensemble cast. Michael Keaton's frenetic energy sets the pace in this film, oddly enough set in New York, rather than Chicago like most newspaper films. Kudos to Glenn Close, Robert Duvall, Marissa Tomei, et al. A solid film.  "},{"Title":"Richly textured, nuanced, fun ensemble piece; a must-see","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" EXCELLENT movie, and a rarity (perhaps even more so when released than currently) in that it is a real ensemble movie, with all cast members, even the less prominent ones, having meat to their characters and rich scenes. And, what a cast! Besides the obviously fabulous leading players (Keaton, Tomei, Duvall, Close, Quaid), we have Lynne Thigpen, Catherine O'Hara, Jasons Robards and Alexander, Spalding Gray, Jill Hennessy, Clint Howard (among other Howards, but nepotism is fine when the work is good), Amelia Campbell, and many other good character actors who give their all to even tiny roles.As others have pointed out, this is one to enjoy re-viewing from time to time. Hadn't watched it in awhile, but thought of it, with the tragic confirmation today of Spalding Gray's death by suicidal drowning. He is perfect in his portrayal of the intelligent, smug, snobbish, then righteously indignant editor. So much nuance in a small part that would have been a one-dimensional figure of ridicule in most modern day, big-budget movies. The other sadly deceased cast member, gone much too young, is Lynne Thigpen, who was one hugely talented, versatile, accomplished and ridiculously under-appreciated actress (hell of a singer, too). As usual, she is just so real, and eminently watchable as the stressed, pressured secretary.Other various gems gracing THE PAPER (just randomly off the top of my head) include the sharp, true parodies of frenetic television news channels, and the resentful attitude of the print journalists who actually do the hard digging; the scene between Catherine O'Hara and Marisa Tomei--comic gold, with painful truth in it; the panicked, woozy-hallucinogenic scene with Keaton greeting and leaving his wife and parents at the restaurant; the palpable sense of heat and pressure building to the climax of the movie; the dramatic, violent, yet also screwball climax, with Glenn in the printing area; just the basic good-hearted, menschlich aspects of the characters, flawed as they are. THEN, there is of course, Randy Newman's glorious score--just perfect.Sure enough, one can pick at aspects of the plot, and the way various threads end up weaving together towards the dramatic dénouement and resolution. Sure, it's unlikely that things would work out quite so cleverly in real life, but this is a MOVIE, and when crafted and performed this well, it's worth exercising a little willing suspension of disbelief. It's also entertaining as hell. And the ending is not all Hollywood-happy-triumphDuvall's character takes what pleasure he can from watching from a distance the daughter who has disowned him, and knowing she must at least respect the work he and his staff have done to absolve the innocent young suspects. Perhaps they'll reconcile before the cancer kills him, but likely not--we're left with a potent mix of more doubt than hope. Keaton and Tomei have survived, and have a healthy newborn, but are still in their difficult financial situation, and have sacrificed the chance at a more comfortable and prestigious lifestyle. Her conflict of mothering vs. the work she loves and misses is unresolved. And another hot day is beginning, with a whole new round of the never-ending stress of slogging through the work of a print journalist, knowing they're a breed of dinosaurs who may well soon be extinct. Hell of a movie. "},{"Title":"Shame on this vile and phony drivel","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Superficially just another movie, a dramatically structured story with a whole host of familiar tropes and cliché's about the newspaper business. If you find the actors, especially Michael Keaton, who carries the picture, sympathetic in that quasi sexual way audiences co-exist with stars images, then you can get from the beginning to the end involved and amused. Any careful and serious examination below the surface would reveal a awful and wretched exploitation of the business of reporting news as a glamorous and contemporary front for the same old stupid story that Hollywood has been selling since Edison first passed celluloid through a camera. In one particular instance, the total lack of journalistic ethics, the phrase 'poisonous piece of crap', would not be out of line. Luckily most people won't spot the professional malfeasance equivalent to Ronald Reagan having his legs amputated by a sadistic doctor in Kings Row. All they will see is the star driven by professional ideals and pulled by his personal commitment to his wife and trying to do keep from being pulled apart by both of these opposite pulling forces. Unlike a film which aspires to some integrity - e.g. 'art', The Paper piles on more crap- financial crisis at Keaton's paper, his wife is pregnant - the usual. The plot hinges on some young black boys who are unjustly accused of murder. There is some evidence that the police know that they didn't do it even though the boys were arrested. Marching alongside this plot is the fact that poor Keaton is being offered a high paying virtually sinecure position at the august if stodgy New York Times which would give him a secure financial feature and respectable and predictable hours to care for his family. The Times, however, has proof that the boys didn't do it, which Keaton, ostensibly going to a purely pro forma job interview, uses to steal the information. You see he prefers the rough and tumble, or more properly, the phony Hollywood idea of big city tabloid rough and tumble, of his sleazy but lively fun little garbage paper. Oh yeah, he's doing it so the boys, who would be released the next day anyway, but whose 'cause' is also piled on to make Keaton a social concerned humanist and not appear to be the drunken opportunist his character was supposedly based on (Mike McAlary). As usual the real world of journalism is subsumed into a by the numbers walk through plot 37a with all of the concocted sauces to give this dead meat some taste. One of the features of the marketing of The Paper was its supposed 'authenticity' guaranteed by enlisting hack screenwriter David Koepp's journalist brother Stephen, whose eternal shame this vile dreck will will testify to. I mean, the rest of these Hollywood whores can go on to either glory or more shame, but Stephen Koepp, by promoting and even glorifying the legitimacy of unethical behavior, will be marked as surely as Cain was. This is what happens when film industry ethics is superimposed over very real journalism ETHICS. "},{"Title":"My god, what a piece of tripe","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes a movie comes along which is so bad, that seeing it just discredits the whole art.  Desperate Measures was one of these movies, but that is a different topic for a different time.  But The Paper was certainly close.  Never has a movie stuck out in my mind of having such a poorly written screenplay and waste of acting that Ron Howard has perpetrated in so many of his movies (My god I rooted for the capsule to blow up in Apollo 13 to give the movie some real drama).  This movie was about a paper covering a story proving 2 young black children being blamed for a crime they didn't commit and the paper that covered the story. The movie boringly portrayed the inner-workings of the coverage of the story(in a newspaper environment) along with sub-plots that were just insulting in their stupidity. If you would like to see a movie with fake drama and an awful plot which doesn't draw you to the characters, and would like to waste your time, I would suggest this movie.  But then again, I would recommend this after sitting through Pauly Shore and Carrot Top trying to convey the meaning of life for a sea slug.  It is a shame that an actor who was the best Batman, didn't stick with the series and went along to make such classics as this, Multiplicity and Jack Frost.  No wonder he hasn't done a movie in 3 years.  This movie also brought down the careers of Glenn Close and Marisa Tomei in the process.  It is fortunate that a director that lacks so much talent is out there so that we can better appreciate the works of Stanley Kubrick, and has paved the way for great young directors like M. Night Shyamalan and Sam Mendes (American Beauty) to show their Talent.  To quote the Comic Book Guy from the Simpsons, Worst Movie Ever. "},{"Title":"The Paper is a welcome film that will supply a few laughs.","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Paper is a movie about a gritty every man's tabloid that goes for the sensational story and the graphic pictures. It's an entertaining film that provides many welcome laughs.The patter is quick , but if you pay attention you'll follow along and be very entertained. Glenn Close, Robert Duval, Michael Keaton, Marisa Tomei, and Randy Quaid all give fantastic performances. If you have a very catty sense of humor, this movie will tickle your funny bone. I would recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Cafeine shot during overhours!","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  More than a year ago I followed a film course with this guy who named 'The Paper' one us his favorites. He watch a lot of movies so his opinion was worth something. Now I have seen the movie, and I can understand what his talking about.  'The Paper' is fast and pointy. It is like a cafeine shot during overhours. I think this is one movie which gets better and better everytime you watch it. This is because it is packed with strong dialog, strong actors and a lot of sidelines.  The reason a rated this movie a 7, and not a 8 or 9, is because it is overall to quick for me. It's sometimes like Howard (the director) tried to force the sidelines to come toghether. The movie also doesn't have enough patience if you ask me. It doesn't take the time to reflect on things, which wouldn't misstand. "},{"Title":"Exciting if preposterous","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Too many plot holes and departures from reality to count, and hardly Ron Howard's best. But the rapid-fire pace may keep you on the edge of your seat as the metro editor for a NY Post-type newspaper races well past deadline to get The Big Story. Some very funny moments, like the reporter who buys his own chair then promptly has it stolen. And a knockdown, dragout fight between editors Michael Keaton and Glen Close. There also are some very poignant moments, like Keaton's sinking realization of just how cheap newspapers are. And veteran editor-in-chief Robert Duval who won't give up the life even after he finds out he is dying of cancer. Keaton grates after awhile as the saintly metro editor. Close tries hard as a stereotyped bitch. Randy Quaid is intermittently amusing as a shrewd but disorganized reporter. The ending is contrived as hell. But in the end it's all in fun. It may remind some of HIS GIRL FRIDAY. Worth a look, but not a masterpiece by any means. It also looks a tad dated in 2003.  "},{"Title":"Great Performances; Exciting Story","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'd have to say that this is a pretty exciting movie. Great acting by Micheal Keaton, Marisa Tomei and Lynne Thigpen. It's a favorite in newsrooms everywhere, and I know that while this isn't a movie for everyone, it's an exciting, well-told story of a day at a newspaper. "},{"Title":"an entertaining look at the stresses facing modern newspapers","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Paper is an engaging and entertaining movie with a serious message that the financial stresses on modern news outlets can cause them to act in less than journalistically ethical ways. Michael Keaton, as the editor of a major NYC tabloid, comes to realize that printing an untruth could ruin innocent lives. This pits him against the newspaper's managing editor (Glenn Close) who is far more concerned with the cost involved in changing the story than with her newspaper's integrity. Marisa Tomei is exciting in her supporting role as Keaton's not-silently suffering wife. The rest of the cast is also superb. I do wonder, however, why the scriptwriters and Ron Howard included some of the sub-plots. They add little to the film's cohesiveness and divert attention from the main story.  "}{"Title":"The closest thing","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Paper is one of perhaps only three, perhaps four, films that manages to semi-accurately depict the journalist lifestyle. The Paper captures the clausterphobic feel of a newsroom, the harsh sense of humor common among the news staff, the hours involved in doing the job right and most importantly the differences in reporters opinions and personalities. This film captures almost perfectly the reaction a true newshound would have to a potentially BIG story. The cast, Keaton and Tomei in particular, take what most outsiders would see as weird and paranoid people, and make them into characters we want to watch. In reality, journalism and reporting is normally very boring to none journalists. "},{"Title":"Journalists will recognize themselves","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you've ever worked in a newspaper of any size, you'll recognize the characters here. My favorite minor character is the guy who is trying to get reimbursed for a $600 chair, and he doesn't care about the life-and-death issues being debated around him.The movie is darn near perfect in every respect. Did this teach me a lot about the human condition? Well, maybe not. But there's not a two-dimensional character in the lot of them, and despite the fast pace, we never get the feeling that any of them are just filling up the camera's frame.The Paper makes my personal list of underrated movies.  "},{"Title":"A comedic, adrenaline rush!","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a fun and funny movie this was!  It was very realistic, witty, and gripping. *POSSIBLE SPOILER* Oh, and it ended nicely.  A rarity in today's movies.  I guess Ron Howard knows that people don't always come to see movies to cry at the end.  Everyone (right down to the one-liner characters) acted incredibly in this film, even though the highlights were the performances by Keaton, Close, Tomei, and Duvall.  Definitely worth a purchase, as you will watch more than once. "},{"Title":"As close real life as you can get it.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Paper is about the inner workings of life on a fictional newspaper. The film make it real when the newspaper have stories to meet with the deadlines and change the story again the last minute. I never work in a newspaper plant, but it the closest thing I seen in the movies involving my profession of the graphic arts. Definite must see movie.  "},{"Title":"An exciting film","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Since I work for a daily newspaper I can tell you things don't get quite this exciting...then again, we're a 22,000 circulation paper in rural Pennsylvania. One of this film's strongest aspects is how it portrays the field of journalism and the newspaper business as an exciting field to be in. The film also uses realistic newspaper slang (inches, desk) to accent the realism. However, some viewers may find these confusing if they are not familiar with the newspaper industry. One thing the film could have focused more on is the contact budget cutting and advertising battles fought in daily papers. Glenn Close is very good. "},{"Title":"almost a docu-drama","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Paper is certainly a screenplay that Ron Howard spent more time analyzing and making a shot list of.  There are times when things at The New York Sun get so hectic that the camera doesn't know where to go, and that's probably what the true Opie of Hollywood was thinking.  CONFUSE THE CAMERA.  Incorporate it into your story.  So many directors forget this these days.  The camera IS a part of the story, and, if anything, the attention to that absoloute truth is what made me enjoy this movie.  Michael Keaton is great.  He does a great job at playing off his character model, which is certainly Robert Duvall's Frank Hackett from Network.  The other performances are good as well, and it's a nice contemporary treatment to Howard Hawks' His Girl Friday.  This film will certainly open up viewers to classic screen comedies as it is certainly bent on the social satire of Frank Capra.  Anyway, a fair movie to see.   "},{"Title":"A pleasure after x Front Pages","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's long ago that I last saw such a brilliant satire! There are some unnecessary side-plots, but on the whole, the story concentrates on the main plot-line the murders in the car. And it's told in such a fine way that it causes more suspense than many thrillers! Apart from that, we have three actors at their best Michael Keaton, Glenn Close and Marisa Tomei. They really enjoy the fantastic screenplay and make the gags even more effective than they would be on the paper. The screenplay is so well-written that the German translation is still funny. How great must the original be!Director Ron Howard is to be found in nearly every genre and he has some better and some worse works each. With him, I think, it only depends on the screenplay how much he is inspired. In this case, he would have had to be a very bad director to ruin the movie. He didn't. On the contrary! Many of the dramatic scenes are the director's contribution.After seeing the eleventh version of &#132;The Front Page`, which is highly antiquated in the meantime, it was a pleasure to see a modern comedy about journalism. And it's interesting to compare. Many elements are similar, but in &#132;The Paper` for instance the personal note of a journalist is not as important any more as it was in &#132;The Front Page`.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Stop The Presses!!!","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE PAPER (1994) *** Michael Keaton, Glenn Close, Marisa Tomei, Robert Duvall, Randy Quaid, Jason Alexander, Jason Robards, Spaulding Gray, Lynne Thigpen, Jack Kehoe, Clint Howard (Cameos William Kunstler, Bob Costas). Ron Howard's interesting character study in the day in the life of the fictional New York Sun news tabloid with hero Henry Hackett (Keaton at his scrappy, wise-guy best) it metropolitan editor juggling his pregnant journalist wife (Tomei), headstrong money-minded bitch editor (Close) and a deadline about a crime that may implicate innocent teens in a homicide. Fast-paced and quick -witted dialogue keeps the momentum shy of a fever pitch and will have you rooting for Keaton.  Stop The Presses!!! "},{"Title":"why was this movie made?","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  talk about your stinkers.. this one sure was.. even with Michael Keaton, Glenn Close , and Robert Duval ..it was Stupid !!! it made NO sense what so ever , i watched the whole thing as was totally lost.. it was so dumb.. why did Michael even make this one.. and how could Glenn and Robert stoop so low to star in such drivel??? i watched it because Michael was in it . and after i watched it , im sorry that i even rented it in the first place.. what a waste of good money... to me these stars made no difference at all.. it was Lousy !! "},{"Title":"This was a very well acted movie ( no real spoilers - but better to be safe and click it than sorry later)","Date":"4 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I read that THE PAPER is not like real life Newpapers - and I for one am glad, as I watch Movies to get away from the everyday life.It was nice to see Micheal Keaton again in a good script - he did a great acting in the movie and also Marisa Tormei.(from My Cousin Vinny - and Parker Kane) The characters acting were top-notch and the scrip easy to fall into. The movie is based around characters trouble in the Newspaper business that when times are tough to do the right thing - do you do it? or take a back seat.Ron Howard made a great movie - which is nice to go back to and watch over and over.If you like Micheal Keaton at his best than watch this movie. I give this move at least an 8 - may be even a 9. "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought this was a well done movie had a nice real gritty feel to it. For not knowing a lot about the newspaper business, it opened my eyes up as to what they may go through a daily grind. The storyline is about getting the story right and checking your sources and getting the facts straight. Touched nicely on morals of integrity, honesty , being a workaholic and of course a corporation making money! Felt a nice antagonistic chemistry between Glen Close and Michael Keatons characters. Robert Duvall played a very good down to earth editor who has to be referee between the two. And Randy Quaid and Jason Alexander offered nice comic relief to film. I also think Ron Howard was really beginning to hit his stride with this movie, it had a nice flow to it. "},{"Title":"The Best!","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think this has to be one of the best, if not THE best film I've seen! Definitely in my top 3 anyway! Eclipses other 'at work' files by absolute miles. If you've not seen it buy, rent or steal a copy today. "},{"Title":"Good actors group together for a story that does not properly articulate itself.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ron Howard has developed himself into one of the finest young directors in the business today. He has an uncanny knack of telling interesting stories that contain ample helpings of comedy and drama, and always seem to be quite credible. I will admit that I was most excited about seeing his journalism piece,entitled The Paper, especially after hearing who he got lined up to star in the picture Michael Keaton, Glenn Close, Marisa Tomei, Robert Duvall, and Randy Quaid. However, I cannot deny that I turned out being a tad disappointed. Keaton stars as a tough journalist working at a tabloid newspaper, fighting between his job and his personal life with wife Tomei, who just happens to be expecting. Close plays the chief editor at the paper, a tough executive who demands things on time. Duvall is the senior editor at the office who has a crappy personal life and a prostate problem (How ingenious!). The film circles around a day in the life of these involved characters, and eventually what happens when they face a deadline and have to decide what news is fit to print and what is morally right to report. I didn't get too lost through this film, but I was bothered about how the issues in the plot are never properly articulated. I couldn't grasp why their issues were so cutting and affecting to the New York population. I appreciated the way that Ron Howard portrayed the bustling atmosphere behind the scenes of journalism, but why couldn't he catch his breath and particularly indicate what it was that we should be looking for? Outside of Keaton's homelife, the other's lives seem to be just passing fancies, excerpts that seem important but end too quickly before they can take on any meaning. A fine cast is used fairly well, and a certain amount of realism is depicted, but this is all in all supposed to be a movie, and not necessarily a docudrama. A few Hollywood cliches might even have worked at some point. At least we could identify them in front of our faces. Rating Two stars and a half. "},{"Title":"Misses the mark","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Movie about a New York city tabloid misses the true story entirely. A story newspaper about two young Black men framed for the murder of some rich white guys. The hero is a news editor who doesn't want to run the bogus story because it will cause race riots.  He makes great personal sacrifices for this, and in the end the story they get is just as much of a scoop anyway, so everyone is happy. The reality is the mainstream media who really want to be honest aren't made into heroes they're broke. "},{"Title":"Exciting...but","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  THE PAPER was very exciting at sometimes, and funny, yet the movie was very slow.  I personally feel as though it wasn't Ron Howard's best work. The movie is funny, fast, entertaining, and depressing...I thought. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The Paper","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ron Howard's attempt at a Paddy Chayefsky-like satire on the edgy world of newspaper reporting lacks polish and the edge necessary to show a true account of a 24hour day on a NY newspaper. The performances are passable, with brief cameos from Robards and Alexander. Randy Newman does add some flavor with his usual lovely score.  "}]