[{"Title":"Entertaining feel-good comedy","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"28 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Very conservative people might not like the plot of this film (kid tries to get his widowed dad and an ex-hooker to fall in love with each other), but actually everything is quite harmless and fun.The story gets sometimes a bit silly (especially when the boy takes Melanie Griffith to school as part of his science project), but the acting and the comedy is good. There was always a smile on my lips as I watched the misunderstandings between Harris and Griffith, when the dad believes that she is a math tutor and the hooker believes he knows her true job.Ed Harris does a good job as the shy father, and Melanie Griffith is believable as the golden hearted hooker. But it's the kid (Michael Patrick Carter) the one who steals the show, with his winning smile and his mixture of innocence and curiosity. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"29 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm sick of reading bad reviews of this movie. This is such a funny, heartwarming and endearing film. One look at the premise and many people would think it's hard to make the movie work that way but it does. This was my favorite movie of 1994 and it works on so many levels. The interaction between the actors is fantastic. Even though it is more a light-hearted comedy the teenaged stars are given a realistic treatment throughout the film which is something rarely see in film. Michael Patrick Carter, Melanie Griffith and Ed Harris are all stellar. This movie is filled with wonderful enduring scenes and is truly a delight. "},{"Title":"some things we milk for all that they're worth","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw Milk Money when I was eleven; much of what happens in the movie is the sort of stuff that would make any eleven-year-old boy think Whoa...cool! Looking back on it, I still think that it was pretty funny, but was it the most mature movie? No, and it doesn't pretend to be. I read somewhere that this movie was sexist; I wouldn't know one way or the other. All that I interpreted was that the movie was a nice, horny excuse to have fun. Richard Benjamin has proved himself to be quite capable as a director, and this adds to that.I know, the prostitute-with-a-heart-of-gold context is a cliché, but this is a comedy, so it passes. And believe you me, this V (Melanie Griffith) is definitely a V for vendetta! Also starring Ed Harris, Malcolm McDowell, Casey Siemaszko, and a very young Anne Heche. Really entertaining, especially the report on the female reproductive system. "},{"Title":"In some cases better then...","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In some cases I'd say this is better then Pretty Woman. I say some with weight because Pretty Woman is a classic. But Milk Money fills that hole you had watching pretty woman. Ed Harris's character is sincere and attentive which matches Melanie's softness (which at the best of times can spoil her on screen performances) perfectly. It's a classic boy meets girl movie with that dash of damsel in distress but is now hardened and tough due to life being so rough and who now finally meets a man who breaks through it all and understands and loves her for who she is - as far as romantic comedies go- it was better then I thought it would be and even gets the heart strings welling when Ed Harris tells her this could hurt...The story itself can be at times almost childish, but in the end that's part of it's charm. "},{"Title":"Curdled!","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" 'Milk Money' gets its title from the idea that a group of prepubescent boys pool together their money to pay a hooker for a peek at her breasts. If this sounds like a smutty and degrading idea, then it pains me remind you that this is a family picture.First, let's start with that basic idea. In the days of 537 cable channels as well as the internet as well as old reliable &#x96; dad's porn stash - why would a group of prepubescent boys want to waste their time looking for a hooker. Because they are all dimwits and because the movie needs an idea from a better movie to reside over it's languid plot. The better movie being Pretty Woman which somehow managed to sidestep every cliché and empty-headed idea that this movie has.The hooker, named V (Melanie Griffith) has a heart of gold. Why a heart of gold? Because it would explain why she doesn't seem to worry about social diseases or AIDS, it explains one of the reasons that she is so willing to leave the trade, it allows for the fact that she never has to explain how she got on the streets in the first place and it makes her a suitable mate for the kid's widowed father &#x96; that's why! As if trying to weld those ideas together isn't bad enough then we have to contend with V's evasion from the Mafia who think V stole money from them. Then we get the father (Ed Harris) who is so hapless and stupid as to not notice that his kid is hiding a hooker in his treehouse and when he finally meets her is the last to figure out what her profession is. Then we have to throw in a subplot alluding to the fact that he wants to save some wetlands from being turned into a parking lot leading to one of those scenes where he is chained to a his car to keep the bulldozer from wrecking the place 'Milk Money' can't exist as a tease because there is a kid in the way. We know that since it's a family picture that the presence of a prostitute means that the movie will exclude any of the expected 'exposure'. So instead it has to throw in all these hackneyed cutesy clichés in order to attract and audience whose attention span is as long as your hand.Rating * (of four) "},{"Title":"Still sorta gets me (but don't tell anyone)","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I've loved this movie ever since I was a kid, and after about a dozen viewings (damn, I've been having too much time) there's one question that still bothers me who's this movie aimed at? On the surface it definitely looks like a family movie. You have your Disney-like music under almost every scene, you have your tired, clichéd story about kids wanting to make sugary sweet adults fall in love, you have your character that gets his heart cut out wait what? You have your hapless but likable kids who pull all kinds of school shenanigans, you have...Malcolm McDowall as a crazed pimp who pulls out his gun at a school dance? This movie just bounces all over the place, but it's fascinating rather than bothersome. Furthermore, even after so many times this is still a pretty effective little tearjerker. You know this stuff is probably going to end well (with someone getting his heart cut out?), but getting there is quite touching. You know she'll stay in the end, but still, don't leave. Ed Harris and Melanie Griffith also have near-perfect chemistry, it always helps if the protagonists of your romantic comedy look like they actually want to be there. Milk Money has its shortcomings because it's essentially an off-brand Pretty Woman, but it's a childhood memory that I kinda cherish to this day. "},{"Title":"Who exactly is the audience for this mess?","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Young Frank Wheeler (Michael Patrick Carter) and his two friends have the brilliant idea to pool their milk money and head to the closest city to flag down a woman to show them her boobs. This brilliant notion allows them to cross paths with V, a prostitute played by Melanie Griffith, who ends up following them back to their small town on the run from her pimp. There Frank's mild-mannered single dad Ed Harris falls for V, not realizing her background.I am really hard-pressed to figure out who the audience for this film is. It is entirely too smutty for a family film and no where near smutty enough for the adults that may find this theme appealing. Director (and former actor) Richard Benjamin continues to be a director of limited merit. It is absurd that in this day and age kids like Frank and his friends could not see bare boobs by sneaking into a movie theater or looking in art books or Playboy, but would resort to traveling to the Big City and being slapped by offended women who they approach in their naive and guileless way with their sordid offer. And am I the only one tired of the Big City being depicted as a morass of immorality while the Small Town gets idealized into some romantic bubble of innocence? How innocent can it be with kids like Frank running loose (not to mention the one kid's dad who knows V from past experience)? Harris is adequate as Frank's clueless dad, but how disheartening that in a few years time Melanie Griffith went from her Oscar-nominated peak in Working Girl to this dismal development. Griffith looks tired and blowsy as V. She is also reduced to playing one nonsense scene (which truly makes no sense at all) wherein she shows up at Frank's school in a tight outfit so he can give an anatomy demonstration in class. The scene comes out of no where narratively, is not funny at all, and since the film has no nudity it serves no titillation purposes. One is just incredibly embarrassed for all involved.Naturally, all of this ends with a madcap, badly done car chase with the kids frantically driving V to safety from associated villains, because what cheesy film does not have a car chase for no good reason. Similarly, to say the happy ending is beyond a stretch would be pointless. "},{"Title":"Three kids and a hooker","Date":"1 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Frank's father Tom Wheeler (Ed Harris) doesn't like to talk about his dead mother. He is struggling to understand girls. With his two friends, they decide to go to the city and pay to see a naked woman. The boys get robbed in a parking lot only to be rescued by V (Melanie Griffith). She happens to be a hooker and she flashes them her boobs. Cash (Casey Siemaszko) is her pimp and Waltzer (Malcolm McDowell) is his boss. The boys get their bikes stolen and V drives them home. Her car breaks down and Frank tells his father that she's a math tutor. He's a school teacher trying to save a tiny neighborhood wetland. She ends up living in Frank's treehouse and Frank wants her to marry his father. Cash stole money from Waltzer and is killed but only after telling him that V has the money.It's a strange thing to make a comedy about young kids and a hooker. It's not a kids movie but it's way too light weight to be anything else. The kids seem way too young to be so deep into sex education. A hooker in the suburb is an odd proposition already but director Richard Benjamin keeps trying to make this into a family movie ... with a lot of talk about sex. At some point, one would expect Melanie Griffith to button up her blouse at least. The problem is all the sex material is connected directly with little kids and any laughs from that are awkward at best. "},{"Title":"Melanie Griffith's tribute to Jane Fonda?","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I am always interested to see what actors can and will do in their work.  I got such a strong Klute vibe from Ms. Griffith in the beginning of this movie.  And it was nice to see Ed Harris just be Dad.  The story itself is one of those adult fantasies that utilizes the kid mystique.  Of course the-Hooker-and-the-Dad plays out an adult fantasy of its own.  It turned out not to be a movie i would share with kids, in spite of its rating.  It's a yeah, sure movie, white bread with way too much jam.  BUT, i'm still glad i saw the work of the six pros who make it a viable (okay enjoyable--i enjoyed it)i'm-too-tired-tonight-to-move home entertainment.  Yes, Virginia, there is a Hollywood.      "},{"Title":"Milk Money is spoiled milk out of date, rotten and unwatchable. Just toss it out! This kid's movie is too creepy!","Date":"4 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film was trying too hard to be like the 1990's romantic comedy film, 'Pretty Woman', with its hooker with the heart of gold premise. It had some really awful delivery. This so called family movie was just uncomfortable to watch with your mom, dad, sibling, and grandparents. I felt dirty for just watching this film with them in the 1990s. Amazingly enough for the time, this script sold for over $1 million (which was at the time a record for a first-time screenwriter for John Mattson). Directed by Richard Benjamin, the movie partake in the lowest of lows stories, by having bunch of prepubescent boys lead by Frank Wheeler (Michael Patrick Carter) wanting to see a prostitute, V AKA Eve (Melanie Griffith) naked. Only for them, to later, want to convince V to date Frank's father, Tom (Ed Harris). Yes, that is the sleazy premise of this romantic comedy film! What an awkward watch! Not only, was the movie, very disturbing to watch, as a kid, but it wasn't funny at all. The jokes were a little too dark, or made little to no sense. Lots of inappropriate pedophile overtones jokes. Lots of jokes about young boys & girls, wanting to grow up, to be pimp & hookers. Yes, that's a great message for children. It was too disgustingly than funny. Also, the movie had some very painful badly written dialogue, delivered by some really poor acting. For me, this particularly comes from Melanie Griffith, who personally, for me, doesn't show, much range. I also never found her to be, really attractive, due to the effects of her drug and alcohol abuse, during the early and mid-1980s. Even in the early 1990s, you can tell, by her limited facial movements, that she got some really bad plastic surgery as well. She also a bit annoying with her soft nearly squeaky voice. Plus, I don't like how this movie didn't do any research in V's profession. I hate, how the film is saying that all prostitutes are working for the mob. A lot of them, are working for themselves, nor are they, sex slaves. Some of them, just do it, for kicks. I really don't like that clichés that every hooker is a trouble person. If anything save the movie for me; it's Ed Harris's performance. He was great as the clueless father. It's rare to see him, in a funny role. Ed Harris really needs to be, in more comedies. However, his character was bit, underdeveloped. The whole, saving the wetlands sub-plot really needed to be fresh out, more. It comes and disappears, as soon as that part is mention. Another character, in the film that was fun to see here is Waltzer (Malcolm McDowell). I know, a lot of people didn't like McDowell's Englishman accent performance here, but I found his short scenes to be one of the film highlights. He really seem somewhat wasted, by being limited. I wish, they just eliminated the Cash character (Casey Siemaszko) and gave it to Waltzer. He was fun as the villain for V and the children to face. The kid actors was also alright, despite their character not acting their age level. Like really, how can they be that clueless about sex education? It's weirder when the subplot about Frank failing Sex Ed is suddenly dropped once he brings V to his class room for show and tell. How on earth, did they get away with doing that? Why would V, even agree to something like that, if she's in hiding from the mob. Wouldn't she be arrest for trespassing on school grounds, label as a registered sex offender, or by now, murder by the mob that she's trying to run away? This film doesn't make any sense, because of things like that. I hate these stupid annoying children getting away with very unrealistic scheme clichés. If I did that, at his age, during school hours, I would find myself in juvenile prison for sure. Overall While, this PG-13 movie has a lot of sexual innuendos, talks about private body parts, and others sexual things. The movie doesn't have any nudity. It's not like, I wanted to see Melanie Griffith naked, anyways. Overall I don't mind, films for children trying to understand, their bodies and sex. However, this isn't the film for them. It's not mature enough to teach kids, nor funny enough to pass as a romantic comedy. I can't recommended watching it at all. "}{"Title":"Just another version of Pretty Woman","Date":"14 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I guess to simply describe this movie would be to call it a Pretty Woman clone. Basically a guy meets a prostitute, falls in love with her, and in the end she gives up her job for him. The problem is that this movie is sort of lost between whether it is an adult comedy or one directed at young teens. Basically the main character in this film is a young teen who lost his mother and his father is caught up with this loss.The movie is about a group of kids going through that time when they begin to discover women and women begin to discover them. They are studying sex education at school, and instead of relying upon the biology textbooks, they decide to scrape together $100 and go to the city to see a naked woman. The woman they find ,V, is a prostitute but really wants to get out of it, and ends up helping the kids out by taking them home. She gets stuck in the suburbs, meets and falls in loves with the kids' father and decides she wants to stay, but unfortunately her past is always haunting her.This movie is really a lower grade version of Pretty Woman. Okay, Pretty Woman was way over-rated, and in the end really did not impress me that much. This movie didn't really promise anything, and I believe that it was actually a straight to video release (at least in Australia), which goes to show that in the end, it was not really that worth getting onto the screen. Still, it was better than some of the garbage that gets up there, and in fact the movie held itself together, and had the morale ending stating that lying never gets you anywhere, but she also landed up keeping a lot of dirty money, so if there is supposed to be a morale there, it is lost because in the end that it approves of other immoral stuff. "},{"Title":"A stinker, but it has its moments","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film would make a horrible rental, but if you catch it on TV late at night, watch it. If only for the bizarre plot and entertaining young cast. Anyways, a kid and his buddies pay a prostitute (Melanie Griffith) money to see her breasts (clever!). One thing leads to another, and she ends up hiding out in said kid's tree house, avoiding her cruel and violent pimp. Ed Harris plays the kid's lonely single father, and soon he falls for Melanie. But of course, he has no idea she turns tricks to pay her rent. The chemistry between Griffith and Harris is awful, but the young cast of kids provide a couple of laughs. Why Ed Harris, one of the most respected actors even 10 years ago, would do this film is beyond me. But again, do not rent, that would be a waste of $3. "},{"Title":"Somewhat contrived, but amusing in stretches","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  	Bad direction, a weak script and a career-low performance by Ed Harris sideline 'Milk Money', a movie which could've been excellent, but wasn't.	Onetime-respected-actor-now-reduced-to-B-movie-star Malcolm McDowell delivers a hilarious performance with help from Melanie Griffith and talented newcomer Michael Patrick Carter, but they alone do little to rescue the film.	The first half hour or so is perfectly on tune, then everything seems to change gears and 'Milk Money' is pushed from a comedy to a sappy drama with an awful dance sequence, and an ending that's even worse. To complicate matters even more, Harris is completely miscast, and future star Anne Heche is seriously underused. "},{"Title":"MILK MONEY (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Please forgive me but I fell in love with this movie even if it's not exactly the kind of movie that is hip.... Three young boys have no clue how a naked woman looks like so they save money to go to town and ask a hooker (Melanie Griffith) to show them her delicious body. One thing leads to another and V the hooker ends up staying by one of the kids (Michael Patrick Carter) who tells his dad (Ed Harris) that she's a mathteacher. And then in pure Pretty Woman-style the kid wants the hooker as his mum and tries to unite dad and the whore...and does it work? You know the answer but just a pimp (Malcolm McDowell) wants his moneygoat back... Well well, you laugh and I guess you are right as this history could have end up in something terrible but there is a freshness à la Stand By Me that makes Milk Money great and of course the performances from both Ed Harris and Melanie Griffith...just as usual Malcolm McDowell suffers from terrible overacting. "},{"Title":"Hollywood's Twisted Values - Exhibit A","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie SO typifies Hollywood.We get (1) another prostitute who is gorgeous, sweet and with a heart of gold. (2) the prostitutes are nothing but victims of the cruel and abusive male pimps; (3) kids ages 10-12 are obsessed with sex (I'm talking about how Hollwyood sees the culture); (4) there are few higher callings than being a tree-hugger, this one chaining himself to a tree to save some wetlands.On and on and on it goes in ultra-Liberal, politically-correct, morally-clueless Hollywood. Well, to be fair, the movie did have lots of charm and it's always nice to see Ed Harris actually play against type, meaning play a decent human being. Melanie Griffith never looked better, either. Too bad the story was so stupid and insulting. "},{"Title":"worst movie I had ever seen at the time","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" why anyone would give this movie anything more than a 1 rating is beyond me.It is filled to the brim with clichés, terrible acting, a bad script, and just badness. C'mon, a hooker with a heart of gold? Again?!?! I watched this with my family when I was 12, because we lived in a town with one theater that showed one movie, and only on the weekends. We would go every week, no matter what was showing. We agreed unanimously that this was the worst piece of drivel that has ever been created. We still pretty much stand by that judgment.I won't go so far as saying that this movie was created by Satan, but it has such a concentration of raw evil and bile underneath it's lily white veneer, that I wouldn't be surprised if Lucifer's hoof marks weren't all over this one.Shame on anyone who gives this movie a 3 or better. "},{"Title":"milk money is worth your money","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Milk Money, every now and then looked like it was landing in the land of sleaze. It came close but never really crossed the line. Add to that no cuss words, no nudity, and a quickie anti-smoking message. Considering the theme - a trio of boys grabbing their milk money for a quick look at a naked lady - the pic was relatively PGish. It was at times funny, at times warm and, at all times thoroughly enjoyable. The youngster was delightful, Ed Harris was quite good, but Melanie Griffith out-prosted Julia Roberts. Her portrayal of the age old prosty with a heart of gold was dead on. All in all, unless you are totally nervous about the theme, I can guarantee much enjoyment "},{"Title":"An Excellent Film","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I simply cannot believe some of the reviews of this film. Two people view it through the liberal vs conservative prism, others compare it to Pretty Woman, and one person actually thinks the money burned in the car. It is obvious none of these people actually saw the film, because they would know it is not about politics, V (Melanie Griffith) did not end up with a rich person (Like Julia Robers did in Pretty Woman.), and the money did not burn in a car.What this film is about very lonely, desperate people who are living a very sad, pathetic life, and through fate in the end found happiness. (Major Spoilers Ahead). What actually happened was after getting permission from the local Godfather Jerry The Pope (Phillip Bosco), to exit the prostitution business, V was leaving her drab apartment, and heading for places unknown, and as she was closing the door, spotted a bag with a lightening bolt, and found the money inside and because of it, was able to rescue herself, and purchase an environmental sensitive portion of land and gave it to Ed Harris, who was heartbroken over losing V and having developers ruin the wetland. As V says at the end of the film, 'The way to capture a woman is through her heart., and because of that, will stay in the town to be with Tom (Ed Harris) & help take care of Frank (Michael Patrick Carter), while owning and running the ice cream shop where she first met Frank. ps. I am very politically conservative, and hate liberal propaganda, and this film is not about that trust me. 10/10 Stars "},{"Title":"Wrong-turn girl gets a chance of living a TV-life","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Melannie finds her life as a hooker is much over-rated with a nasty pimp ripping-off his mob-associates & finding herself accused of stealing the missing money.Escaping to the suburbs she finds life as a future step-mom is just like that portrayed on TV. Helping the son of the bloke she has taken a shine to pass his school-biology presentation her past life catches-up when a former client recognises Melannie & demands her services.Unaware the stolen money is hidden in the car she is driving Melannie has no way to prove her innocence to her pimps mob-associates or rumoured mob-boss under pressure from the media leading to a life on-the-run. "},{"Title":"that is bad, very very bad","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" That quote from Milk Money above truly applies to this poor excuse for a movie; better to call it a flick, movie is too good for it.Paramount supposedly paid over $1 million for the script (there's a sucker born every minute).There is some decent talent here, but it is wasted, really wasted.The pretext for this mess is stupid, implausible, silly.It is not worth reviewing as a watchable film; needless to say, I didn't watch it all the way through.Do not go near this flick! You will embarrass yourself, like these actors embarrassed themselves making it! "}{"Title":"Fun and light-hearted","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie.  Sometimes you want to watch something that is fun and lighthearted with a happy ending.  Not every film is a great epic. People tend to be hard on films like these when writing a review because they think every film must be deep and intellectual.  This movie can be enjoyed by the whole family, has a lot of funny moments, and won't give you nightmares.  Not a waste of time if you like fun! "},{"Title":"Lots of  Comedy & Fun","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Melanie Griffith,(V) played a woman of the streets who meets up with three boys who want to see what a girl looks like in the nude. Of course, if they really wanted to do it the correct way, they could ask their dad's and possibly their mothers. However, this is a Hollywood film and it made the entire story quite funny, especially when they have a sex education class and decided to use a rather non-kosher way of presenting the facts. Ed Harris,(Tom Wheeler) plays the father to Michael Patrick Carter,(Frank Wheeler) who gets to be good friends with Melanie Griffith and introduces her to his father. This is a very entertaining film and you can find fault with this film whether you are on the left or right side in life, but comedy and laughs are good for everyone and I recommend this film for great viewing. "},{"Title":"Save Your Money and See Something Else.","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ed Harris' young son and his friends go to the city to pay a prostitute (Melanie Griffith) to take her clothes off so they can see their first naked woman in this irritating little film that never does work as a comedy then goes into a total tail-spin when it tries to go the dramatic route late. Harris is totally wasted in this film and Griffith continues to make odd career decisions. The direction feels like it was done by a high schooler and the screenplay by a junior high student. 2 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Someone wanna tell me just who this movie is aimed at?","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay so it is a story about a young kid trying to set his father up with someone because daddy has been lonely.  Mommy is gone.  So where does this boy and his band of innocents turn?  Where else, a hooker!  Horribly unbalanced, unentertaining, and downright unwatchable.  Featuring Melanie Griffith at her whiniest and most annoying yet.  Ed Harris' performance was, to put it kindly, forgettable.  Avoid this one. "},{"Title":"Griffiths best movie yet","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like this movie very much. That is because I am a sucker for a good romantic comedy.And this is a good movie. Harris and Griffith did an excellent job. I am not a big fan of Griffiths but in this movie she does an excellent job of portraying a person who has never been loved. "},{"Title":"a true stinker","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is astonishingly, unbelievably bad. There are SPOILERS following, but I would most seriously suggest that you not bother in the first place.At the beginning of Milk Money, three pre-teen boys decide to pool their piggy bank savings (hence the film's title) to go into town and make whoopee with a prostitute. Enter Melanie Griffith as V, the standard tart with a heart. She offers to show them her breasts for their stash, as this is all it will buy.Reliving most of this story is too painful to go into much detail. Suffice to say that before long V is romancing the father of one of the boys (Ed Harris), is giving motherly advice, and is supporting Dad in his environmental concerns - all while on the run from her pimp.This film is supposed to be funny, as well as romantic. But it's just appalling. Do yourself a favour and avoid it if you can. "},{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Melanie Griffith stars in this time waster as a hooker with a heart of gold Hmmm i doubt that most hookers have a heart of gold or that they look like Melanie Griffith or Julia Roberts for that matter..but anyway some local school boys end up saving their milk money to see a woman naked..of course they run into Griffith, who is being chased by a bad guy, so one of the children bring her home to their dad who is divorced and looking for love again and...zzzzzz....Oh I'm sorry i fell asleep..you will too.,, The only good scene is the one part where Griffith takes over a health class and talks a little about the birds and the bees.. on a scale of one to ten...2 "},{"Title":"An Old Fashioned Romantic Comedy","Date":"3 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" MILK MONEY is a lovely and sentimental romantic comedy about a precocious pre-teen who decides to set up his widowed father with a warm-hearted prostitute, who is on the run from some bad people. This film is a warm slice of contemporary Americana, beautifully conveying small town sensibilities and their positive and negative effects on the fictional hamlet of Middleton. The story is simple (though it does take Dad a little too long to figure out what this girl does for a living)and the environmental subplot is underdeveloped, but the movie is filled with believable characters and funny scenes, including one very funny scene where the boy uses the hooker as a visual aide for a school project on the female anatomy. Melanie Griffith shines in a tailor-made role as V,the proverbial hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold, in her most appealing performance since WORKING GIRL and Ed Harris is charming and sexy as the dad. Michael Patrick Carter is utterly charming as the boy and Malcolm McDowell and Anne Heche offer funny supporting turns as a gangster and his ditzy moll, V's best friend. An entertaining romantic comedy that's beauty lies in its simplicity. "},{"Title":"Griffith looks great","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Just seen the movie on DVD and found it amusing. Not a masterpiece but a nice way to show your kids in the age of Frank ( main child actor in this Movie) what's the world is like out there, with prostitutes that can look like Grace Kelly or your dead mother. With a lively biology lesson and with dreams to get a mother, that wants to get out of dirty business, for your father that tries to save irreplaceble environment all come true. Ed Harris en Melanie Griffith did a good job and Melanie still look 20 years younger. She could start in the business tomorrow, although she will not need to. Lets not forget Michael Patrick Carter, which is certainly talented enough to continue his career "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Whatever people say about this or any movie, you are your own best critic. This movie gets better with watching.When I first watched Milk Money, I initailly squirmed when V and Tom were talking. V is talking about sex, and Tom is talking about math.Another point people might squirm is when a mother thinks Tom and V are brother and sister, and mentions to her children them as a good example. Then Tom kisses V in a way most people think brothers and sisters should not kiss. The kids are grossed.In other areas, it is a very good movie. In a gentle, and comic way, it deals with boys interest in sex and girls. It is done with the right balance. The boys all seem to be normal boys, in spite of the fact that no one has a normal family life. Who does.For instance, one of the boys is a neat freak because of his father, who unknown to him, has real issues. Later, he decides to stop washing. It's an overreaction, but there is truth when the father blames (wrongly) Tom for turning his son into a pig. Tom says at the boy is happy. He doesn't say it, but it is implied unlike before. "}{"Title":"Just plain terrific!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very underrated film that has a plot that may not seem like it would work, but in my opinion it does. Once again Melanie Griffith and Malcolm McDowell give us great performances and the film is very heartwarming.!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!3 friends save up money to see a prostitute. They find Griffith and get what they wanted. Now that they've met her, they get tangled up in her wild and dangerous life when she has to stay with one of the boys. Her and Frank' s dad hit it off as soon as they meet and everything seems to be going great for V until Waltzer, played by the very cool Malcolm McDowell, comes looking for her to get his money. The 3 boys come to the rescue and we get a great happy ending.Exciting, great acting, good story, and soundtrack. ****1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Pretty woman meets the suburbs","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I liked the movie. There were really excellently staged scenes in the movie with the child actors and they provide a great way to keep the plot moving and giving the audience information that we might not pick up on. The kids in this movie also become more aware of the world around them than the adults, whom seem too naive to realize that Melanie Griffith is a hooker. There are also some great tongue in check moments between Griffith and Ed Harris before everything hits the fan about Griffith being a hooker. Though many may feel that there are too many plot twists involved in this movie the writer and director do an excellent job of weaving them all together in a way that makes the audience want to believe that this could happen. I like to think of this movie as Pretty Woman meets the suburbs, but I realize that some Julia Roberts fanatics may strongly disagree. "},{"Title":"Fine cast, fine story, fine messages","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To be honest, this is one of the movies I thoroughly enjoyed when I first watched it. Of course it is a simple and predictable story, but the actual transformation did it for me. The three boys are awesome. The way Melanie Griffith and Ed Harris fall in love with each other and how they find together despite unfavorable circumstances is nicely staged. Michael Patrick Carter is able to assert his character's emotional condition, his expectations and dreams, which puts this movie above the average family story, despite the hackneyed elements it may have. The happy end is indeed rather corny, but hey, the movie has a message, it is entertaining and funny. Thus you may watch this movie with your entire family. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Enjoyable","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I know people who are just as shy and ditsy as Tom Wheeler and certainly adolescents who wish for the same thing. I doubt that there are many hookers like V but she has the proverbial good heart. The son's (Frank) well meaning hopes for his dad and the situations it creates are truly funny.The sex-ed presentations is one of the funniest comedic plots ever. It also strongly point's out that a book should not be judged by it's cover. The plot is not complicated, the characters well developed and understandable and it doesn't take itself too seriously. What more can be asked of a comedy? I own it and have seen it many times and always feel really good when it ends. Outstanding Entertainment. A must see and must buy for your film library "},{"Title":"It's not great but it's not bad etheir.","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I dont think that film is too bad,of course it's not the most interesting film I ever saw but I dont think it was the point of that movie. The all film turns around Frank (nicely played by Michael Patrick),He never knew his mum because she died giving birth to him,Ok just to say with a plot like that the film could have been a catastrophy but because the character of Frank was played well enough it did'nt. In other Family drama with that kind of story the kid is always moaning and crying because he dos'nt know his mum or dad but Frank look more curious than depressed,Is acting like a real kid would in that situation,It's a simple but good thing about that film.And there is V,I dont agree with the coments which said she was a prostitute with a heart of gold far from it,V is very lost and she have very low self estime.I think Melanie Griffith was lovely as V and it was different from character she usually play.Nothing to say with Ed Harris,he did is best with very little to work with because we have to admit it that the Dad is a very flat and boring character.The character of Anne Heche was supossed to be comic it was'nt instead you were wondering what the hell she was doing in that movie,the same go for Malcolm Mcdowell.the film turns around the relationship between V and Frank which is well played by both Mickael and Melanie. Of course their is some annoying scenes with Frank's Friends and Heche/Macdowell but I think the film is what it was meant to be, a heart warming family film and I had quite a relaxing one hours and a half watching it. "},{"Title":"Cute, funny and romantic.","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Michael Patrick Carter plays Frank, a pre-teen living with his widowed father (Ed Harris). Frank and his little buddies save up their milk money and allowances to see what a naked lady looks like. They decide to go into the city and rent a hooker.The trip for the boys turns into a mess. A sympathetic call girl, played by Melanie Griffith, ends up escaping to the suburbs and hiding in Frank's tree house. She is trying to break away from her boss and the business. Frank's lonely father is given the impression the call girl is one of his son's school teachers. Being a thoughtful son, Frank tries to hook up the hooker with his dad.Harris doesn't get a good chance to expand in this role. On the other hand, Griffith seemed to be at her best. Also in this pleasant movie are Malcolm McDowell and Anne Heche. Situational humor. "},{"Title":"Not bad but not great either.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't think that film is too bad,of course it's not the most interesting film I ever saw but I don't think it was the point of that movie. The all film turns around Frank (nicely played by Michael Patrick),He never knew his mum because she died giving birth to him,OK just to say with a plot like that the film could have been a catastrophe but because the character of Frank was played well enough it did'nt. In other Family drama with that kind of story the kid is always moaning and crying because he dos'nt know his mum or dad but Frank look more curious than depressed,Is acting like a real kid would in that situation,It's a simple but good thing about that film.And there is V,I don't agree with the comments which said she was a prostitute with a heart of gold far from it,V is very lost and she have very low self esteem.I think Melanie Griffith was lovely as V and it was different from character she usually play.Nothing to say with Ed Harris,he did is best with very little to work with because we have to admit it that the Dad is a very flat and boring character.The character of Anne Heche was supposed to be comic it was'nt instead you were wondering what the hell she was doing in that movie,the same go for Malcolm Mcdowell.the film turns around the relationship between V and Frank which is well played by both Mickael and Melanie. Of course their is some annoying scenes with Frank's Friends and Heche/Macdowell but I think the film is what it was meant to be, a heart warming family film and I had quite a relaxing one hours and a half watching it. "},{"Title":"Average Family Drama","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Average family style drama suited only for liberal minded people.This movie could have been good if it had better cinematography and script/screenplay.Still,if you are a liberal and a fan of family comedies and like any of the lead actors here,you will probably ignore this movie's limitations and be quite entertained by it's feel good fantasy....... "},{"Title":"DELIGHTFUL ENTERTAINMENT","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have seen the movie for the first time back in 1995.  I found it delightfully funny, great entertainment.  Yes, the plot is a bit on the complex side, over-elaborated and somewhat predictable and yes, the content might be questionable, but the movie combined some characters into a pretty entertaining entity. Not Oscar material, but definitely enjoyable. "},{"Title":"quite sad ...","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the movie is quite a bore. cannot believe that ed harris wasted himself in this brainless plot. a cheap attempt to recreate some of the magic of pretty woman, but without the class, conviction or the charisma of the former.watch the movie only if you're desperate to see melanie griffith in yet another role as a skimpily clad sexpot. she's quite good in the role though.a stupid 4!! "}{"Title":"Waste of talent","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes filmmakers can't restrict themselves. They just put too many themes in one movie. This is a perfect example of it. Here we watch a story about a young kid who lost his mother and has some trouble with women. There is also a hooker who wants to escape from her environment. We even can find a lonely father who preserves a swamp (??). And last but not least we have some hoodlums who are in search of some vanished dollars. Can you make a coherent story out of this ? The director and writer think they can, but never succeed in doing so.Instead everyone should have restricted themselves to the strongest element of this movie, the love story between a lonely widower and a desperate hooker. Melanie Griffith is always charming (what a sexy voice !) and Ed Harris is a good actor. What a waste of talent !  "},{"Title":"Perfect Late Night Find","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When perusing through channels at midnight, there was nothing I would have been happier to find than 'Milk Money'. The movie is for everyone, with acting that appeals to children and a storyline fit for adolescents. Melanie Griffith plays her role to a T, and Michael Patrick Carter bursted (though suffered a short-lived career) onto the scene as a result of this movie. Ed Harris' acting isn't great, but is overshadowed by Griffith's superb character. I'm not quite sure if I would recommend this movie to someone for rental, but do yourself a favor and read the TV listings for its next showing. Out of four, I would give the movie 3 stars for children, 2.5 for adolescents and 2 for adults. While the plot might not be perfect for a child, it's childish humor and acting would be great for any kid.  "},{"Title":"?????????????","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"   I can't believe someone  wrote that this was a good movie for kids!!?? I'm sure having an ex-hooker for a mom would be ideal for any young boy. I can see it now...he and and his friends are sitting around playing Nintendo and drinking Kool-Aid and one of his chums saysHey, you remember the time your new Mom showed us her breasts for money?That was great!Yep! That's my Mom she really enjoys exposing herself to preteens for money....anyone want some Cheetos?As if he didn't have problems enough with dealing with a dead mother?? Now a hooker stepmother?? Alternate ending Ed Harris was eventually fired for having a wife that exposes herself to schoolkids and had to pimp out Griffith to make the rent. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Movie!!!","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I LOVED this movie, all of those bad reviews you've just read are completely wrong. It is so sweet, and realistic when it comes to the terrible reality of the modern-day slaves prostitutes. It was wonderful that they showed that hookers are really human, despite their less-than-normal job. The little boy, Frank, was adorable in everything he did, the actor who played him was wonderful. It was heart-warming to see just how much he cared for V, even though he knew what she did for a living. I would have my kids see this movie if I had kids; it has underlying morals, such as anti-prejudice and the like. This movie definitely deserves a ten! "},{"Title":"love it!","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ever since I saw this movie when it first came out, I have loved it. Okay, so it's about a boy who wants his dad to marry this hooker.  But, once you get past that, it's really a cute movie.  If you are in the mood to watch a fun movie, this would be a great choice.  "},{"Title":"Loved the Movie","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really loved this movie. I live close to the set it was filmed at. The movie was made in Lebanon, OH and my cousins live there and they lived close to where they were filming. My cousin told me that they were filming another movie in Lebanon (also the location where a medical movie was made, but I can't remember what it's called). She invited me to spend the night with her and we walked down to the set on the very last day to meet some of the stars. I got to meet Melanie Griffith. She was so tall in person at the time. She was a very sweet person. I remember also meeting Jessica Wesson. Me and her clicked right away. She was the greatest person to hang out with. I couldn't believe how hot and sexy Adam La Vorgna was in person. I still have his autograph and picture of me and him in front of the ice cream parlor that they filmed at a couple of scenes. They were so tired on the last day we asked them if it was OK if we took them to the ice cream parlor and the director said that was fine. We ate ice cream and talked and laughed with them. Michael was so funny in person. He made a lot of us laugh. He was great. They were the nicest people I have ever met. "}]