[{"Title":"A superior drama, and a stunning debut for director James Gray.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is without a doubt the best debut by a filmmaker in the last decade. James Gray has directed with a sure hand, exerting amazing control over a wide variety of performers and flawlessly maintaining a haunting and menacing mood in his tale of crime and punishment among Russian immigrants in Brooklyn. Vanessa Redgrave is superb, as usual, and Maxmillian Schell has been kept from the unrestrained emotionalism to which he is prone (see JUDGMENT AT NUREMBERG), so that he gives one of his very best performances in years. As for Edward Furlong and Tim Roth, both of whom can be very good or very bad, lets just say they haven't been this good before or since. Gray's command over such aspects of the film as pacing and visual style is impressive. The whole thing builds to a stunning climax.  "},{"Title":"Raw, naked, haunting & cold.","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at a quite low age, I consider it one of the films that evoked my passion for this art form. This film is very bare, very raw yet somehow harmonious, as well. The violence is very well depicted, in a very cold & frightful way. This is a film without any greater hope, without any greater optimism of our future. A rapid & haunting way of showing the true face and consequences of brutal violence. Intensively and artistically this film displays a chaotic & desperate family, a destiny very honest and very haunting. Cinematography is stunning, as is the environment, which very well defines the fundamental characteristics of this film, cold, naked, intense & raw. Great debut by the very promising James Gray. "},{"Title":"Ice Returns To Little Odessa","Date":"20 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers AheadRoth's best performance even better than Rob Roy. He returns to do some hit-man work here returning to his life existentially and bringing nothing but death and destruction. His little brother adores and idolizes him, even after seeing him kill a man and burn him up in an incinerator. He secrets a gun in his drawer, a sign of his wish to become like Roth which gets him quite a beating from the abusive father played brilliantly by Schell. There are no heroes here; the movie is black as pitch. The mother, played by Redgrave, is dying of an inoperable brain tumor. The movie follows Roth's return, reconnecting with little brother and girlfriend. The beatings visited upon Furlong, his little brother, prompt violent retaliation by Roth upon his father building to his near execution out in a winter's field. The movie intimates that the father's brutality produced the monster Roth and his apprentice in training Furlong. It is not a mystery how brutalized youths seek existential compensation for their feelings of deep helplessness and victimization, in youth, by developing into true monsters. They feed upon the power of destroying others for money that fills that chasm inside of themselves.I refer readers to the excellent movie Mad Dog Coll that also depicts his humiliation in childhood with his developing into a sadistic, laughing ghoul in adulthood. I love this movie but it is one painful viewing. The acting is excellent and it is relentless and unyielding. Poor Furlong is drawn into Roth's world with the realistic consequences ensuing. The movie's power is really in its delving into the etiology of existential monsters who destroy others for the feeling of power that they feed upon. Roth is ice here, even towards his little brother there are acts of kindness but no verbal or physical affection. His sex with his girlfriend is also violent and devoid of affection. The scene that contains the essence of the movie is when an old associate spots Roth on the Boardwalk. Roth calmly follows him and as the man is about to drop a dime on him, walks up and shoots him in the head. The action is as automatic and dispassionate as if we were opening our car door. The man has killed so many people that there is no affective content to any of his violence; it is completely robotic. Even Roth's protection of Furlong is never followed by affection towards him, when he confronts Schell it is always vicarious revenge. He is angry about his mistreatment of Furlong because he suffered the same; he often says this as he is pushing or hitting Schell. When Furlong is killed, Roth simply bags him up and takes him to the incinerator. There is no apparent sorrow, he is a machine. If someone asked me why I love this movie it is because it shows you that children who are treated cruelly grow up to be monsters. The film is a great existential biography of a living iceberg who can never kill enough people to remove that deep feeling of powerlessness he suffered as a bruised and battered child. Parents, this movie is not for children. It is dark as midnight and features one of the coldest monsters ever depicted on film. That said, if you would like to understand the psychological pathology of the sociopath there is not a better movie to watch. The acting is excellent, especially Roth, Schell and Redgrave. Dark As Night But An Excellent Movie. "},{"Title":"Where is James Gray now?","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A stunning debut by this young writer-director -- Dostoyevskian themes, an exact sense of place, and a lyricism touched by few of his peers.  And now six years' wait!While most U.S. indie filmmakers spent the 1990s studiously copying Tarantino, Gray in this overlooked gem created something entirely different a character study of tragedy among the unhip and uncool.  Torn by illness and the return of a prodigal son, a Russian immigrant family in New York tries to outlast the omens promising its destruction.  The film owes something to Coppola, but you might feel the presence of Bergman, too. Unsentimental, unsparing, with brilliant performances by the principal cast. A must see.  "},{"Title":"Savage and sad....","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm a long time fan of Tim Roth, who doesn't do nearly as much as I'd like him to, these days. The other British stalwart in this, the equally excellent Vanessa Redgrave was another point of interest for me. There's a real brutal efficiency to this film that makes it unlikeable but also demands respect and our attention. Roth is the roving assassin who is forced to do his next job in his old neighbourhood and that means getting reacquainted with his family dying Mum (Redgrave), hateful and abusive Father (Maximilian Spiel), as well as impressionable younger brother (Edward Furlong). 24 year old débutant director James Gray comes up with - and scripts - a surprisingly mature piece of crime cinema that is both poignant, moving and shocking.To my mind, the violence should rate the film at 18, not 15; the cold- blooded unfeeling of Roth's callous and unflinching jobs don't even give us time for any bad taste to form in our mouths. I can see that some would find this a barrier to their enjoyment in what is mostly a character- driven drama of some depth. The winter-set scenes of back street Brooklyn are chillingly authentic and bleak and these help remind us of the family's Russian roots. The father, a devout Jew, who's also having an affair often speaks Russian still, hanging to his identity the best he can, in an alienating, changing and disintegrating world. There are also some tender moments between assassin son and brain-tumour suffering mother, and of him lovemaking with his girlfriend, who wants to try to understand him and his motives. His younger brother tries to keep his own feet on the ground, whilst his sibling gradually but surely steals his innocence. Yes, it is sad - and savage but strangely rewarding, too. "},{"Title":"The prodigal son returns.","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Writer/director James Gray's (We Own the Night) first film was critically acclaimed for it's cinematography and for performances by Vanessa Redgrave and Maximilian Schell. It is not an action film, even though the main character is a hit-man. It is a drama about family and shame.Mr. Orange, Tim Roth (Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, The Incredible Hulk) plays a son who has been disowned for bringing shame on the family by his behavior. He returns to Brighton Beach to do a job, and reunites with his family as his mother lays dying. He also reunited with Moira Kelly, much to the delight of movie viewers.About the only one happy to see him was his younger brother Rueban, played by Edward Furlong (Terminator 2 Judgment Day, Pecker). Well, mom was happy, but moms are always happy no matter how bad their children are - trust me on that.Violence was at a minimum for a Russian Mafia/hit-man picture, and the focus was on the family. Maximilian Schell was excellent as the father that made piece just for a moment to allow Redgrave to see her son.Gray's first film has nuance and subtlety not often seen in a film featuring the mafia. "},{"Title":"great for movie fans, but not for the popcorn-munching masses.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  this film totally transcends its derivative storyline and machismo-charged genre. avoiding predictable characterisation (which some of the previous commentators seem to desire)and melodrama, the film may seem (and is at least visually) cold, but its warmth is built through nuance, not cliche. Great soundtrack too, with Arvo Part. "},{"Title":"Another intense performance by Roth","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a review of Little Odessa, The Yards and We Own the Night, three crime dramas by director James Gray.Released in 1994, Little Odessa stars Tim Roth as Joshua Shapira, a volatile criminal who has been exiled by his family. A prodigal son returns narrative, the film watches as Roth returns to his family home. Though his relatives still distrust him, Joshua is idolised by his younger brother, little Reuben Shapira (Edward Furlong). The film ends, as most prodigal son tales do, with Reuben dying, paying for his brother's sins.Little Odessa was Gray's debut. It's a very good drama, well acted by the always electric Tim Roth, but the film's ethnic details are unconvincing and Gray falters in his final act with an obvious, overblown sequence in which little Reuben is accidentally gunned down.Gray followed Odessa up with The Yards (2000), a crime drama set in the commuter rail yards of New York City. The film's structure is similar to Odessa, and sees Mark Wahlberg playing an ex-convict who returns home after a short stint in prison. Wahlberg attempts to stay clean, to keep his nose out of crime, but is drawn back into the criminal underworld by a friend played by Joaquin Phoenix. The film retains the brotherhood dynamics of Odessa, Wahlberg playing the good son who eventually turns on his suffocating sibling. Once again the film ends with a ridiculously over-the-top death sequence.While The Yards has a certain, smothering pretentiousness about it, convinced about its own importance (it's lit like Rembrandt, street fights are filmed like Visconti's Rocco and His Brothers and it's reaching for the tone of Coppola's The Godfather), Gray nevertheless cooks up some wonderful strokes, like a beautifully sensitive welcome-home party, a wordless assassination attempt and a fine, aching performance by Wahlberg. It's a great mixed bag.Gray then directed We Own The Night, arguably his best crime flick. The good brother/bad brother motif returns, this time with Mark Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix playing a pair of brothers on either side of the law. Phoenix's a perpetually high playboy who owns a nightclub frequented by drug-runners and mafia types, and Wahlberg's a straight-arrow cop trying to keep the streets clean. When the mafia unleashes an assassination campaign on local cops, Phoenix switches allegiances, goes undercover and attempts to take down the mob. There are touches of Donnie Brasco, Rush, Point Break, Serpico, State of Grace, Infernal Affairs and every other undercover cop movie you can think of, but the film is beautifully lit, is atypically straight-faced and features a superb, rain-soaked car chase.Some have suggested that Gray's trilogy should be celebrated for working in a classical, almost conventionally Greek mould. That his conventionality suggests that all his characters are at the mercy of already in place contours, their fates forgone. Mostly, though, Gray's trilogy highlights the ways in which contemporary artists have struggled to conceive of a response to postmodernism. The crime movies of, say, Tarantino and Scorsese, are unashamedly postmodern, toying with and regurgitating clichés from 1930s Warner machine gun operas and MGM crime flicks. They aren't about crime, so much as they're pastiche jobs, jazzed up films about crime films. As a response to this aesthetic, artists who deem themselves serious, who rightfully ask what exactly comes next?, tend to look backwards at what came before, as though post-war modernism, by virtue of being modernism, is intrinsically the solution. This leads to classically shot and written but wholly regressive fare like Gray's trilogy, which essentially unscrambles the world's Scorseses and Tarantinos and puts you right back in the 1940s, minus the irony and flippancy.But you can't go backwards in this way; your audience will always be ten steps ahead and there will always be a huge chasm between your solemnity and the tired insights your film delivers. This is why true progressive works in the genre, for example fare like The Wire, which actively attempts a cognitive mapping of both global capitalism and crime, are neither modernist or postmodern, whilst possessing the vital traits of both. Philosophers have alternatively coined this new movement neoprimitivism, pseudomodernism, participatism, post-post modernism, but the one that seems to be sticking is new modernism.Whatever you call it, this hypothetical movement rejects postmodern nihilism (nothing matters, there is no truth, it's just a film), actively tries to convey the complexities of our world, and covertly believes that it is possible and necessary for individuals to make value judgements, take stands, approach objectivity, and back facts up. It is modernist in its desires to understand, teach, decipher and make better the world, and in its emphasis on culture, society, technology and politics. The movement doesn't reject postmodernism, but co-opts its tropes and bends them to suit its aim, questioning agency, subjectivity and attempting to piece together the fragments and multiple perspectives that typify complex systems. In short, truly relevant crime films simultaneously simulate our contemporary environment of junk, noise, commerce and static, before proceeding to decode, organise and target roots. As William Gibson said way back in the 1980s, future great artist will function like search engines, mapping and making sense of the detritus. Gray goes backwards to when there was less noise.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Best I've seen Roth do","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed the movie. Tim Roth, who is apparently British, sounded to me (a Texan) as a perfect second-generation Russian Jew. He was so coldly efficient in this character that I did not even recognize him as the hapless robber in Pulp Fiction. Kudos also to Moira Kelly, Edward Furlong, and Maximilian Schell. Good direction and photography. The use of the Russian choral music throughout set the mood on medium-creepy, even when that was the only clue. I've never been to Brighton Beach, or even Brooklyn, but the film really brought home the gritty reality of that immigrant community. (I really just mean the day-to-day atmosphere of the place, not the mobster story plastered on it.) Worth checking out if you don't mind a slower, more cerebral sort of hit man movie. "},{"Title":"We'll wait 10 seconds and see if God saves you","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Little Odessa, also release under the title Contract killer is a very effectively and realistically told mobster movie, from the Russian community. It's a take on the prodigal son, here as a cold contract killer. A great watch for connoisseurs of films, and mobster film in particular.The movie stands out for great acting, directing and photography, being James Gray directorial debut. Music is excellent as well. The actors are making this a great watch. The whole film is stuffed with fabulous acting. Tim Roth and Edward Furlong is both fabulous as the brothers, as Vanessa Redgrave and Maximillian Schell is as the mother and the abusive father. I think this is some of the best I've seen from them all.The film starts up with the contract killer, being the older brother Joshua Shapira coming back to his hometown of Brooklyn after being away for years, to do a contract job. He fled town after committing a killing, which obviously is not forgotten. He meets his younger brother, Reuben, which tells him that their mother is terminally ill with brain tumor. Joshua wants to see the mother, but are not welcomed by the father, being a danger to the whole family since wanted by the mobsters.It's bleak, cold, gritty, effective and what I believe very realistic told. I was immediately sucked into the story, which is following the younger brother more than the older hit-man. it's no action movie, but a mobster movie told in the way we've seen many times. This does not stand back from these. The film builds slowly up to great scenes.It's powerful on emotions, far more than on the action. However the persons are quite cold, and so is the violence. And there isn't much hope to see in the dreary days of this family.The quote We'll wait 10 seconds and see if God saves you is said by Tim Roth's character before he does a killing. I would regard this is a must-see for mob film lovers, and a classic in the genre. I would likewise recommend the brilliant and effective Eastern promises by David Cronenberg, telling a story from the Russian mafia in Great Britain. "}{"Title":"A family movie...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The settings are located to some Russian hole in Brooklyn. The snow is falling and people are poor. We meet a family that seems quite normal - and the lost son comes home... He is a killer with some bad folk after him. It´s one more hit before good-bye.The lost son meets up with the youngest brother in the family. The mother is sick. Father is cheating her with another. And so the trouble begins with the father and son. Family problems, crime syndicate, a fast running past...The acting is great a la Truffant (loss of feelings) and the tension is well conveyed in the stark camera work and cold violence that culminates with great effect in the ending.This is not a truly original film, but it doesn´t (like so many others) fall into some melodrama...so it is good.Well, rent it alone and think about your family. "},{"Title":"A better film than some may think","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  *** SPOILERS*****I enjoyed this film primarily because of Tim Roth, Max Schell and the location... Brighton Beach, Brooklyn... the Little Odessa of the title. Russian immigrants have made this part of Brooklyn their own over the years... both good and bad Russian immigrants. Such is life.Roth's need for a family re-connect drives him to put himself at risk as he assumes a murder contract in the old neighborhood, a place his past has made very dangerous for him. This is not his first contract as he is a hired gun, hence his banishment from his family... more specifically his father - Max Schell.Throughout the film his struggle to connect on any level with where he comes from is the underlying theme and ultimately the ruination of his family and love(?) - in parts natural (his Mother), associative (his Lover), accidental (his Brother) and finally purposeful (his Father). For it is his Father's body that he disposes of at the films conclusion (note the slippers and the weight of the body). His stare into space at the fade to black after remembering his last visit with his Mother and Brother, merely enforces the total loss of what he so wanted - to go home. A home now empty of all that mattered to him.Anyway, that's the way I saw it.  "},{"Title":"Worth Watching For A Crime Film","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Little Odessa is a crime film that provides a somber portrait of organized crime.It features Tim Roth, Edward Furlong, Moira Kelly and Vanessa Redgrave.The film centers on centers hit man Joshua Shapira when he returns to his old neighborhood at Brooklyn.James Gray wrote and directed the film.Joshua is a hired killed for the Russian mob.When he was given an assignment to go back to his hometown,he renews his contact with his younger brother and an old flame.Unfortunately,not everyone in the family wants to see him.His father has disowned him and prevents him from visiting his seriously ill mother at bedside.This results into more pressure on Joshua's part as he tries to accomplish his mission and it eventually results in a bloody confrontation.Despite is slow pace and the fact that there is nothing new or groundbreaking with respect to plot elements in mob genre films,it definitely is worth watching.It consist of numerous outstanding performances from the cast especially Tim Roth as the murderous hit man.Also,it provides us a more realistic view of organized crime particularly the hit men. "},{"Title":"Why I HATE this Film","Date":"6 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" According to the IMDb, James Gray's grandparents were Russian immigrants. This movie was his vision and I strongly disagree with his warped view of immigrants. Years ago when I was in a wealthy suburban town far from Brighton Beach, I was asked whether I saw the film. I was also asked whether I was ever involved in the Russian mafia. I answered no to both questions. It was true I had never seen the film, nor had I ever been involved with Russian organized crime. I was a first-generation American, who because of my parents and grandparents was able to speak Russian, and my family's hopes of achieving the American Dream rested firmly on my shoulders. The man who had asked me these questions was an accomplished educator, who had even once been invited to the Oval Office. He was always borderline derisive of me and I felt that he had seen me as a stereotypical Russian mobster in the making. It was years later when I finally watched the film and I was fuming. I want to convey several issues to Americans about this film. The most important issue is that crime exists everywhere, but Brighton Beach is not controlled by the Russian Mafia. There is barely any presence of Russian organized crime, and most residents have vaguely heard or interacted with these elements. The protagonist of the film, a Russian Jewish hit-man who fled Brighton Beach to evade the ire of the Russian Mafia, was a plot-driven character who did not even slightly resemble any of the young immigrants who arrived to Brighton Beach during the 1970's and 1980's. Joshua Shapira was as realistic as Peter Pan. Second, the elderly generation was poorly portrayed in this film. It was filmed in 1993 and Jacob's 80-year-old grandmother was James Gray's idea of an off-the-boat immigrant. I almost laughed at how the grandmother only spoke Yiddish and was an old world zombie. That is absolute nonsense. It is true that that generation could speak Yiddish, but they in fact spoke Russian much more frequently and were quite cognizant of history, politics, and current events. That generation, my grandparents, attended English courses for immigrants and were able to converse in basic English. I will admit that not all could do this. Some still had to work, while others had to babysit their grandchildren. My point is that the grandmother in this film, an Old World Yiddish-only zombie, was not in any way, shape, or form similar to the grandparents of the Soviet Jewish immigration. My grandfather, who recently passed away, spoke Yiddish, Russian, and rudimentary English (because he worked in this country for many years). He also was always mindful of American and world politics. The portrayal of grandparents in this movie was ridiculous and unrealistic. For example, on my way to the Brighton Beach library I remember overhearing two World War 2 generation Soviet immigrants discussing Hillary Clinton's first international tour as Secretary of State in 2009. The baby boomers, who are grandparents today on Brighton Beach, can speak English proficiently and are quite Americanized. Third, the mother suffering from cancer at home and implicitly unable to get medical care because she is an immigrant is absurd. The United States fully provided medical care and support to the underprivileged. If the Shapiro family were in fact as poor as the family portrays, she would had been able to receive Medicaid/Medicare benefits and the government would have paid for her treatments. It was a sinister exaggeration that the poor immigrant suffering from cancer had to die at home and implicitly the reason was because of her impoverished immigrant status. Absolutely bogus. She would have been provided full medical benefits and not suffer at home like portrayed in the film. Fourth, the father in the film was the stereotypical Soviet dictator parent who was domineering, abusive, and emotionless. The character was just a plot-driven element of the film not remotely similar to any of the Soviet Jewish immigrants who had supported their children, who were either born in the USA or arrived as young children. He was clearly the antagonist of the film, and when the accomplished educator I had mentioned earlier spoke to me about Brighton Beach, I distinctly remember him asking what my father was like. I can assure you that 99% of the Soviet Jewish parents were not Stalin-like brutes. They, in fact, were completely supportive because they wanted their kids to be successful Americans. The father in this film, who dressed like they did at the turn of the century and not the 1990's and stood on Brighton Beach at night with others drinking Vodka with prostitutes, was nowhere close to any reasonable behavior or individual I have encountered on Brighton Beach. The father was an absurd character created by a warped view of what a Soviet immigrant patriarch would be like. I won't spoil the ending for those who haven't seen it, but as the entire movie suggests Brighton Beach is a dark world full of crime, sadness, and tragedy. False. False. False. New Yorkers from all five boroughs travel to the beach and boardwalk during the warmer months, and Brighton Beach is full of restaurants, Sushi bars, and Russian nightclubs. I cannot explain to you how ridiculous it was when Joshua in the end sat in his car alone thinking about all the tragic events during the film. Even when this was filmed in 1993, the movie was a terrible and inaccurate portrayal of Brighton Beach and the Soviet Jewish immigrants who inhabit it. I can tell you that the Soviet Jewish immigrants who arrived when they were young and first-generation Americans who were born here did not live in Little Odessa and were not inclined to a life of crime. Education, hard work, and successful careers are the attributes of those who inhabit Brighton Beach and this movie was complete fiction in its portrayal of the older immigrants, younger immigrants, and first-generation Americans. "},{"Title":"Realistic- unlike other films of this type.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Overall, this is an excellent film that sets it apart from others like it. There are times where it is very very slow and hard to read, yet this somehow makes it more realistic. Furlong plays Reuben Shapira, a teenager living in Brooklyn with his family. The plot basically begins when Reuben's older brother (Tim Roth) returns home to visit their dying mother.Roth plays Joshua, a hitman involved with the Russian Mafia. He is back in Brooklyn on business as well as to see his mother (Vanessa Redgrave)one last time. Reuben is a great fan of his brother much to their father's (Maximillian Schell) disliking. Both Roth and Furlong show little emotion throughout nor does Moira Kelly who plays Roth's clueless girlfriend.However, I feel that the lack of emotion stems from the depressing over tones which are vital in portaying the overall feeling of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Classic Russian Crime Flick","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Director and writer James Gray has created a gem in Little Odessa.Starring Tim Roth who has also been in other classic flicks, The Musketeer 2001, Gridlock'd 1997, No Way Home 1996, Pulp Fiction 1994, Reservoir Dogs 1992, The Cook the Thief His Wife & Her Lover 1989, Meantime 1984 and Made in Britain 1982.Also starring Edward Furlong who has also been in other classic flicks, American History X 1998 and Terminator 2 Judgement Day 1991.Also starring Moira Kelly.Also starring Venessa Redgrave who has also been in another classic flick, The Devils 1971.Also starring Maximillian Schell who has also been in other classic flicks, Vampires 1998 and Cross of Iron 1977.I enjoyed the violence.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic Russian crime flicks, The Mechanik 2005, Mute Witness 1994, Command Performance 2009, Running Scared 2006 and Driven to Kill 2009. "},{"Title":"I was the only one who liked it...","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What I loved was how it worked sort of like a novel in how it had a lot of symbolism and was subtle, especially if you came in expecting a loud gangster flick. The father figure reminded me of Chaim Potok's books...I thought these people were Orthodox Christian until halfway in (I didn't read the jacket too carefully--I like Tim Roth). The way I got it, the father represented conscience. He did everything right, but he couldn't get over his hatred of/disappointment in his son.  The parental themes and themes of time and change just stuck in my head. The ending scene I understood as meaning that Joshua was alive but his soul was dead, together with his mother and brother. *s* I cried during this one, but my family hated it and said they wouldn't let me pick them anymore, I'd lost my eye. Pompous artsy kid signing off... "},{"Title":"Chilled me...literally","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The thing I remember that most impressed me about Little Odessa was how director James Gray actually made me feel cold.  There are a lot of exteriors that show a frozen, snow covered New York, but the whole thing is so wonderfully photographed that it actually made me feel chilled.  The story is above average and Tim Roth is starting to run the risk of stereotyping himself into these kinds of violent characters...but this film will always remain one of my favorites because the simple look of the film affected me. "},{"Title":"So good that it didn't seem long enough","Date":"16 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this last night, and on the box somewhere it made reference to being a Goodfellas 'ish type of movie...or something along those lines. I cant lie, that was the hook for me being as I love Scorsese gangster movies. This is an EXCELLENT film, amazing in some parts just by the acting alone. Tim Roth...does more with a stare then most can do with words. He was perfect. And after seeing this I really wish I knew of more movies if he's done them were he plays a role similar to this (other then the obvious 'Reservoir Dogs'). Edward Furlong whom I usually don't much care for even pulls off a very believable character. I wont go into detail, or outline some sort of plot. Just go rent this movie if your a fan of the gangster type movies...sorry, GOOD gangster type movies. It is an impressive display of movies not needing excessive violence, but instead great acting to build suspense, or thrills. 9/10 "},{"Title":"The Iceman cometh","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Little Odessa (So dubbed after the Russian enclave of the same name in Brooklyn), Roth plays a hit man who returns to the neighborhood of his youth only to find that family matters are not as easily settled as contract killings. The film is an excellent debut for writer/director Gray and, IMHO, much better than his follow-up work The Yards. Little Odessa may be short on story with an obvious absence of the tinselization which comes with big bucks, but it is also honest, unpretentious, and sports an excellent cast. Will play best with reality freaks into crime dramas. (B-) "}{"Title":"A moving story","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie is a realistic story about immigrants in the US. The shots are very good done. You really feel the atmosphere of the Brooklyn area. The very tight feeling when you live here. The problems the people feel and the relationships between different individuals. The old against the young. The Italians against the Russians and so on. I think this movie really get the important points of the life in a multiethnical city. "},{"Title":"Great Camera-work; Heady Content","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It's the camera-work which first impresses in this one. The shots are so well taken.Roth is excellent, bordering on superb, and should win the Hugh Laurie Award for the best job done portraying (and sounding convincingly like) a 'north a-merican' by a Brit.Are talents like Schell and Redgrave wasted? Hardly. More their Russian is very good - something you wouldn't expect from a flick like this. Sometimes the language is almost overly simplistic but the accents are very good.This is a taut thriller - a scary one - and there are scenes which may have you gasping because they're so stark. As in 'Casino was a Bugs Bunny movie'. Something like that. Is this good? That's another matter. A lot of this is lent by Roth's performance - he's a cold blooded killer and he plays it with more the poker face than Hopkins in Remains of the Day.Denouement? Watch for it. When the movie's over you might miss the fact it's over. Is this a highly recommendable flick? Hard to say. Some excellent work here. But will you enjoy it? Benefit by it?That's a much more difficult question.PS. Hey IMDb! Stop correcting our spelling and giving us no chance to correct your incorrect corrections. Suggesting corrections is one thing; forcing them upon us is quite another. "},{"Title":"Remarkable, picaresque immigrant threnody","Date":"27 November 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I saw this film I was a bit bored - after all, the chief protagonist is supposed to be a hit-man, a dramatic role if ever there was one. At the same time I found myself pinned to the screen, watching an extraordinary roll-call of performance from three generations of first-class screen actors. It is a great shame that the plot is so makeshift, so flaky.Roth plays a prodigal hit-man, Joshua, who returns to the town of the title for a contract against his instinct. None of the characters, largely all suffering old, unresolved antagonisms, can help themselves but be drawn to one another on his return, combustibly, tearfully but inevitably. Edward Furlong, a truly exceptional actor in every film in which I've seen him is heartbreaking here. Roth is an empty, jittery presence and the stymied reconciliation with his mother is desperate; Vanessa Redgrave is too much actually, but perhaps it's appropriate given that she is dying. It's too miserable in the end. 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen...","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Gray simply blew my brains out few years ago with this flick! Slow montage is astonishing and despite the lack of action Gray has been able to make his film amazingly interesting... I have seen this film about ten times but I haven't lost the effect. Makes you wonder how somebody is able to make such an intensity on scenes. can't understand why this movie hasn't been more noticed... Oh yeah, the whole cast is terrific! "},{"Title":"Acting is over the top real - a must watch","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I might not have much to say for the story line But that doesn't matterJust watch this movie You will be captivated from the first moment -I am TEMPTED to say these can't be actors it's so real )Really- it's so well done Forget the story focus on the acting Simply TOPSI've not witnessed a cinematic production as this in a long time again NOT the story But HOW it's presented TOP OF THE LINE HERE - the acting is SO good I don't even WANT to know the actors names ONLY for the characters the play Beats ALL of Gene Hackman movies in one single blow Sorry Gene- well-actually - no I'm not sorry Gene "},{"Title":"Bleak and emotionless","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" James Gray's unrelentingly bleak tale of a hit-man's reluctant return to his roots while carrying out a hit is the kind of film that leaves me cold. I don't mind dark movies, but for me there has to be shades of darkness throughout. This film - which is still unquestionably an astonishingly accomplished debut from Gray - simply never lets up, so that its pessimistic world view becomes exhausting. It's a world without hope or redemption, a fatalistic dirge that seems to wallow in its own misery. Roth isn't one of my favourite actors, but he's pretty good here - perhaps because he is called upon to conceal his emotions behind a blank expression. He's not a likable man - in fact he's seriously damaged and uses his gun as a defence against the world as much as he does a weapon. The entire cast give credible performances, but it's Maximilian Schell as Roth's deeply flawed father who stands out. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com","Date":"25 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Billed as another Goodfellas, Little Odessa is the story of a mafia hit-man returning home to do a job, as well as seeing the poor immigrant family he left behind. The story is great, the movie is not. Tim Roth is fantastic as the disowned, disgraced, murderous son. Roth always gives a very strong performance and does so again here. Edward Furlong, one of my favorites, unfortunately does not do as well. I've seen him in enough things to know, it's not his fault, it's the writing. This film is so dark and painfully slow that I barely made it through. Very little is explained and the dialog is laughable, even at times non-existent. There are huge plot holes to go along with an ending that makes little sense. The writer was trying to tell his story more through imagery and symbolism in a genre that is based on action. You can't pull off something like this without explaining more of the story and using it to move things along. It's not the worst film I've ever seen, but to be honest, I was bored from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Dark, deeply felt and involving","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" James Gray, who would go on to direct The Yards, We Own the Night and Two Lovers, debuted with this dark and involving tale of a family of Russian Jews in New York City torn apart by crime. Tim Roth plays the oldest son of the family who has been banished from Brooklyn after a murder he committed. Now he returns after a long absence to commit another assigned assassination. Maximilian Schell is the father who has disowned him, Vanessa Redgrave the mother dying of brain cancer and Edward Furlong the teenage brother who is growing apart from his father and longing for a strong male role model. Roth isn't a good one, of course, but Furlong becomes intrigued by criminal life. It's a deeply felt film with well written situations and characters. I can't imagine why it has such a low rating on IMDb. It seems that people are unhappy that the film makes them unhappy, which is an attitude that always pisses me off. Tarantino's Pulp Fiction came out the same year, and made the life seem like a lot more fun, even if you sometimes get shot at, and, consequently, sometimes die (but only sometimes). Pulp Fiction is perhaps the more original film, but Little Odessa is a deeper film. "},{"Title":"Not exactly a thrill","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This isn't one of the movie you rent, this one you watch on TV because it's just to depressing and un(Hollywood)entertaining to be worth paying for. Plus it's nothing special. Good acting by Roth and Mrs. Redgrave and some cool sex scenes featuring the ever sexy Moira Kelly. Is it just me or is Edward Furlong the victim of his brother's doing again (American History X). And he wasn't bothering no one, he was just there to help.  To average to be good, but still strong enough to touch the viewer. Which reminds me; I don't have the slightest idea what that final scene meant.It shows the scene where Tim Roth meets his ill mother for the first time in many years. It's weird because this first-time-meeting scene is shown sometime earlier in the movie and I just don't understand why Tim Roth would be thinking about the part where he just comes into the room and he and Mrs. Redgrave just look uncomfortably at each other. After his flashback is over there's this long shot of Tim Roth in the car and then fade back and the movie ends. ?????????????????????????????????????????????? What did it mean.If you have seen the movie and have any idea what this flashback means please write to me. "},{"Title":"Emotional drama that uses a frozen Brooklyn as a metaphor of the wider frost","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Joshua is a New York hitman who works all over, with the exception of Brooklyn, where his family still live.  He is still wanted there by gangs seeking revenge for an old hit.  However when he is offered a straight forward hit in Little Odessa he takes it on.  He uses it as an opportunity to catch up with his little brother, Ruben, his dying mother and his father who hates him for all the problems Joshua has brought on the family.  Word gets out that Joshua is back in the area and problems begin to come back into Brooklyn.The directorial debut of 25 year old James Gray is a cold look at a hitman in a non sensational light.  The setting is a freezing, snow covered Brooklyn that is as cold emotionally as it is temperature wise.  The story is quite slow and may frustrate some people in the way it deals with hitmen but has very little gun action.  However the actual story looks at the heart of killer Joshua, part of him is cruel and sadistic and filled with anger, however a part of him is still human although it is very well hidden.  The emotion of the story is slow and takes work to get to it, however the relationship between the father, Joshua and Ruben is captivating.Roth is excellent as Joshua, it's difficult to bring such a character to life but he does it well despite his cold exterior.  Furlong is also excellent as Ruben - he looks haggard and put upon and very convincing, this can't be the same kid who was in T2!  Schell and Redgrave are both as good as you'd expect them to be, although Schell is by far the most interesting character.Overall the emotion of the story makes it.  However the lack of traditional hitman action and the slow pace of the dialogue driven scenes may put many off looking into the story. "}{"Title":"What?","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, first, let me say I liked this film.  The performances were out of this world.  I was really caught up in it until perhaps the very last scene. What was Gray thinking?  The three of them, meaning Roth, Redgrave, and Furlong, sitting on the bed did not seem to fit.  Who knows, maybe I'm slow. The point is Gray should have thought about the slow people in the ending because, we were confused. "},{"Title":"Excellent film -- one tiny spoiler","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a great film, and considering this is a debut for the director, it's even more impressive. And the guy was only 24! What will strike you about this film is the economy of footage and the directorial vision. Gray knows exactly what shots are needed and how long to use them, there is none of this showy, slappy editing or gratuitous shots. Each scene is composed and skillful. You really get the sense that he had every shot meticulously choreographed and planned out before showing up on the set, and further, that this planning was dead-on in its strengthening of the mood and tone of the picture. To illustrate this, there is one scene where Tim Roth shoots someone in broad daylight. Gray handles this scene so that it is jarring without accessorizing or glamorizing the violence. It is quick and sudden. Any number of directors would have shot the hell out of this scene and used a million angles and would have had no idea of how to play the scene in context. And this is a minor scene, a simple scene. The entire film is completely well-thought out and uses this same masterful direction. Gray also knows how to use a camera and where to put them. This film is visually stimulating without going overboard, like the difference between Jimmy Page and Steve Vai virtuosity and skill does not have to equal genius, god knows what Guy Ritchie would have done to this film, but it sure would've been unwatchable. A director, like any artist, must know how much to include and when to stop, and Gray gets this right.If you have ever liked Ed Furlong or Tim Roth, you will love them in this. They are both allowed room to really deliver emotional, realistic, and moving performances. How do they do this when they've been good and bad in other films? That's right they were directed properly. Both actors were right for their parts but they were also kept to a very real tone, something that separates a director like Gray from one like Joanou or whoever directed that thing Boondock Saints (both films could possibly be described as in the same genre as this one). In summary, this is an amazing debut film with solid performances and gripping story. "},{"Title":"Superb !!","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw Little Odessa the film immediately caught me, and never let go. Like most other great films, it's structure is fairly simple, but yet so powerfull that I can guarantee it will have an impact on you. A memorable film that can handle multiple viewings without losing it's effect !! "},{"Title":"Good-looking but empty","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"     Visually arresting in many of its scenes, the narrative suffers badly from a lack of originality and from characters whose motivations are fuzzy at best.  Joshua has had the same type of stable middle-class upbringing as his younger brother, yet he becomes a remorseless killer.  Why?  Reuben, the younger brother, seems to have sound values; he knows his brother for what he is, yet demonstrates a degree of loyalty far beyond what one would expect.  Why?  Alla appears reasonably intelligent and not altogether emotionally starved, but is drawn to Joshua.  Why?     The final irony in which Reuben and Alla die on Joshua's account will be familiar to even occasional filmgoers.    If the character of the father is to be cited as a source of the sons' alienation, it is altogether human to be frustrated (and therefore quick-tempered) when your best efforts have so little to show for them.  The man has been worn down by life, yet he cares for his elderly mother and terminally ill wife with as much tender love as he can muster.  An adulterer?  With his wife dying slowly of a brain tumor, perhaps he deserves a kinder appellation.   The family is Jewish, although that appears to be of no real significance in regard to the characters, plot or atmosphere.  Likewise the story being set in Brooklyn. Striking visuals can do only so much for a film.  More attention to the narrative would have been helpful.    "},{"Title":"Lacks rhythm","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The first feature of James Gray already relies on his favorite theme, which is the breaking of a family and the choices that result from it.The interesting points of the script, and more generally the movie, are the complicated relations between the members of this family. The plot, serve badly by a slow rhythm and a static staging, is very weak and doesn't manage to captivate, except for the rather good ending. This is the biggest flaw of this director, never imposing an undeniable force or power to its movies.All the characters are very cold and don't convey much emotion, therefore it is difficult to feel any sympathy, empathy or disgust towards them, and that's a shame for a drama.It is to be noted that Gray, in his following movies, will show great improvement regarding his direction, which is here quite hesitant and ultimately blend, especially with the use of cheap zooms. "},{"Title":"Brooklyn","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My son, who has moved to California, mentioned that seeing this movie made him nostalgic for NY.  The cast was excellent, the story believable, the characterizations accurate, but it was the atmosphere that sets this film off.  I can't think of another movie that captures it's setting so well. "},{"Title":"I think there are no bad films starring Edward Furlong and this one sure as hell let's me continue to think that","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  As most of the time Edward Furlong plays somewhat of a pitiable kid in this movie as it seems to be his quality. He mostly plays silent and introvert characters on screen. But this time the film focuses not on him but on his brother, performed by Tim Roth. This film is in a way more about family then it is about the job that Tim Roth has (he is a hitman) and I consider it more of a drama in a way than I do Before and After which I saw recently too. And that is also the reason I do not like this movie, it is too dramatic. That plus the fact that the performances were not good, but just OK, the directing was just OK just everything was just OK makes the whole film just OK. What I thought was funny though was to hear those Russians speak Jewish, for it reminded me a lot of German and I could even understand something at times when it was not even subtitled.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was directed by James Gray, who was only 24 when he made this movie and six years later he makes an even better movie called The Yards. This one starts out with Tim Roth playing a hit-man who can't or won't go back to Brooklyn because of his dad, who wants nothing to do with him and some Russian gangsters. Roth is ordered to go and he wants to keep a low profile but it doesn't work that way. His mother is dying and his father wants nothing to do him and his little brother, played by Edward Furlong, wants to be like him. The movie isn't exactly clear about who Roth has to kill but you slowly find out. It is a pretty good movie but The Yards is a much better film. "},{"Title":"grim, and confusing crime drama","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING Spoiler that gives a clue to the ending.  Little Odessa is a spinoff of The Godfather. Joshua Shapira is a cold-blooded killer whos family just moved to The US in Brooklyn in, I think it was the 70's. Their family has a dying mother and disgustingly and almost as bad as being an evil killer, an adulterous and even abusive father (Schell).  The mafia violence is really graphic and disturbing. Josh's brother rueben (Eddie Furlong) adores him, even after finding out he's evil. Eddie again shows his calm, sensitive, innocence. He's really quiet. Rueben goes all over spying on his brother and witnesses his atrocities. The end is obscure to me, but maybe just cause I'm 17. I couldn't tell, but what it looked like was Rueben went spying on Josh again this time with a gun to arm himself and prevent a heinous act Josh is gonna commit and is seen and shoots and I'm not sure if the person died, then Rueben later gets shot by Josh and Josh gets rid of him and another human form, and has some flashback with Rueben and his mom. I'm not sure if that happened, you should tell me what happens.  "},{"Title":"Boring, contrived, and unconvincing.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The plot was all too familiar, the pace was dull, and there wasn't a single bit of depth in the flat characters. It makes you wonder how the director got any production support (and a stellar cast) to make it.Tim Roth is utterly wasted as Joshua, a cold blooded hitman who returns home to his family, only to sever ties with his father, brother, girlfriend, and all the people he knew. He's closest to his kid brother (played by Edward Furlong) but his relationship with his father (Maximillian Schell) is strained from a past incident, and it's never really clear what happened, and how he went from being this abused child to a morally careless assassin.Routine and Implausible doesn't even cover half of this dull and incoherent yawner. "}{"Title":"COLD GANGSTER","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was released in the wake of Pulp Fiction et al. It contained Roth (who was in vogue), and dealt with the underworld. It flopped.In many ways it is not a crowd pleaser. However i has a talented cast, deals with family tribulations well; and has a distinctive style of it's own. "},{"Title":"DAWN FADED COW HERD WITHOUT THE COWS.","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boy was this movie boring. Wait, or may be it was just so exciting that I couldn't stand it and I ran into the wall and knocked myself unconscious. Or maybe it bored me so much that I just fell asleep. All I know is that while I was watching this yarnball, I caught myself staring at the wall and wondering if Yoda had any part in my life whatsoever. After sitting through this overly exciting movie, I feel like I will live forever. -** "}]