[{"Title":"Wonderful movie with a third-act botch","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I guess you could say this contains a partial spoiler.* * * * I'm a little perplexed at the low ratings most folks seem to give this movie. I think it's because people tend to look at movies as a total product. Me, I'm the kind of guy who can appreciate a classic car, and overlook the rust spots.That's kind of where we are on this movie -- a movie that hits on seven out of eight cylinders. The problem is that romantic comedy is the most difficult of genres, and for most folks, it has to hit on all eight to work. Viewers think about their feelings; they don't analyze a romantic movie in an intellectual way, and if something doesn't quite work, they leave the theater feeling dissatisfied without knowing exactly why.This movie has so much going for it -- a good premise, clever banter, believable characters, and a romance that doesn't seem forced. And for me, there's a double appeal -- I've worked in the press/political world, and all I can say is I can tell the writers must have been there, too.Was it miscast? Was it shallow? Was the dialog unrealistic? Was everyone too cute? Was the strange bedfellows premise beyond belief? Naah. None of that.The problem is the third act. I don't want to give away too much, but we have a scene in a bar in which Michael Keaton is given some interesting information, and he has a choice to make. Now, the movie might have spun in a half-dozen interesting directions from this point -- first time I saw it, I was half-sitting up in my chair, once I recognized where the whole thing was leading. I couldn't tell quite where it was going, but I knew it was going to be mighty interesting. There was plenty of dramatic potential, the sort you always need at the start of the third act in a comedy, to make the ending seem a happy relief. The way it spun out in my mind, I suppose the movie would have gone on for another five or six scenes.But here's the trouble -- the next scene is the big climax at the balloon fiesta, and the producers settled for an ending so simple, so dishonest, so downright cheap, that I'm sure it's the thing that left the bad taste in most moviegoers' mouths. Up to this point the movie was a clever comedy of words and ideas and romance; suddenly we got slapstick.How on earth could something like this have happened? How could writers who had done such a good job up to this point have failed so miserably at the climax? My guess is that they didn't -- my guess is that someone with a complete lack of understanding of the material took a movie with a complex, adult, and somewhat ambiguous ending, something in which there were no heroes and no villains, and decided to improve it.Or maybe a different ending was shot, and it didn't test well in Pomona, and the studio tried another approach.Or maybe the studio decided to save a little money by cutting 15 minutes out of the script.But I suspect some big-time tinkering here -- something that basically spoiled the movie for most viewers, and turned a potential classic into a bomb.Wouldn't it be cool if another ending was shot -- and if someday a director's cut might be made available? There was so much right about this movie, I hated to see it spoiled by a botched last couple of minutes.Erik Smith Olympia, Wash. "},{"Title":"Nice romance - but could have been funnier and had better chemistry","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In town for a political campaign, speechwriters for the opposing sides Kevin and Julia met and share a fun evening together unaware of who the other is. Later they meet sparking a conflict that spills from their romance into the battle between the two politicians.This is a very light romantic comedy. The story is promising - romance and political competition but the delivery lets it down. The plot drops into a very lightweight romance with a touch of screwball comedy, musical score doesn't help as it has a gentle tickling tune that plays for basically the whole thing. The script doesn't have any teeth either, it's not sharp like a film set around politics should be and it's not as funny as it thinks it is. Instead it has a screwball feel to it - although it can't hold a candle to the films of the 50's that it clearly aspires to be.It's a shame because for a light movie it has a very heavy cast of well-known faces. Keaton is as good as he always is, but him and Davis lack a great chemistry and their romance isn't convincing, neither is the conflict between them. The support cast is full of well known actors - Bonnie Bedelia, Ernie Hudson, Charles Martin Smith, Mitch Ryan and Christopher Reeve. Even Steven Wright and Harry Shearer pop up for a cameo as sitcom stars Chuck and Eddie. It's a shame that such a face-heavy cast don't have better material to work with.This is a very light romantic comedy. The romance doesn't work due to the lack of spark between the two likeable stars, and the comedy isn't that funny because it isn't sharp. The director and script-writers miss a fantastic opportunity with such a great cast and a good set-up (Ron Underwood! - were City Slickers and Tremors early flukes?). The film brings out some political claws towards the end but even then they're blunted by the need for a romantic conclusion.Nice romance with some funny moments - but could have been much funnier. "},{"Title":"Although it won't leave one speechless, this is an intelligent and humorous romcom","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Julia (Geena Davis) is a longtime speechwriter, currently working on a senatorial campaign in New Mexico. Kevin (Michael Keaton) has just been hired to be the speechwriter for the opposing candidate. Both are insomniacs. Late one night, they connect at the hotel shop counter where they are both reaching for a bottle of sleeping pills. Sparks fly furiously. Neither knows the other's occupation. But, how long will it be before this big secret is revealed? And, isn't Julia engaged to a hotshot international correspondent anyway? This is a cute movie in a cactus setting. Davis and Keaton are funny and believable as the ace writers. A scene where they speak/duel before a group of school children is priceless. The supporting cast is nice, the script is quite good, and the costumes and scenery more than adequate. And, yes, the movie has some good messages about politics, wolves in sheeps clothing, and true believers. Although it won't leave anyone speechless, this intelligent, humorous love story delights its target audience very well. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Although it won't win any awards, it's a light, cute romantic comedy that should be taken as just that. There are no twists and surprises, and unless you have an extremely weak heart, you won't pass out from tension.Michael Keaten and Geena Davis, star as campaign speech writers who fall in love. The catch? They're speech writers for each other's opponents. Keaten for the Republican and Davis for the Democrat. You can basically sum up what the movie is about, and how it will end. There are no big surprises, and although these kinds of movies aren't normally my taste, I love this one. It has a certain quality that's hard to deny and the chemistry between the two actors is always there, and is very noticeable.I would recommend the film the anyone. It's light-hearted and sweet. A great watch. "},{"Title":"Competent and easy on the eye romantic comedy","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Easy on the mind, on the eyes, and on the ears.Geena Davis and Michael Keaton make the most of the best lines in the script, and support from Christopher Reeve is excellent. The film stutters on occasion and may be ten minutes or so too long, but it manages to keep you interested, just.Watch for the continuity errors when Geena manages to get herself engaged during one short bedtime phone call. The ring that didn't come from the phone!!! And what an appearance by the red Morgan convertible, put through its paces by Davis and Keaton in more than one way.Good for a night in with popcorn, chocs, and ice cream. "},{"Title":"A Tasty Portion of Adam's Rib","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" You see it all coming a mile away. The plot twists, the romance. The break up, the making up. It's obviously supposed to be a pairing like Tracy and Hepburn in Adam's Rib or Pat and Mike and you know it from the opening credits. But the strange part is, it works! (Another strange part is that Chris Reeves looks downright haggard and much older than the other two in a real miscasting. There's a welcomeness for seeing him alive and well again but he looks so much older than Davis and is so miscast in this role it is downright uncomfortable all the way around.Except for two over the top spots in the script (besides the miscasting above, Davis dragging the sleeping Keaton around a room and the ending) which is why I gave it several demerits, it really works. There is real chemistry between Keaton and Davis. I'm a big fan of Keaton in his comedy roles anyway and Geena Davis is easy on the eyes but especially sexy in this role for some reason. And that chemistry, Keaton's delivery of some funny lines and getting us through a lot of unfunny ones and Davis being quirkily beautiful (again like Hepburn), as well as their rapport together, makes this an enjoyable investment of time. Especially if you're spending it with a sweetie of your own. A tasty treat in a portion just large enough for two. "},{"Title":"Batman VS. Superman!","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In a nutshell - insomniac political speech-writers Michael Keaton and Geena Davis meet and fall madly in love late one night, but their love is held up when they discover that they are in fact writing for the rival candidates of the latest election. Also complicating matters somewhat is that Davis's fiancé, the late Christopher Reeve playing yet another reporter, is trying to win her back.Not the greatest romantic comedy ever made but it has its moments, thanks to the likable back and forth between Keaton and Davis. Also of interest for the casting of Keaton and the late Reeve as the rivals for Davis's affections, in light of the fact that Reeve and Keaton played DC comics two most iconic characters, Superman and Batman.Bonnie Bedelia and Ernie Hudson also star. "},{"Title":"Cute silly movie","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When now a days the only news one hears are tragic and when going to the movies is basically to see violence and sex, it is always refreshing to see a cute silly movie that allows you to smile and spend an hour and a half without suffering through its plot. This movie, in my opinion, carries a little bit of several styles of comedy situations that make it funny and the use of lines where you have to interpret what they are saying in order for them to make sense and allow you to smile. This movie is very local, in the sense that you have to be a native English speaking person to really understand many of the intended meanings of the dialogues. Any way it is a well spent 90 minutes of your time to relax a little and follow it through with interest. For Spanish speaking viewers, the background song NO SE TU makes it very worthwhile to watch/hear. "},{"Title":"Speechless stars Geena Davis and Michael Keaton","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Speechless is a sweet, polite, unboisterous romantic-comedy. Two talkative speechwriters working on opposing sides of the same campaign leave each other speechless, by end's time. Michael Keaton is like my favorite fellow, he's so lovably funny, and I greatly adore Geena Davis, she's so genuinely sweet. The two have good, appropriately awkward chemistry.Speechless misses the mark at being a slyly poignant romantic-comedy, with bad timing and underdeveloped story context. The writer's vision is lost through poor direction. Speechless has a pace too quickened. The movie speeds along too fast and it's hard to keep up with. The way Keaton and Davis fall for each other at the beginning is a bit unpassioned.Speechless has a nice, easygoing feel. It's a great date movie, for what it is, very nice and very enjoyable. Speechless assertively speaks the sweet language of love, and it's really good for it. "},{"Title":"Excellent Romantic Comedy.","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really liked this film and there are multiple reasons behind it. First unlike many films where the word Republican = Evil, and Democrats = Saints this film has both Senatorial candidates as being corrupt, which is fair. Next Keaton & Davis have real chemistry together, and are both on the same level (Which is rare these days. Usually it is one is rich and the other is poor, one is smart and the other is dumb, or something like that). It is also funny, (Spoiler ahead The part when they find out what the other does for a living at the school (And the reaction of the teacher and kids) is worth watching in and of itself). Finally, this is not a chick flick which in 99% of cases, is an absolute turn-off from the get go. It is mostly told from Kevin's (Keaton's)point of view, which means that as a straight guy, I could watch it without changing the channel. Frankly, I have seen one too many films with women trying on wedding dresses (Sad to say, these women are not exactly hot to begin with). Is it the best romantic comedy of all-time? No Blind Date, Stakeout, Adventures In Babysitting & almost anything starring Myrna Loy (Most notably Libeled Lady & I Love You Again)are my personal favorites. But it is well worth watching. Highly recommended. "}{"Title":"Well-Written and Well-Performed....","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Robert King's intelligent writing, Director Ron Underwood's eased direction & Likable Performances by Keaton & Davis make 'Speechless' a great one-time watch.'Speechless' has a interesting plot of of two opposites attracting to each other. The protagonists face-off each other as Speech-writers. The political portions, the humorous scenes keep the proceedings alive. The climax has a good twist and penultimate scene does get a smile in your face.If there is something that goes wrong in here, that is clearly it's slow-pace. No it's not boring at all, but yet you feel some portions could've been easily edited, especially the character of the Late Christopher Reeve.But there's no denying that this underrated flick deserves a watch. No it doesn't leave you 'Speechles', but surely manages to entertain. "},{"Title":"perfect romance!","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie STILL remains my favorite romance film of all time! The yearning; the indecision; the misunderstanding; the confusion; the thrill of having to keep their encounters undercover; the fact they both landed at the same love song (No Se Tu); the prove it test Julia gives Kevin; and BEST of all, the SENSE-OF-HUMOR unites all the elements for a PERFECT LOVE story. I truly appreciated the character of Julia because she wasn't your typical woman rescued by a rich-guy as most romance movies have it. And how can one not melt for Kevin's vulnerable openness and the fact he was not intimidated by Julia's success but rather appreciated her for it. All my friends can have their Pride and Prejudice, but I know better than to under-estimate the melting power of a funny guy. I should know, I married one--still chuckling 27 years and counting. "},{"Title":"predictable but enjoyable","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Speechless is a 1994 charmer starring Michael Keaton and the always dainty Geena Davis. It's at times slow, very predictable, but highly entertaining nevertheless. The main problem with the movie itself...is the movie itself. Unfortunately, the early 90's is when Hollywood decided to get incredibly lazy, and we started cranking out movies like this that were so basic, it looked as if it could have just been a made for TV movie, or a Hallmark movie. In spite of it all, Speechless succeeds in being a very charming, but borderline forgettable romance comedy. It almost seemed as if the whole movie could have been wrapped up within 30 minutes tops, so we have endless filler for the other hour, however, the filler used in such a manner that you wouldn't even notice it. Some of the filler includes...dancing bears. ( If you have to ask, you have to watch.)I did laugh at a lot of scenes, but later on, I questioned why it was so funny, but it just was at the time. When I review a movie, I base it on several factors, all boiling down to not only what I think of it, but what others may think of it as well. This being a borderline romance flick that just doesn't have enough appeal to make it somewhat memorable, and yet being enjoyable all at the same time, I'm giving Speechless 5 out of 10...hands down! "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" SpeechlessBeing a speechwriter must be very erotic, since you have to imagine your audience not wearing any clothes.However, the only people that the speechwriters in this romantic-comedy want to see nude are each other.Two insomniac writers, Kevin (Michael Keaton) and Julia (Geena Davis), form a sexual relationship during sleepless nights at an all-night diner.Solidifying their relationship based on the knowledge that each other is in the writing profession, both are later stunned when they find out that they are being pitted against each other on either side of a heated political battle.Matters are made worse when Julia's old flame, a hotshot war correspondent (Christopher Reeve), returns.A sharply written love story that encompasses two strange bedfellows, Speechless delivers both bipartisan belly laughs and relevant musings on working relationships.And while dating a rival speechwriter sounds hot, flirting through the elderly male candidates could get awkward. (Yellow Light)vidiotreviews.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Nice competent rom-com","Date":"5 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kevin Vallick (Michael Keaton) and Julia Mann (Geena Davis) are two speech writers working for opposing sides in a campaign. Of course they fall for each other immediately over sleeping pills, but end up in a love hate relationship.The two leads have great chemistry together. They make for a fun competitive couple. If there's anything missing, it's an edge. There's nothing in particular wrong with a light-hearted, light-weight rom-com. But the politics is hopelessly naive and out of date. Overall it's a sweet likable watch with some fun exchanges. It's just nothing that exciting. "},{"Title":"Speechless","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I gotta admit, when I first saw this film, I didn't like it. I had a chance to watch again (being a BIG Michael Keaton fan), and hey, it's really good. Geena Davis, another wonderful actor, and Keaton, play off one another so well. And it's fun to think back on Beetlejuice. She and Keaton again. And to watch Christopher Reeves makes one realize how we've lost such a great actor and human being. Watch for the early car scene when they've returned to the hotel early in the morning. It's a hoot. I also loved Charles Martin Smith; he's just good in everything. Remember him? He was the goofy guy in American Graffiti. Yes, this movie has some corny laughs, but the majority are very funny and Keaton/Davis really connect; they are very believable. Don't miss the scene where Keaton and Reeves are talking around the pool table; that's also a gem. Enjoy this one; it'll make you laugh when you need a laugh. "},{"Title":"A great romantic comedy!","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I thought this movie was really sweet. I actually had watched it right after Long Kiss Goodnight, which also stars Geena Davis, and this was a complete role reverse. Julia (Geena Davis) is working for Democrat running for President, while Kevin (Michael Keaton) is working for the republican he is up against. Both are speech writers for the candidates. It is cute how they find out because both are asked to speak to a school about their jobs and when they both show up they end up going back and forth in front of everyone about how the other one lied and so on. The ironic thing is, one of the guys Julia is working with says she should run next, and then 12 years later, Geena Davis is President Mackenzie Allen in Commander In Chief! "},{"Title":"SPEECHLESS is a light-hearted, touching, and funny love story that deserves your positive vote!  (Some language and situations not suitable for young children.)","Date":"16 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I'm glad the writers of this movie were NOT speechless! Politics does make strange bedfellows, but this film was written well enough that it didn't require bed scenes for it to be entertaining to adults and proves that love can be a funny thing.The very witty banter between Keaton's and Davis' characters is lively and thoroughly enjoyable. Their chemistry is wonderful and believable. The storyline is credible, too. It probably doesn't happen often inside opposite political camps but, just as Carville and Matlin are living examples that relationships can survive working for opposing party candidates, you'll savor watching the film's characters discover that love is the most important party.I voted SPEECHLESS an 8 &#150; it's one you'll enjoying recalling again and again. "},{"Title":"Keaton & Davis (together again)","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a surprising film to see after viewing *Beetlejuice*. It's difficult to descry Keaton under all the makeup in the horror/comedy classic, but he's there, and he's here too, without the makeup but clearly with a range and depth that are obvious just from comparing these two films.If I were teaching a film course and wanted to show how good an actor Keaton is, I'd choose these two and show them back to back. Of course, his range is also shown by comparing these two films to *Pacific Heights*, *Johnny Dangerously*, and the numerous other films he's made, no two alike. There is no typecasting for Keaton, except hire good actor here. *Speechless* is a wordy comedy in the Neil Simon tradition, with nice cutting and an obvious revulsion to cliché except when it's being made fun of (such as the ending). Few comedies make me laugh out loud. This one did. "},{"Title":"ahhahahaha","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  the only reason I saw this was to see SUPERMAN and BATMAN in the same film. apart from that.it sucked. totally lame story totally lame everything. but reeve and keaton gave us a glimpse of what their onscreen presence would have been like in a team up "}{"Title":"GREAT chemistry between the leads","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'm stunned at the low IMDB voter ratings for this movie.  My wife and I find it to be a very winning piece by two of our favorite performers.  With the glaring exception of one outrageous, ill-conceived scene, this movie makes us smile each time we see it.  The fact that it had some reality basis makes it just a little bit more intriguing.  I HIGHLY recommend it. "},{"Title":"Funny, but not worth owning it","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film had some humorous parts, but whoever filmed this movie has no idea  what the Albuquerque Balloon Fiesta really looks like. It did New Mexico a  true injustice. I'd pay 49 cents to rent it, but I certainly wouldn't own  it.  "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If 'Speechless' had two other lead actors it was probably a bad and most of all boring movie. Not that the movie is good now, but it is definitely not boring either. Kevin (Michael Keaton) and Julia (Geena Davis) are both speech writers for different candidates in an election. They meet, have a lot of fun, are not honest about their professions, and fall in love. Not much later they discover they are from different teams and there are some funny scenes where they can't stand each other. Slowly they become friends again, but by that point Julia's former fiance Bob Freed (Christopher Reeve) has come back and they have decided to try it one more time. Of course you can pretty much guess the rest of the story.The story is not good, too predictable even for a romantic comedy. The movie can be funny at times, not because the jokes are so good but because Keaton and Davis are so good. They deserve a better movie, this movie can be happy they are in it. They have a nice chemistry and the dialogue between them can be quite funny as well, although Keaton takes it a little too far sometimes. Again, I guess this is the fault of the movie and not of Keaton. For the actors you can watch it but there are many better romantic comedies. "},{"Title":"Delightful!","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Speechless is delightful! The chemistry between Davis and Keaton is the best I have seen in a long time. In my opinion, this is Davis at her best! Plus, the story is very interesting. I also give high marks for Christopher Reeve and it is sad to see that this was one of his last pre-accident movies. As with most romantic comedies these days, the characters have to go to bed, but thankfully, it is kept off screen.I give this film a B.  "},{"Title":"Good acting ruined by bad writing","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite some decent acting by the leads (Davis and Keaton) and even the supporting cast, they couldn't do much with this dud. I think the script was mostly to blame although one wonders how the director let such lame material make it to the screen.Someone should cast Davis and Keaton together in a well-written romantic comedy -- they looked good together and can even pull off some funny physical comedy.  "},{"Title":"Good acting ruined by bad writing","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Despite some decent acting by the leads (Davis and Keaton) and even the supporting cast, they couldn't do much with this dud. I think the script was mostly to blame although one wonders how the director let such lame material make it to the screen.Someone should cast Davis and Keaton together in a well-written romantic comedy -- they looked good together and can even pull off some funny physical comedy.  "},{"Title":"Speechless or Scriptless? Gives new meaning to far fetched.","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Gena Davis and Michael Keaton fall in love at first sight. OK, I'm still with them. They BOTH are involved in OPPOSING political campaigns, neither knowing about the other's activities at first. OK, it's about 10,000 to 1 now. After several additional twists and turns (resulting in incredibly unlikely situations), they end up together, apparently living happily ever after. Now the odds have increased to about 10 million to one! This story is about as likely as the unspeakably unbelievable love story delivered by Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks in You've Got Mail. I was entertained by this light fluff, especially when their song was worked in. The two leads worked well together, no problem there. I just found the story to be shamefully unbelievable. If you enjoy romantic comedies, you're getting a great romance, but be warned of the I Love Lucy lunacies! "},{"Title":"Semi-cute","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Also shallow and predictable-very predictable. This romantic comedy about speech writers in opposing political camps is fluff and cotton candy, kind of like something from Neil Simon without the bite and with only a quarter of the wit. The candidates and the issues are trivialized and made into clichés. (But that's good.) Must have been written by a speech writer! She's a liberal Democrat and he's an amoral Republican hired gun. It might have been more interesting if they had switched them around. It's all surface and sound bite mentality including the performances by the leads, Geena Davis and Michael Keaton, who together produce enough chemistry to rival cold dishwater. If you're really, really bored and it's a choice between, say, a rerun of Suddenly Susan and this, flip a coin. Or better yet, go scrub the kitchen floor. This is the sort of mush that will turn your brain to cottage cheese.Some observations Christopher Reeve is sadly miscast he makes a very soft heavy. Geena can smile and smile and smile and occasionally frown. Big deal. Poor Bonnie Bedelia. They made her look so dowdy, so as not to up stage Davis. It must be frustrating to know that not only are you more talented than the star, you are even better looking; but for an actress in Hollywood, younger always wins out.Uh...Michael Keaton, next time, so as not to look like the leading lady's younger brother, try elevator shoes.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"I was left 'speechless'!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was left 'speechless'...with happiness at this film.(I might reveal a little of the plot, so if you don't want to know any thing about what happens go to the last paragraph- this is marked with a *)I thought the idea was quite inventive- speech writers on opposing campaigns find themselves attracted to each other.  This premise left a lot of room for comic situations (my favourite is when they are in the school).The cast is great too.  Geena Davis and Michael Keaton are captivating as the two leads and they are both really funny, by the end of the film you are really hoping they get together.  They are supported by many other able actors, most notably Christopher Reeve.The story and humour never feel forced and the ending is brilliant.*This film has a great cast, great plot and is really entertaining, so go and watch it! "}]