[{"Title":"A good, watchable movie despite its flaws.","Date":"25 April 1999","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Compared to previous attempts by competing studios to break Disney's stranglehold on the animated film market, The Swan Princess really is a good movie. The animation does not quite have Disney's finesse and got a little rough in places, but was still watchable and generally pleasing to the eye, unlike, say, Thumbelina. The songs, though not particularly memorable and vaguely cheesy in the manner of much older animated flicks, did not bring the movie to a grinding halt and actually managed to, in general, help it along. It has a plot.That's not to say that The Swan Princess doesn't have its problems, mostly in its characters. The titular lead, Princess Odette, is a flat failure as a heroine--she never *does* anything except lead her one true love, Prince Derrick, to her--and even then, she only does that because her animal friends, Puffin, Speed the turtle, and Jean-Bob the frog, cook up the plan for her.Derrick is much more likeable, and though throughout most of the movie he is a flaming idiot, he is a likeable and sympathetic flaming idiot--and he does learn. His mistakes are, as a rule, human and understandable, and in the end it is he who saves the day and finally learns the movie's apparent lesson--that beauty is not all there is in matters of love or anything else.The development of their relationship is refreshing--rather than falling in love at first sight, they start out hating each other with a passion, and it takes them years--spanned capably over the course of one amusing if sugary song--to realize that they do love each other. And then Derrick blows it(!), and spends the rest of the movie scrambling to recover from his mistake.The end battle was satisfying, though in general I prefer for the heroine to help save their hides in some manner. The movie-makers were not afraid to beat the living daylights out of their hero, and though the save he pulls in the end is nothing short of miraculous, it was at least shown much earlier to be within his princely capabilities.Despite its flaws, I found The Swan Princess to be a satisfying and re-watchable movie--though I did catch myself agreeing with Derrick's comment (stated early in the movie) that he could do much better.  "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" *sigh* I was like around 2 years old when it came out and apparently it was a favorite of mine along with the Disney classics and such. And even though I'm 13 now.. i still love it. A total classic love story where the two lovers are separated and the Prince has to find the Princess. I love the songs 'This Is My Idea' and 'Far Longer Than Forever'. This Is My Idea is probably my favorite because it shows Odette and Derek grow up together and it's quite funny when they come to the This is not my idea.. This isn't my idea.. of fun since it usually concludes humorous scenes. Any young child would love it.. especially girls. The animal-trio are hilarious especially Jean-Bob and Speed. "},{"Title":"i still love this movie","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was my favorite sage of movies when I was 3. I still love them to this day when I am 15. This movie tells the timeless tale of two lovers who are drawn apart by one shallow prince who eventually learns that there is more to love than looks and beauty. When Derek goes on his quest to find Odette, he realizes how much he really does love her and his kingdom gets sick of hearing about here. The music is spectacular as well. I love the songs Far Longer Than Forever and This Is My Idea. This Is My Idea shows Derek and Odette growing up and you notice that every year their relationship grows until one summer when they realize how much they really do love each other. When they are pulled apart by Rothbart and how shallow Derek is, they sing the duet Far Longer Than Forever about their everlasting love for each other. Anyone who does not like even the first movie has a real issue. Even though the saga got kind of lame as the years went by, they still hit me close to home. "},{"Title":"Whimsical children's tale, good animation and storytelling","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's been a little while since I had seen The Swan Princess, but I could distinctly recall many scenes from it. I'd always enjoyed it before, so I decided to watch it again - for the most part, it still holds up.Of course, it's a children's tale, so some slack must be given; it's not going to be as well-rounded (entertainment-wise) as a movie like Toy Story, but it does contain its fair share of adult-oriented jokes along with silly physical humor that will amuse children.The story is pretty basic - a lovely princess is destined to marry a prince, but an evil sorcerer (voiced by the diabolical Jack Palance) has other plans and kills the princess' father, locks the daughter away and casts a spell on her so that she turns into a swan at night.It's predictable, but it's got a great vocal cast, and the animation is pretty good. Give it a shot. Avoid the unnecessary cash-in sequel. "},{"Title":"So what, if its corny.","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Boo, Boo! I say to all reviewers who think it is corny, so what. I love it anyway.This is a type of film Disney is known for making, instead it is made by Columbia Tristar. The story is basically about a princess called Odette who is kidnapped by an evil sorcerer, Lord Rothbart who puts a spell on her that turns her into a swan and the only way the spell can be broken is if Prince Derek declares his love for Odette.Jack Palance plays Rothbart as a pantomime villain.I like the love story between Odette and Derek especially when they start of not liking one another.It has some very funny scenes and lines. The two scenes that stand out for me is when the Prince is practicing his marksmanship with painted arrows and the targets are musicians dressed up as animals. Another is Jean-Bob, a frog voiced by John Cleese who is convinced he is a prince and that if he kisses Odette he will become one.The songs are very memorable and catchy, I especially liked the songs Practice, practice, practice, No fear, and This is my idea. The animation is just amazing, the movement is so realistic and the scene at the end is awesome as it is at night, you can see the shadows of the water, the moon sparkling and the swans flying by.This film has it all- romance, humour, magic, action, brilliant animation and a moral story where good triumphs over evil. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was very young when this movie came out, so I grew up watching it. I have ALWAYS loved this movie. I just barely watched it over again (because now I'm in high-school and I hadn't watched it in a long time), and I still love it! It's true that it does have it's flaws, but they're nothing huge. It's still better than most Disney movies that I've seen (but then again, that's just my personal opinion).I agree with those who say that the sidekicks are the best; but Derek's sidekicks are just as amusing as Odette's. I love Brom and Queen Uberta; but Rodgers remains my favorite character of the movie. I love his sarcastic humor- You should write a book; How to offend women in 5 syllables or less. Come on- that's hilarious! I also like that Chamberlain guy. He has my favorite line of the whole film; Oh! the milkman- it must be the milkman!....... Well... it's not the milkman. I think that the biggest flaw in the whole play was Princess Odette; she is supposed to be the heroine, and she never does anything! OK, she finds Derek and gets him to come to the lake, but she couldn't have even done that without Puffin, Speed and Jean-Bob. No offense, but when Derek said, What else is there? He was kind of on to something.And contrary to what most people say, I loved all the music- even No More Mr. Nice Guy. My favorite song is This is My Idea, simply because it's funny, and I don't mind it getting stuck in my head (which it tends to do a lot).I just think that there's something in the Swan Princess for every age (though keep in mind that I can only attest to 15). It's a movie that every girl would enjoy seeing at least once. "},{"Title":"A nice '80s princess story... when was this made?","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is very much an 80s style animation with the singing, the drawing, and the subject matter.Prince Derek and Princess Odette are forced to spend their summers together by their widowed parents hoping for them to fall in love. Just when they seem to do just that, Derek says You're beautiful., and Odette ask What else?. Derek could only reply What else is there?.Then the evil sorcerer Lord Rothbart kidnaps Odette then places her under a spell that turns her into a swan and back to a woman when she's on the lake as the moon rise. When moonlight leaves the lake, she's turn back into a swan. The only way to break the spell is to have her love make a vow of everlasting love.All the characters are straight out of 80s Disney movies. And quite frankly, it works on that terms. The animation, the jokes, the princess subject, the songs... all of it works but only on that term. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I happen to think that this was a very cute fantasy movie. It does not copy The Swan Lake and it is original. However, it has some good love scenes and I liked it in the sense that it was very fun to watch. I still remember the movie from when I've seen it years ago. It has pretty good animation and good songs to remember. The music is nice to listen to. The characters are displayed well and the voices are clear. This movie is adorable. I liked it very much and it was memorable. There are two sequels following it that I enjoyed as well. The third one was very funny. Anyways, The Swan Princess was satisfying. This is a great movie to show to kids and adults. "},{"Title":"Errr.... I don't know where to start...","Date":"16 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was the first film I ever saw in the cinema. And even as a 3 year old I knew this was terrible. I'm just going to summarize this as much as possible. Who is Odettes mother? I mean it would have been nice to get a glimpse of her even if she died of childbirth. Plus when I watch this now I just think the King may have banged one of the maids or something. And what happens to Odette's dad? You see him half dead and Prince Derek, a selfish arse, doesn't bother helping him. Which brings me down to this why is Lord Rothbart not just going to King Williams Kingdom and taking it over? He killed the King got Odette under a spell what's stopping him? Ohhh the law. Like duh bad guys have to follow the rules don't they? He wants to marry Odette to make it legit. No bad guy would go through all that trouble not when he can cast spells and turn into a giant bat. And how long exactly has Odette been under that spell? Selfish arse Derek keeps going on about, I'll find Odette, she's like totally the one. Yet all I see you doing is playing with your bow. You see him do some pathetic research in the library which made me laugh. A mouse to a DRAGON! That must be what the king was talking about! The King certainly could've given more information for he must have known it was Rothbart unless in his old age his memory has gone. But when Puffin came into it Odette said that Speed and Jean-bob were her best friends seriously how long have they been friends for to become best friends? However I do like Speed, Jean-bob and Puffin. I was worried they were going to be obnoxious and annoying side kicks but I actually liked them. They showed more emotion than Derek and Odette combined. And Lord Rogers was my favourite character. I don't know why there's a humorous charm about him. And there is of course the classic scene that always makes me laugh. Odette Is beauty all that matters to you? Queen Uberta Derek, what else? Derek What else is there? LOL! He's either an arse or just gullible. I like to call him a selfish arse (can you tell). And this Love does seem like petty teenage hormones the way Derek is like, Duh your so hot! I'd bang you then run away. At least with Odette she is a little more mature about it, rather than diving in she hesitates which I admire until they both sing together. She starts singing about how much she loves him and that she knows he's looking for her blah blah blah... I'm sorry but if I asked my boyfriend that same question and he said, What else is there? He'd be in the dog house. I would be so angry with him... Which again must suggest that there is a time frame from the point she gets captured to the point Prince Derek decides he's lonely and wants the blondie. Which I guess could suggest absence makes the heart grow fonder but we don't see any of that. We're just left with, er Derek is a selfish arse. Oh er and then after he's played with his bow for a few weeks or months even he decides to go find Odette. I could be wrong but I feel there is something missing in between. Like you don't instantly become best friends with someone in a few days plus the way Odette, Speed and Jean- bob talk to each other it kinda feels like that they have been there for each for a long time. I'm probably reading way too much into it but for my first ever cinema trip... Ugh talk about disappointing.Sorry there is one other thing - a good point too. The animation is beautiful. I love the colours of the sky, the lake and there are some nice cinematic shots. It's really quite beautiful but the story line is inconclusive and broken in areas and the sub characters are way more interesting. "},{"Title":"The Swan Princess","Date":"19 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was one of those cartoons I had heard about so many times, and I knew at least one of the actors doing a voice in it, I knew it wasn't going to be Disney standard quality of animation or storytelling, but I was still willing to try it, from director Richard Rich (The Fox and the Hound, The Black Cauldron). Basically Princess Odette (Michelle Nicastro) and Prince Derek (Howard McGillin) were forced by their parents as children to many summers together in the hope they that they would grow become close and eventually fall in love, they hates each other, but as adults they may finally to develop mutual attraction, but after a little offence he causes she is not sure he truly loves her for more than just her beauty. Years ago vengeful sorcerer Lord Rothbart (Jack Palance) was banished from the kingdom for attempting to cast evil spells and take the kingdom for himself, but he has returned to take revenge, disguised as the Great Creature he can turn into he manages to kidnap Odette, and fatally wounds her father King William (Dakin Matthews), Derek vows to train himself to kill the beast that killed the king and save the life of his true love. While Derek's training goes on and believing that the princess is still alive for him to save and convince of his love, Odette has had a curse placed on her by the evil enchanter, at his castle lair on Swan Lake she will turn into a swan in the daylight, and if she does not to return to the water when the moonlight shines she will not temporarily turn human for the night time, Rothbart will only lift the curse if she agrees to marry him so he can legally take the kingdom, she continues to refuse. While cursed Odette makes friends with friendly tortoise Speed (Steven Wright), frog Jean- Bob (John Cleese) who believes he is also cursed and if kissed will become a human prince, and the puffin bird named Puffin (Steve Vinovich), they sympathise with her wanting to return to the kingdom as a human and be with her true love, Derek refuses to let her mother Queen Uberta (Sandy Duncan) make him marry someone unless he truly loves them. Prince Derek does eventually find Odette as the swan, but he wrongly assumes she is the Great Creature, but he does see her turn temporarily human at night, but she is trapped by Rothbart before she can make any escape and stop the proposed bride seeking and potential wedding ceremony for the prince, and with the evil sorcerer disguised as the princess he hopes to make the prince express his true love to the fake, therefore allowing him to take the kingdom. In the end Rothbart in the form of the Great Creature is defeated by Derek firing the one arrow through his heart, the swan curse of Odette is lifted, and the couple finally embrace their true love for each other, marry, unite the kingdom and the two families and they all live happily ever after. Also starring Liz Callaway as Princess Odette (singing voice), Mark Harelik as Lord Rogers, James Arrington as Chamberlain, Davis Gaines as Chamberlain (singing voice), Joel McKinnon Miller as Bromley and Brian Nissen as the Narrator. You can tell by the animation style that this film was a rather low budget, the story does have it's fair share of predictable and cheesy moments, and most of the songs are lame, but the voice casting is chosen well enough, Palance making a good villain, and Cleese and Wright adding the needed comic relief, I suppose it will entertain most of the family, not a bad animated musical fairytale. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Song for Far Longer than Forever. Worth watching! "}{"Title":"Not my idea of fun, indeed!","Date":"8 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have always passed up the offers of watching The Swan Princess because I had the impression that it was a cheap Disney rip-off of inferior quality. I have also avoided other animated films, such as Anastasia, for the same reason. Recently I became unemployed so had more free time and on a whim I decided to watch Anastasia, expecting it to be a cheese fest which would leave me cringing and rolling my eyes. Car crash TV if you will, which I was in the mood for at the time. To my surprise I absolutely loved it. Well, it is clearly not one of the best movies of all time, but I can't deny that it is one of my favourite animated movies. Which brings me to The Swan Princess my surprise at enjoying Anastasia so much encouraged me to give this movie a go. I regret this decision.The animation is sub-par. Honestly, you'd think they could have made it look a little less like a My Little Pony episode and more of the quality of their main competitors, Disney. Now don't get me wrong, I wasn't looking for animation of say Aladdin quality. Anastasia's animation isn't that good either after all, and that didn't affect my enjoyment. In this case though it really is just like a cheap cartoon which in turn makes me feel like I'm watching something aimed solely at little children rather than an animated movie for all ages (such as Disney movies or indeed Anastasia, which I feel I'm starting to gush about).The songs are awful. No joke. Again to use Anastasia as a comparison A's songs aren't the best, but they are more mature I guess. I don't mean lyrically, I mean in sound and indeed in how they are performed. SP's opening song is abysmal. This isn't my idea of fun indeed. Using a song for a montage showing time passing is a fine idea, but the song needs to be decent and well..the singers should have decent voices too. The kids singing these parts were awful. For an example of how to do that type of scene right, see Do You Want To Build A Snowman? from Disney's most recent release, Frozen. I would continue but there's only so many ways I can say that the songs suck.The story. Oh I could accept this story maybe if the animation and music were better. It is one cliché after another, with one boring cardboard cut out character after another. I didn't like either Odette or Derek for various reasons, in Derek's case he's just a class A pillock and I found myself rooting against him. Odette is just boring, no wonder he only liked her for her looks. What else is there? is a fair question when you consider who she actually is. A pretty face. Allegedly anyway, she's not the best looking animated character I've ever seen. But I digress. The villain was also stupid and made no sense. He wanted to take over the kingdom but refused to just take it, even though the king was dead and his heir had vanished?! No, he wanted to do it legally by marrying Odette. Stupidest villain I can think of, he didn't deserve the kingdom by that point. At least other villains have decent plans! All in all, I was so disappointed by this movie. I'm not sure if it is aimed at a wide audience or solely at children, but in my opinion if they were attempting a movie which would appeal to a wide range of age groups, they certainly misfired on this one. I cannot see what this movie has which would appeal to anyone over the age of 8. Disney it most certainly is not. And there I was thinking Disney try-hards couldn't get worse than Thumbelina! "},{"Title":"A cult classic that has been stuck with me since my childhood","Date":"14 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" After Disney released The Lion King which has been met with critical praise and became a success at the box office for the company, Disney animator Richard Rich (known for directing The Fox and the Hound and The Black Cauldron) teams up with New Line Cinema to make their very first animated feature, The Swan Princess, based on the Swan Lake ballet.It tells the story about two kids named Derek & Odette who started to hate each other for about a long time until one day, as young adults, they finally realize that they do love each other, but Derek ruins the wedding by saying What else is there? and they will never see each other again. Meanwhile, an evil sorcerer named Rothbart captures Odette and turns her into a swan that would only turn her back into a human as the moon rises. As Derek tries to find Odette by learning from his mistake, Odette and her animal friends Jean-Bob, a frog, Speed, a turtle, and Puffin, a bird attempts to bring her back to Derek.I first saw this film when I was a child and it has been stuck with me ever since even as a young adult (I'm turning 19 soon, by the way). It still holds up, but there are two problems that I do have with this classic. The animation is beautiful and colorful, but is a bit deflated some of the time. Derek is a bland character, but is a somewhat sympathetic character since he learned that to love a woman is to prove his love for her.Flaws aside, everything else still holds up. The story is very original and sticks closely to the ballet without any ballet dances which works for me. The characters are charming and likable; Odette is a beautiful and feisty character and I liked her hair as well. The side characters including Bromley, Rogers (whose line How To Offend Women In 5 Syllables Or Less made me laugh) and Uberta, who never fails to steal every scene in the movie. The animal sidekicks including Jean-Bob, Speed, and Puffin are excellent. The villain Rothbart, voiced by the late Jack Palace, is great and his motives, although over-the-top, are very amusing. The songs, on the whole, are pleasant and memorable to listen to especially Far Longer Than Forever. Even the ending is satisfying. The battle between Derek and Rothbart is the best highlight of the movie because it represents some of the past-Disney films with a style and tone to it.Overall, The Swan Princess isn't a masterpiece, but it's by no means a cult classic that has been stuck with me since my childhood. It may have received a mixed reception when it was first released, but I'm recommending this to those who love Disney and Non-Disney films. "},{"Title":"This movie is so worth watching!","Date":"20 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Out of the Richard Rich animations, this is definitely the best. Here's why. I was hugely disappointed in the King and I, and Black Cauldron failed on character development. Swan Princess is an excellent movie, that is much better than the above titles. The weakest character was Derek, he was a bit of a drip, whereas Odette is a feisty and beautiful character, and I actually loved her hair. The voice cast is highly commendable- Jack Palance came alive in a positively booming way with the character of Lord Rothbart, who is a great villain and John Clesse is sidesplittingly funny as Jean Bob. There are some really funny lines You should write a book...How to offend women in 5 syllables or less.(Jean Bob and Rodgers get the best of them) Can I also say, that this is one of the few animations that makes excellent use of the evil-sorcerer-back-for-revenge formula? The animation is actually not as bad as most people say, a bit deflated at times, but very nice mostly with some pretty colours and the songs are sweet and memorable especially Far Longer Than Forever. This is My Idea is a long song but also catchy and is a good look at how Derek and Odette went to hating each other to loving. I also absolutely loved the incidental music, and the ending is satisfying. Other than that, it is so worth watching! 8/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"One of my favourite non Disney movies as a kid","Date":"13 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have the VHS for this which is 16 years old and I always watch it whenever there is nothing on TV.The film is about a beautiful princess named Odette who falls in love with a handsome prince named Derek whom she met as a kid and the two of them don't get along at first but as they are brought together every summer they fall in love with each other.Of course when Odette gets older an evil warlock wants her from himself and when she refuses to marry him as he is taking over her kingdom every time the moon goes she is magically transformed into a swan and when the moon comes back the next day she is turned back into a human again.Although its kinda silly in a way and a bit old-fashioned but I like this film for a very long time as it was fun,cute,romantic and sweet. The songs were so sweet like For longer than forever was such a romantic ballad and that other song No more Mr nice guy which had me smiling for days. The characters were colorful,the plot was nice and cheerful,the ending was nice.If you like transformation movies like Beauty & the Beast,Brother Bear,The Little Mermaid then check it out.8/10 "},{"Title":"A middle of the road movie","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The plot is as follows once upon time in generic there lived a king who very much wanted a child. One day he got one a daughter and decided to marry her off to the son of the old widow queen Uberta. But when the day comes the princess is cursed by an evil sorcerer and transformed to a swan it's up to the prince to save her.The Plot. The plot is stolen from Disney movies most notably Sleeping beauty but this movie is way way way worse than that masterpiece. The plot is not bad just bland and uninteresting.The characters. The ones that aren't stolen from other animated movies are dull. Derk is a nonentity and Odette is nice but dull. The villain's your ordinary power hungry magician . The only one that has some life is The queen who is fun and entertaining The voice work is good from the likes Pontus Gustafson(The Jungle Book) , Lars Edström(Professor Calculus in Tintin) and Torsten Wahlund( the Seacrow Island movies) Nothing great but good. It's well done and i have nothing to complain about .The stand out being Christina Schollin as the queen..The song . The song are a mixed bag some move the plot along like No Fear while some grind it to a halt like Far Longer Than Forever. No More Mr. Nice Guy is fun but pointless and the actor(Swedish voice) is not really a singer.All in all The Swan Princess is not bad. But it's dull ,lifeless, pointless and very cliché.If you have kids there are far far far worse thing to put on ( most made in Sweden). But they are also much better things to show them the film is mediocre. "},{"Title":"The worst film I've ever seen!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Honestly I have never seen in film during the year I was born being the worst! I haven't seen this film today and when I just seen it today, I just was heavily disappointed! The beginning just had a terrible opening Odette and Prince Derek were cheesing each other off from childhood to adulthood. I mean c'mon it's suppose to be a fairytale, not a stupid teenage film! Did they not think of the children viewers at all?I also found that one of the kid actors voices were just awful, they didn't sound like their own normal human voice, it sounded more like a badly synchronised robot voice. I don't know why this film won a Golden Globe because this film is awful and I wouldn't show this to kids, it is such a terrible movie! "},{"Title":"The Swan Princess is a lively and entertaining animated film for children and the occasional teenager (like me).","Date":"7 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here is a brief introduction into the plot, without giving too much away Two young sovereigns grow up together with the knowledge that they will someday marry, to their dismay. Once matured, the princess, Odette, is captured and Prince Derek must rescue her from a mystical, evil sorcerer who wants nothing more than to take Odette's kingdom and rule with her as queen. She is cursed to transform into a swan during the day until she agrees to concede to her captor's terms, as Derek continues to desperately search for Odette, whilst everyone else loses hope on ever finding the Swan Princess.This is one of the funniest movies of all time, in my opinion. Especially the first song. )) I've loved this movie since I was a kid, and I am sixteen now. The story lacks adult dimension, but the humor is undeniable and the characters are very fun indeed. If you liked Anastasia, you'll probably enjoy this film. My sister and I's favorite. An all-around cute, entertaining princess story with a magical twist. Would definitely recommend! "},{"Title":"Amazing years ago and still amazing","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well I personally loved the movie when I was little and still love it now as an adult. It was that movie that I could watch 100 times and still love it. It had everything you wanted from a movie, it has fantasy, mystery, action, romance, comedy, and drama. It had songs you would be singing the next day, it had unforgettable quote what else is there?. The movie isn't for everyone especially people who prefer visually stunning pieces or deeper character depth. They don't go into great characterization especially of the romances, as they just seem to fall in love. Showing this recently to little cousins they don't see the brilliance of the story behind the movie. I love this movie and the sequels. Not for everyone but a favorite of mine. "},{"Title":"Odette's Locket is AWESOME!","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is quite excellent for a cartoon. I miss the days when children's viewing hearkened back to a (however flawed and altered) folksy/fairy tale past and when one could re-watch what they once viewed as children and still find charm, humor and appeal in what they saw (children watching Camp Rock and Hannah Montana, I apologize in advance for what you will be missing).As for the movie's little flaws, the sort of love they fall into, as well as how quickly they fall is questionable, but that's a fairy tale for you. The same can be said about, and a question was asked about this, the invisible mother who gives birth to Odette and then vanishes. On the more positive side, because there are indeed many positives, the characters for the most part are entertaining and quite believable with small bits of spunk and cleverness liberally applied. The songs have a genuinely unique appeal to them, like a warm cup of cocoa with melty marshmallows. The story and dialog has visible care and interest invested in it, and the creativity in the scenery and attention to detail makes an extra contribution to an already wonderful viewing experience.All in all, it's the kind of thing you are glad you feel nostalgia towards/about. Definitely worth a first and then many subsequent viewings. It's no theory trip, but it's lovely for something fun, young, beautiful, clever and warm. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"On the Higher End of Children's  Movies","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Swan Princess is one of those films that you kept on your movie shelf from when you were six, rediscover it when you're 16, and find new things to love about it. Granted, I can't pinpoint exactly what makes this film so enjoyable for me.It doesn't really offer anything spectacular or revolutionary, but the story is sweet, the characters are entertaining, and Odette and Derik's relationship actually has legitimacy to it. It just instills a happy feeling inside you, and it's nice to watch a movie like that every once and awhile (or every other weekend, if you're me ))Odette was a fantastic heroine, even if she wasn't a Mulan by comparison. While she may not have possessed brawny strength or great intellect, she was emotionally strong and self confident. When she asked Derik to tell her what he loved about her besides her beauty, and he flubbed it, she dumped him, because she didn't want to marry someone that didn't respect her even though she loved him. When she was captured and cursed by Rothbart, she refused to give into his demands, even though it would be immediate relief for her. She actively takes a role in trying to solve her problems, while acting rationally. She proves you don't have to be physically strong to be a strong person.Overall, this movie is very entertaining, and I definitely recommend it to children of BOTH genders. "}{"Title":")","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" A clever incantation of Sleeping Beauty. Same plot, princess being born then a sorcerer swearing he will take over someday. A young prince being betrothed to the princess. Although the princess doesn't live in a cottage far away and doesn't have fairy godmothers she stays home and meets up with the prince every summer. The prince was annoyed by her until she came out of her ugly duckling stage and became quite stunning, thats when he fell for her but he couldn't think of the words to say except about her beauty. She left and he decided he would prove his love later on but she was taken away and he had to find her. Its related to sleeping beauty also by the fact that she has animal friends that help her. The sorcerer turned into a beast just as maleficent into a dragon, and the prince had to fight to win and break the princess's spell. It was a delightful movie! "},{"Title":"Swan Princess","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is suited for all audiences. Most of the music was very flowing but there was a song that went overboard (No More Mr. Nice Guy).The background music was superb and I ended up buying the soundtrack as well(it actually contains the background songs!). The animation was excellent and very realistic!The introduction of young Derek and Odette was accompanied by music which made their transition into adult life fast. The plot is sweet and Princess Odette's sidekicks are anything but boring(especially the frog). It's not violent like a lot of movies so even very young children can watch it. I recommend this movie to EVERYONE! "},{"Title":"Curly Washburn meets Pyotr Chaikovsky","Date":"27 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, so The Swan Princess is another children's movie. When I saw it, I thought that it was really neat that John Cleese provided the voice of the frog, and I later found out that Jack Palance (once known for Shane, now known for City Slickers) provided the voice of the villain. Who would have envisioned those two plus Steven Wright and Frank Welker (Fred on Scooby-Doo and Ray on The Real Ghostbusters) in an animated feature? It wasn't until years after I saw the movie that I found out what the source material was while in St. Petersburg, I attended a production of Pyotr Chaikovsky's Swan Lake in the Mariinsky Theater and realized that it was the same characters. Of course, what stuck in my mind most of all was the haunting theme song. That ballet is more recently recognizable as the subject of Black Swan (which I haven't seen).Anyway, the movie's nothing particularly special.Michelle Nicastro, who provided the voice of Odette, was an opera singer (she died of cancer last year). Howard McGillin, who provided the voice of Derek, was one of the people who played the Phantom in Andrew Lloyd Webber's Phantom of the Opera. "},{"Title":"Worst animated movie I've ever seen!","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have seen so many animated movies from different studios and I must say I'm a huge fan of this genre. But this is obviously the worst I've ever seen. Poor script and visual directing, awful sound effect and character voicing, no artistic elements, and not to mention terrible music... This movie came out in 1994 and I can see that at that time Disney was at the top of the animated film market and was the only studio to have had a long history of making this type of film, while others were just beginning, this may partly explain why New Line Cinema did a terrible job on this movie. But seriously, Richard Rich, the director, had had directed a few movies for Disney before and they're good ones, not this bad!I gave this movie 3 stars out of 10 because that's all I think it deserves. "},{"Title":"The sweetest animated romance I have ever viewed. SPOILER (sorta)","Date":"2 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I watched this movie not too long ago and it reminded me of how much I loved it. It is a sweet movie with incredible songs and a great plot. I watched it three times in a row, and it never failed to impress me. I'm not a feminist, so I was cheering for Prince Derik to save Odette the whole time. Who cares if all she did was lead him to her, it's true love. The songs  Eternity and Far Longer than Forever have been stuck in my head for a long time now and I love it! I give this movie 10 out of 10, it was EXCELLENT!!! Oh, not to mention the sidekicks... they were GREAT! Jean-Bob was so funny, and Speed ( called that cuz he's really fast in the water,perni) was super cool. Its a great movie that everyone will love, I guarantee. I LOVE THE SWAN PRINCESS!  "},{"Title":"Jack Palance's voice and great lines of the script makes the film come alive","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have always loved the voice of Jack Palance, which is as distinctive and rich as those of Richard Burton, George Clooney, and Sean Connery. The film is richer for the brilliant casting of Palance's voice.I was viewing the movie with my daughter and my reasons for enjoying the film were the brilliant lines spoken by the male characters that could have been from one of those film-noir gangster films of the Fifties. The turtle character reminded me of Peter Lorre's voice. Take some of the lines Once you steal something, you spend your whole life fighting to keep it, or You should write a book How to Offend Women in Five Syllables or Less. These are lines that adults will love not kids.The dialogue  Don't let her die!  Is that a threat?  Don't you dare let her die!  Oh, it is a threat could have been straight out of a modern gangster film..The lines/dialogues, not the screenplay, are top notch. The film is not great cinema but provides reasonable entertainment for both young and old.     "},{"Title":"No Fear team steal every minute","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Contains Spoilers This film may have its flaws - only two good songs (Far Longer Than Forever, No Fear), a few not so interesting sequences but whenever Jean-bob, Puffin & Speed are on I love every minute. They are not just comic relief. (Jean-bob is the funniest.) They are always eager to help ('though Jean-bob takes persuading)and combine all their skills to fetch a map, find Derek, rescue Odette from a tower & help Derek defeat Rothbart. Their enthusiasm is infectious and I love their adopted motto.I particularly like Speed for his stout-heartedness & wisdom. Puffin is a born leader. Jean-bob (excellently voiced by John Cleese) is proud & a coward but he's just as loyal. The plot is faithful to the ballet, apart from the happier ending. Odette is a likeable heroine, though we wonder what she sees in Derek. He has courage but mainly he's self-centred and dumb. Queen Uberta is amusing. Rothbart is your basic villain.   7/10 "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!! D","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this movie when I was very young and at first never really understood it. My uncle had just taped it for me and put it on and i sat down and watched it. As the years passed and I watched it more I understood it better. Of course it makes perfect sense now considering I'm 13 but I recently watched it at my friend's house and I had to smile at all the sweet moments and at the Far Longer then forever song. The relationship between Odette and Derrik is so romantic and I love it! This movie is one of my favorites and considering it was made awhile ago the animation isn't bad. I mistake it for a Disney movie a lot of the time but who can blame me? ^-^ "},{"Title":"Its one of the best early animated films!!","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I hadn't watched Swan Princess when I was younger but recently I did and I loved it! I think its so different from the ordinary Disney film...well i heard it's not even Disney so I guess that's a given. But the characters looked different and it has some really nice songs. Especially the first one This is my idea which speeds things up from when they're kids to when they're older...its really cute and the song itself is nice. Also its not the typical old animated films where the guy and girl fall in love straight away since they kinda dislike each other when they were young. But after that they just have this beautiful love which is both happy and sad and perfect!! Other than that, far longer than forever is a great song, along with many others. Tons of funny characters - Jean Bob the frog, Puffin and Speed who are Odette's animal friends are hilarious as well as Prince Derek's adviser and his friend. Anyway love it!! A must see classic. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film was one of the highlights of my childhood. As a young girl I was captivated and mesmerized.Would strongly recommend this to anyone. The songs are catchy, the characters are extremely relatable and likable. Film conveys an important message of in inner beauty, teaching the prince to look at women for more than what's on the outside.The film has a easily followed and excitably dynamic plot line, while predictable, the ending is well done and succeeds in pleasing the audience.The color pallet is also aesthetically pleasing and altered throughout the film to suit the current mood of the characters and the constantly adapting circumstances. I also loved the animators transitions and development of the characters physically, the princess grows to be incredibly beautiful and as a child I was captivated by her beauty, hair and lovely white dress. "}{"Title":"Special Edition","Date":"8 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Swan Princess is a 1994 American animated musical fantasy film based on the ballet Swan Lake. Starring the voice talents of Matthew Broderick, Tony Jay, Eddie Murphy, and Sandy Duncan, the film is directed by a former Disney animation director, Richard Rich, with a music score by Lex De Azevedo and Alan Menken. It was released theatrically on November 18, 1994 where it received generally mixed reviews by critics and was a box office bomb. The film was followed by four direct-to-video sequels The Swan Princess Escape from Castle Mountain (1997), The Swan Princess The Mystery of the Enchanted Kingdom (1998), The Swan Princess Christmas (2012), and The Swan Princess A Royal Family Tale (2014). "},{"Title":"A great Classic with a little known name","Date":"5 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I was young, I liked a lot of princess stories. One was this interesting take on the Swan Princess. It's a normal story of two people being arranged to be married by there parents and forced to see each other so many times that they end up falling for each other. It's not uncommon for royalty to want to marry royalty but the fact that the mother and father actually want the two to fall in love before they marry was always something I liked about this story. It wasn't that it happened in a short while, this happened over the course of their whole life. Then at the point when the two were almost in love, Odette is taken by a evil sorcerer and turned into a swan. Normally the story would be done as a ballet but this was done as a cartoon and they did a pretty good job turning it.The characters are actually quite lovable from a frog thinking he's a prince to an army style puffin and even a interesting little sidekick for the prince. I fell in love with almost all of the characters and just the whimsy of them all.The animation is pretty nice for the time it came out and for the fact this was done in cell shading. Small misshapes do end up happening but they don't take away much from the overall of the show. The work they did with water looks so beautiful, especially the transformation of Odette from swan to human and back again. It's bright and colorful, with characters more then likely in proportion to each other. It's a amazing piece of work for when it was done and I kept watching it, trying to see what would make me hate the animation but nothing I saw would break it for me.I could of went without the musical numbers in this show though one or two of them made me chuckle including the first song about them supposed to be getting married. It may have gone on a little too long but it was fun because as it went on, when the peasants were singing, it was always about what a holiday they would get and lower taxes when the two wed. It really showed what people would probably be thinking in that time and gave it a feeling of realism. The voices were not all that bad when it was singing or even talking, though we fall into some sounding a bit more forced then others. Odette's sounds a bit to high when she is singing as though she is forcing to hit the high notes of the song when her parts are all high. Darek's Mother's voice is a bit naggy though at times that helps the comedy and other times it just feels a bit overboard.It's just an overall good show and a great one for children even to this day. "},{"Title":"Back to the 1990's","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember seeing the poster to this movie in a supermarket way before the release in our country.This is a cartoon about a girl that must be freed from her transformation spell as a swan.Here you have it a classic fairytale.The animation is hand drawn.If you want to take a break from modern all star CGI movies see this.Now that we are looking back at the long string of hand drawn movies of the 1990's.There was Anastasia, a long row of direct to sequels and movies like this.The movie is having unforgettable, and upbeat songs.From a saving the day song to a jazz like villain song.The monster that must be defeated, a happy ending and literary a long row of princesses.It's not anything serious like Branagh's Hamlet of course, but some light fun.Go look for it at the flea markets.10/10 "},{"Title":"Is beauty all that matters to you?","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Far Longer Than Forever is one of the greatest songs on this movie's soundtrack, and you may just yet love it far longer than forever. I saw this movie when it came out when I was maybe 5 years old and to this day, at 25 years old, I still listen to the music and if I ever get my hands on the movie would definitely watch it again. The soundtrack is really good, and I can say that there is a good lesson to be learned from the movie for both boys and girls.It is about a princess and a prince whom since birth were plotted by their father and mother, respectively, to wed and unite the kingdoms. They spend every summer together and like most growing boys and girls, go through the different phases of friendships. By the time they are old enough, they immediately overcome hating each other and fall in love. An evil foe executes a long awaited plan to thwart the king and kidnaps his daughter. He puts a spell on her that turns her into a swan unless she is standing in the light of the moon. She befriends a turtle and a frog and together they help end her curse and reunite her with her true love. "},{"Title":"Spoiler alerts. Lack of plot","Date":"7 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've seen a lot of reviews belaboring the studio about a lack of plot. That's not exactly their fault since its BASED ON SWAN LAKE. Just putting that out there. Also I've heard Odette debates about whether she's a flat stupid princess. No. She refuses Derek when he wants to marry her just for her looks. She helps him find her. She breaks out of the dungeon with the help of her friends. She flies who knows how many miles to try and stop Derek from making a mistake. She didn't do anything to help save him BECAUSE SHE WAS PRACTICALLY DEAD. So sorry she didn't just suddenly get better and destroy a frightening giant dragon thing. What an awful character. A disgrace to women truly. Seriously? In the sequels she saves the kingdom, the queen, Derek, herself, etc. she's not a flat character. She's a wonderful princess. Unlike Cinderella-yay she fits into a shoe, sleeping beauty-she's great at slumber parties, etc. I've also seen a lot of grief over the animation. It's pretty old of course the animation will be lacking, but it's pretty good in my opinion. All in all it's a great movie in my opinion. I'm 18 and I still watch it fairly regularly. I show my little sister. I'd recommend it to anyone with children. The music is wonderful and somewhat hokey but that's one reason it's great!That's all. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" This has to be my favorite movie of all time. I will never be tired of watching it. The story line is adorable and great for kids, but intelligent enough for adults to enjoy. I especially like the art style. Everything is so bouncy. I love the way everyone's dresses and hair moves. The music is so catchy, fun and beautiful to just listen to by itself. All the characters have some much depth, not just the main ones. It has been years since the last time I've watched this movie and I could still name almost every character and their story. I'd also love to do my best impersonation. They are so funny. Odette, above all, is so feisty, for a female character she is very strong and independent, and not so love struck as to just jump in head over heals, but wants to take her time before marriage. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember being 8 years old and watching this movie endlessly. I also recall singing For longer than forever over and over again (I'm such a sucker for that kind of songs). Recently, I had been trying to recall the song unsuccessfully, and when I found it on Netflix, I jumped in for old time's sake and because I wanted to hear the song.Watching it 12 years later resulted in disappointment regarding the plot line, character development, animation, voice acting and lyrics. That may seem to imply I hated it, but I didn't. It is actually more than the sum of it's parts, mostly, I think, because it follows the formula of every princess movie that ever existed, and that worked out.I also think something that really saves this movie is the sidekick ensemble. Jean Bob + Speed work very well together and are a lot of fun. Puffin is very likable. Bromley and Rogers are a very fun companion to Prince Derek, and both villains are indeed very entertaining. The scenes containing these are very fun.Music-wise, it is also very formulaic, borrowing incredibly from Beauty and the Beast (in my opinion). It works, though. I think the ideas for the songs were very clever, although the execution was not very well done. For Longer than Forever is good. Not great, but you will find yourself humming it every once in a while.I think children will enjoy this, and if you take it lightheartedly, you will like it too. I also noticed this is a good movie for watching over and over and over... It's easy to switch in and out, and works well being played on the background. I really understand why I loved this as a child. "},{"Title":"Another underrated  childhood favorite directed by Richard Rich","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here is another childhood favorite, and it still is now that I am 27 years old. In this underrated film directed by Richard Rich retells the Swan Lake story with a twist here and there - no need for a full description for those who had heard of and seen the film.I love the princess Odette. And like I said this might seem strange to you guys, but I put her on a list I have made of my favorite movie princesses - animated or live action. And I love 4 out the songs from the film This Is My Idea, Far Longer Than Forever, No Fear, and... Princesses on Parade. So overall, I loved this film and it will always been one of my favorite animated films. One more thing I would like say I hope Richard, who had directed this film and the Animated Stories from the Bible series, would directed more films - not films like The Scarecrow, it was kind of good on a 8 out 10 scale. "},{"Title":"The best non-Disney hand drawn feature of the 90's","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've always been a fan of cartoons and as most kids, I used to watch a lot them during my childhood. But when it came to full-length features, it was always those from Disney which appealed to me. Don Bluth's and other full-length features from other studios appeared as cold, generic and lifeless to me. But with The Swan Princess, the story is another one. The previews of the film looked actually quite promising and the film certainly didn't disappoint when I finally saw it and it's undoubtedly one of the best non-Disney hand drawn films &#x96; at least from the 90's.The Swan Princess has the same tone and feel of Disney film and the lighter moments does resembles the lighter tone from Beauty and the Beast (without the deep love story and dark undertones). Even the enjoyable songs are Broadway-inspired and sounds like they could appeared in a Disney film. Although this film is not equal to Disney's very best, it still come as very close.The main plot may be a conventional fairytale, but it does have a twist; It's a normal component that the Prince and the Princess falls in love with first sight without further question, but in this film the Princess literally asks her Prince if her beauty is the only reason for loving her. A quite refreshing twist and actually a more realistic plot point, which is nice for the kids to see.Swan Princess actually does have a bunch of enjoyable characters. Derek and Odette may not be the most memorable protagonists in a animated feature, but are likable and engaging enough and portrays at least more personality than the Disney Princes and Princesses from Walt's films (pre-90's). The sorcerer Rothbart may not surpass the Disney villains, but he's passable enough. The most memorable characters are - just as with the Disney flicks - the sidekick characters, especially the turtle Speed and the bird Puffin (Jean-Bob was just too self-centered and annoying for my taste). Even the minor characters as Queen Uberta, the conductor Lord Rogers and Prince Derek's friend, Bromley, are quite likable.The animation may not live up to Disney standards, but it's still nice-looking. The score of Lex de Azevedo isn't' despicable, either. Otherwise, if there should be any complains about The Swan Princess, it would be that the film lacks overall the depth that the Disney movies usually have. The screenplay is mostly solid, but does have a few plot holes now and then. In spite of the refreshing plot point about love shouldn't just be all about appearance, the love story between Derek and Odette comes off as contrived and underdeveloped. And in the end, it's up to the Prince to save the day. Considering that this flick was made in the 90's, it could had a more original climax.But the mentioned issues are just quibbling, since besides that, The Swan Princess is a cute and enjoyable cartoon. So if you want to see a enjoyable non Disney-cartoon, Swan Princess is definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Your average animated kids movie.","Date":"3 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I really remember liking this movie as a kid. I mostly remember loving the main characters friends the most, mainly the animals. They made for great comedy. Of course when I was younger I loved anything animated, so the real question is Will I still like this when I'm older? Well it had been a long time since I watched it but I did end up remembering it and wanted to see it again. To my surprise it still for the most part held up. Sure in my opinion now the songs are pretty corny but being a kid I know that would make me love it more back in the day. Seems like the only animated songs that I still like come from the Disney movies, don't know why. The story itself I still consider good. The movie as a whole I still find really fun and wouldn't mind seeing it again in a few years or so.Funny thing is I always wondered what company made this movie. I knew it wasn't Disney and I wondered if it was Don Bluth. Well now I know and it wont bother me anymore. ) "}{"Title":"Such a cute movie","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, I'll admit, my sister and I loved this movie when we were kids. But when she suggested renting it again, I wasn't all that fired up. I hadn't seen it in years, and I couldn't figure out what possessed her to rent it. But we watched it again, and we love it just as much now!!! Sure, its a little corny, but its just so cute! Plus, the music is fun to sing (my sis and I have formed a duet of This is my Idea in which I always have to sing the guy part). Jean Bob is so funny in all the movies. Prince Derek is quite the hunk! Rothbart is one of the greatest villains of all time. Uberta is at her best in this one. It may sound obsessive, but we know all the lyrics to the songs now. All in all, this movie rocks for everyone, not just the little kids. "},{"Title":"Well...it was at least funny","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well as much as I loved this movie, I do have to admit that now that I have re-watched it years later as an 18 year old mostly I was laughing at how cheesy it was. But other than it being SO CORNY, it wasn't too bad. I did have some issues with Odette though...like what is up with her being all mad that Derrek wasn't into her (arguably not) great personality and then 4 minutes later (as soon as she is in trouble and needs true love to get her out of it) she is president of the Prince Derrek Fan Club? She was honestly pretty lame, but the movie at least made me laugh out loud. The songs are at least funny, and the plot has only minimal sensibility issues (for instance, it seems like Odette should have just run somewhere one night while she was a human...that doesn't seem too hard considering it takes all of 20 seconds for Derrek to get there on horseback from his castle) but I guess she was pretty consistently helpless throughout the movie so she probably just couldn't mess up her white dress and perfect hair. All in all cheesy but not too bad. "},{"Title":"Princess of Swans","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" In hopes of uniting their kingdoms, widowed parents King William & Queen Uberta decide to have their kids, William's daughter Princess Odette and Uberta's son Prince Derek spend their childhood together in hopes that romance will blossom between the two and lead to marriage. As children and as adolescents, Derek & Odette can't stand each other, but they manage to fall in love with each other as they grow up. Unfortunately, just when it looks like their relationship is about to take off, Derek unintentionally offends Odette, who then refuses to marry him unless he can prove he loves her for who she is and not just her looks (sounds reasonable enough). Things get even worse when Lord Rothbart, an old enemy of King William's, shows up looking for revenge, kidnaps Odette and places a spell on her that turns her into a swan during the day and can only be restored to her human form when the moonlight hits the lake. Against all odds, Derek tries to free her anyway he can - the easiest way being to make a vow of love for all to see. Of course, it can never be that simple and it never is...The last film done in the traditional hand drawn animation, this is a flawed but noble/heroic effort. The animation is quite good, the songs are decent, and the characters likable (though Odette is not given much to do). Might play better for the kids than for older audiences, but the fairy tale plot is a classic device. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was very young when this came out...I must have been five or six. I can remember that I loved it, though. Just the other day I had the opportunity of seeing it again. A good ten years have passed, and now I'm a senior in high school. Yet, I still enjoyed it immensely. The whole thing had me sighing at the sheer romantic-ness of it. The medieval setting, the story--I just think it's a cute story. The beginning song was very lively, a lot of fun, and then went into a very cute love scene...I was gushing like a little girl. The songs, the plot, the humor...I loved it all. I loved the characters, too, Speed was my favorite. Definitely something I would share with my kids when I have kids. It's nice to watch something from your childhood like this...especially since I'm going off to college next year, I guess it added a more nostalgic view for me. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most make out","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'd like to say that this film is, by far, better than some of the Disney films out there. Contrary to what the previous reviewer said, the name of the frog is Jean-BOB, not Jean-Paul, and the magical sub-plot is in the original story. The only magic in the movie is Rothbart, the evil bad-guy, and there are NO Fairy-tale creatures! Putting that aside, the songs are lovely, and can be sang along to. My personal favourite is This Is My Idea, sung while Derek and Odette are growing up. One thing I agree with is the sequels. They are horribly animated, poorly done overall, and 'wrench-inducing', as the previous reviewer said. Only watch them if you must. Like my favourite movie of all time, Beauty and the Beast, it is a bit hard for little children to appreciate properly. I find that these kinds of movies are best appreciated when older. My vote is 8/10 "},{"Title":"More substance than most kid films","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's got its silly and flimsy moments, but any kids' animated film does. The difference with this one is that the humor is more sophisticated and funny, and the film wipes out the old fall in love in two seconds idea by having the kids grow up hating each other and then finally find love and question it in order to make sure their love is true and is for the right reasons.  For this reason, the lovers are more believable and sympathetic than almost any other kids' movie characters. "},{"Title":"I liked the sidekicks the best","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  To be honest, I did find this movie to be overall just cute.  The story needs some work for pacing purposes and such.  The songs...um...well, nothing I found all that memorable.  They did try to add to the story, but they were a tad on the grating side, so I only half watched during these scenes.I enjoyed the sidekicks the best, really.  Often, sidekicks take away too much from the leads, but I think the trio in this film (Speed, Puffin and Jean-Bob) could have used MORE airtime.  Especially Speed.  I love Steven Wright's comedy and he puts his deadpan humor into the turtle well.  But, he gets only a handful of lines.  5 maybe?The sidekicks seemed to be more thought out characters than Odette and Derek.   Also, the movie seems to need a swift boost of pace before they make their debut on screen, in my opinion.  From there, the story seems much more focused and much more fun to watch.  Maybe Odette should have met these critters when she was a little kid.  ) "},{"Title":"A movie that feels too much like a would-be Disney copy and full of clichés to be good.","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" After a generation of countless Disney movies, anyone would expect some lower company to try and beat Disney at his own game. So far, nothing's worked and this movie is a good example of this. The story is the beautiful princess, Odette, is kidnapped by a powerful sorcerer (a plot we have seen dozens of other times), but here is the twist. The bad guy puts a spell on her, making it so that she will always be a swan, unless she is on the lake when the moon's light is shining on it. Now, let me introduce the 'prince charming' of the story. Derek is the prince of another kingdom who blows the two kingdoms chances of being allies when he says the wrong words to their princess, but he is still in deep love for her and is looking for the creature known as the Great Animal, who kills Odette's father. While Derek is searching for the identity of the Great Animal, Odette, as a swan, meets three characters definitely meant for small children. You have Jean Bob, the frog who thinks he is a prince, Speed, a turtle that sounds and feels way too close to Winnie the Pooh's Eeyore, and General Puffin, a puffin bird.After the opening song This is my Idea which was the closest the movie got to being anywhere as good as Disney's orchestra, the movie seems to fall apart. Jean Bob has the fakest French accent I have ever heard and he is just annoying, rather than funny. Speed? Probably the only decent character in the story. General Puffin? It seems like he is just showing off for Odette, knowing she is a princess, and the methods of helping her just become too childish and too immature for any audience to really care for the story.The Swan Princess is stuffed with songs, all of which sounds either horrible, or just plain idiotic, like the sorcerer's song No More Mr. Nice Guy and Princesses on Parade. Every song makes you wonder why they put in the song, and after hearing 3 of these pathetic tunes, you just want to go and spend your day elsewhere.The story is also packed full of clichés. It would have been easy to simply avoid these, but for some reason, the director couldn't. The whole princess being kidnapped, and prince rushing to save her sounds like a dozen of Disney's movies, and the characters in the Swan Princess aren't any different. You have innocent, little Odette who has a terrible curse on her (*cough* Sleeping Beauty *cough**cough*), the fair, defeats-all prince, and the three child-friendly characters. Also, here's a surprise! Well, not really. The bad guy is actually the Great Animal!? What other movies have villains that change into awesome creatures? Aladdin, Sleeping Beauty, and probably many more other movies that I am too tired to think of right now. And what a surprise also. The 'Great' powerful Animal is killed in ONE HIT! Again, WAAAY over-used.If you are looking for a decent family movie for kids to leave you alone until half way through, this could be that movie. But if you have a chair that has a leg that is smaller than the others, The Swan Princess is definitely more efficient than some cardboard. Honestly, The Swan Princess is a movie that feels far too much like a would-be Disney clone and has too many clichés for me to actually recommend it. "},{"Title":"A Childhood Memory","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I was little, I watched this movie over and over. I loved it so much, I even bought the sequel (the second sequel, no, but the first I did like). I absolutely adored it. When I hit 10 or 12, I sort of forgot about it.So, yesterday, bored out of my skull, I decided, what the heck? I dug out the old VHS copy and stuck it in the VCR. I honestly only remembered something about a Princess being cursed and her being in love with a Prince, but I did remember that I loved it.But when I watched it last night, I cringed in parts. The animation bothered me, it was so bad. I mean, what was up with Odette's hair? Honestly. And the story/songs were a bit cheesy.Don't get me wrong. I'm a big fan of Disney-and-Disney-style movies for kids. And maybe I'm being too harsh - after all, there have been worse movies. (Have you seen some of the Barbie movies? I rest my case.) All I'm saying is that as a kid, I loved this. I wasn't distracted by the fact that all Odette did was cry over Derek, or that Derek was a complete dumb@##. It was just a pretty story.Now that I'm older, however, it's a slightly different story. "},{"Title":"It's a nice little princess movie","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was 9 when the movie first got released. I loved it so much. As an adult I decided to watch it again. As usual, I now know what my kid years was like. Man, was I easily amused. D Although it is still a very cute movie for little kids. More for the girls really. But there are some funny moments for the adults. The animation is pretty decent. It's not Beauty and the Beast or Lion King. In fact, you shouldn't expect too much. But I wouldn't mind watching this film with my little cousins. That's pretty much it. As an adult I'd stay away from it. As for the kids, they will definitely enjoy this.6/10  "}{"Title":"A nice movie","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Swan Princess isn't all that good. It isn't all that bad either, though. It's what I call a nice movie. The songs are nice, nothing you'll be humming for weeks afterward, but passable. The story is nice, though blantantly borrowed from Swan Lake. I guess there's some way we have to make these ballets more accessible to kids, though. The character voices and the animation are nice, not necessarily outstanding, but good enough. This is very much a middle of the road movie to me.One final note, though. Howard McGillin, the voice of Prince Derek, is currently playing the Phantom of the Opera on Broadway. He's very good.  "},{"Title":"Suckedy suck suck","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" Horribly written Cliché Disney type characters drawn poorly with unimaginative, repetitive and annoying songs..this swan lays an egg. I expect some folks to disagree, but really, what a complete waste of time. I watched it for the first time on Netflix last night and was upset I hadn't seen it in the theater to have the satisfaction of walking out in a tiff. Although the movie had some all star cast members lending their talents to this film, they couldn't help the garbage insta-script that I am SURE was created by the writers in about 15 minutes to try to cash in in the resurgence of Disney mania that was rampant in the 90's "},{"Title":"Love Disney or Hate Em- another reason they stay on top-","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's hard to see an animated feature and not compare it to some of Disney's Best. Hey Disney did pioneer the concept, perfected it, and did what not many companies could do Do it well.This movie didn't do it well, although Richard Rich (the Director) did once work for Disney, he directed Fox and the Hound and The Black Cauldron- with the latter being one of Disney's bigger disappointments. Ten years later, he directed The Swan Princess even after Disney tried to convince him to stop production as they were planning to release a version of their own, but when he wouldn't scrap his, they scrapped theirs, and in 1994, Disney had it's biggest box office gross ever with the Lion King, The Swan Princess brought in about 9 Million in the US (Disney re-releasing The Lion King at the same time was a little dirty on Disney's part- but it may have saved a lot of parents from having to sit through a bland Disney Wannabe)The Animation is the films best asset, Brightly colored, smooth, no gimmicks or massive special effects. The characters on the other hand, could've used a little retooling, they lack much, if any existed, of a personality. Princess Odette, in an attempt to put her in the head strong, faith in herself Disney Heroines of the early 90's, fails to do so. When Princess Odette and Prince Derrick meet as adults, they are completely smittne with each other, he tells her she's beautiful, to which she asks Is Beauty all the That Matters? and he asks What Else is there? We are supposed to believe that this is no ordinary Princess, she's smart, sophisticated, and yearns for more than just being a beautiful face, which would be alright except that up to that point, they couldn't stand each other, and then when placed in a room together, they stare at each other, and are in love- so didn't she just fall in love with what she saw? They never really seemed to be into each other's personalities before, so doesn't that just leave Aesthitcs? True, the Prince's response isn't exactly, well good doesn't begin to cover it, the Princess is being hypocritical.The story isn't the worst, but has a few plot holes, one of which would make the ending completely unnecessary, but would leave out the generic fairy tale battle between the prince and a large creature.The only other saving grace are Odette's Animal friends - Speed the Turtle, Jean Bob the Frog (John Cleese with a cheesy French Accent), and Puffin- the Puffin(?). Jean bob's ongoing attempts to get a kiss form Odette to break his spell (he believes he is actually a Prince that was turned into a frog) are actually interesting- too bad the rest of the movie isn't.The saddest thing about the whole movie is it's blatant ripping off of a Disney Score. The songs throughout the movie are often very similar to the songs in Beauty and the Beast, but unlike Beauty and the Beast, the songs aren't exactly catchy, let alone good. The only decent piece of Music is the love song Far Longer Than Forever sung by Prince Derrick and Odette (whose singing voice is also that of Anastasia's, Kiara in Disney's Lion King II, and Princess Jasmine in the 2nd and 3rd Aladdin Films) but even it doesn't compare to anything from the Disney Songbook- the Title of the song itself has a cheeseboard romance sound to it. This one would've been much better as a straight to video release, and compared to some of Disney's Straight to Video flicks does help it look slightly better, but only slightlyOverall, kids will enjoy it, the Animation is Beautiful and Lush, but Parents may want to leave the room.My recommendation, pop in Beauty and the Beast or the Little Mermaid- Head strong Princesses, people under magic spells that change their appearance, great music that you don't mind getting stuck in your head, Well Developed Stories, Well Developed Characters. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Imagine if a Disney animated movie mated with a Saturday morning show - this is what their offspring would look like. The songs really suck, though at least they tried to write them in ways that would advance the story, unlike the stop-the-story-to-a-halt Disney songs. Animation and backgrounds lack polish, and look more Saturday morning than feature-film. The characters - ha! Movie looks like it was severely edited down; if not, it certainly feels like it was, then narration added. Take a look at the first 10 or so minutes for the best example. "},{"Title":"This is NOT Swan Lake...","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I believe this movie was a waste of time. It's not a bad movie on itself and the animation is not bad either...The problem is that it is based on Swan Lake. However it has nothing that resembles that (except the swan). It's an insult to remove that beautiful music by Tchaikovski and put Disney-like songs! It's awful! The characters look like a bunch of silly teens and the story is more funny than it should be. Well, it's a cartoon for kids but this doesn't mean that it has to be silly. No kid has ever been harmed by drama. It's Swan Lake not Nightmare on Elm Street! I suggest you better skip this one and watch the other animated movie instead. It's simply titled Swan Lake. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the blandest animated film ever made","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm sorry, but when studios other than Disney or DreamWorks try to make an animated movie, they sometimes bomb the moment they step into the theater. Only 20th Century Fox has had a minimal success in the 'toon business, what with Anastasia and Titan A.E., but even those films didn't make a lot of money. The Swan Princess is a waste of time because it's basically a half-hearted rip of Beauty and the Beast. Let's see, mystical castle? Check. Fairy tale creatures? Check. Magical sub-plot? Check! Lovey-dovey ballads paired with wacky and humorous songs for the kids? Check! For the love of God check! The songs are extremely extraneous because the lyrics sound just like dialogue that occasionally rhymes. It sounds like a bunch of actors reading the script set to a barely audible tune. Oh, and about those fairy tale sidekicks...there are THREE of them. Is that necessary? THREE?! There's a French frog named, get this, Jean-Paul (ha!), a turtle named Speed (um, how ironic) and finally a puffin named...wait for it...Puffin. *sigh* There really isn't a story here, because most of the sequences feel like padding, particularly the scene where the royal orchestra dresses up as animals and let Prince Derek shoot arrows at them. And it's set to music!! If one thing could be said about The Swan Princess it's that it is way, waaay better than any of it's wretch-inducing DTV sequels. Please, please do not watch these even if you're overly bored and catch one on Toon Disney. IT'S NOT WORTH IT. Instead, rent Anastasia, Titan A.E., The Iron Giant, or any one of a hundred better Disney competitors. At least Anastasia only had one freakin' sidekick, and that was just a bat who didn't talk much.  "}]