[{"Title":"Fun, Entertaining Action Movie","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This was a generally fun film that is considered an action movie, and rightly so, but has its share of good comedy, too. Charlie Sheen showed he was well on his way to being successful playing comedic roles, as he's doing on television right now.Nastassja Kinski plays the typical new young macho-female role that introduced on screen in the past generation in which females beat up males. Give me a break! Anyway, I still liked her despite the characterization. James Gandolfini was the best of the villains, and also demonstrated how he was about ready to hit the big time, which he also has on TV with The Sopranos. Christopher McDonald was another villain in here but was stupid, not fun to watch. He was angry all the time and his bleached hair looked ludicrous.There are a couple of outrageous action scenes in this film, mostly notably when an automobile with Sheen and Kinski still in it is dropped from an airplane! Yes, to enjoy this film don't take any of it seriously! It's simply fast-paced entertainment. For that, it gets a good rating. "},{"Title":"Great fun","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This film was much better than I expected it to be. Its a very enjoyable fast paced action film, which doesn't take itself to seriously, with an on form Charlie Sheen, a beautiful Miss Kinski and the added bonus of a pre-superstar James Gandolfini. Its actually the perfect film for a Saturday night with a few beers and Pizza. There are many great action set pieces and Charlie has some great one liners too, I mean this isn't meant to be a work of art, its a light hearted action film, and it does it well, I'll even forgive the part that ripped off the ejection seat sequence from Die Hard 2, after all Goldeneye done it too! "},{"Title":"A movie quite underrated","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is one film that has not scored many good reviews, but honestly, I'm a little surprised why most movie critics has slaughtered this film all together. Myself, I think that's unfair, cause I found it absolutely enjoyable. OK, the story is a bit thin at times, but alot of films has had thinner stories than this one, and still received better reviews. Sheen doesn't act too bad in this film either, and Kinsky surprises as well. None of them are great actors, but they don't let the film down. In general, a fair action-movie, with some very spectacular skydiving-scenes. Not bad at all.   "},{"Title":"A good ride full of thrills!","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  The bad wrap this movie seems to have here is in my opinion a bit over done. Terminal Velocity is not a bad action movie. Actually it's pretty damn good. Over the top at times, but still very good. And by over the top, I mean some of the skydiving sequences. For example, the climax where the car drops out of the plane.. the fall seems to last an eternity. In the end though, stuff like that really doesn't matter if the rest of the movie is good. Luckily it is.This movie is also the last good movie Sheen did up until Being John Malkovich. And now after Scary Movie 3, maybe in time he'll end up back in the big leagues. Terminal Velocity won't change anybody's life, but as said, it is a good action movie.**** / ***** "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun !","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, some people do like this film, like you Phaithphul Phrog  here, and I'm quite jaded. From the marvellous, surrealistic  opening scene, you know you're in for some style, if not exactly  substance, and you just settle for the ride. Sheen's character  reminded me of Jackie Chan in his movies  a bit stupid, a bit  of a buffoon, but realistic and likable. The general good humor  of this movie also reminds of Chan's recent movies. There is  action, a bit of violence, but this never turns nasty and  unpleasant like a Seagal vehicle.  "},{"Title":"Skydivers, explosions and a sense of humor","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Skydiver Ditch Brodie (Charlie Sheen) is asked for a lesson. The beautiful lady (Nastassja Kinski) he takes on the plane seems to fall to her death as the parachute doesn't open. Brodie quickly finds out that she is alive and well, and gets into the middle of a conspiracy. Soon he is chased by secret agents, gangsters, Russians... everyone, really, and he doesn't know what for. What matters most to this movie is that it is moving fast, as its title suggested. And Terminal Velocity does well as an action movie with its stunts and explosions, if you compare it to others of the genre. Also it has a certain sense of humor because of the unusual situation that the pretty lady perfectly knows the espionage business, while the hero just follows her footsteps and even has to ask her how he can fire a gun. It's not a Bond, but Sheen and Kinski both have much less exciting films in their biography, so most watchers won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"An okay action flick for channel surfers","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Teminal Velocity, a B-level action flick with sky diving as the principle source of thrills, sticks Sheen and Kinski at the center of international intrigue with sundry bad guys chasing them around as they to manage to find ways to free fall through space and into love. Full of plot-holes, this typical commercial Hollywood product is a potpourri of stunts, shootouts, effects, pytotechnics, romance, etc. sufficient to keep the bleary-eyed channel surfer awake until the end. The flick has one really cool stunt near the end, goes easy on the sex, doesn't take itself too seriously, and is an enjoyable ride as long as expectations are kept low. "},{"Title":"Behind the B-movie title is a cracking action comedy!","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It's a shame to see Deran Sarafian has ended up directing episodes of TV shows because he proves with this, his  best film, that he's a very competent hand at the helm of a big action film. Admittedly he's helped by the two leads,  Charlie Sheen and Nastassja Kinski, who have the C-word... Chemistry, not to mention the villains, James  Gandolfini and Chris McDonald who have the B-word... Baddy?The stunt work is both impressive and breath taking because you can see it's genuine &#150; witness the nail biting  scene involving a car in free fall &#150; would it be half as exciting if it was done with CGI? With a script full of great  comedy moments it all adds up to a very enjoyable way to spend 100 minutes. 7/10 "},{"Title":"For someone I've never slept with you've f*cked me pretty good. Fun action flick.","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Terminal Velocity is set in Arizona where maverick skydiver Richard 'Ditch' Brodie (Charlie Sheen) takes a job from the attractive Chris Morrow (Nastassja Kinski) to do a jump with her, however things go wrong & she falls out of the plane & ends up dead on the ground 1000's of feet below. Richard decides to do a little investigating & discovers that Chris is still alive & is an ex Russian KGB agent trying to stop another ex Russian KGB agent Ben Pinkwater (James Gandolfini) from stealing $600 million worth of hi-jacked Russian gold & together with Chris he decides to stop the bad guy's & clear his name...Directed by Deran Sarafian I actually thought Terminal Velocity was a decent & enjoyable little action flick. The script by executive producer David Twohy moves along like a rocket although after the intriguing set up when Chris fakes her own death it sort of settles back down into standard action film thriller territory. The film never seems to take itself seriously & is fairly light hearted with some amusing one liners coming from Sheen, I loved the 'pack your bags we're going on a guilt trip' line he comes out with as Kinski tells him about the hardship Russians have! It's nothing terribly original, it's clichéd in the sense there are the hero's who eventually defeat the bad guy's & save the day but it's fun & provides a fair amount of entertainment if your looking for some light action.Director Sarafian does a decent job, it's not particularly stylish but it's well made with some good action scenes. The skydiving stunts are particularly impressive although some seem a little far fetched especially the way Sheen rescue Kinski from a car that's been driven out the back of a plane. There are some neat enough explosions & fist fights as well.With a supposed budget of about $50,000,000 it tanked at the box-office making a paltry $16,000,000. The acting is alright with Sheen making a likable hero.Terminal Velocity turned out much better than I thought it would & I'm struggling to see why it bombed so badly when it was released, anyway I liked it & thought it was entertaining fun. "},{"Title":"It was an interesting movie","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I think it was a very interesting film and the main characters were very good.I don't understand why it wasn't a success according to the critics. They often give awards worse films too.When I saw it at the first time I enjoyed it very much.I suggest to everybody to watch it ,but without any bias. "}{"Title":"Fun filled adventure","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Happened to watch it when it was aired on TV and must admit I wasn't disappointed. A hot babe Nastassja Kinski walks into Training centre seeking a few sky-diving classes and Charlie Sheen more-than-willing obliges. A slight over-sight of Charlie Sheen leads to the death of the new student. Sheen loses his license but determined to investigate further leads to uncovering a big suspense coupled with a roller-coaster ride.A lot of holes in the movie but the tongue-in-cheek dialogs and fast pace of the movie make you overlook it all. Afterall, you are watching the movie for fun - and you are getting it. Action sequences are well-executed especially the mid-air sequences. I must admit when Sheen fails to open Kinski's parachute and she falls plop, I was like Oh... my God!.Watch it for fun... would definitely recommend it. 6/10 rating. "},{"Title":"Several impossible feats in as many minutes","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The end of the Cold War in the late eighties and early nineties did not cause as many changes to the thriller genre as one might have imagined. Ever since the late forties had Hollywood got used to the idea of casting Russians as villains, and the habit proved hard to break. If the villains were no longer KGB agents they could now be Russian gangsters or political extremists. There were a number of films of this nature in the nineties (Crimson Tide, Air Force One, The Peacemaker and Fair Game), and the tendency has continued into the twenty-first century with the likes of The Sum of All Fears, Salt and Transsiberian. Terminal Velocity, dating from 1994, is an early example of this phenomenon. Richard Ditch Brodie is a former elite gymnast turned skydiving instructor. Brodie's operation is already under investigation by the FAA because of his laissez-faire attitude to their regulations, and it seems that he is in serious trouble when Chris Morrow, one of his pupils, is killed during a dive. And then something unusual happens. Unusual, that is, by the standards of real life. Less unusual by the standards of the action thriller, in which the sudden return to life of a character whom both the hero and the audience believe to be dead is a familiar (indeed, over-familiar) plot twist.Chris (that's Chris as in Christine, not as in Christopher) turns up alive and well with a semi-plausible explanation for her supposed death. (That shouldn't come as a surprise. Did anyone think the producers were going to cast Nastassja Kinski as their leading lady and then kill her off after only one scene?) Moreover, she also turns up with a new identity. It turns out that she is actually Krista Moldova, a former KGB spy who has been redundant since the fall of the Soviet Union. The rest of the film tells the story of how Ditch and Krista join forces to thwart a gang of her former KGB comrades, now members of the Russian Mafia, who are out to steal a cargo of gold. It appears that the gold is needed to finance a coup which will return the Communist Party to power in Moscow. (Despite her former allegiance, Krista regards such a prospect with horror). Cue the standard explosions, chase sequences, suspense sequences and a finale, cribbed straight from one of the Roger Moore Bond adventures, in which Charlie Sheen performs several completely impossible feats in as many minutes.I fell in love with the lovely Nastassja when I first saw her in Tess, when she seemed like a breath of fresh air. Unfortunately, our love was not to last; Polanski's masterpiece was a tough act to follow and none of her later films, including this one, seemed to be in anything like the same class. It didn't help that the second film I saw her in was Harem, which must by any standards count one as one of the worst movies of the eighties.The film may borrow from the Bond franchise, but it doesn't really bear comparison. Even at their worst, the Bond films had a lightness of touch which Terminal Velocity lacks. With her Slavic looks- she may officially hold a German passport but her family are of Polish descent- Nastassja might have made a decent Bond Girl, but there is little in the film to inspire her. The villains are a nondescript lot and if Sheen drew any inspiration from the Bond series it must have been from the wooden George Lazenby. Terminal Velocity is the sort of dull, derivative thriller that we have seen too many of over the last quarter of a century. 4/10 "},{"Title":"More like a Seventies TV film than anything else. Not very good, but not very bad, either","Date":"5 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I can't say I'm too surprised that Terminal Velocity gets such a low IMDb overall rating and was a box office loss, making just $17 million dollars, $33 million short of its budget, but that's a bit misleading it's not exactly bad, it's just that it isn't very good. It is something of a curio. It many different ways, not least the toe-curling 'macho' dialogue, it seems more like a refugee from a cheesy Seventies TV series than a Hollywood film. Why it was made I really couldn't guess. It would be entertaining enough if you have enough beer and chips handy and an evening to kill - and you're not to choosy - but don't bother going out of your way to see it. Win some, lose some, I suppose. "},{"Title":"Some words","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I own this movie ( VHS ) as well as having seen it more than two times, I REMEMBER NOTHING! I guess there was a sky-driving boom in the 90's, I blame the movie Point Break, and born from that ridiculous craze we have a Charlie Sheen film. The plot is about ...I don't know?...Russians?...A pretty lady actress who may or may not have slept with Charlie Sheen?...I mean, I don't know...I should have retained something but no, I got nothing! It's an utterly forgettable movie made for mysterious reasons. I say mysterious because as a porno it would have made more money-as a movie without Charlie Sheen it would have made more money- as a straight up action movie without the skydiving it would have made more money- so what the f*ck were they thinking? Y'know, why did they think this would work? It's a mystery. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" OK , so this movie obviously isn't a masterpiece or even a good movie. It doesn't mean you can't give this popcorn flick a chance for one night of unambitious cinema. There is a similar movie to this one - Drop zone  with Wesley Snipes . Some people are arguing about which one is a rip-off the second . To be honest , I don't really care about that because both are just decent popcorn movies , nothing more.I'm not a fan of Charlie Sheen , but I 've found him to be enjoyable in this one . Nastassja Kinski was very likable and gives a good performance . In my opinion she is the heart of the movie . It was also good to see James Gandolfini (RIP) , even if the twist with him was obvious . The romance was quite fine . I did laugh sincerely a couple of times and there is some decent mystery to keep the viewer interested. Mind that the screenplay isn't really spectacular and the action scenes are rather too over the top .Overall , a decent popcorn movie . It never becomes anything more , but we should appreciate it for what it is , especially now , when Hollywood very often struggles to create a watchable entertainment for mass audiences. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Die Hard on a...cloud?","Date":"24 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Terminal Velocity, it is what you most likely think it is. Another dumb action film featuring a hot double act of pretty boy and pretty girl. However, and I say this not with tongue in cheek, it is damn entertaining in that popcorn munching way. Hey, at least it didn't have billions spent on it and wasn't based on a computer game.Charlie Sheen is a sky diving maverick who gets involved in a life threatening situation after meeting Nastassja Kinski's slinky Chris Morrow. Enter Russian baddies, lots of gold and Christopher McDonald entering the hall of fame for worst villain portrayals. Director Deran Sarafian (Death Warrant) keeps it brisk, Joel McNeely lifts from Die Hard and Basic Instinct for his musical score and a few scenes are well worth the time of action movie junkies (the finale involving a car falling from a plane is really thrilling).It's not high art, but nobody should be expecting that, and to really get in the mood for it you may need to drink the Tequila worm that Kinski does here, but this is far from being the worst action movie of the early 90s. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Wouldn't say it was fun, but could do worse","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Rightly drummed, this film is pretty bad and I would place it in the time-filling category of film. There is a story-line in there, if not a very good one and the action keeps the thing rolling even if that isn't very exciting. Overall give it half marks I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Intellectual isn't a requirement, but a bit of substance is.","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, guys.  I too have watched this film, and I tend to agree with the critics.  I admittedly am not a huge Charlie Sheen fan, but I am known to always sit through a movie... and my butt was really numb after this one. I yawned and blinked and did all I could to remain conscious during this film, and it was a success even at the cost of my intellectual mind.  The film was drivel, drivel it was.  I go into a movie expecting what it is, or actually maintaining an open mind, but this movie requires no mind at all to be enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Not Exactly Shakespeare, Heck, it's not even Die Hard...","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, so it's not Shakespeare. It was a serious Crash and burn at the box office, but I consider it to be my duty to defend this film. So some of the jokes are lame and the plot virtually non-existent, but you just have to remember one thingIt was really FUN! And as I see it, that's the only thing that matters. Charlie Sheen isn't exactly at home with the action hero thing, but he brings a good humour that the usual action hero hunks would have seriously over-looked, and in a film like this it's the humour that holds it all together. For a Wet Wednesday evening, you can't beat it. Go... Rent, buy, borrow, whatever you need to. I guarentee you'll laugh at least once, even the most surly among you. (And for those Charlie Sheen fans out there, this is one you should definitely see. Not as good as some of his other films, but definitely an important spot in his career) Watch this movie, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is an enjoyable movie, but it could have been  better. It should have been a straight out comedy,  but sometimes seems to take itself too seriously. A few more gags, and it would have been a very funny movie. But now, it is entertaining and mildly funny, so you may as well watch it.  "}{"Title":"Very exciting and well done","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I found this to be an enjoyable film to watch, performances were very good and the special effects were terrific. Watched it on Laser Disc and the sound is  excellent "},{"Title":"The Cadillac Freefall is a masterpiece","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Well, I absolutely loved this movie. Actually I saw it 3 times. I thought the cadillac freefall scene was a masterpiece. Sheen and Kinski are at their best. But this is a MOVIE, meaning most of it is just pure fun and visuals to keep you entertained...a bit too much sometimes but enjoyable nonetheless. Anyway the Score is excellent, actors are good, story is a bit farfetched but... boy these action scenes... you can't miss them. "},{"Title":"Good fun, without heavily taxing either your mind or your sense of fantasy.","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Terminal Velocity doesn't have much to say, but it doesn't have to.  There is lots of action and violence that somehow stays a step away from becoming gross.  Charlie Sheen plays his part with his tongue firmly in his cheek, but manages to avoid being a complete parody of his Hot Shot parody characters.  Nastassja Kinski is easy to look at while she does her best to assume the role of a tough spy/cop.  The breathtaking climactic action scene in the sky is worth the investment of an evening and the rental fee, even if the sappy ending serves to remind us that movies like this don't really narrate story -- they just circle like an amusement park ride and drop us off exactly where we got on. "},{"Title":"Why don't people like this film?","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When this film came out, it has to be said, it bombed. Seriously, and tragically. I put it down to the pseudo intellectualism surrounding modern films. The Idea that a film doesn't actually have to have a deeper meaning, or specific point seems to go over the heads of some people. Films were made for enjoyment and to allow people to escape their ordinary hum drum lives. That's exactly what this film is. Totally implausible fun. But that's what makes it so good! If you want spiritual or intellectual fulfilment, go and watch something with subtitles. If you want escapism from normality and a few laughs along the way, WATCH THIS FILM!!! "},{"Title":"Severely Overlooked","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  In 1994, there were two action films set in the underworld of skydiving, this and Drop Zone. Drop Zone was good, but this was so much better and was unfairly overlooked. I know that there's hardly a living soul who cares for Charlie Sheen, except for me, maybe. C'mon people, he's done some real good films, such as The Arrival, Money Talks, and The Rookie, and this movie. He's in top form here, with some great one-liners. The action scenes are so intense, and adrenaline pumping, that I'm suprised this got a PG-13 rating. It's got just what you would want from an action movie; loud action, big laughs, and a story that is absurd and intends to be so.  "},{"Title":"Pack your bags we're going on a guilt trip.....","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Ditch Brodie is a maverick skydiving instructor.One day, a beautiful girl comes in, wanting to take her first jump. Up in the air, Ditch takes his eyes off her momentarily, then looks back to find out that she has fallen out, dying on impact.Ditch is suspicious that all is not as it seems, because he distinctly remembers hooking her static line on...Charlie Sheen continued his run of nineties movies that should have made him a big star without tiger blood and other men, with this ridiculous, over the top, but fun movie.it's best not to take this film seriously at all, else you will find many flaws.Instead, just enjoy the very well choreographed action and jump scenes, the excellent story written by Twohy, and some brilliant one liners.This has to be sheens best film from the nineties that isn't Hot Shots! and proved he could handle action pretty well. of course, it's a mile from films like Wall Street and Platoon, but when the trailer features a car free falling and makes you smile, it's clear you're not looking for an intelligent night at the movies.This was unfairly overlooked at the cinema, maybe this was due to the fact that a similar movie 'Drop Zone' was released first (which was good, but far too serious.It's forgettable stuff for sure, but it's fun, breezy and entertaining all the way through.One of the nineties guiltiest pleasures. "},{"Title":"Hilarity ensues in this corny, clichéd action thriller!","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It's impossible to deny that Terminal Velocity is a terrible, clichéd mess impersonating an action film; but then again, it's very difficult not to have a great laugh watching it. In the right conditions, this frankly rather dull action thriller becomes a hilarious comedy, and I'm glad to say that I saw the film under the right conditions. The plot is reminiscent of just about any other 'some guy gets pulled into a dodgy situation' action film ever made, and scriptwriter David Twohy clearly delights in throwing in cliché after cliché between and during several explosion infested action sequences. The film is held together by it's leading man; the laughably silly Charlie Sheen, who is just great in the role of Richard 'Ditch' Brodie, a skydiving instructor who is drawn into the 'world of espionage' after a young girl that he'd like to have sex with apparently falls to her death. It's obvious that the plot is just an excuse for lots of stunts because the object at the centre of the tale - some gold disk or something - never really figures properly in the story.The thing that makes this film so hilarious is the fact that you're never entirely sure whether or not the comedy is intentional. Certain one-liners clearly are, but then there's scenes such as the one that sees Charlie Sheen casually mutter 'goddamnit', just as he's about to plummet down a coal burning tower that ensure the doubt still lingers. Charlie Sheen's persona perfectly fits the very silly role given to him in this film. Seeing him swan around with a barrage of 'manly' gestures and a complete lack of modesty ensures that there's always something to laugh at during Terminal Velocity. The ending is about as original as saying that you've packed everything but the kitchen sink, and sees all three of the textbook action film conclusions appear on screen one after another. First we have the high-octane action stunt sequence, which isn't too bad despite being rather hard to buy, even in this sort of film. This is followed by the Mano a Mano dual between lead good guy and lead bad guy, but best of all is the cheesy sentimental final climax, which really had me in stitches. I hope the comedy in this film wasn't intentional. "},{"Title":"Man, I got a thing for bad movies.....","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie, and I'm not ashamed to admit it. Charlie (Charles? remember that?) Sheen is in this as a maverick skydiver. After some, err... unplausable plot twists, he ends up fighting for the fate of the free world or something, and I think he gets some lovin' from Natasha Kinski. Maybe. Who cares.That is the attitude to take when watching this movie. Put the old brain in neutral and just enjoy watching things go boom! and watching some good skydiving. Like most Sheen movies, namely No Code of Conduct, if you're not expecting too much, you'll be pleasantly surprised.In short, this is a flick, not a motion picture.But, it's a damn good flick.  "},{"Title":"For Sheeners and lovers of long,zany endings, a must-see.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Saw it, forgot it, saw it again last night and before I reforget this cockeyed film, let me urge fans of the Great Sheenes not to leave this on the shelf at Blockbuster or miss a rescheduling on the box. It has a soul-satisfyingly long, credulity-defying, wacky ending they should include in an anthology of odd  endings. "},{"Title":"Big, dumb fun","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When Ditch Brodie takes a novice skydiver (Chris Morrow) up in his plane for lessons, she tragically falls to her death.  Brodie loses his license and tries to live with the loss.  However an closer look at a video of the accident reveals a second plane where a body was thrown to impersonate Chris.  Brodie investigates and uncovers a plot to capture sensitive information and return it to Russia.This is a really fun film.  It's not meant to be a masterpiece or a deep political thriller.  It is meant to be a fun ride through exaggerated characters and silly set pieces.  The plot is almost pointless - it's just an excuse to hang the set pieces around.  However what you do get is Sheen overacting, great action scenes - the best being Sheen skydiving after a car which has Kinsji locked in the trunk.  You understand? - it's meant to be big dumb fun.  Personally I think this is better than a lot of big summer films that have big special effects scenes and ridiculous plots but try to take themselves seriously.  This knows it's all a bit unlikely but enjoys itself anyway.Sheen is the key to the tongue-in-cheek approach.  He doesn't play a character - he almost just plays himself!  Even when he's in action scenes he's smiling - because he's having fun! and it makes me enjoy it a lot more.  Kinski almost has as much fun in her role, but she has to carry a lot of the plot so she is more serious at time.  A pre-Sopranos James Gandolfini is menacing in his small bad guy role and Melvin Van Peebles makes an appearance to show that it's not just his son that can do daft films.Overall it's silly dumb fun.  Sheen enjoys himself so why can't you? "}{"Title":"Flying good time!","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  As a watcher of action movies in excess, Terminal Velocity, isn't too bad, in fact it's really good. However, I must be blunt. This movie is really for people who are not desensitized to graphic violence. But, it is enjoyable filled with mystery and intrigue (even though it's obvious Natassja's Chris Morrow doesn't fall to her death). I must also comment on Charlie Sheen's average attempt to provide funny sarcasm. He tries really hard but maybe he's the miscast of the film. Judge for yourself "},{"Title":"Pretty bad really.","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Now you have to remember around the late 80s and early 90s there were lots, and I mean lots of action films pumping out of Hollywood - they were all inspired by one, inspirational film - Die Hard (1988).  After which there were lots of rip-offs which were affectionaly known as Try Hard's or by putting the plot into the die hard title such as Die Hard on the Rockies (CliffHanger) or Die Hard on a huge damn (Terminal Rush) or Die Hard in a Chemical Plant (Open Fire) and so on, and so on.This is a die hard with skydiving - only without the die hard element.  This is supposed to be an action thriller with a bullet proof plot, but unfortuently the plot, script and the online chemistry between Sheen and Kinski doesn't work.Nothing works in this really, really tired film.  The director tries REALLY hard to make some good action sequences - the diving without parachutes, the parachute getting caught in wind farm blades, even a car which falls out of an aeroplane - which looks great - but WHY did they have to make it CGI enhanced?  couldn't they just stick with the stunt man sequence?This film, although slightly better than Drop Zone (which was released the same year) has some good one-liners and jokes - the best being at the end of the film where Sheen gets a medal for killing off the Russian Mafiosi bad guys.All in all avoid this film, go watch Die Hard again its far more fun. "},{"Title":"When Everything Is Super.. Except The Hero of It !","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the memorable flicks of the 1990s. Of course not in the same shelf that has (Con Air), (The Rock), (Face Off), but you may find it at the lower one, and when you check it out you'll be surprised. The Action is super but not that totally crazy as some likes from the same era. True that the ultimate tagline of all of this kind of movies is don't you ever think but here even if you did, you'd see how it got a little bit of inner logic. You've got to love and respect that script, it did it well. The climax's sequence was so tough a' la James Bond grand style. Thanks to director (Deran Sarafian) who presented also (Gunmen - 1994) another good Action. The only problem, a big one too, is (Charlie Sheen) ! Actually with a movie like that you'd think young (Clint Eastwood), or (Willis), or even (Sly), but not Mr. shining black hair who can't act well. His charisma is weaker than the role. He's funny for sometimes but silly frigid for most of the time. Still good noise though, and definitely the most amusing among the series of the unfortunate events that (Sheen) did it during the 1990s (The Arrival, Postmortem, Free Money, No Code of Conduct, ..etc) before his merciful retirement from cinema (temporarily or eternally I think the cinema retired from him !) to establish a TV career with (2 Men & Half) which's another flop if you asked me. So (Terminal Velocity) compared to (Sheen)'s original disasters is like paradise, but he still in it. I said once that the main defect, sometimes the only defect, with movies by (Tom Cruise), (Ben Affleck) or (Charlie Sheen) is that they're their leads ! "},{"Title":"What's the fuss","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I don't understand certain people's hatred for this movie. If you are expecting 100% reality then you will be disappointed. Why would someone expect 100% reality from anything that comes from Hollywood? I don't, and that is why I liked this movie. I am a cop, and I watch CSI. The only reason I watch CSI is because they have very unique ways of people dying. Other than that it is a dumb unrealistic show just from the very basic points of it. Terminal Velocity has good action sequences. My favorite scene is where he and Natasha are in the super sonic land rocket and use it to get away from the bad guys. Completely unrealistic? Of course, but it was exciting. It wasn't great, but it was just a basically entertaining movie. My Point here is don't expect too much from Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Is it really that hard to find a good action movie with a decent story?","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Aaaah, what can I say about yet another action movie whose story must have been made up by a drunk and unemployed screenwriter with writers block. I'm sorry if that sounds a bit too hard for some people or if you are a big fan of this movie (it's not because I don't like it that you can't love it of course), but this movie really had nothing to offer that blew me away. I don't know why, but somehow it is almost impossible to find an action movie with a decent script or story.It's the same problem with this movie Ditch Brodie (Charlie Sheen) is a maverick skydiving instructor with a reputation that has made of him a first page news item for several times, but that will also cost him his job very soon. One fine day, a pretty girl steps into his office, asking to learn her skydiving. Of course he doesn't say no and he takes her with him on her first dive. But than he makes a fatal mistake, he loses her out of sight for one moment and before he knows what is happening she falls out of the airplane, without having opened her parachute, right to a gruesome death. When he is accused of man slaughter because he didn't attach her static line, he starts an investigation himself, finding out that she had something to do with the KGB and the Russian Mafia who are trying to steal gold from an airplane.Normally this movie would have gone by me completely unnoticed, but because Charlie Sheen, Nastassja Kinski and James Gandolfini were in it, I gave it a try. The acting isn't too bad for the three actors that I just mentioned (although not excellent either), but the others really never exceed the level of the average action flick. In my opinion this movie isn't very good, but at least it isn't as bad as a Steven Seagal or Jean-Claude Van Damme film. I give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"It's not the fall that kills you, it's the movie","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I don't see how some people rate this movie so highly. The Russians as menace trope was by then threadbare, the dialogue was wooden, the minutes-long scene of skydiving near the end stretches credibility beyond the breaking point and the characters were flimsy even for a sendup of the genre, which it seemed to be attempting. This is possibly the worst film I've seen in a theater. The only redeeming feature I saw in it was that a few scenes in it showed the some of cool scenery near my hometown. I don't have contempt for this movie, just pity. Don't rent this movie, because it's too bad to be good, and not bad enough to be so bad that it's good. "},{"Title":"Over the top with no plot","Date":"5 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Terminal Velocity is another one of those highly charged, average adventure films with over the top action and absolutely no plot.Director Deran Sarafian makes sure the action comes thick and fast, with some of the stunts being truly spectacular, especially one particular scene in which our hero finds himself hurtling towards the earth in a convertible car, from thousands of feet up! The movie is loud, fast and has an unrelenting pace which should keep most movie-goers too preoccupied to be worrying about the absent storyline.Charlie Sheen and Nastassja Kinski star, and both fit the bill nicely as the attractive, home grown (maybe not Nastassja) heroes, yet both have little depth to work with. What disappoints me is that Charlie Sheen is so much better than this. After struggling to make a name for himself, he really sky rocketed to stardom with two sensational performances, first in Oliver Stone's Platoon (86), and then again for Stone in Wall Street (88). Since then though it's been downhill all the way for Sheen as he quickly returned to selecting second rate scripts. Kinski (who still looks sensational) is also much better than this movie would suggest.David Twohy's script, about a hot shot skydiver who suddenly finds his world turned upside down when a mysterious 'student' enters his life, avoids the painfully obvious just enough. There's no obligatory love scene for instance, but all the villains are predictably wicked and two dimensional, and all get their comeuppance. Just another reluctant hero saving the world from evil clutches.Friday, February 10, 1995 - Greater Union Melbourne "},{"Title":"Charlie Sheen proves his versatility","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" To prove how versatile an actor he is, Charlie Sheen attempted to save a cheap knock-off script called Terminal Velocity. How successful he was depends on how forgiving you are. However, in the eleven years since this steamer rolled out of theaters, we've found that comedy is more his forte than action. Which is not bad from an actor's point of view. After all, pretending to blow things up is easy. Eliciting laughs from an increasingly cynical modern audience, that's hard. Indeed, like many actors who became synonymous with B-grade features, Charlie may well have a bright future in television.If Sheen did not need an alternate venue for his career before Terminal Velocity, he would certainly need one after. After the new action film paradigm started by Die Hard in 1988, audiences began to expect a little more depth from their action heroes. It wasn't enough that they could crush walnuts in their buttocks, although efforts like Total Recall show that persons associated with the old, idiotic style of action film are capable of adapting somewhat to this new style. Unfortunately, Sheen never really had the action star thing quite down, if you know what I mean. His performances in The Three Musketeers or Young Guns attest to this.The problem in Terminal Velocity, like the problem in a lot of action films, is that the script does not appear to have been entirely thought through. Plot twists and events seem to happen more for convenience than any serious storytelling element. Unfortunately, this is really the kind of film you cannot review the plot of too seriously without giving away large chunks of the plot. Not that this makes the plot turns any more convincing. In fact, some of the plot conveniences, such as the goals of the antagonists, appear to have literally been made up on the spot that day of shooting.Indeed, Natassja Kinski aside, I defy you to recall the name of an actor from this yawner without looking at the IMDb cast list. Without Sheen, this film would be nothing but two groups of actors firing prop guns at each other. Even the extras are so wholly unmemorable as to make this film a non-event. Fortunately, they manage to hold off on the action film clichés for the first hour. But once the clichés start, they come thick and fast. Male and female protagonists having a spat that later results in one running to catch up with the other? Check. One antagonist thinking the other is screwing them over until after a spat? Check. Protagonist conning some hapless witness into aiding his cause? Yeah, that tired old one is here, too. As previously indicated, if it were almost anyone other than Charlie Sheen doing all this, it would fall flat.The final nail in the coffin is the cinematography. You've read me commenting about Sergio Leone films where the 2.351 frame is used so dynamically that panning and scanning them should be made a criminal offense. Terminal Velocity is a 2.351 film where one could cut out as much as two thirds of the picture, and nobody would know the difference. This, and the other factors I have just mentioned, lead me to give Terminal Velocity a score of three out of ten. Sheen earns those three points alone. "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is really an action packed movie that stars Charlie Sheen! It has really good acting in it and I was really surprised by the acting by Nastassja Kinski,James Gandolfini,and Christopher McDonald!Gandolfini and McDonald were great villains!Good action,the film is never boring and has great music by Joel McNeely!If you like the cast that's in this film and love action movies with a good score then check out Terminal Velocity! "},{"Title":"Fun, But NOT Great!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Charlie Sheen was NOT a genius in this work. This was pretty lame, actually, in both substance and execution, however, it does bear some fun elements, and delivers a moderate amount of entertainment.I can't say that I'm surprised that Sheen's work is horribly lacking; it seems his fire went out right after Young Guns. This film is not much of anything, in the great scheme of cinematic wonders, however, it manages to deliver a bit of enjoyment, I think in SPITE of itself, rather than because of the work itself.Many think this was great fun, so as usual, I'm in the minority when I say that I found this film dated, puerile, and under-dramatized while it was also boring, uneventful, and anticlimactic drivel. It does manage a small amount of enjoyment/entertainment quality, if only mildly.It rates a 3.8/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Somewhat Silly","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  By 1994 Charlie Sheen`s highly acclaimed performances in PLATOON  and WALL STREET were a long faded memory and he found himself starring - That`s  starring  as in  Starring Eric Roberts in a movie few people got the chance to see in a cinema  - in dross like TERMINAL VELOCITY . To be honest this isn`t the worst film you`ll ever see but it is a fundamentally mediocre one . Sheen plays a sky diving instructor who finds himself facing possible manslaughter charges after the death of one of his students . I won`t spoil it but there`s a very unlikely plot twist about half way through where both Sheen`s character and the audience gasp  I don`t believe this  and then things get more and more unlikely as the hero finds himself chased by Slavic bad guys . Like I said it`s not the worst thriller ever made , it stars actors most people will recognise and the sky diving stunts are fairly good , in fact this might have been a good thriller after all but it`s ruined by too many unlikely plot twists   "},{"Title":"Action packed and fast paced, but lacks a real dramatic structure. *1/2 out of ****","Date":"30 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  TERMINAL VELOCITY (1994) *1/2Starring Charlie Sheen, Nastassja Kinski, James Gandolfini, and Christopher McDonald Director Deran Sarafian   102 minutes   Rated PG-13 (for violence and brief strong language)By Blake French	Terminal Velocity is as conventional as apple pie, but not quite as smart. It contributes nothing new to the series of familiar action movie formulas out there these days and certainly has no clue of what the word originality  means. This movie is a real flop, not because it is poorly directed or constructed--but because we are so accustomed to the material presented.  The film's story is based on a series of amazingly acted stunts and action sequences that are almost at the level of Jackie Chan. Too bad that these scenes are just about all that the plot consist of. Charlie Sheen is reckless skydiving instructor Ditch Brodie, who breaks safety violations frequently and efficiently. As the movie begins he meets a beautiful young woman named Chris Morrow, who shows up wanting an instant lesson.She ends up apparently committing suicide when she somehow unties herself from the safety cords while in the sky on Ditch's plane, and jumped out without Ditch knowing it. He investigates and finds out that things are not what they seem. Terminal Velocity has lame, silly, self destructive dialogue that comes out of the characters senseless mouths. It doesn't developing anything, not even the plot, which is tried to be explained in one particular desperate scene. The characters have such little intelligence, Ditch and Chris getting into trouble becomes a running joke in the movie. Charlie Sheen can't act very well in this super hero type of a leading role. His kind of style belongs in movies like Hot Shots and Money Talks, not something that is serious and daring like Terminal Velocity. His character here is a mixture between Arnold Swarzenagger and Jackie Chan. Sheen can hardly keep a straight face in most of his scenes let along act like a mighty man. Nastassja Kinski is not a whole lot better. The character she plays gives her absolutely nothing to  do except get in trouble over and over again. Oh, yeah, lets not for get to count her in as another one of those heroines that fall hopelessly in love with the hero in the movie's last scene. Sound familiar?I did like the usually boring James Gandolfini, and Christopher McDonald in their performances as the villains. McDonald uses mean facial expressions to let us know who's side he is on, and really lives up to being a bad guy. Maybe it was the nonstop chasing that he did that made me like him more than the heroes, after all, it is hard to root for someone who is always running..remember  The Jewel of the Nile.There is such little dramatic structure to this movie it is almost a shame for audiences to buy this as an action picture. Sure, the film has excitement and a few intense (sort of) scenes that are entertaining, but there is just no impact with the sequences. People fall out of airplanes, parachute into danger, are shot at while dangling in the air, drift into massive electric fans, blow up each other's automobiles, and almost crash going over a hundred miles an hour in some kind of a rocket car..and my reaction to all of this yawn.     "}]