[{"Title":"Good tragedy &#150; not a film you'll see too often","Date":"27 July 2002","Score":"39 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ray comes home for 2 days to look after his mother before going back to his new town  to take up an internship in his summer break from MIT.  However his father informs him that he will need to stay much longer than that to care for her as she has broken her leg.  While in the house Ray becomes increasingly frustrated and fins himself drawn into lust for his mother with devastating results.This independent film is refreshingly straightforward but has enough quirk in it to have an edge of humour.  The drama is sort of Shakespearean as Ray finds his life controlled by his mother who he becomes filled with desire for after rubbing her legs, showering her etc.  This quickly finds him in a situation where, unable to masturbate due to the family dog following him everywhere and unable to have sex with a young girl because he is too rough he is increasingly drawn to mum!This is not a comedy but a tragedy that deals with a very taboo subject.  It deals with it gradually and in such a way that you can understand why it happens.  Even when it happens there is no judgement &#150; Ray is more sensitive after that and his mother seems nonplussed altogether.  The fact that people hated it because they were expecting a teen comedy shows not a weakness in the film but a fault from the audience.That's not to say this is a classic &#150; it has flaws, some characters and scenes appear to have no meaning and the ending wasn't as concrete as I'd hoped for.  But it still handles the central theme well and is a good tale of a young man who slowly loses a lot due to lust.  The performances are all good &#150; expect Gallo who is a little directionless in her character.Overall THIS IS NOT A TEEN COMEDY!  But it is a good drama on a taboo subject.  It may be a little light on basic plot but the underlying themes will give you plenty to consider after you watch it. "},{"Title":"Flawed but Interesting. Dollar for dollar about the best $80,000 Movie you will see","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Given the budget limitations ($80,000), Spanking the Monkey manages to hold interest albeit with some poorly chosen scenes.The core of the movie is the relationship between mother and son. The rest of the cast exists to point the way to the inevitable.The philandering, materialistic, self absorbed husband/father illuminates the barren marriage.The fumbling sexual attempts of the son with the girl next door and her contradictory accusations of his sexual attempts as either too rough or not rough enough (gay), understandably confuse the son and provide the mother with a mentoring, nurturing sexual role for her son about how to sexually succeed with women.The mother, stumbling upon a bedroom sexual session between the son and the girl next door, reacts more in jealousy than in any maternally disproving fashion.The mother's flirtatious ways with the male neighbors, doctors, and ultimately with the girl next door's father point out that while she may be her son's mother, she is still a very desirable woman in the eyes of the rest of the male world.From the beginning through the end, you never believe the son and mother ever had a mother/child bonding. Both of them are intellectually superior, highly educated. The mother was young when she gave birth and she thinks of herself as her son's educational, intellectual and ultimately sexual mentor, not his mother.The teenage son's inability to spank his monkey combined with the boredom, liquor and medications downed by his mother provide the explosive elements that are just waiting to be lit. The mother's seductive smile and a slight hiking of her nightgown set off the explosion.This movie is nowhere near perfect, but it's compelling enough to let you sit through the unnecessary (e.g. stoner friends) and that's a lot more than you can say for most movies with a budget that is a thousand times greater. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The climax it where it's at in this movie; didn't see it coming the first time I watched the film. Plenty of nice shots and solid character development. Funny and at times painful to watch, but definitely makes you think. The characters are written well and are performed admirably by the cast (with an early role for Jeremy Davies).Great movie to watch in the middle of the day, with the pacing slow relative to many movies. But it works, and it makes the payoff all the more rewarding. The interactions feel so real. This is as good as it gets for under $100,000.  "},{"Title":"Erotic for all the wrong reasons...","Date":"12 September 2007","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An independent film that bravely confronts the subject of consensual incest is presented as a dark comedy in which ALBERTA WATSON and JEREMY DAVIES, as mother and son, have the key roles. It's their mother/son relationship at the heart of the story that is compelling and sometimes erotic--especially the scene where Davies has to massage his mother's legs and toes while they discuss why her road travelling husband isn't there to do it for her.When the story strays to others outside this relationship, it fails to make the same connection. The father is strictly a man so obsessed with his own career that he ignores his wife. She, in turn, is a manipulative shrew who virtually seduces her son because she's a needy woman. The son's friends are depicted as total drug-happy boors and boozers whose minds are completely idle.At times the story becomes dark and brooding--even intense--and yet there's a surface tension broken by laughter at some of the shenanigans going on in this dysfunctional, to say the least, family.Outstanding work by JEREMY DAVIES and ALBERTA WATSON. He's highly sympathetic in his predicament all the way through and she's totally despicable in the manner by which she exerts control over him. Both show complete understanding of their difficult roles.Summing up Interesting tale, character-driven and flawed, but worth watching. "},{"Title":"A snarling nineties remake of the Oedipus tale","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's simply another one of the Greek myths retold in a modern setting. Those Greeks really knew how to write a cunning tale that cuts close to the bone. They wrote straight from human experience and feeling. Incest crept up on the young hero of the film with terrifying inevitability. They both knew what they were getting into, and went ahead even though they knew that they would subsequently experience decision regret. A very enjoyable film that magically captures the passion of a summer holiday gone badly wrong.Copying a tried and tested tale from the past is always a successful recipe for a good modern film, as Lucas has shown with borrowing from Homer's The Iliad. This film is certainly capable of provoking strong emotion from the viewer, and I think that most of us would have a hard time resisting sexual advances in those circumstances if the woman in question was such a fox.A compelling tale, made all the more sickening for it's overt basis in human experience.Not one to watch with your mum (unless you fancy her!). "},{"Title":"Clever black comedy","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's always nice when Americans make thoughtful, atmospheric, and reflective films.  Especially when they are black comedies, because America is home to some of the masters of the genre.  Dealing with the most taboo of all subjects, this film makes you squirm in your seat even more than Thomas Vinterberg's 'Festen', and the subject is dealt with using the tact and subtlety that many Hollywood directors lack.Anybody expecting a slapstick, South Park type movie will be sorely disappointed, but fans of Todd Solondz will probably love it.  Plus there is a great soundtrack by Morphine. "},{"Title":"flawed third act but still a keeper","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SPOILERS, GIVEAWAYS AND REVELATIONS. Or something.Okay, to my mind what holds this movie together is the chemistry between Susan (Alberta Watson) and Ray (Jeremy Davies). Almost everything else is superfluous and a great deal of the last half hour could have wound up on the cutting-room floor.Tom, the controlling, philandering dad, could have been fleshed out more. As it is, we see a driven, conniving, dishonest man - with no idea of what made him that way, or why Susan stayed with him. There is a scene rather late in the film where he opens up, but it's wedged between about six other speed-the-plot scenes, and loses almost all its meaning. His character works best not as a real person, but as another one of the many pressures that act against Ray all summer long. You can see Ray's fear, resentment and anger build through the entire film. Jeremy Davies' performance is agile and moving.I did not need even one appearance of Ray's stoner friends; they don't advance the plot or even give any comic relief. We're supposed to understand that Ray is only there because he's friends with Nicky (played by guitarist Matthew Puckett), but the other three jokers take up so much cinematic room that there's no way to tell what Nicky and Ray meant to each other.Likewise, when Ray jumps off the cliff, we're supposed to understand that he's making a desperate bid for freedom, and that his old life is over (rebirth / baptism / etc). But not half an hour ago he was trying to kill his mother. Too much information.Toni Peck is the little girl from down the lane who's had a crush on Ray without ever meeting him. She is a precocious thing who has read more about life than she's actually experienced. The early scenes with her and Ray could have had more bite - what he says to her in the pagoda is not really enough for her to go home in a snit. And if she can't take that kind of verbal treatment, how in the world does she manage to stand up to Hurricane Susan later on? I don't feel that Toni's character was really thought through (and her father should have been excised from the movie). She was not really a person, but a study in contrast. Ray is awkward, graceless and fumbling when he's with Toni, but with Susan he's the consummate lover - relaxed, confident, passionate, healing.Jeremy Davies does not quite pull off every trick in Ray's book. Too often he is a limp dishrag - not at all vibrant or interested in interacting with the world. Makes sense for his character but is very boring to watch. He is at his best when he's with Susan - there are long loving closeups of his face as he massages his mother's feet, calves, thighs... those are some of the few times in the entire film Ray looks really involved. The phrase smoldering lust comes to mind.Alberta Watson was phenomenal. Her character is the only one who really does anything. She behaves inappropriately with her son and suffers the consequences. Tom is a cipher, and Ray's biggest problem is that he is acted upon. Everything he does is a reaction. Even the climactic leap at the end.Morphine's score is sardonic, rueful and knowing - very well suited to this movie. And the cinematography isn't stunning by any means, but the camera is so voyeuristic when Ray and Susan are in the bedroom - those extreme closeups, coupled with panning shots that don't cut away even when you're flinching and squirming and wanting to leave the room. Those are the scenes I go back to - they are erotic, but for all the wrong reasons. Even as you're drawn in, you really wish you could look away.Kick a few plot twists (will Ray won't Ray ever get to Washington?) and extra characters (Aunt Helen) to the curb, and this movie would have been tight as a snare drum, extremely compelling cinema. As it stands, it's a darkly flawed diamond. 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"Missed Chances","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Considering the plethora of reviews here, both good and bad, there isn't much I can say that hasn't already been said. I will add that the first half works reasonably well, allowing viewers to understand perhaps how such a thing as an incestuous encounter could possibly happen. But then the film derails, and derails big time. The boy blames his mother completely for what they did, and the film seems to side with him despite the fact that it had previously shown us that he was just as guilty as she in the liaison. The film gets unspeakably ugly from there. The subject of consensual incest has been addressed by film only a few times over the years, always with unsatisfactory results---perhaps this is reflective of society's uneasiness with the subject. Consensual incest is about the only sexual more that is never discussed (even by psychologists), even though it likely occurs in real life with more frequency than we would like to believe. "},{"Title":"what a summer!","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A college dude heads home for the summer to take care of his broken legged mom.  In among his daily routine is letting her brace herself on him as he stands outside the shower, his would-be goofy romance with a neighbor girl, and peer pressure from the guys he hangs out with.  Not to mention taking one of the most annoying dogs of movie history for walks.  The capper comes when after rubbing cream on mom's legs, he's unable to sleep.  Turned on perhaps?  The two proceed to get drunk and tear one off (insert your EWWW here).  He tries to put it behind him and concentrate on the neighbor girl, even though earlier she nearly accused him of rape...after accusing him of being gay and telling him to be more agressive!   This girl is true schmuck/dink. Maybe the most stunning moment is the sex scene, or near sex scene, involving him, the girl, and mom toward the end.  And that's mostly what the film does stun, not really shock.  Mostly it just annoys, as all of the characters are totally unlikable, the meanie mother and father, the bonehead girl, and even Davies as the lead, comes off cold or irrational sometimes.  Plus the ending, which leaves everything up in the air.  Ridiculous, too, is the business with the family dog, that is constantly distracting Davies from the doing the title deed, as it wimpers outside the bathroom door.  Sheesh, man, lock the damn dog in a room!  That's what I do.  Uh, I mean, that's what I WOULD do, WOULD do, not what I do do.  Ahem.  Anyway, this one's good to gather a group of friends around for some uncomfortable laughs.  Or for the most awkward experience, I'd use the classic line from the Video Hound movie review book See it with a relative.   "},{"Title":"Unflinching, yet compelling.","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film tends to reject the Hollywood made-for-TV oedipus complex (which is usually only expressed in undertones) scenario of a youth beset with confusion over his seemingly unhealthy relationship with his mentally ill mother, and his need to have a uncomplicated non-incestous relationship with Miss American Apple Pie. What we're presented with is a story of an independant young man who has dedicated himself to being unfettered by his emotionally distant, overzealous parents.When his mother suffers a badly broken leg, he is called upon to take full responsibility for her care thru her entire recuperation. Very reluctantly, he is forced to acknowledge their authority yet again. He is immediately confronted with her immasculating condensations, but is unnerved by her very uninhibited demenor when under the influence of her prescribed pain-killers.When me and my friend saw this, we were somewhat uncomfortable with the realistic candor of the actors portraying the mother and son. I can say this film, unlike any other I've seen elicits the nervous humor response far more effectively, and truly makes this worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"A Brilliant Intro to David O. Russell","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a devilish film!  I first saw this upon it's initial release, and was blown away by David O. Russell's script and direction, and the acting skills of Jeremy Davies.  The film makes you cringe at every turn, but you cannot take your eyes off of it.  Well acted and directed, this marked Russell as a talent to watch.  "},{"Title":"nauseating, yet hilarious and brillant","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As i was flipping through the channels, i thought this would seem like an interesting film to watch. Well, I was very much impressed. It is one of those few films that can make me laugh and yet notice honest pain that people experience. Its a little hard to get through the fact that the son has sex with his mother, (who wouldn't feel sick?), but the film is so much deeper and interesting than superficial(and wrong) sex. Its witty and forward in its approach to comedy and the frustrations of the characters is intrigueing, and somewhat poignant. You can't help but feel deeply concerned and sorry for Ray when he tries to kill himself, but yet laugh at this feeble attempts. Until of course, he finally runs away and leaves behind the psychological, and what i believe to be the physical abuse. I know he's somewhat of an adult, but a mother should know her limits. i highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Greatest independent film ever made!","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film pulls no punches. It has the balls to show difficult subject matter, yet it can make you laugh. Most people will  recognize Jeremy Davies from SAVING PRIVATE RYAN (the scared guy), but here he is worthy of an Academy award. However, don't be under the impression that this film is for everyone, it definitely is not! The incest is likely to offend those who are not familiar with the genre. But if you're in the mood for taboo-breaking themes, this is your movie. "},{"Title":"Unique, challenging and very well acted","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a film whose title and poster not only give nothing away but actually mislead. The name Spanking the Monkey &#x96; a euphemism for masturbation &#x96; makes you think this must probably be a bawdy teen sex-comedy, while the poster depicts the picture of a real smart aleck. Both factors are bizarrely inappropriate, as the title, while mentioned once in the passing, is pretty much irrelevant, while the guy on the poster in no way reflects the character in the film who is anything but confident. Overall, this is a movie whose content is a very different proposition to its marketing. And perhaps that is because the material here is pretty difficult and challenging to say the least. I'm sure this must have stoked up some controversy in its day. After all, it deals with one of the ultimate taboo areas &#x96; incest; although, in this case it is admittedly of the consenting kind. It explores the troubling idea of the Oedipal Complex, via a sexual relationship between a mother and her son. It pulls off the impressive trick of simultaneously not pulling its punches, while still exercising a certain restraint. Material like this is so tricky that it needs very careful execution and David O. Russell, in his directorial debut, shows impressive ability to do just that.It's about Ray, an introverted college student, who has a disastrous summer. He is coerced into looking after his bed-ridden mother by his uncaring, immoral salesman father. She is overly dependent on him not only physically but emotionally as well and soon is encouraging an unhealthy relationship. At the same time Ray is developing a very awkward relationship with a neighbouring girl and hanging out with old friends who antagonise him.It's a drama about discomforts. Ray lives a life of humiliations at every turn. His father bullies him, his mother manipulates him, his girlfriend makes him feel sexually inadequate and his friends display little respect for him. Even his dog seems to antagonise him by constantly interrupting him while he has a, shall we say, moment with himself. It's a drama with a fair bit of black comedy sprinkled throughout. At heart it's about a very dysfunctional family. It works so well because of the characters and acting. Everybody is well-drawn and convincing, which is important given the extreme areas that the film explores. In particular, Jeremy Davies is really very good as Ray. He is definitely a sympathetic character who finds himself lost in a messed up situation that he struggles to find a way out of. Alberta Watson is also excellent in the role of his mother. She is an alluring presence and like Davies strikes the balance just right in what is also a very tricky and complex role. "},{"Title":"Disturbingly Funny!","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With a title like Spanking the Monkey it's bound to induce some odd looks. What lies within is a brilliantly twisted film that is made to make you squirm and feel uneasy. This film deals with the incestuous relationship between a dude and his mother. When you think of other famous mother and son combos, Hitchcock's Psycho and the original Friday the 13th come to mind, but they were horror films. Monkey is quite funny at times but also bizarre at others. This was the first film by Director David O. Russell, who is most known for the Persian Gulf movie Three Kings. Med student Ray Aibelli (played by Jeremy Davies, the island physicist from Lost) arrives home for summer vacation set on taking a prestigious internship only to have to take care of his injured mother instead. She has a broken leg and would rate pretty high on the MILF scale if you ask me. Ray's father is an uptight traveling salesman who is always on the road, and screwing other women. If you have ever been in a situation when a parent is completely dependant on you, you will get an even more bizarre joy out of this movie. We watch as Ray carries his mom back and forth to the bathroom, then has to hold her hand as she showers. Davies plays these scenes perfectly with equal parts awkwardness and a sort of voyeurism.Ray's mother keeps a tight leash on Ray weather she needs him or not. If she has to suffer, Ray should too. As the saying goes misery loves company. He is kept as a virtual prisoner in the same house he grew up in. The urge to free yourself from your parents starts at an early age for many and when freedom is finally achieved, returning for any extended period of time can be a huge psychological blow. Ray is even pestered on numerous occasions by the dog when trying to get some bathroom privacy (think of the title.) When Ray is able go out he starts up a relationship with a neighborhood high school girl named Toni. Just what he needs more awkward relationships and complications. He also hangs around a bunch of guys who aren't really friends, but its the only other option. When you have a few months to kill, and limited options how do you pass the time? Ray is a regular, nice guy and director Russell make you feel every cringe worthy moment.Although funny at times, this really is a dark and disturbing movie and is not for everyone. Made on a budget of about $200,000 in the summer of 1993, it was also shown at the 1994 Sundance Film Festival were it won the Audience Award. If you like your movies on the edge give this one a look. "},{"Title":"not sure what to think","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must admit, I wasn't sure what to expect from a movie with such an, well, interesting title.I can definitely tell you what this movie is not  it is *not* a movie shown in Health class teaching young males healthier and safer alternatives to pre-marital intercourse.Now that that's out of the way, what *is* it?  Shocking is one word.  It doesn't seem to be afraid of depicting taboo subjects that other movies might sugar-coat or avoid.  There were parts of the movie that I felt uncomfortable watching, and I couldn't imagine watching it with someone else.  Come to think of it, I couldn't imagine letting anyone else *know* I watched it....This movie is also sad.  Not in an OL' YELLER sort of way, nor the way you could describe Keanu Reeves' acting.  No, here you have a glimpse at the summer of the main character who seemed to have everything going for him until he's forced home by his over-bearing, traveling father to take care of his temporarily invalid mother, who seems to have her own set of issues. I couldn't help but feel *really* sorry for this kid.  He just can't seem to catch a break.And lastly, it's a dark drama.  I'm not sure why they tried to market it as outrageously funny, but it's not.  And I didn't get the feeling that they tried to make it funny and failed horribly, I just don't think it was meant to be funny.  So, if you're looking for a laugh-out-loud funny movie about a taboo subject, this isn't for you.  Rent BETTER OFF DEAD instead.I thought by the time I got to this point, I'd be able to say whether I liked it or not.  I can't.  It was an interesting movie and I would watch it again, provided it was free and no one else was around.  And I don't feel like I wasted my time or my money.  So yeah, I did kind of like it.  If you want to know what it's all about, and you have a strong stomach, you should watch it once.  Or if you feel like you have the worst life in the world, you should rent it, just so you can see someone worse off than you. Otherwise, you may just want to pass. "},{"Title":"woah. (Spoilers as noted)","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie disturbed me greatly.  This was the third film I'd seen by David O. Russell after Three Kings and Flirting With Disaster, and I had been expecting a more comedic tale than the one I had seen.  I expected perhaps a pre-curser to Flirting, with similar humor and similar themes.  I perhaps should have found out more about this film before seeing it, as I came very close to just stopping it about halfway through and not continuing through it.  This film made me so uncomfortable that I had to fast forward through some of the darker parts.  Where Flirting with Disaster offered relief after some of the uncomfortable moments, this one progresses those moments to the point that they become unbearable.The film shows the relationships of a college student returning home after his first year of college.  We meet his work-obsessed father, his attention-demanding mother, his often uncaring peer group, his condescending aunt, and his perpetually confused dog that just can't seem to get the idea. All of these characters seem to dedicate their lives to making Ray Aibelli's life a living hell to as much of an extent as they possibly can. There are two characters that genuinely seem to care for Ray.  There is one friend from high school that genuinely cares for him and likes hanging out with him, only he appears to be attached to his other friends that make it clear how much they do not like Ray.  Apparently, hanging out with Ray without the other characters is not an option.  The other character that cares for Ray is a girl from high school that finds Ray's success in college uplifting and attractive.  She is attracted to Ray, at least emotionally, but is still too emotionally awkward to allow him to form a connection with her.As a movie experience, this film worked well.  It set up a theme I had seen little about in the films that had shocked me and forced me to think. However, it's purpose was not to scar, but to just examine part of human behavior that isn't discussed very often.  This film was actually very amusing during certain sections as well, and created characters that were at the same time both likeable yet despicably hurtful.  I personally cared for all the characters in the film, with the possible exception of the father, who seemed too detached and too self-serving to care about anyone other than himself.  This film has enough good elements to allow itself to remain fresh in my mind for a while.I'd like to talk about some of the deeper underlying themes in this film that will require SPOILERS.  (1) Notice how much more of a passionate lover Ray becomes after his relationship with his mother.  He becomes so much less aggressive with the girl from high school while making out that you can tell they are both genuinely enjoying it.  Although his relationship with his mother is disturbing we find out that it might be beneficial, in some ways at least, although certainly not enough to make up the psychological scars that would occur from sleeping with one's mother. (2) The viewer gets the chance to witness that while the son is sexually frustrated by not having any other opportunities to relieve himself sexually, we do not see the same from his mother.  The viewer witnesses the father with a nude woman that he's having an affair with, and that sets up the belief that perhaps the mother is frustrated because the father is finding sexual satisfaction somewhere else.  However, he comes home and we witness that he is still very much interested in her, but that she isn't interested in him.  Perhaps he began having an affair to find satisfaction somewhere, anywhere, and perhaps that's why he loves going on trips.  Perhaps he began going on trips, and the mother stopped having interesting in him.  This is one aspect of the film that perhaps deserves discussion.  (3) Note the mother's unlacking charisma.  She knows how to get exactly what she wants from just about anyone.  She's very much a social animal trapped in a cage.  When she gets the chance to associate with any other character who isn't her husband, such as her son, her doctor, or a psychologist from down the road, she ends up having them get perhaps way too interested and too comfortable around her. All it takes is about a 10 minute conversation with someone to get a step or two away from sleeping with them. (4) I love the line about how the psychologist says Ray is in a crisis over his sexual orientation.  He denies it, of course, but we learn very quickly that he is sexually confused. It's interesting that the Psychologist here is given the opportunity to seem both all-knowing and human; it seems like the film is trying to find a firm base to analyze the film psychologically.  Also, it's interesting that Ray denies there's anything wrong with him and always assumes that the problem is someone else's.  Perhaps this is how he has been so successful in school. He represses everything he knows is wrong, and anything that he's done that might be wrong but isn't set in stone with firm rules wasn't his fault. There is much else to discover about this film that would be very valuable and educational.Neither of O. Russell's other films were nearly as dark as this one, nor painted quite as much of a psychological portrait.  This is a film I would have expected to come out of the hands of Neil LaBute or Todd Solondz.  It perhaps paints the dark side of the psychological disfunction a little lighter than either of those other directors; he wasn't nearly as hateful to its main characters as LaBute, nor did he show as many absolute lows of the human psyche as Solondz.  The story ends in hope, loves all of its characters, and tries to allow everyone figure out where they've gone wrong and what they can do to repair the damage.  The film is in a way uplifting, as it shows a problem that is perhaps nearly as serious as one could possibly have, yet shows that there can still be a way out.  This is a more satisfying film that anything the other mentioned auteurs have done so far (with the possible exception of Nurse Betty, which isn't really the same type of film as this one).I did have one problem with the film that would require a few more SPOILERS to talk about.  As anyone that's read any of the other reviews should know that the main character and the mother achieve an incestuous relationship during his stay home.  Well, this is believable.  However, I found it believable because I didn't have much evidence from anything that the son and mother actually grew up together.  I mean, from the film, we know that the son supposedly grew up in that house, but I don't see much evidence of that from how he acts.  He doesn't know his friends, he talks to his mother like they've never had discussions about any of the topics before, and he doesn't even know how to deal with his dog while he's trying to perform the act mentioned in the film's title. I believe that the relationship could happen because the characters don't seem like a mother/son.  The dialogue we hear is the dialogue of a couple of characters who have just met, not the dialogue of a couple of characters that have known each other for their entire lives.  (speaking of which now that I think about it, the dog did a very good job of making the audience believe he's known the other characters his entire life.  Maybe he should give the other characters acting lessons...)  This aspect of the film didn't ruin the experience for me, nor did it make the story unbelievable.  But it did come close... (SPOILER end)Overall, I very much would recommend this film, under the circumstance that you know what you're getting yourself into and that you are not seeing it with anyone that would create an awkward experience.  That means don't see it with mentally or morally feeble people, and especially don't see it with relatives.  The film does have many entertaining moments, many memorable scenes, and creates some relationships that have a psychological value to examining.  Plus, the film has one of the funniest lines I've heard in a long time.  If interested, this is itSPOILER(Nicky apologizes and witnesses Ray sprawled across the floor after attacking his mom) NICKY Hey, what are you doing anyway? RAY I'm choking my mother. NICKY Well, it sounds like it's time to get out of the house then.Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Calling this a comedy misses the point","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I really don't like the marketing of this movie.  The tagline and the doesn't really tell you what's going on.  'Flirting With Disaster' was a comedy, and this is a drama.  A tragedy more accurately.  The movie has its laughs, but it's the anything but humorous incestuous events, that are the the core of this story.  I think David O. Russell is a very gifted filmmaker and here he presents a very unreal subject in a very believable and compelling way.  But if you are looking for a comedy, see Flirting With Disaster.' "},{"Title":"bold and daring comedy","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Spanking the Monkey' is one of the most unique, and in many ways, one of the most wickedly funny movies I've seen in a long time.  It is a dark comedy, but even within those parameters, the movie is dashingly original. It dives into the uncomfortable topics of masturbation and incest, and makes no excuses.  It is excellently written and directed by David O. Russel, who has just now made it big with Three Kings.  Russel knows just the right key to hit with this film.  The film, on the surface, is serious.  Yet, in some subtle and not-so-subtle ways, he makes us laugh, a lot.  Some of the greatest movies are ones that are uncomfortable to watch.  The nature of the story makes this film uncomfortable to watch.  But that's good.  It means what you're seeing is something unique and provocative.  This movie is definitely worth checking out. "},{"Title":"A film more screwed up than I expected, but left me thinking","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well, I have to say that I was impressed.  The film really made me think about some uncomfortable ideas.  I wasn't sure who in the movie I liked. It seemed that every character had enough dimension, that I could really like, or hate them.  The plot was strange, but i recommend it. "}{"Title":"99 minutes of  pure tedium...","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" David O. Russell, who wrote and directed the suicidally-titled Spanking the Monkey, has no conviction in what he's doing. He uses provocative situations as springboards for nasty little jokes; and when his picture begins to disintegrate near the finish, he cops a scene right out of Five Easy Pieces as a lazy out. College student is called home by his demonstrative father after mom has fallen and fractured her leg; although not happy about possibly missing out on a prestigious internship, the lad dutifully tends to his mother despite mounting sexual confusions, frustrations, and humiliations. Jeremy Davies is reasonably well-cast in the lead, although he doesn't resemble or behave like the actors (Benjamin Hendrickson and Alberta Watson) portraying his parents. It's almost as if Davies has been adopted by these people--which would certainly put a different twist on what transpires. Either way, the narrative focus is a mess, with one excruciating moment after another--and each of them followed by an unfunny visual or 'sardonic' verbal sucker punch. The audaciousness of Russell's conception palls once the viewer realizes this thinly-derived plot isn't about to go anyplace. * from **** "},{"Title":"Oedipus for non-classical viewers","Date":"9 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Almost everyone is familiar with MILF. We just saw it recently in Superbad when Seth was drooling all over Evan's mom. I am truly jealous you got to suck on those tits when you were a baby. But, having the hots for your best friend's mom is not the same as having the hots for your own mom.Ray (Jeremy Davies) is planning on a quick visit on his way to a choice internship after his first years of college. Dear old dad (Benjamin Hendrickson) screws him so he can get back on the road and he ends up taking care of his mom (Alberta Watson), who has a cast on her leg. That means being a support while she takes a shower, and rubbing cream on her dry feet and under the cast, and, well an alcohol fueled night leads to things that almost destroy him.He is trying to pursue a normal relationship with his next door neighbor (Carla Gallo), who gives a great performance herself, but the mom issue has traumatized him to the point where this isn't possible.His dealing with his problem is somewhat funny, but also very tragic until he finds a way out. There was some funny bits in the beginning before the tragedy, but the overriding theme of selfishness on the part of everyone reminds us that shite happens even when you make great plans.Jeremy Davies gives a great performance, and Alberta Watson really is one hot mom! "},{"Title":"Praising the Monkey","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Uneven but engrossing black comedy about a medical student caring for his bed-ridden mother during the summer break and having their relationship take unexpected turns. Davies is very good as the frustrated and confused son and Watson is alluring as his sexually frustrated mother. The film works best when focusing on Ray's relationship with his parents; the parts dealing with Ray's friends are less interesting. The scenes where Ray's father tries to explain to him what is expected of him with regard to taking care of his mother and the family dog are funny, as are the ones with the dog interrupting Ray while he tries to engage in the title activity. The big moment between mother and son is handled discreetly. This is a fine early effort by director Russell. "},{"Title":"This is a weird and sad movie about incest!!!!!!","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is now part of my collection just because i saw the main character guy in Conan in 1994 talking about this film and how he had a rough time doing it, the film itself is not worth it but the reason i wanted into my collection is just for the matter that it was very difficult to get, thats why it deserves to be seen and in a good way reviewed by me. It tells a sad story about a guy who has been doing great in school and is home for only 2 days until he goes to his summer job as an intern in a hospital, hes very bright but kind of nerdish and all of a sudden he has to stay home to take care of his mom because she broke a leg and practically no one can do that. This movie touches some serious issues like Incest and some other stuff, it has some great scenes, the acting is good and the ending is so open that might leave you wanting for more like i did. Ill give it a good 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing once...","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yeah, I'd say see it once so you know what people are talking about. But no more than once is required to realize it's not very good. My big problem was that it wasn't believable. I didn't believe for one second that the mom was his mom. Also, any mom that drinks with her son, probably wouldn't make such a big deal about being seen naked in the shower. Nothing gets resolved at the end, either. The mom and son could've at least gotten together and retaliated against the dad. It's better than Flirting With Disaster, but if you want to see a really good movie check out Three Kings. I can't believe it's made by the same guy. "},{"Title":"Not just your ordinary family. These folks need help.","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Writer/director David O. Russell gives us a disturbing look at a dysfunctional family. Turn your head, Granny. Incest, masturbation, sexual impropriety and a family failing in communication, honor and respect. A promising pre-med student(Jeremy Davies) returns home from his freshman year at MIT to tend to his bedridden, mentally unstable mother(Alberta Watson)while dear old dad(Benjamin Hendrickson)is engaged with extended 'business trips' that allows him to practice adultery. Davies is caught up in a wad of sexual confusion. The family dog keeps interrupting the young man's attempts at self gratification. A young neighborhood girl(Carla Gallo)accuses him of rape after some heavy petting. Mom is attractive and needs some attention. The dutiful son ends up drinking with his mom and next comes the horizontal bop. This totally drives a stake into his secret fixation on his domineering mother. This dark comedy flirting with taboo subjects is disturbing as much as it is interesting. Now time to go spank the...... "},{"Title":"Caution Toxic Parents ahead...","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen some pretty distressing movies lately but this one is the worst. I've seen teens in jail, raped and murdered but what happens here is even worse. In this movie the cruelty inflicted on this kid is coming from his parents. The people that he should be able to trust the most are damaged people in their own right and are toxic to their son.In the beginning we see a promising young man who has a lot going for him but by the end of the movie it seems that killing himself or running away from home without any clothes or money would be an improvement. "},{"Title":"What a Mess","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This Indie film pushes the envelope with its odious subject matter; mother-son incest. Now, I don't mind when a film tackles a difficult topic, but this movie appears to embrace its subject matter not because it has a story to tell or a point to make, but only to be out there on the edge.It's intuitively obvious that the relationship between the mother and her son has to be a product of a very dysfunctional family, and the subject family is a case of middle-class dysfunction en extremis. So much so, the characters are rendered unbelievable. The director and screenwriter push way too hard to make the movie &#145;edgy', and end up with a mess.  "},{"Title":"Shockingly bad","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is not shockingly funny as the VHS box says. In fact, it is shockingly bad.(spoilers) First, there is not one scene which was funny. I did not find the dog sniffing the toilet door funny. I did not find the guys laughing at Ray funny. I did not find having sex with your own mum (yes, incest) funny.Second, this film has a bad story. There is no climax, everything is just a bore. 50% of the film happened in the bedroom, so that's another reason of it being boring.Third, The ending is even more pathetic. The film suddenly ends with two failed suicidal attempts. It's OK to fail, but it is not OK to end without addressing all the other issues raised in the film. Just before the suicide Ray told dad what happened and dad was mad. Then Ray tried to kill his mum. It would only be reasonable to expect that the film would take us back to these issues and deal with them. Either they make up, or they break up etc.This film is a total waste of time. I don't know why the rating is so high. "},{"Title":"A tale of  abuse and child molestation!  I appreciate the guts of producers and directors for dealing with such an unpleasant subject matter","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is not a very easy subject matter to tackle.  I started watching the movie on television.  I kept thinking where is this thing going?  My husband went to bed earlier. Next morning his first question, did they do it? Yeah, they did.. The topic of incest tends to make me ill, but I was just wondering to what point a parent can push a child. I do not think that the kid was out of control, but that the mother was. The whole family was out of control.  A good example of a dysfunctional family. Never was positive enforcement given to that child in the entire movie.  The parents expected too much from him and kept on hitting his spirit.  The kid was smart enough to get an internship in Washington, D.C., but the father made him stay with the mother. She ends up seducing him. This is so sick! I cannot begin to tell how sick it is to me. When I was in Law School, we had a class called Juvenile Law, where the Professor brought in the victim and the perpetrator of the crime of incest. They sat down and told us,  the students, how it happened.  Both sides stated how addicting it had become. I was raised in a Father Knows Best  type of home and  the entire discussion stuck to me.  Needless to say it really shocked us all!  It has been years since I took that class and I can still see the face of the older man who told about committing incest with his daughter. The only solution to the problem was to have them part company forever.  Interestingly in the movie the boy leaves because he appeared to know that the situation would continue. He did the right thing!I appreciate the guts of producers and director for  dealing with such an unpleasant topic because it happens and it happens a lot,  unfortunately. Otherwise there would not be legislation for it. The movie won Independent Spirit Award 1995;  and the Sundance Film Festival Audience Award for 1994. This was the first movie I saw that deals with the topic in such  a graphic fashion. "}{"Title":"really good movie about parental pressure","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first came across this movie while looking up for incestuous movies in a boring day, but it was nothing like a low taste erotica. The whole concept of immorality attached to incest because you can never underestimate the influence of a parent, and the damage it can cause by the abuse of it.We are quite familiar in fact, about the negligent father type as in the movie. What we don't usually see is the poison of love as the mother in the movie, that suffocates with all tenderness.We see a promising MIT medical student stuck in the house with a blue mother, who infiltrates every aspects of his life and denies him access to the outside world, in the name of love. The boy could not say no, because the one he loves has that power over him, the attraction of the motherly love allures him daily to go backwards and crawl back into the womb. It is common and applicable to all of us, the growing sexual tension is but a external presentation. Also, for the mother, the fear of a separate and independent identity growing inside her child will constantly and subconsciously make her try to stop the child from his development, which without the intervention of rationality, could be dangerous.I don't usually see this kind of parental pressure addressed in movie and this is a good one. "},{"Title":"Well written black comedy about delusional young guy unable to live his dream","Date":"13 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I decided to check out all the feature movies directed by David O'Russel after watching some random, mostly indie comedy drama movies, in search for some author oriented work.Spanking the Monkey serves as O'Russel's feature movie debut and it surely is a black comedy. It tales a story of Raymond and his crushing dream of becoming a doctor after his father tells him he should delay his medical internship in order to care for his mother who recently fractured the leg and his father can't do this because he works as a travelling salesman.Movie is really well written but with some undeveloped parts such as Raymond's misadventures with his company. Many people will sympathize with the main protagonist and O'Russel masterly uses some metaphors to show in what paradoxical situation he is, for instance, when he wants to spank the monkey but he is always distracted by his dog. Absurdity of his situation is greatly increased as he feels sexual passion for his mother after being sexually rejected by an underage girl who she met while walking his dog.Movie is a must see for those interested in indie and coming of age pictures including a self reflective protagonist dealing with difficulties in the most sensitive part of his/her life. "},{"Title":"It is quite an intriguing and adsorbing film.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Raymond Aibelli is a promising medical student ready to begin a prestigious summer internship. But Susan, his mother, is immobilized by a broken leg, and his father Tom, a travelling salesman, makes Raymond stay home and take care of his mother, an attractive though unhappy woman. His mother's condition leads them to a degree of immediate physical contact which Raymond finds disturbing. He soon meets Toni, a high school girl, but his sexual impulses are increasingly confused, especially since he is still upset over losing the internship. Worth watching if you like intense, well written films or if you are the least bit interested in psychology. "},{"Title":"an astonishing, subversive, abyss-black comedy that digs deep into the psychosis","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ray just wants to go to medical school. More than that, he has a great opportunity at hand he's got a big chance with a paper he's writing to be selected as one of the ten interns for the Surgeon General in DC. But there's a hitch, an annoying and bib and personal one his mother, a depressive, has broken her leg quite badly and is in bed and needs help to do basic things go to the bathroom, take a shower, have meals, etc. So Ray's father, a traveling salesman (and a louse, which we see in snippets though sadly the rest of the family never quite knows about if suspects), tells Ray he has to do this, no one else can help, and it will be about a month. So much for the internship, right? Could he make it? But what about those showers? And lotioning the legs and the under-the-cast area? And those little touches of the forearm. Mom, you're trying to seduce me(?) Um... are you?Spanking the Monkey, a technically and writerly masterstroke (no pun intended) of a debut from director David O. Russell, is simply a sick twisted f*** of a movie made by a man who, at the time at least, was probably a sick twisted f*** as well. You wanna know what this is? Here's a pitch Young Charles Manson (who Davies later played) does his Mom. There. Go see it. It delivers on that but it's so much more a psychological mind-bender, but told without too much flash and panache - this isn't Three Kings, for example, it's more low-key and low-budget, which adds to the disturbing elements being directed just like a regular indie film from the 90's. And it does try to add a little levity - or more of a typical quirky/awkward sub-plot where Ray may or may not get into a sexual relationship with a high-schooler (no, believe me, this is the more normal part of the movie, awkward kissing and juxtapositions with the dog as well).But be warned, sorta this is billed as a 'comedy', and it is in the sense that I chuckled a few times. But the character interactions, Davies performance (and here, more than anything else I've seen him outside maybe Rescue Dawn) looks like he's about to explode or cry or both at any moment, and just how Russell takes a very direct approach to the psychological issues at hand, not sugar-coating how much he and his mother need help and we feel for both of them because it's so honest even in its absurdity, make it essential viewing for those looking for subversive American cinema from the 1990's, or ever really. It would be in Amos Vogel's book if it had been made in the 60's or 70's, you mark my words! That it was made for (relatively) so little and looks pretty polished is a further credit (this won the Audience Award at Sundance 94 - the year Clerks was there, to give perspective). "},{"Title":"Kid just can't get a break","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Raymond goes home after his freshmen year at MIT thinking he will only stay there for two days, then off to Washington for a prestigious internship. When he gets home, his father unloads a boatload o' crap on him his mother injured her leg, is bed-ridden, and he must leave for a month on a sales trip.Nothing works out quite right for Raymond, and even when a break does come, he inevitably--and, most likely, subconsciously--lets it slip through his fingers. Meanwhile the tension between the neglected mother (husband is a moron) and an increasingly frustrated son slowly simmers until it explodes.Good drama, well-done. The mother was sexy for some reason, even though she shouldn't be. She was certainly hotter than that weird girl with the strangely shaped face. Only thing is the title. It would be more accurately named MONKEY, UNSPANKED. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Raymond is a young pre-med student about to start a prestigious internship when he is forced to return home to look after his mother after she is immobilized with a broken leg. The physical contact required to care for his mother causes her and Raymond to become close to an uncomfortable degree and his relationship with the girl next door confuses him further.This is the most awkward film I've ever watched and I mean that in the best way possible. I was so uncomfortable &#x96; it was fantastic! I don't even know what to say about this film. It struck the right chords everywhere. It dealt with such a taboo and sensitive subject and managed to make it emotionally involving and funny at the same time (a very dark comedy).The performances were all great. Jeremy Davies in particular, he was instantly likable and sympathetic and expressed himself so well; subtly and loudly. Alberta Watson as the mother was great too. They had the strangest chemistry, there was never any sense of a typical mother/son relationship and that made it work extremely well.There were a couple of weak scenes, namely the scenes with his friends and the doctor scene also seemed to drag a little bit. But overall, it worked amazingly well, especially considering the topic. I read afterwards that it was made only on an $80,000 budget. I was seriously shocked, and I also sit in astonishment that this seems to be hardly seen and has such a low IMDb rating.This was an absolutely amazing film and the best film I've seen in a long time. Great performances, hilariously dark humour and yet very quietly emotional. Worth it just to be squirming in your chair whilst simultaneously having a fantastically good time.I never give films 10 after one viewing (and even then I've only given out 40 out of almost 3000 films I've seen), but this stuck with me for days (and even still, a month later) that I couldn't give it any other rating. A must-see film for those with an open mind. "},{"Title":"Very Nice Movie","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The mother was a lonely wife, the husband always far away and son was problematic and inexperienced with girls.Both alone in the house and get enough voltage situations arise for both and they feel attraction for each other. She was a beautiful/well charmed 50's years old lady and he was a young man.The incest itself was an excuse, because there were problems between the characters in other parts of their lifes. I mean mother and son already have emotional, sexual and social problems.When they got alone, experiencing all kind of tension between them, specially concerning about sensual ones, their needs speaks louder and they commit incest for their reliefs.The director knew well explore these topics eroticism and family problems. Very nice movie. "},{"Title":"**may contain spoilers**misery loves company","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Having come of age so to speak in the mid-1990s, I pine for the 1993-1998 period, for music, films, and (lack of) fashion. I know those days aren't coming back, but when I feel most grown up, and the most like a loser, Spanking the Monkey is a film I'll return to watch again and again. Because no matter how unsuccessful I am, or what's expected of me that I'm failing, I could never be as big a loser as the lead character! Jeremy Davies plays Raymond Aibelli, a promising first-year university student pressured into giving up a prestigious internship to care for his mother during the summer. Mom is Alberta Watson, a woman who is very sexy but incredibly needy, and not just because she's got a broken leg. Raymond's dad is away on a business trip, and Raymond rattles around the house trying to maintain a sense of himself while being crushed under the pressure of his forceful family members. We laugh at him as he fumbles his way through brushing the dog's teeth, his awkward attempts at a relationship with a young neighbour, and we start to feel the tension stretch itself out as he takes care of his mother.The director's commentary notes the forced intimacy of caring for an invalid, and I found that to be an apt description, as Raymond carries his mother to the washroom, helps her in and out of the shower, and smooths moisturizer on her legs. This turns into an awkward foreplay (eeyuw!), but the subject matter, while certainly a dark taboo and fantasy, replaces shock value with something much more subtle and complex. It's not a tale of incest so much as a complicated look at the way family interacts, and how the things an individual wants can get overlooked when having to look out for everyone else.The most notable thing about the movie is the acting on the part of the leads. Jeremy Davies, still relatively inexperienced at the time of the movie, plays the angst and frustration of the situation with both sensitivity and a slow-burning tension. Alberta Watson, who could have been hammy or shrewish in the part, instead captures a full range of emotions from embarrassment to manipulation to a passive-aggressive anger directed at her son, for being the reason she had to sacrifice her own dreams.As weird as your family is, be glad of them, and as badly off as you think you are, someone else has it worse. "},{"Title":"Incest, Internships, & Power","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First off, I'd like to say I absolutely cannot wait until the December 6th release of Russell's masterpiece. This DVD release has been anticipated by viewers everywhere for way too long. It's finally here kids...A coming-of-age/ feminist/ incestuous/ misogynistic/ black comedy? Possibly all of the above, possibly only a few. There are three key players in this Solondzian dark comedy the mother, the son, and the father. While son spends the summer tending for his severely underachieved (in the professional world) Ph.D. holding mother, he nearly misses his chance at an out of state medical internship while infidel father travels the country selling work-related training videotapes. Add a young teen down the road to question our protagonist's sexuality, accuse him of being too rough and a mother who stifles her son through critiquing his academic work and his sexual advances for also being too rough, and you start to understand that Russel's film is essentially about power.The fact that mother and son engage in an incestuous tryst is predicated by his tenderness in caring for her bed-ridden body. There is talk of childhood bath-time boners, and of course the vodka induced cheese throwing fiasco that precedes the actual act of incest. Incest, while expressed in sexual form, is about power. Mother attempts to exert power over her only child by seducing him, while her son believes that sleeping with his mother will in some ways kill the stranglehold she has on him. As a matter of fact, in one scene, he tries to have sex with her while strangling her. While the film is not ABOUT asphyxiation, there are certainly many players here who succeed in symbolically strangling the life out of everything that is normal about the nuclear family masturbation, personal ambition, and marital fidelity to name a few...If you're looking for a film in the vein of something Solondz, you're in luck. If you want to get off to incest narratives, check your local adult bookstore. This film addresses incest in a darkly comical fashion, but never once attempts to arouse, or justify. Spanking the Monkey, while superficially comical, examines relationships of power, control, and sexuality. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One dark winters night a few years back- i started to flick through the channels when i came across this film. Boy was i in for a shock. Not having seen this subject (incest) tackled on film before i was amazed at how it was portrayed. It did have its comical elements which i guess did bring some light relief but if you are easily grossed out then be prepared to be disgusted. Its not that it was highly graphical but just the thought of a mother and son having sex totally sickened me. I carried on watching to the end in hope that it was a figment of Rays imagination or a dream but unfortunately i was disappointed with the results.   "}{"Title":"Like watching paint dry with a long wood screw being drilled into your ear","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is potentially the worst movie I have ever seen - and I consider myself a connoisseur of the awful. It is so boring! None of the characters come to any new understanding of themselves or each other. They are all as selfish and pathetic as they were at the start. I guess Davies could be seen, on some weird level, as becoming self-assertive. But it's more a case of him just losing it totally. The film is a study of how, through sheer boredom, a bookish geek can degenerate into a repellant freak. And he has sex with his mum! There are two laughs in this movie. I'll save you the hiring fee. One involves a dog watching Davies on the toilet. That's actually hilarious. The other is Davies being accused of being gay, and then a rapist, by his neighbour. That's it. That's all there is that's good about this movie. Don't see it. Sleep in, do anything. I can never get back the hour-and-a-half of my life I wasted watching this. I should say, however, that David O. Russell, despite this albatross of a film, is a fantastic director. Flirting with Disaster and Three Kings (especially the latter) are fresh, funny and touching. So don't let this sin blight your idea of Russell.  "},{"Title":"Spanking the what?","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A really intriguing film this - I'd never heard of it before and caught it recently on late night TV.It's the story of a young college guy, Ray, who has to stay at home through the summer to tend to his sick mother while his father is away on business. However, things become very awkward indeed when Ray begins a sexual relationship with his mother.If the subject is off-putting then please don't refuse to see this movie. It's well written, well directed and Jeremy Davies in the lead is electric as the confused, awkward teen. Benjamin Hendrickson is also great as Ray's dad, off on business to screw as many company secretaries as possible while telephoning through long lists of complicated instructions.The only down side of this movie is that it never fully explores Ray's need to have sex with his mother. He is so besotted with her by the end of the film that he tries to strangle her when she refuses his advances. Also, why does his mother let him sleep with her? She seems smart and sassy enough for the thought to never enter her head.Apart from these niggles the title is pretty pointless too - spanking the monkey is obviously, for those of you who don't know, an increasingly common American phrase for masturbation and this does figure a couple of times in the movie but not significantly enough to name the film after it. However, I guess the sensors wouldn't pass Mother F***ker!!These complaints aside this is a really good movie which, for once, deals with subject matter that is slightly different and therefore refreshing.  "},{"Title":"Crazy Stuff","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love Alberta Watson.  She is just too cool for words so it's really hard for me to find any fault with this film because of that.  There are flaws in the movie, many of which have already been listed, but I think that the pluses way outdo the minuses in the film.  While I could never in a million years imagine being that way with my mom, Jeremy Davies made it really believable - sickly so.  And funny, sick little flick. "},{"Title":"Not a comedy. Not quite a tragedy.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS FOLLOWThe ads and info for this movie promise a comedy.  Do not be fooled.  Some Advertising people must have been too scared by the plot to expect the movie to even make it on the art theater circuit without promises of laughs.The film is actually a tale of a dysfunctional family and how the dysfunction finally hits the surface of daily life.  The father is an ucaring, uninterested lout who is traveling all the time.  The mother has compromised her dreams to have a child.  The child (now a college student) is on his way to a promising future when he is called home to care for his injured mother.While at home, his mother slowly drags him into her web of control, apparently in an effort to get a release for her many emotional and physical needs.The camera angles and various two-person shot set-ups owe everything to The Graduate.  I suspect the director was making a comment on the underlying Oedipal themes in that film.  After much build-up in Spanking the Monkey, the Oedipal complex is no longer subconscious, but hits full awaken action.After consummating the plot, the son must deal with his feelings as best he can.  Unfortunately, he has no outlet and no hope for change.The resolution of the film offered a a slight relief to the doom and gloom of the story.Worth watching if you like intense, well written films or if you are the least bit interested in psychology.  Avoid at all costs if you want a fun, fluff movie. "},{"Title":"reaction to barcas's post","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  the previous commentator was a fool.. there is no hint of hope in this, one of the most intense emotional dramas that ive ever seen, because hope is not anywhere near the focus of the film.. the plot more than holds water if one allows it to.. its not a matter of identifying with the character as a fellow teenager (id like to see the polls of people who identified with the graduate during its first few years of release).. rather, the purpose is to tell the story of ray, a boy with issues.. large issues.. issues that hes not ready to deal with.. his mother, also heavily laden with problems, though those not limited to her invalid state, poses more for him.. and his father, the uncaring traveling salesman who simultaneously attempts to live his life through the boy, and stands as a hypocrite, makes life no easier.. the ensuing result is a story told as it would indeed happen were it real.. the purpose of the film, i repeat, is not to make every teenager in the states feel like a million bucks.. far from it.. if you want hope, go rent a tom hanks/meg ryan movie and stay away from spanking the monkey.. its not for the weak of heart.. -adam "},{"Title":"Disturbing Movie About Edipus?","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was the most disturbing collection of images I have ever seen (at least in a long time). I have to give it props for a cool name and a VERY original screenplay (I give it one thumb up and a sack of wet worms). "},{"Title":"Sheer brilliance","Date":"16 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spanking the Monkey is a great film. There is no other way to express it. It  captures the heat and oppression of the summer so well, Jeremy Davies is  superb in his touching portrayal of Ray, the troubled adolescent. But,  there's also no doubt that this film is not for everyone. Its incest story  line will dissuade many people from seeing this movie. It's not dirty, it's  not shocking, the storyline descends on you almost before you know what's  happening - it's blackly tragic. So, if it's a stifling summer night, and  you want a film that's going to suit the moment and make you think,  Spanking the Monkey is for you. "},{"Title":"Interesting, very interesting","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is well worth an hour and a half of your life.  It's low budget, which shows occasionally in poor production values.  The cast is surpisingly good, especially the lead.  And the dog is cute.As a very special bonus, the soundtrack is taken entirely from the Morphine album Cure for Pain. "},{"Title":"Another Brilliant Jeremy Davies Movie","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Being an avid Jeremy Davies fan I picked up Spanking The Monkey not knowing what it was about. As I watched it made me think how talented an actor he is. He played Ray the Oedipus-like son perfectly. I couldn't have been hoping to see anything better! This is the best Indie film I have seen. For as many people who do find this movie disturbing I truly do not see why. Just take the movie for what it is Comedy. "},{"Title":"Sly comedy","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the movie comes across on the surface as a tragedy, it is being played for sly comedy. A teenager's life is being ruined by his workaholic father and slothful mother. The young man's future is slowly being eaten away by the Oedipus Rex situation in which he finds himself.He finally decides to kill himself -- but only symbolically. After diving back into the womb, he finally escapes.If you view this movie as a serious drama, it can be disappointing. Instead, notice the humor beneath the surface, and you will be able to enjoy and appreciate what is going on. "}{"Title":"teenager out of control","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The video jacket claimed that this movie was in the tradition of The  Graduate and picks up where Sex, Lies, and Videotape  leave off, and the  IMDd voters gave this movie a 7.5 rating.  It sounds pretty good (tacky  title aside), but the movie lacks believability and sincerity.  The  problems that college student home for the summer encounters are worse than  any Shakesperean tragedy, and even the teenagers with the worst lives can't  identify.  The film does give a tremendous sense of awkwardness, which  mirrors the lives of teenagers well.  This movie is depressing and gives no  hint at hope. "},{"Title":"Variations on Oedipus, The Graduate, Death of a Salesman","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A good friend recommended this to me a year ago because it would be interesting to a psychoanalyst.  She was very right!  Finally viewing it, I was amazed as one funny, outlandish thing happened after another, and yet you were glued because the events, however warped, were true to life.  These things happen!  The kid should have gone off to Washington DC for a highly prized internship in medical research, on his way to a career in medicine, doing his undergraduate studies in prestigious MIT.  But his philandering, controlling father derails him by guilt-tripping him.  He is to take care of his mother, instead, who is laid up at home with a cast on her leg.  No one else to do it.  Somebody has to do it. Time to pay back a little something--- yeah, like his life!  The mother is love-starved and seductive, and draws her son in.  His growing attachment to his mother prevents him from behaving appropriately with a neighbor girl who is interested in MIT, but also some summer fun.  Things go from bad to worse.  Try to imagine a teenager carrying his mother to the toilet and helping her take a shower.  Try to imagine his urges to masturbate in the john interrupted by a dog whining at the door.  His girlfriend accuses him of having a problem, maybe being gay, because he is overly restrained.  She says to relax and he almost rapes her.  She goes crying to her father, a psychoanalyst!  He comes complaining about the boy.  The psychoanalyst ends up trying to console the mother.  The boy and girl try to make it, but it's no go.  More and more the mother and son are together... in intimate connections.  What follows has to be tragedy, but there is a light at the end of the tunnel. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, surprising...comedy???","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  OK, well I saw this film back when i was at school and yeah, it's shocking, it deals with a gritty subject that most directors/producers wouldn't touch with someone else's; but does anyone else think maybe some people are making too big a deal of the subject matter? I'm only having an opinion  (I don't do that very often, so please note that I did register solely to add this review). The film stuck in my head, whether it was due to the content, the production, the acting - or all the above - and I eventually had to look it up in case I'd dreamt it. But as for being a black comedy...not so sure. NOT A SPOILER, I am just pointing out that there's not much humour to be found. You'd have to look really hard, and be a bit needy to find it. Satire maybe.For like 8 years, every now and then I see or hear something that reminds me of this film and that's why I've concluded that it's just plain BRILLIANT (oxymoron I know!). You'd have to be a real ignoramous not to find it compelling in some way. And even more of a fool to only see as far as the surface plot.- LilMiss  "},{"Title":"Naughty boy!  You need a spanking from Mommy","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Eeeeeeeeekkkkkkkkkkk!!!!!!!!!!   What a sick, twisted, evil movie!  But also what a hilarious, clever, brilliant movie!  Both Jeremy Davies and Alberta Watson are fantastic as son and mother who start an incestuous affair over the summer.  Who wouldv'e thought that incest could be so startlingly funny? That's not to say that the movie isn't also serious and disturbing- it certainly is!  Original and terrific.  A+ "},{"Title":"delightfully disturbing black comedy, both haunting and hypnotic","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There is something hypnotic about SPANKING THE MONKEY. You watch Jeremy Davies as his summer goes straight downhill and he is stuck taking care of his manic depressive mother, and you are intrigued. That is if you have a good attention span and a tolerance for dark humor. Because this is ink-black humor at its smirkiest.So you are either in for an enjoyably bizarre ride of the demented fashion or you are about to be majorly turned off. In many ways, this is like THE GRADUATE, except this indie devil wants to blow away the dated shock of having an affair with a married, older woman with an even more shocking and rather disturbing taboo (which I'll keep top secret).David O. Russell, who has a bizarre and neurotic look at family life (see his FLIRTING WITH DISASTER, an even better film), gives us an interesting character study of a tormented college student who is virtually nailed to the ground by his disfunctional parents.I can see why some people may hate this movie from its difficult subject matter, but I feel like I was sucked in this guy's life and that's what I love about movies that have the power to do that. Yet, as the film grew darker and sadder, with a bittersweet ending that felt like a high note of hope compared to the rest of the film, I was relieved when the ending credits came and I could return from the trance and go back to my decidedly happier lifestyle.   "},{"Title":"Captures the aura of a hot summers night perfectly","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While I didn't feel that Spanking the Monkey related to Sex, Lies, and Videotape, (which I thought was a rather bad movie) this movie was sheer brilliance.  As an eighteen year old living in the same type of setting as Raymond, I can identify, not with the specific problems of his life, but of the general oppressiveness that being a teenager is.  Jeremy Davies gives an outstanding performance and I wish he was casted in more movies.  It is said that as time goes on films get worse and worse.  I think this is true for most mainstream high budget blockbusters, but many people do not realize how thriving indy film sceen in America is today.  When costs of production are slashed, more emphasis is put on the script and acting.  Long live indy films! "},{"Title":"Teenager's insane family ruins his life.","Date":"21 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't really love this movie. It got better towards the end; I got the feeling that Raymond was finally developing a personality about 2/3 of the way through. The laugh-out-loud hilarity of him yelling at his aunt, or chasing the dog out of the bathroom made him much more likeable to me than he was in the beginning. The themes didn't disturb me, but I was genuinely angry at every single person in this kid's life. Maybe I was meant to be. "},{"Title":"A great great film.","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, so it's another pseudo-documentary-style film.  So what?  This one is among the very best in that genre, irrespective of its refreshingly jarring subject matter.  Whatever you may think of the plot, the performances are utterly convincing.  Give Alberta Watson an Oscar already!  See it with your parents -- I did. "},{"Title":"The high IMDb rating leads me to question your insanity.","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (SPOILERS)The title of this film and the great reviews on the video case were enough to get me to rent this movie... I feel sorry for my VCR.Spanking The Monkey is easily the *worst* movie I have *ever* had the displeasure of sitting through. The film has brought shame to all those involved.It wasn't funny. It wasn't sad. It wasn't exciting or thrilling - it was a boring, disgusting (and not in a good South Park-kinda way) and utterly cringe-worthy waste of my time.The only part I semi-partly-liked was when the mother slapped the girl in the face, but I was on the verge of smashing the TV when the main guy wasn't able to finish hanging himself. How tragic.Do yourself a favour Avoid this like the nasty piece of trash that it is. 0/10. "},{"Title":"Pushing the envelope","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mother and son get a wee bit too close one summer in this rather timidly told incest tale. The subject matter is of course, incendiary, but the filmmakers essentially let the audience off the hook, by skirting around the central theme. Doesn't amount to much.  "}{"Title":"Another Early 1990s Independent Debut","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only truly notable thing to say about Spanking the Monkey is that it is one of two films that I think I've ever seen that have actually turned me on. This is kudos to not only the actress involved in the particular scene but also the director, David O. Russell, who happens to have directed both films. In what I think is his best film, I Heart Huckabees, there is a scene where Isabelle Huppert massages Jason Schwartzman's crotch with her foot. This aroused me. In Spanking the Monkey, reluctant Jeremy Davies rubs lotion on bed-ridden Alberta Watson's upper thighs. In order to give her a full once-over, he has to reach his fingertips just beyond the limits of her very short summer shorts. Good job, Mr. Russell. And thank you, Ms. Watson. I am hardly ever aroused in any way by any sexual situation of any kind in movies or TV, even some of the hottest, steamiest, most well-crafted scenes ever filmed, but David O. Russell seems to share my taste.The context of this scene is not what turns me on. The context of this scene is Oedipal, as is the film's entire premise. The premise is quite funny in a way that taps into our frustration, self-centeredness, and animal hormone roller coasters, though it's sometimes too subtle for its own good, and its serious points come without the grace they need, often taking us by surprise. The acting is surprisingly good for a low-budget independent film. I was surprised that Jeremy Davies could actually move me at all with a performance, because he normally lies flat on the screen, with the presence of one of the props. In Spanking the Monkey, ironically early in his career, he is very good.Overall, Spanking the Monkey is funny, interesting, and kind of hot, even if it's almost shameful by the standards of the writer/director's later work. It's not a particularly memorable film, but it has its highlights. "},{"Title":"Very Effective DRAMA. This film is not a comedy","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spanking the Monkey was clearly not meant to be a comedy, but I found it in the comedy section, it had a quotation from Peter Travers that said Shockingly Funny, and most of the other reviews on the imdb and from professionals have called it a dark comedy. I think if it had not been advertised as a comedy, it would have been accepted as a drama. This film deserves to be taken more seriously than it is. First off, the film's title is completely misleading and inappropriate. Maybe this film should have been called Flirting with Disaster. That would have been much closer to the situation. In fact, the title is so inappropriate, that I have doubts that that is what its original title was. Anyway, I was completely surprised by it. I was expecting a run-of-the-mill Indie romantic comedy (notice that on the back of the box, the only romance mentioned is that between Ray and Toni. It says something to the effect Will Ray be able to win over the shy girl next door?). I usually avoid Indie films like the plague, because, truth be told, they're usually much more infantile than even Hollywood films. People who believe that Reservoir Dogs was the pinnacle of filmmaking this century have much more in common to those who think the same thing about The Phantom Menace than they would like to think. And the worst type of independent film is the independent romantic comedy. I rented Spanking the Monkey because I very much liked David O. Russel's Three Kings. So if you are looking for a comedy, stay the heck away from this film. This is a very complex drama with very taut situations and rather highly developed characters. Therefore, if you are looking for a good drama, do please rent Spanking the Monkey. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Trash","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Saw it on HBO2. I don't have anything to say except it's an awful movie. Don't rent it. Whoever is responsible for creating this trash should be banned from future movies. The movie is basically trying to get people to speculate on incest. It has nothing to do with the title, and I'm pretty sure most people don't think the way the characters do in this movie. Overall a very bad attempt to get the general public to accept the movie makers fetish. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone, not even my enemies. It's filthy and disgusting and leaves you with a sick feeling when the movie is over. Please excuse me, I think I have to vomit. "},{"Title":"The dysfunctional (comedy).","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe the TV-series Married with Children forged new ground in the 90's-the dysfunctional comedy. Take  the premise of  'I Love Lucy' and drive way, way,  way, past All in the Family till you land in a world where men hate their wives, a son is geeky and sexually frustrated, the daughter a reflection of her over-sexed, trampy mom. Somehow they stay just within the lines of good comedy while crossing all lines of good taste.David O. Russell's debut, Spanking the Monkey takes the premise a little further, it is tasteless, the problem is it's not funny. A pathetic post-pubescent youth finds it's easier to have sex with his depression filled mom than his cute young girlfriend.---not funny one little bit.Where an intense film on the subject of incest, Close My Eyes presents a tragic series of events, with consequences, Spanking the Monkey is merely a lazy film about a lazy boy, with a lazy attitude, in a lazy society.And the film makers want us to laugh at it all.  "},{"Title":"Flogging your soldier!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Jeremy Davies, the star of this movie, also played in Saving Private Ryan. The whole time I watched that movie, I wanted his character dead.  After watching Spanking the Monkey, I discovered that one character isn't enough. To make up for the horror of this film, I feel that every movie Jeremy Davies is in from now on should have him die a horrible, gruesome death. "},{"Title":"what the","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" some people have a weird sense of humor, whoever found this movie funny needs mental help. the acting was horrible too the lines were so plainly said, it sounded like 3rd graders reading. and who ever thought up this movie was also very sick minded. some people just have very low standards for good movies such as this... please no. if anyone seriously thinks this movie is a masterpiece please go see a doctor i couldn't watch more than 30 minutes of it and i still don't get what the title has to do with the movie. and did i mention how bad the acting was, and the scenes were so badly shot it seriously looked like used my own camera and cut my own scenes. "},{"Title":"Blam It!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie a 3 because it was; sick, depressing and had bad acting. Its a about a phsco boy who falls in love with his mom. I watched about half of it at night and got s much movie sickness from it I switched it off. I'd say rent out Scary Movie for the night and throw this one away! "}]