[{"Title":"NOT the worst movie ever - but not","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"56 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some people claim this is a bad movie... true. Some people claim this movie is a bad translation of the video game it's supposed to be based on... true. Some people claim it's the worst ever... trust me, I've seen worse.While it does have its Christmas list of bad things (poor script, ugly sets, subpar acting), it's good for a laugh or two because of the negatives... at the same time however, any dedicated fan of the Street Fighter games will find this as an insult because it does not properly adapt the video game...Is it a bad movie? Sure it is... but I've seen my share of bad movies and I can tell that this isn't the absolute worst! "},{"Title":"Enjoyably silly","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"70 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a huge fan of the video game that is the basis for this movie, I felt compelled to watch it even though I have never been much of a Van Damme fan. To my surprise, I found this film to be a lot of fun.  By action movie standards, the silly one-liners work pretty well, and it was fun to see the video game characters come to life, even if they did make a few changes to the basic plot of the game.  All things considered, I'm glad I took the time to watch Street Fighter.  It's nothing memorable, but if you're in the mood to watch some silly action fluff, then I'd say that it's time well wasted. "},{"Title":"Why I defend Street Fighter to this day.","Date":"27 November 2010","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter is a strange video game movie. The game is an amazing 2D fighter with a wide array of characters from different continents who battle it out for...something.The Movie, surprisingly, has more plot than you would think. M. Bison (Raul Julia, in his final performance) is now portrayed as a megalomanical super villain who has dreams of causing collapse to the entire world, such as killing a large number of hostages unless paid a ransom worthy of Dr. Evil standards, creating a breed of super soldiers and kidnapping the Queen of England and create his own world based off of his image. Trust me, it is as silly as it sounds.Lt. Guile (Jean Claude Van Damme) approaches the situation in that he has to save the hostages and hopefully put Bison on ice, once and for all, thus stopping his plans for world domination.From there on in, the movie is basically an almost two hour fan service with various subplots with almost all the characters from the Street Fighter universe. Zangief and Dee Jay work for M. Bison as Muscle and Computer Technician, respectively. Chun-Li, Balrog and E. Honda are all out for get revenge and Ken and Ryu are professional fighters hoping to score a battle against the vain Vega and evil Sagat.Like I said, the rest of the movie is nothing short of fan service, since all the actors deliver some truly awful one liners aside, Van Damme's Guile almost sounds like Tommy Wiseau (The Room) when you close your eyes, and the whole plot itself is actually quite boring.Well, why in the world would someone defend this movie then? I'll give you three reasons, two are part of the movie, and one is a personal thing.1. Raul Julia's M. Bison. A villain who looks rather powerful should be given a great performance. While Raul Julia did die after this movie was over, there is no denying that he went out with a bang rather than whimper. His performance is laughably over the top, but at no point do you look at his face and see a man who seems to think he's in a movie, and as a result, he makes the movie quite amazing. If anything, he gives us a theatrical villain which, for his character, works very well.2. There was a lot of room for potential here. Let's be honest, writing a movie is easy, but writing a good movie is hard. The director (Who is also the writer) took a fighting video game and crafted a movie out of it, and a fairly well done one at that. Sure, not in execution, but in originality, it works.3. It was a movie from my childhood. I was a child of the 90's, and as such, I can remember my parents letting me watch this at a very young age, and it was awesome. Damn the Nostalgia factor, but it's what makes this movie really good. I can remember how intimidated I was in the final battle scenes, and how cool M. Bison was to me (in that over the top Saturday Morning Cartoon style of cool).This movie is a very easy one to attack for just not being good, but understand from my point of view, even knowing how bad it is, having no character development, some truly cheesy one liners and awful performances, including Van Damme giving a performance that makes him sound like Tommy Wiseau if he smoked cigarettes for ten years and you closed your eyes real tight, I still like it.It's cheesy, terrible and ridiculous, but all you need to know is that Raul Julia delivers some of the best lines for years to come, and you know you are dealing with a kind of cult classic when one of the film's greatest lines is, This is merely superconductor electromagnetism. Surely, you've heard of it. In other words, go see this movie if you haven't already.7/10. "},{"Title":"A good and enjoyable movie","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, so not all of my family agrees on the movie. But, I enjoyed it from the first time I saw it on T.V. The two main actors, Raul Julia and Jean-Claude Van Damme portray their characters well, though Kylie Monigue turned me off her character a little. Be in mind that being based on a video game it can not be perfected to follow the games exactly. In general the movie is centred around two forces based in Shadaloo, where A.N. (Allied Nation) hostages are taken by General M. Bison (Raul Julia) and unless is demands are met, he'll kill every single hostage is has. It is up to the U.N. leader, military commanding officer Colonel William F. Guile and his army to rescue them. They are joined along the way, under unfortunate circumstances, by a ninja journalist Chun-Li Zang (the voice of Mulan) her two friends a former sumo-wrestler E. Honda (Peter Navy Tuiasosopo) and former boxer Balrog (Grand L. Bush) as well as two thieves, Ryu Hoshi (Bryon Mann) and Ken Masters (Damian Chapa). A good enjoyable movie with some light class actors and a well thought out plot . Okay so not every person in the world will love this, but when you want something for a rainy day (like it is out here) then this is the type of movie I'd recommend. Overall I gave it 10/10 because not only is Jean-Claude Van Damme one of my favourite actors, everyone of his movies entertains me greatly, not to mention the awesome fighting scenes. For fans of Jean-Claude Van Damme who have not seen many of his movies I recommend that you see The Replicant, Timecop and maybe Universal Soldier (if you don't mind a little bit of a corny actors based around him). "},{"Title":"I'm a Hardcore Street Fighter Fan, and I enjoyed it.","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"25 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" (WANING SPOILERS!!!!!!)I don't know why people think this is a bad movie when actually it's not. It's story of Bison holding hostages for a ransom is not parallel to the Video Game's Story but that is something M. Bison would do. Also most of the characters did look like themselves or at least tried to (Ken was the only who didn't). The Humor by Dee Jay and Zangief was too goodZANGEIF QUICK CHANGE THE CHANNEL!Captain Sawawda was an also welcomed addition to the Street Fighter franchise and I someday hope to see him in another SF related project. The acting was great and the action was unparalleled. My only complaint is they could have tried harder with the special moves. Other than that this was an awesome experience. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"21 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really don't see why most everyone has a problem with this movie. The storyline is solid, and is, contrary to what most people believe, somewhat true to the story. Like it or not, Guile and Chun-Li are meant to be the main characters in SF2 and the movie reflects this. In the games, their endings are directly tied to Bison. Of the remaining 14 characters (obviously not counting Bison,) only one other is Cammy's, and that's only because Bison tells her about her amnesia.As for the casting, it was very well done. The only problems I saw/heard are Van-Damme's French accent, Dhalsim's casting as a doctor, which WAS well done despite being unfaithful to the game, T. Hawk's lack of height (I think Rainwater is shorter than Van-Damme) and Chapa's short hair. Otherwise, everything else was spot-on, especially the casting for Bison. Raul Julia is the only person that I think could've done it. He's a fairly versatile actor AND he looks like Bison. A couple other characters were miscasted like Dhalsim, but the excellent acting made up for that.The combination of Charlie and Blanka was both acceptable and unacceptable. How? Street Fighter Alpha didn't come out until a year after this film did, but both Blanka's and Guile's endings disprove the combination. Getting back to the story, it was actually believable for not being based around a tournament like SF2 is. Being forced into a three day timetable by Bison's ransom demands made the movie seem all the more action-packed, to me at least. The scene between Bison and Chun-Li in Bison's quarters could've been cut out, though, except for the part where Bison was about to get his butt kicked by Chun-Li. The final battle between Bison and Guile was the most blatantly choreographed yet still exciting thing I had ever seen in a martial arts movie up to that point, other than the odd scene from a few Jackie Chan movies.The sound was pretty horrible. Generic rap somehow found its way into the movie in the cage fighting arena scene, and I swear I heard it again when I played the god-awful SF3 Third Strike. That one should've been permanently shelved. The orchestrated music that made it into the movie was nearly impossible to hear, although some of it was vaguely reminiscent of Guile's stage in SF2. The worst part was the lack of music from the game. A symphony orchestra doing all the music from the characters that made it into the movie (so no Fei-Long or Akuma) would've been great. So would have the Amiga CD32 version of Super Turbo if it was out or the arcade version of Super.Many of the characters signature moves are not present. I counted one Hadouken (to Vega in the Ryu+Ken vs. Vega+Sagat fight in Bison's quarters, very easy to miss as it's done at point-blank range,) a few flash kicks (minus the special effect,) and one Psycho Crusher (I think that's the name.) No Sonic Boom, no Shoryuken, no anything else.Overall, there are a few glaring issues (sound and lack of special moves mostly,) but it's still very enjoyable.7/10Recommended to Martial arts fans Van-Damme fans Street Fighter fansNot Recommended to Street Fighter fans who believe Ryu and Ken are supposed to be the main characters without realizing only three endings out of sixteen people (not counting Bison and including Akuma) are actually tied to Bison himself. "},{"Title":"video game meets movie...hilarity ensues","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"22 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is so awful that it's great. Where to begin... well, JCVD is great as always. Also, Kylie Minogue is in the movie, that's kind of strange. This site left out the BEST quote of the entire movie. Anyone who is familiar with Street Fighter the game will know that Sagat has an eye-patch. At one point in the movie, it is discovered that Ken and Ryu are spies for the AN (the good guys). They are spying on Sagat and M. Bison. When this is discovered, M. Bison turns to Sagat, covers one eye with his hand, and says I guess you didn't see that. The first time I saw this movie, I damn near died laughing at this. The delivery, everything is just so RIGHT ON. So, yeah. I say check it out. If nothing else, you'll get a few cheap laughs out of it. "},{"Title":"A weird, horrible movie","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"31 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have always been a huge fan of the Street Fighter series in video games. So when this movie came out I was really excited, of course I was way too young to appreciate a movie, but I can tell that back then I thought it was horrible.A few years ago it was aired on TV and (I don't why) I saw it again. And I found it kind of funny. The story is all twisted if it gets compared with the video games story; I mean, in the video game, Ryu is the most important character and in the movie it is hardly seen. Cammy is a creation of Bison (in the video game), so she is part of the bad guys, while in the movie she is friend of Guile. A lot of intentional mistakes were made in order to transform what could be a good story into a useless-action-movie.I hoped to see hadoukens and spinning kicks when I first saw the movie, but there is nothing of that. In other words, the movie sucks.PS Kylie Minogue, who played Cammy in the movie, declared later that she was completely sorry of shooting such a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Terrible, just terrible","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"31 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's really dangerous to make a movie out of a video game, especially when the characters in the video game are cartoony. STREET FIGHTER is a terrible movie. The characters are a joke, and ACT like it's all a joke. The movie looks cheesy (study Bison's hovering command pod - it's obviously hooked to some kind of crane), and committing the famous Street Fighter martial arts movies into live action just looks stupid. What do you expect from DeSouza when the only things he directed before were a Tales From The Crypt episode and some shows of Bowling For Dollars? (No joke) Even the few Van Damme fans that are still left (after he's made countless bombs like this) will be embarrassed for their onscreen hero.  "},{"Title":"I perform the Shun Goku Satsu on this movie","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Shortly after the beginning of the disastrous Street Fighter movie, we see the words Based on the Capcom game Street Fighter displayed. How ironic, then, that the movie following is anything but. For a movie that purports to be based on one of the most well-known arcade games of all time, the Street Fighter movie does not so much tell the story of the game as it does rape, butcher, and mangle it into an unrecognizable form. The Mortal Kombat adaptation, while certainly not being a cinematic masterpiece, at least stayed relatively faithful to the games.Somewhere along the line in this parade of broken lives and shattered dreams, someone decided that the tournament-based, Enter the Dragon-like storyline of the game would never fly with the American movie-going public. And so it was rewritten, becoming a typical American action flick, with plenty of huge explosions, loud gunfights, and thinly veiled right-wing propaganda. A Japanese protagonist? That will never do. Why not cast the Belgian Jean Claude Van Damme as the American Guile, and have him become the main character? It's not as if fans of the game are going to mind, are they?Street Fighter the movie is a catastrophe. Every character, bar none, from the games is butchered and rewritten beyond recognition. Chun Li, played perhaps the only well-casted actor in this dreck, Ming Na Wen, has become a mere reporter (with a smirking Balrog and a Hawaiian shirted E. Honda as her camera crew, natch) instead of a detective, Ryu and Ken are incompetent gun smugglers, and Jimmy/Blanka and Charles/Nash become the same person in one of the most laughably absurd plot contrivances ever thought up. There are so many incongruities between this movie and the game that it becomes difficult to tell if they are merely the result of the incompetence of the writers, or their actual intent. For example, were the writers (whom I hope are begging for change at bus stop right about now) aware that Shadaloo was merely the name of M. Bison's organization, and not the name of a fictitious South Asian country? (which conveniently rests atop present-day Myanmar?) Or were they simply not paying close enough attention to the game's storyline? Who knows?Consider the most egregious example of the screenwriters' disdain for the source material M. Bison walks into his laboratory and addresses one of the scientists there as Doctor Dhalsim. Was Dhalsim a doctor in the game? Do we ever see him fight in this movie? Do we ever see him using his remarkably elastic limbs? The answer to all these questions, of course, is no. The writer's simply drop in a character named Dhalsim just for the sake of saying they included him. The movie's failing is in its desperation to include every single character to the detriment of the rest of the film. I can only imagine what Akuma would have looked like had the writers decided to include him.Anyone who played through Street Fighter knows that each character had at least one defining personality trait. Ryu was the stoic martial artist seeking to become a true warrior, his friend Ken was brash and arrogant, Vega was obsessed with beauty, Sagat wanted revenge on Ryu for scarring his chest, etc. It should come as no surprise that none of these traits appear in any shape, form or fashion in this movie, and in the rare moment that a character DOES act like their game counterpart, it's more often the result some sort of lame contrivance than a scripted personality trait. Chun Li's cameraman Balrog only happens to box. When Ryu and Ken and inducted into M. Bison's army, the uniforms they wear just happen to resemble the white and red karate gis they wore in the game. To top it all off, M. Bison gives a lengthy explanation of how his magnetic levitation that allows him to perform the movie's equivalent of the Psycho Crusher. It's as if the screenwriters set out to make a completely different movie, and were only told halfway through that it was supposed to be a Street Fighter movie.Which brings me to my next point; there's little actual street fighting, giving fans of the games precious little to chew on through the movie's running length. Whatever fight scenes we get are brief and unexciting, and are nothing next to other martial arts movies. Instead we get Jean Claude Van Damme running from scene to scene, spewing out pithy one-liner after one-liner, gleefully trampling any remaining source material that hasn't already been butchered. Only Raul Julia and Ming Na Wen come through with any dignity left; they apparently realized what a turkey this film was and at least tried to have some fun with their roles. Their noble efforts, however, are sunk by the awful screenplay, which should be an example to future filmmakers of how NOT to adapt a video game to the big screen.As an aside note, there was actually an arcade game made of this movie. Yes, it was terrible, too. "}{"Title":"Silly Fighter.","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There was a rash of bad video game movie in the early 90s, including Street Fighter, Super Mario Bros., and Mortal Kombat, and Street Fighter is by far the worst. It stars the goofy Jean-Claude Van Damme, a low rent combination of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Bruce Lee, who's idea of acting is based on grunts and a heavy dose of stink eye. There is also pop star Kylie Minogue and...Raul Julia. What the hell is he doing in this? At least he is having fun, but this is not the type if film that should be remembered as his last. Watching somebody play Street Fighter is more enjoyable than this. The characters are morphed into these freaks of what they are in the game, several of them bear no real resemblance. Vega, Blanka, Dee Jay, and Dhalsim are the ones that come to mind. The fights are lazily choreographed, with little attention paid to what characters were capable of in the game and the movie even falls to give any background or real motivation. It's just a dumb, boring, and laughable waste of time that doesn't look like it should have cost in excess of 30 million to make. "},{"Title":"Quite Fun","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Though Street Fighter is not exactly Oscar-material it does have a lot going for it. The movie is quite hilarious and I'm surprised at how many great actors they managed to cast (no, I'm not talking about Van Damme). Even in her minimal exposure character as Cammy, Kylie Minogue could act pretty convincingly. Damien Chappa and Byron Mann were a very sympathetic pair as Ruy and Ken. Ming Na gave an appropriately tense performance as Chun Li. Wes Studi may be a tad out of shape, but he gives Sagat's character unbelievable coolness. Also, I can't lie, Miguel Nunez Jr. (DeeJay) and Andrew Bryniarski (Zangief) were a blast.This movie is quite funny even if parts of it were kinda cheap. If you're a hard-core fan of the games I do not recommend it, but anyone who doesn't take the games too seriously or isn't bothered by Van Damme too much will at least get a good laugh from watching this, if nothing else. "},{"Title":"This Is One of the best makes of a Video Game","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" People on here got to remember what the point of making movies is, who the demographic is, I saw this movie when i was a kid, actually my first date, I loved it, I was young. This is a video game into a movie, the adaptation is very well and it used the video games story line almost flawlessly it also filled in very tiny details that wasn't in the original storyline by the creators of the game (witch were then added to the game, **good communication between game and movie creators) so remember this movie was made for gamers 8-25, at the time it was made the Capcom Super Nintendo Street Fighter series was VERY popular, The casting was also very good in this movie, the only casting i found inaccurate was the part of carlos blanka after his mutation i personally thought a larger character should have been chosen seeing as though blanka in the game sits around lower ribs and is crouched down at that level so his standing height would be around 6'5,close to 300 pounds (after mutation) so before mutation the actor would need to be 6'5 200 pounds "},{"Title":"Avoid at all costs. Only total masochists should watch.","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I love all the Street Fighter games but why make a live action movie? The anime and anime show were awesome but this movie was so wrong. Everyone was miscast, the characters were scripted wrong. Deejay the upbeat Jamaican kick boxer is (in the movie) a servant of the evil M Bison. Balrog the thuggish boxer is working for the TV news with cameraman E Honda? Charlie (Guile's best bud) is turned into Blanka? Ken and Ryu are thrill seeking punks and try to con Sagat out of money instead being serious martial artists dedicating their lives to become the greatest warriors to ever live. I could go on but let's leave it at that. This movie doesn't have a single redeeming quality, just rent the Mortal Kombat movie and have fun. "},{"Title":"A glutted Hollywood train wreck","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Video games make horrible movies. Repeat-video games make horrible movies. This schlock was based on the most popular 2D fighting game of its day and was gobbled up by Hollywood. It diverged highly from the game storyline (which admittedly was not very well suited to a live action film) with B-movie martial arts actor Jean Claude Van Damme as Guile, the Special Ops soldier from the USA, as commander of a U.N.- like group of peace keeping soldiers fighting M. Bison (Vega), dictator of a small nation called Shadaloo. It doesn't mention any tournament and Ryu, the video game's real protagonist, is demoted to a glorified cameo along side Ken Masters. Characters like Balrog, T. Hawk, Blanka and Dhalsim are all after thoughts as well. When you think about how ridiculous just the attempt to portray Blanka (think The Incredible Hulk with Lou Ferrigno cheesy) was, one has to wonder why they made a film at all? If you believe the Wikipedia article about this movie, Van Damme and Raul Julia's salaries ate up most of the $35 million budget (hard to believe Mr. Spinning Side Kick of Death made $8 million for this crap). Van Damme was also notoriously carrying on an affair during production with co-star Kylie Minogue while his then wife was pregnant. Sadly Raul Julia made his final movie appearance in a throwaway role as M. Bison. Conclusion is that this was a giant greedy cash grab by Capcom. There's also a bad video game based solely on the film that for SNES and Genesis. "},{"Title":"The movie that almost killed the SF series","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I got to see the movie 5 days ago on youtube. Good thing somebody uploaded it. I was still a baby when this first came out. I got to see it and it was really bad. It turned out to be a war movie more than just your average martial arts movie. Reasons why I hate this movie 1. It is suppose to be about a tournament not a freakin search & rescue operation. 2. Why is the setting is in a city called Shadaloo? FYI Shadaloo is a criminal organization lead by M. Bison. And the setting should take place around the world! 3. Ryu is suppose to be the main character instead he plays a minor role and along with Ken they're like from the mafia or something. Guile is the main character and plays a major role. What's up with that? 4. Why is Charlie Blanka? Charlie is dead/Blanka is young boy named Jimmy. 5. Dhalsim is the master of Yoga why is he a scientist? 6. Sagat is a Muay Thai emperor not a arms dealer. 7. Zangief and Dee Jay are not Shadaloo members they don't have any important roles. 8. Chun Li is suppose to be a Interpol agent, E. Honda is a Sumo wrestler, and Balrog is a Shadaloo member. They're not reporters! 9. Bison is always getting owned he is suppose to be powerful and psychotic like in the game. This movie almost killed the SF series! I prefer SF2 the animated movie than this. 4/10 for creativity on the plot (NOT rather give it -4/10) "},{"Title":"Cheesy lines and bad acting","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Don't let my summary fool you, this film is pure genius. True, there is some awful acting by Kylie and Jean-Claude but the majority of the film was well done. This film was actually so awful, it was genius. I guess you need to see it to understand.I think my favourite line of the movie has to be Zangief when he exclaims Quick! Change the channel! on seeing a car with an armed bomb heading towards the building.Noticeably, some of the characters do not follow the same background as they do in the video games. Credit has to be given to the actors for such bad acting as to make the film bordering on comedy.If you're having a night in and looking for a good laugh with some cringe-worthy moments, i suggest giving Street Fighter a watch. Grab some pizza and beer and prepare to laugh at the most ridiculously bad acting to date.I love this film "},{"Title":"The most underrated video game movie ever","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 9/20/2005WARNING! THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS! IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THIS MOVIE YET, PLEASE DON'T READ THIS REVIEW!Still with me? Good.Street Fighter is based off of the video game series of the same name, though it is more popularly known for Street Fighter II with its vast assortment of heroes and villains. The movie features the same characters from the game and three from another Street Fighter game. Instead of a World Warrior tournament of fighters like in the game, the movie focuses on General M. Bison (the late, talented Raul Julia) wanting world domination in pure James Bond villain style, with a vast secret hideout and dozens of henchmen. Bison has taken 63 hostages and demands 20 billion dollars to be given to him in three days for their return. Bison is also working on a super-soldier program (isn't that Captain America territory?), in which Dr. Dhalsim (Roshan Seth) is unwillingly mutating Guile's captured friend, Carlos Blanka (Robert Mammone), into a green-skinned, orange-haired man-beast (think orange Don King hair on the Hulk, but not as strong or muscular).The Allied Forces are fighting Bison's troops and Colonel William Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme, whose last name you still can't say out loud without muttering unintentional profanity), Bison's long-time nemesis, is determined to get them back. Guile makes a deal with two arrested smugglers, Ken Masters (Damian Chapa) and Ryu Hoshi (Byron Mann), to join the gang of Bison's main henchman, Victor Sagat (Wes Studi), to find Bison's hideout in exchange for their freedom and passports back home. The problem is, reporter and martial arts expert Chun Li Zang (Ming-Na Wen) is after Bison for murdering her father. Chun Li takes her film crew and fellow fighters, Balrog (Grand L. Bush) and Edmond Honda (Peter Tuiasosopo), to follow Ken and Ryu.At Bison's fortress, Chun Li, Balrog and Honda are captured while the homing device Ken and Ryu have lead Guile to the hideout. With the aid of Cammy (Kylie Minogue), T-Hawk (Gregg Rainwater) and his soldiers, Guile invades the fortress and helps his friends save the hostages, while taking down Bison and his forces.Well, except for Honda being a Hawaiian sumo, Balrog being a hero instead of one of Bison's evil henchmen, Zangief (Andrew Bryniarski) being a villain instead of a hero, Sagat not being a 7 foot tall tough fighter like the game, and other various changes, the actors do mostly resemble the video game characters and their looks. The movie actually improves on Ryu and Ken by making them more relatable. In the game, Ken is a wealthy, vicious and arrogant fighter, while Ryu has forsaken everything else in his life to perfect his fighting skills. In the movie, Ryu and Ken are the buddy team you see in every action film, but here it works. The two steal from criminals by selling them weapons that turn out to be bogus. Ryu is a straight-man with a conscience and will to help others without thought of profit, while Ken wants to be rich and has a wondering eye for good-looking single ladies.The cast works well, particularly Minogue as Cammy, Van-Damme as Guile, Jay Tavare as Sagat's helper Vega, Wen as Chun Li, Studi as Sagat, Chapa as Ken, Mann as Ryu and, best of all, Julia as Bison. Bryniarski also does great as the not-so-smart, yet good hearted henchman Zangief who turns good by the end and he has the best laugh-out-loud moments (like when he realizes Dee Jay works for the evil Bison because of the paycheck, Zangief asks, You got paid?).The action works well and the fight scenes work well, especially Ken VS. Sagat, Ryu VS. Vega and Bison VS. Guile. But curiously, most don't have many memorable fights except with guards (like Balrog and Cammy), which is a shame, since so many opportunities for fights don't happen in the film. For example, Chun Li has a brief fight and awesome fight with Bison, but she doesn't fight any other villains except for Bison guards. Others, like Dhalsim, don't fight at all. And while it's nice to try and have an origin for Blanka, he's not as feral or muscular (or cool) as he is in the game, nor does he have any memorable fights, except in quick glimpses with - you guessed it, Bison guards.Also, none of the characters have any special powers like in the game. It's a shame things like Ryu's fireball (which only happens in a brief flash of light in the fight against Vega), Ken's flaming fist when he uses his Dragon Punch move and Dhalsim's fire breath are all absent.If you watch after the end credits, the film has an ending that sets up for a sequel (which, right now, is reportedly in the works). No matter what the public (or Street Fighter fans) think, I actually liked this film. It has good action, nice humor and good characterization. Is it disappointing? Sure. But is it good nonetheless? Of course. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie, puts the game to shame.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS READ AT YOUR OWN RISK OK I've played the game on the Sega like 500 times, and i was so happy when this movie came out. of course the was years ago when i was a kid, but i still remember the storyline clear as day. it doesn't really take after the game, but has plenty of action scenes, has all the characters from the game, and a lot of the moves from the game. the game really didn't have a story line so the movie really makes it have one. Seeing this movie really puts action in the action movie category. Its great to rent as a weekend movie, and is a must see before u hit that heavenly place in the sky. PUTS THE GAME TO SHAME! "},{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember the day I went to go see this movie. I was a high school sophomore who just loved the video game. I was excited at the idea that this film was being made, even with Van Damme in it's starring role. I thought it made no sense that he'd be playing Guile the American, but oh well. I was so pumped and excited to finally see this movie. It was almost that feeling that Star Wars geeks get at new Star Wars premiers and then.....the movie started. Ha ha, oh man this movie was just so terrible in it's live action format. The characters were poorly embodied by their actors. They weren't dead on either. Doctor Dhalsim? Gimme a break! This movie is just awful. I remember the theater being packed and as the movie kept going I just started to slouch and hide in my seat. I was just embarrassed to be watching this fiasco of a movie. The acting is terrible, the plot is terrible, everything is a mess. I just couldn't wait for it to end. When it did, I just wanted to get the hell out of the theater as soon as possible so that no one I knew would know I just sat through that movie. Avoid this movie at all costs. Mortal Kombat 1 is a far superior movie to this garbage and takes it's approach a lot more serious. Street Fighter doesn't amuse or entertain or even make you laugh, it just deserves to get flushed down the toilet. Street Fighter 2 the Animated Movie is a lot better and their characters are identical to those of the video game. No ridiculous flipping kicks by Van Damme either. A 1 out of 10. Just hated this movie and it just doesn't do justice to the video game. "}{"Title":"This is merely superconductor electromagnetism. Surely you've heard of it?","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie suffers from the same problem as most video game or comic book adaptations in the '90s. The people making it just don't take the source material seriously so the whole thing comes across as one big garish cartoon with no attempt at characterizations or an intelligent plot. It's supposedly for teenagers and adults but it's intellectually on a level only pre-teen children can enjoy. There is some entertainment here, but only in that disreputable so bad it's good guilty pleasure way. Most of the actors ham it up, particularly a slumming Raul Julia in his last film. Jean-Claude Van Damme is about what you expect, only with ridiculous dyed blonde hair. I did enjoy Ming-Na Wen as Chun-Li but the rest are lame. This is also the disappointing film directorial debut of Steven E. de Souza, who had written the screenplays of some of the '80s best actioners. He also wrote this mess but unfortunately it's missing much of the wit that Die Hard, Commando, or Running Man had. "},{"Title":"You will never get the time back that you spend watching this movie","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are some movies that are so brilliant that all of the holes in it make it even better. Street Fighter is not one of them. They have made movies from books, from toys, from old TV series, and from real life events, now they are making them from video games. Okay, they did that a while back with Pac Man, but that was a cartoon for kids. Street Fighter is not meant for kids - it is a Jean-Claude Van Damme action movie, which to me usually means that it is going to be rubbish. I watched Street Fighter expecting it to be rubbish and I was not disappointed.This movie I just could not take seriously. It was not a comedy and that was what made it worse. The only redeemable character was a tough so stupid that he didn't realise that the bad guy was actually a bad guy. It wasn't funny because it was funny, it was funny because it was just so stupid. This movie is one you watch with friends because you just sit there paying out all of the flaws.Some people say Van Damme can't act. Well, in this movie whenever he spoke I would wince. If he can't act then this movie proves it. And if he is supposed to be French then what is the accent that he has. The only reason Van Damme draws a crowd is because he is a good fighter, but you don't notice this in this movie, the fight scenes are rubbish. The bad guy flies around the screen shooting Van Damme with lightning bolts and Van Damme, with one kick, kills him. And this guy is supposed to be a top notch martial artist. Hey, he spends most of the movie fantasising over killing Van Damme and when he does meet him he gets his butt kicked in two seconds. All I can say is that I wish I missed this movie. "},{"Title":"Worst movie about video Game Ever made 1994's biggest disappointment","Date":"15 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To start with it has nothing to do with the video game or a tournament really at all & the Characters have been altered to fit into a ridiculous story Steven E. Souza created when there was a good story all ready made.BTW I am so glad Steven de Souza is not directing World of Warcraft anymore that retard has screwed up enough what could have been great movies.Honestly if a group of freshman highschool students where given the job of making this movie they would have done better.I have nothing else to say but don't watch this movie "},{"Title":"To all of the hardcore Street Fighter fans out there I say this NOW","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ignore this movie... it has little to nothing to do with the games. The acting is bad... the characters are wrong in most parts of their character... there is no mention or a tournament... this and and that is all screwed! I don't know how and why Capcom agreed to this... they joke about it so much nowadays. As a fun of the Game Franchise... this film really did annoy me to the utmost extent of Goddamn it just die! Even the wonderful Raul Julia and the incredibly hot and talented Kylie Minogue couldn't save this movie... if you want to see a Real Street Fighter movie... see Street Fighter 2 The Animated Movie... BUT DON'T YOU DARE SEE THIS ONE... it'll be a waste of your money/life! "},{"Title":"Legendarily god-awful","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the ultimate Number One so-bad-it-is-funny movie. It beats 'Rumble in Hong Kong' and 'Laser Mission'. This is a travesty so monumental it deserves to have an award named after it. Street Fighter is epic in its sorriness.But it is funny. Accidentally funny. Indeed, this is by far the best, most entertaining disaster in the history of Hollywood. My friend uses this as the comic centerpiece to show people when they visit his place. It's so funny it'll rip your bowels straight out and make you choke. Especially if you have someone as talented as my friend doing a commentary at the same time.Is that M. Bison or Hugh Heffner? What is he, a PIMP now? And look, LOOK what happened to Dhalsim! Take a good look!!! WHAT THE HECK WAS THAT? A masterpiece of mediocrity, what all bad films should strive for. Hate it, love it, laugh until you cry. "},{"Title":"K.O. for Street Fighter","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Another awful video game turned into a movie I mean, seriously. Come on! The video game was awesome! Nonstop action and ass kicking. It was a game I used to play for hours with friends, beating each other up, and it didn't get old. You know why? Because it was a video game and not a movie! Who in their right mind thought that they could take a video game with a plot as thin as a starved Paris Hilton, and turn it into an enjoyable movie? Again, The plot is too thin, so let's rewrite all the characters and the entire storyline so it doesn't even remotely resemble the game. Whoever pitched them this idea should be locked in a theater and made to watch this movie over and over and over again nonstop for a month! For every ten horrible movies that Hollywood craps out, there is only one good movie it brings into existence! Something is wrong with this picture. This movie is an abortion. Don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Crappiest movie ever made!","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's a shame that they turned the world's best fighting game into one of the worst movies ever. Well, when you think about it there has never been one good or even a decent movie based on any video game. Mortal Kombat sucked. Resident Evil stank. And Tomb Raider bored the hell out of me. All those movies were bad, but Street Fighter is in a class of its own. Crappy fighting, crappy acting, an Oscar worthy plot and ensemble cast (ha ha) and Van Damme as Guile. What a joke. And if you thought that was hilarious, check out Gomez Addams himself as the sinister M. Bison. Then there is Blanka (played here by the Incredible Hulk...I think) who looks utterly laughable. The movie has absolutely no continuity with the game showing a true lack of any knowledge about the source material. Bottomline avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"A real stinker","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not a fan of the series of Street Fighter games. I actually am not a huge player of combat games all together, more of an occasional player. I do, how ever, like brainless action. But sometimes enough is enough.So what is the basic flaw of Street Fighter The movie? Everything. Literally almost everything. Sure, there hardly is character development in any of the genre films, but that wasn't my beef. It's the fact, that effects are poorly made, settings are bad and even the actors are more bad than usual.Actually Street Fighter looks like very typical late 80's small budget action film. Only problem is, that it was made mid 90's and it had a budget over 30 millions. With that money more capable director would have made very enjoyable action flick, but of that there are no worries in the Street Fighter.Jean-Claude Van Damme gives out a even bit more worse display of his actinic skills than usual. But then again not even Raul Julia can save this ship from sinking.Recommendation Not even for the more die hard Damme fans. Expect this film become a campy humor classic during 10 or more years, tough something tells me it already is. "},{"Title":"'it was Tuesday'.......","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really don't know what the big deal is about this film. of course it's going to be criticised, it's a movie version of a video game where you beat people up, with Van Damme and Kylie Minogue!! What do people want? Guile and his army are stationed in Shadaloo, which is trying to be ruled by the evil Colnol Bison (he wears red). there are some sub-plots involving other characters from the video game, which explains why they all come together on the fortress at the end for the big showdown.yes, the film is poorly written and directed, with some of the worst one-liners i have heard. No, the acting isn't very good, and at times the whole thing looks cheap. The makers and stars knew this was going to get a bashing from the critics, so they camp it up a lot.it's fun, and the main thing is that it entertains from beginning to end, even if you do forget it straight after seeing it.it's a good ninety minutes of brain rot, when you just want to forget about everything else.Yoy know you like it really. "},{"Title":"a lot of fun. cheesy? yes. but fun, and that's what it was going for. vastly underrated.","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a Street Fighter fan I decided to try and defend this underrated movie. I enjoyed the live-action movie back in 1994 and it carries my general perspective of Street Fighter.Many people complain about the movie straying from the game's plot, and all the characters were changed. This isn't necessarily true, the game's plot isn't that deep you, as one of the Street Fighter characters, try to bust a drug lord and his minions. Even the game Is a little deeper than the Super Mario Bros. movie's plot (two plumbers trying to save the day), but try making a 90-minute movie out of it.Same for the movie's views of the characters. Most of them are close enough to the game's characters. The movie did portray Guile, Bison, Chun-Li, Sagat, Ken, Ryu, Cammy, Zangief and Vega correctly (Guile and Chun-Li both still have personal vendettas against Bison, Ken and Ryu have their rivalries with Sagat and Vega, etc). I had no problems with E. Honda, and Blanka and Dhalsim only briefly appear (I personally prefer the 'Charlie mutated into Blanka' story). The only characterization problem the movie had was that a few characters just weren't shown right. Steven E. DeSouza should've just re-cast the actor playing T. Hawk. Plus, Balrog and DeeJay swapped alignments, but that's all. Most of the World Warriors and Grand Master characters ARE correctly depicted, just the New Challengers (exception being Cammy) just needed better casting. "}{"Title":"Come On","Date":"26 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't understand how you can seriously write a bad review for this movie (or any JCVD movie for that matter). It's based on an 8-bit video game from the 1980s that has a witch doctor who breathes fire and stretches his limbs twice the length of his body, a Chinese schoolgirl who kicks at the speed of sound, and a radioactive electricity monster with orange spikes for hair. You wanted a Gary Oldman-esque performance from Jean Claude? You were expecting less random objects to explode for no reason? Maybe more verisimilitude when it comes to geopolitical crises? Come on. Have a sense of humor. This is one of the most fun films you'll ever see as long as you don't try to take it seriously. "},{"Title":"bad kind of video game movie","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the southeast Asian nation of Shadaloo, military dictator General Bison (Raul Julia) are holding hostages and battling the forces of the Allied Nations led by Colonel Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme). Guile's friend Blanka is one of the captured soldier who Bison turns into a mutant. Ryu Hoshi and Ken Masters get into trouble dealing with criminal Viktor Sagat (Wes Studi). They are all arrested by Guile. Ryu and Ken are recruited by Guile and they stage an escape for Sagat. They even fake killing Guile. Reporter Chun-Li (Ming-Na) discovers the truth.The story is a mess trying to weave together all these game characters. It is sad to see Raul Julia in this and it's obvious after the fact that the man was sick. To his credit, he put in plenty of effort but the man looks sickly. The movie looks bad and silly. This grand mess is not compelling and all the action in the world can't save it. "},{"Title":"It's different","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Pretty sure I went about this all wrong . . .I haven't played the video game since the '90s; and even then, it was never one of my favorites. I came to Street Fighter out of morbid curiosity. It's had a certain negative reputation for 20 years, and sometimes you just wonder what people mean by bad.I would go with meh, instead. It's not bad, it's just kinda boring. After awhile, I just got tired of seeing these underdeveloped characters all shoehorned into the story to fill a quota. Oddly enough, I got a real GI Joe vibe from this movie, far more than anything Street Fighter. One needs to watch something like this with beer in hand to fully appreciate the b-movie fromage. Alas, my fridge was tragically devoid of oat sodas, so I missed out (a mistake never to be made again, honest).I feel like I'm rambling. The point here, I guess, is that it's not the sacrilege that the internet has made it out to be . . . obviously, it's not great either, but hopefully if you approach this in the proper frame of mind, you might have a good time.Don't watch it alone. That's doing it wrong.5/10 Even so, Ming-na Wen Hellooo, nurse! "},{"Title":"I'll fight not to watch it again.","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Video game movies are still more often disappointments than successes, but at least we've moved on from the era of crud like Street Fighter. Movies like this were made in such a way that they didn't appeal to the fans of the games or the casual movie audience.My primary complaint is the laughable casting. It's like the makers of the movie knew absolutely nothing about the games except for the sex, names, and races of the various characters. They make a huge effort to work the names of every character into the movie, just so the audience will (presumably) think it's cool to see their favorites on the big screen. But, Van Damme as an American soldier? Kylie Minogue as Cammy? Oh, and let's briefly mention the story. Balrog is a cameraman and Ryu and Ken (with brown hair!!) are some type of lovable con-men? Shadaloo City? Ugh. Actual street fighting wouldn't give me enough brain damage to want to ever see this again. "},{"Title":"A solid guilty pleasure for me at least.....","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie sure has a lot of faults in trying to base itself off a video game. First of all, many of the characters were either miscast or shallow. However I'm gonna start off by saying that Raul Julia has changed the way we view M.Bison in the franchise. He glorifies the persona as a simple dictator bent on taking over the world. A few other characters such as Zangief and Chun-Li also kind of helped me enjoy the movie a bit better. It might be because they were the closest in having resemblance to their game counterparts.Other than that, it's pretty funny casting or interpretations of everyone else. JCVD as Guile? LOL..... Kylie Minogue as Cammy, uh.... I guess she looks the part and this extends to stuff like E.Honda being Hawaiian to Ryu and Ken being con men. So practically the movie tried to change much of the law for the shake of making a movie. It's pretty messy or as I like to say...Cheesy.The movie is pretty goofy.... The effects are pretty over the top and same goes for the fight choreography. I mean look at the fight Ryu and Vega have... The dialogue also does belong in this category too but it's pretty laughably entertaining. Alright let's talk about the story.....Well, other than the fact M.Bison wants control. Let's see what the protagonists are up to. They just need to stop him. I mean there should have been more depth for us to care about Guile or Chun-Li's reason to hate Bison. It might have been a better idea to make Charlie a deceased dude rather than integrate the name into Blanka. That's just me, but I don't think adding the name 'Charlie' means a whole lot since later games in the franchise introduce the actual character. Chun-Li on the other hand needs a more fleshed out insight into her story, that's all I want from her. Ryu and Ken who are naturally the poster children of the franchise are nothing more than two goofy side characters who go about switching alliances. They're pretty bland. To wrap this movie up, the movie is sure not a good adaptation of a video game but the movie is a good time if I want to have a bit of roast. "},{"Title":"The fight to save the world is on!","Date":"26 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Nicely directed by Steven E. De Souza. As for the cast i thought they got some characters right apart from a couple. I thought Van Damme did alright as Guile and Raul Julia puts in a good final performance R.I.P. There are too many characters and are not are given enough screen time to show what they can do .It has a simple storyline to follow, decent action scenes, the film never has a problem with pacing, rolling along fittingly enough to keep you interested. Some decent acting by other actors. The props are bright and the colourful costumes and also a change in filming locations other than America which makes a change.In conclusion watch it if your a van damme fan (i'm a fan)and street fighter fan as your favourite characters come to life but don't take it seriously otherwise you won't enjoy.Overall a decent action flick. "},{"Title":"Quick!  DON'T Change the Channel!","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes. I actually enjoyed this movie. It's stupid and nonsensical, with silliness that doesn't belong, and explosions where there shouldn't be, and Van Damme out of his element (but then again, this movie IS a big P.O.S.--so maybe he's IN his element). The plot involves M. Bison taking on the world and demanding the payment of 20 billion dollars so that he will release the hostages. Whether he does that or not doesn't really matter because there's so much else going on that we tend to forget about a few plot points here and there. It's only until they spring up again does anyone go, Oh, right, I forgot about this thing. It's still going on?So why did I give this a 6? Does that seem a little high to you? Probably. Critics despise it. Fans of the games despise it. It's got a 3.7 on IMDb. I haven't played the games. I'm not officially a critic. And unlike a lot of critics and would-be critics, I enjoy some terrible movies as guilty pleasures. Max Payne, Spirit of Vengeance, Double Impact, etc. etc. etc.. Street Fighter isn't much of an exception. It's got the energy of a Saturday morning cartoon, and it's twice as fun as most PG-13 action films these days--which, in a way, is kind of sad. I laughed countless times at this movie's screwball antics, and I was very entertained for the hour and a half it lasted.I guess I gave this a 6 because I appreciate a terrible movie with a good sense of humour.Even when it's not trying to be funny. "},{"Title":"Quick! Change the channel!","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The biggest distinction that STREET FIGHTER THE MOVIE holds for me is that it's the first Van Damme picture I ever saw. On a global scale, it was the first video game-film adaptation to turn a buck, which should count for something despite the routine bashing it receives for how shoddily it portrayed the most popular fighting game of the time on the big screen. I was personally never a huge STREET FIGHTER fan, but while I can certainly spot the plot line unfaithfulness, I can't help but notice just how fun the movie is. It's a poor adaptation and a questionable action movie, but nevertheless a decent teenaged adventure when taken at face value.The story When the mad warlord General M. Bison (Raul Julia) is poised to overrun the earth in pursuit of his own personal empire, it will be up to a multi-faceted group of fighters - including Colonel William Guile (Van Damme), reporter Chun-Li (Ming Na), and conmen Ryu Hoshi (Byron Mann) and Ken Masters (Damian Chapa) - to stop him.This film is definitely over-cast, comparable to MORTAL KOMBAT ANNIHILATION in terms of saturation. No less than fifteen characters from the original two games - more than half of their combined casts - are featured, resulting in a stifling deficit of character development, since next to none of them have the appropriate amount of screen time for it. The actual casting choices of these characters can also be taken to task, but I'm pleased that - through the admirably accurate costumes and cosmetics - most of the performers at least *look* like their animated counterparts (in some cases, like Robert Blanka Mammone, you almost wish they didn't). Personalities and backgrounds have been addled with as expected to accommodate the tournament-free premise, but none of them bother me as much as the case of M. Bison he's the single goofiest part of this whole immature adventure, practically a forerunner to Dr. Evil, having been written so comically that it's impossible to consider him threatening even when he's snapping guys' necks or shooting electricity from his fists.The movie never has a problem with pacing, rolling along fittingly enough at a video game's pace and always presenting you with some silly or bombastic event to watch; it's never boring. Sadly, there's not nearly enough fighting going on, and when it does happen it's not that great. It seems amazing that, considering what it's based on, the movie only has a 'round half-dozen fights, depending on your definition of a fight (i.e. I don't consider it a fight when Guile and his team ambush some soldiers and Kylie Minogue does a cool but unnecessary pro wrestling move), and even more amazing how very bland most of them are with Benny Urquidez supplying fight choreography. Some of the performers just aren't good, and some of them surprisingly so (is this the same Damian Chapa who rocked the house with Michael Worth in U.S. SEALS 2? I hope not!), but other times they just feel stifled. For example, the showdown between Ryu and Vega (Jay Tavare) was my favorite of the movie, and really felt like it could've gone somewhere were it not for the cramped locker room they were in.Apparently, the critical lashing STREET FIGHTER received moved Van Damme to choose his future roles more carefully, so in a pinch, I'll accredit every good movie he did subsequently to this minor disappointment. Seeing as this particular franchise hasn't done too well in live-action film regardless of who's involved, I can't be too hard on this first attempt and will continue to regard it neutrally and enjoy it by accident every few years. Fans of the games who somehow have yet to see the film should avoid it unless they're intentionally looking for something to heckle. "},{"Title":"If good men do nothing, that is evil enough","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The veteran of action movies, screenwriter Steven De Souza took as basis not the original game from 1987, he took its more popular sequel Street Fighter 2(1991), which differed much more original design and interesting selection of fighters. But he wasn't trying to just make a fighting game, he decided to use the characters and ideas of the game as the components of sci-fi action thriller, which he invented. Steven is also a director, this film is his second director's work, after a long break on screen writing career.In the film there is a big semantic implication and teachings, in the form of dialogs and remarks between the characters. The picture is filled with deep meaning, but it does not become tedious or boring, on the contrary everything is very appropriate. The film is very spectacular, excellent stunt work and work of the artists and special effects creators.Despite PG-13 rating, the film does not seem quite childish, it has a lot of violence and murder, ever-present tension. For example, the movie begins with news from the hot spot and displaying of General Bison breaks the necks of the captive soldiers. The director came up with the fictional country Shadaloo in which General Bison is trying to seize power, while on his secret base, equipped with modern equipment and weapons, serve him a lot of fighters and scientists. His ultimate goal is to have the whole world. General wants to create an army of super soldiers, mutants. He takes as a donor of one of the captured soldier named Carlos Blanca - Charly, it is one of the interesting changes of the director, in the game mutant was another man, but his name is also Blanca, in the game Charlie is the name of the soldier who was killed Bison, and for whose death now wants revenge him on another soldier named Guile, Charlie's friend. Also for example, the girl-fighter Chun Li in the film is the leading reporter, reporting from Shadaloo, boxer Balrog is the cameraman, and sumo fighter Honda a television director, they both leave a career and now work in television together with Chun Li. A excellent interpretation.Street fighters, main characters of the original game Ken Masters and Ryu, now deal with different kinds of fraud, they arrive in Shadaloo to crank out another thing, but to cheat Sagat and his men they have not come out. Sagat decides to use them as gladiators. But during the first bout of Ryu with champion Vega, the building bursts Colonel Guile on the self-propelled gun, and arrest everyone. Now Guile wants with the help of Ken, Ryu and Sagat to find the lair of Bison and rescue the hostages. Parallel to this, Chun Li and her friends prepare his plan of salvation. This is very well thought out story. Like in the game, Ryu helps Ken, to make the right decisions.It should also be said that Steven was able to skillfully use the elements of fighting in the story with gun shooting, explosions and chases. In the film there are all super attacks and the habits of the characters, and the actors are strikingly similar. Best turned out Vega - very quick and plastic fighter in the mask and with a glove with blades, which brilliantly played the Jay Tavare, the character literally stepped off the screen of the arcade machine. The same can be said about Zangief, naive strong man, who, being a kind man, foolishly went to serve for Bison.Guile is well played by Jean-Claude Van Damme, in the film he has a short haircut, which in principle is right, because he's military. From Major, he became a Colonel, he perfectly fulfilled all the incredible techniques of this character from the game. But personally I very liked Damian Chapa in the role of Ken, he gave the character a more natural image, a kind of merry rascal. Well, and actually, this actor always liked me. General Bison is great played Raul Julia, this is perhaps his best role, the last role unfortunately, the actor died two months after the completion of filming, the film is dedicated to his memory. As always at Steven De Souza, a very competent humor, really funny in many scenes and dialogs. The film does not become too comedic. All perfectly balanced. He also wrote the title song and exciting radio-remarks. Great Graham Revell music, perfectly emphasizes the atmosphere and morale of the film. Especially managed opening theme, and the theme of sending of the AN(Allied Nations) soldiers.A movie that may many teach the younger generation, an example to follow. The perfect combination of action, sci-fi, fighting and humor. A great example of how to make movies based on video games. 10 out of 10.I strongly disagree with critics who threw slop this wonderful film. Guys, I think you do not understand what you want. Probably you wanted make the characters look cartoon and silly, like in the game. In any case, this is not a criticism, it's just your stupid taste. Need to be a very bad person to scold this film. "},{"Title":"Just don't take it too seriously","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Streetfighter 2 - the arcade so popular, it reinvented one-on-one beat-'em-ups. It was only natural that Hollywood was going to try and cash in on it. However, as Mario Bros found out, making a movie out of a (pretty plot less) video game is no easy task.First of all, let me say that Streetfighter the Movie is rubbish. Secondly, let me say that I loved it.There was no story to the arcade, so the film's writers were always going to have to take a hell of a load of creative licenses to try and gel it all together in some form of narrative format (after all, how much story can you get into sixteen people from around the world knocking the hell out of each other?). And, I think they did a pretty good job - at least with the story anyway. It follows - mainly - the film's biggest star Jean Claude Van Damme, As Colonel Guile, who leads an A.N. (that's 'Allied Nations' - think United Nations, but with a different name) task force of soldiers against the warlord dictator of (made-up country) Shadaloo, namely M. Bison. The 'Mussels From Brussels' is joined (and hindered) by almost all the other main Streetfighters (not that any fighting is ever done in any street, but never mind...).Unfortunately, what the film does well in coming up with a coherent and (nearly) believable story, it lacks in what fans want to see. Sadly, none of the actors are particularly good. There are too many characters and none of them are given enough screen time to particularly develop their characters. Plus many of them don't really look much like their on-screen counterparts. Not only that, but their computer-generated incarnations are also better at delivering their lines. The actors' dialogue is pretty clunky and cringeworthy. However, all this could be forgiven if the fight scenes were better. Okay, so it was released a few years before The Matrix redefined martial arts battles, but the fights are more similar to old James Bond fights where people just roll around on the floor a bit. The 'special moves' taken from the arcade are pretty hard to spot and, despite having a pretty big budget (for 1994), it makes you wonder where it was spent.So Streetfighter is a pretty bad film. And I still love it. Maybe because as a teen I played the arcade, or maybe because Kylie looks pretty hot as Cammy. It's camp, it's stupid, it's mainly for die hard fans of the arcade. If it ever finds a new audience, it will probably be with twelve-year-old boys as they would find it pretty much action-packed and exciting.The Matrix it is not. Stupid fun it just might get away with, even if Mortal Kombat is actually a better film.Don't be too harsh on it - at least Raul Julia gives one hell of a cape-swishing performance in his last ever on-screen role. "}{"Title":"Street Fighter film not recommended for the most hardcore fans more of Street Fighter.","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A film that arouses feelings. On the one hand as an adaptation of the famous game is not true, but as film itself, however, is very funny, precisely because it does not take itself seriously.The problem is that given a perhaps too caricature parody or tone, rather than as a one hundred percent serious film in every way. The film has humor, but went with it, so that really was hard to take it seriously. Then there's that created a sort of parallel universe, many characters changing sides and giving them a different role or the video game as Balrog, Sagat deejay or appearance. However, it is not an absolute mess, as entertaining as it is quite drinkable. Among the most positive, we can say that the film is so psychedelic and surreal and such a colorful and lively picture that is nice to see, as a kind of bizarre comic. The presence of Raul Julia, his gestures and exaggerated poses and a great and wicked sense of humor, a dictator are the most memorable of the film, and in fact the character of bison is really the only well-focused and tailored all film. Van Damme is on his line, he does what he does best, and even like him for the way he laughs at himself. Actress Ming Na, however, I find it much more believable and sexy as that Kristin Kreuk ChunLi, but putting it as a journalist was a total mistake, journalist should have been a simple camouflage to infiltrate the fortress of bison as part a plan of interpol. Anyway, I also thought it was a bad video game adaptation that not a bad movie, because I always liked and I sported small and still does, but after seeing that stupid movie of street fighter the legend of Chin Li, made this even more I liked him and had even more affection than he already had. !For Raul Juli, Vaya con Dios!. "},{"Title":"An adaptation of the game. Thus, a film that came from a game.....and didn't live up to the hype. It's okay...but at the same, it's quite terrible.","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Oh boy, where do I start? Well, the Street Fighter series of games are just pure amazing. Like seriously, they're so entertaining and they're full of combat and action; obviously because you're pitted against another character, from the game, and you fight each other. It's similar, yet very different in more ways than it is similar, to Mortal Kombat and Tekken. Mortal Kombat is the same, after the games came, the films came....and they were meh. Street Fighter is a lot like this, except the Street Fighter film, for a start, is somewhat different from the games. Jean Claude Van Damme stars as Col. William F. Guile and might I add, is not too bad as him. It could've been worse....trust me. The film has a lot, but not all, of the characters from the Street Fighter games; main ones being Guile and M. Bison. It also has the likes of Ken, Ryu, Chun-Li, Blanka and Honda. What this film fails in though, is it's directing, it's overacting and uncalled for shenanigans.....which by the way aren't funny at all. The often terrible dialogue and stupid-looking martial arts scenes could actually have been a lot better; and by better, I mean they could have took more time into making the fight scenes look more realistic and not cheap and crappy as if they're being thrown back, slowly, by a tug-rope. when certain characters, such as Bison, get kicked back.One thing I love about the film though is, growing up with it was good, and it's good to look back at those memories because certain scenes of action were actually fun to watch when you were a kid. Quite a lot of stupid mistakes in the film too, that could easily have been edited out, as it's their job to do so. Overall though, i would rate the film a 5.5 out of 10. 5.5 you might wonder to yourself? well, since it stars JCVD, Raul Julia and the stunning, younger Kylie Minogue. Some parts of the film are entertaining, but other than that, it's a pretty-poor adaptation with a lot of mistakes and uncalled for scenes, pretty terrible choreography and overreactions from lots of the cast. "},{"Title":"Street Fighter","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Jean-Claude Van Damme is back in action as a Colonel no less who, in the time honoured tradition of the fake Hulk Hogan-type wrestling matches, challenges Saddam Hussein look-alike, General Bison (Raul Julia), to a fight of all the ages. The filmmakers tried to make this film funny, which is an appropriate strategy given how preposterous the plot is. Unfortunately, the jokes usually don't quite come off the ground, though a couple worked like when Raul Julia claimed that he was creating killing machines for the good of mankind. That joke made me think of those American policymakers who say that they want world peace, but neglect to tell their audience all the violent things they are prepared to do to achieve universal peace. Another one was Raul Julia's claim that he could actually make one of his Bison bucks convertible into just five English pounds just by holding the Queen hostage. You don't have to be an expert in monetary policy and fluctuating exchange rates to realize why this claim is so laughable. But aside from that, the jokes persistently fell flat. In addition to the bad jokes, the other problem with the film is wall-to-wall scenes with property being destroyed as a cheap ploy for generating entertainment.Finally the most unfortunate thing about this movie is how it wastes the prodigious talents of some really great actors. Wes Studi was unbelievably good as the Heron native Mogwa in Last of the Mohicans (with Daniel Day Lewis and Madeleine Stowe), but his acting gifts are wasted here as the villain Victor Sagat. At least, Studi had a sense of humour throughout this picture. Similarly Roshan Seth delivered wonderful performances in Attenborough's film Gandhi and David Lean's Passage of India. But in this movie, Seth is reduced to a nerdy scientist, though he is capable of so much more than this. How did Seth, given his remarkable acting career, end up in a movie like this? Finally Simon Callow gave a memorable performance in Milos Forman's Amadeus, but here he is reduced to a Neville Chamberlain-type appeaser. Never have I seen so many good actors wasted in a movie. "},{"Title":"Delightfully stupid, stupidly delightful - 40%","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Few films for those in my generation could have been more anticipated than this adaptation of arguably one of the most successful video games of all time. I vividly remember spending many hours bashing buttons and whooping my sister's ass at Street Fighter 2 on my faithful Mega Drive so surely a movie version would be equally kick-ass, especially considering the scribe behind Die Hard would be responsible for the film. What could go wrong? Well, other than casting, scripting, directing and producing then not much else, I suppose. I wasn't expecting much given this film's reputation but what little fun was to be had was mainly for laughing at it rather than with it.In the south-east Asian country of Shadaloo, the armed forces of General Bison (Raul Julia, in his final performance) are running rampant. When his forces kidnap a bunch of hostages and issues a Doctor Evil-style ransom demand, the Allied Nations respond by sending in Colonel Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme) to bring the madman to justice. But Guile isn't the only one on Bison's trail - journalist Chun-Li Zang (Ming Na) has personal reasons for pursuing the general while drifters Ryu (Byron Mann) and Ken (Damian Chappa) run into local gun-runner Sagat (Wes Studi) and find themselves involved in the conflict as well.Street Fighter is yet another addition in the bulging 'dodgy video-game movies' sub-genre, offering little more than token gestures to the source material and instead focusing on being a generic action flick with a tongue-in-cheek feel. And this is one of its biggest faults - the game admittedly lacked the po-faced seriousness of Mortal Kombat (which was an equally disappointing film as well) but this feels like a straight-up comedy, were the laughs any good. But what are we to make of an announcement at Bison's base that reminds troopers to take out health insurance as Van Damme shoots everyone in sight? It's like filming a Resident Evil movie but making it like Shaun Of The Dead! Acting is almost universally wooden with the exception of Julia, who hams it up as the pantomime baddie, but I got the sense that he was simply paying the bills. It's a shame that this is his epitaph as Julia was a much better actor than this tosh deserved.There are other issues as well - the characters only really look like their game counterparts during the final battle sequence (where they all use guns!), the English character Cammy is played by Australian singer Kylie Minogue with no attempt made at an English accent and character back stories from the game are pretty much ignored - I don't recall Zangief (Andrew Bryniarski) working for Bison or Balrog (Grand L. Bush) being a good guy and the less said of Dhalsim (Roshan Seth), the better - his appearance in this movie has no relation to the game at all. Actually, the worse character by far is Blanka (Robert Mammone) who not only looks ridiculous but has very little to do besides growl and snarl - not even a decent fight scene. There is a goofy appeal to this film, a sense of stupidity than is oddly infectious and in spite of yourself, you kinda enjoy it despite the numerous faults. So unless you're a passionate fan of the series (in which case, you'll cough up blood in rage watching this), you might get some enjoyment out of it but certainly not because this is a good film because it's not. It's the very definition of a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Zangrief and other things","Date":"14 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you watched this film for any other reason than Zangrief you are wrong. I like cheesy 80s movies as much as the next guy. I even kind of like Time Cop in a retro, ironic, hehe he has a mullet kind of way but for the life of me I will never understand why Guile, maybe the most patriotically American characters to ever come out of Japan (With possible exception of Bandit Keith), was portrayed by Van Damme. Here we have a screenplay that was clearly written out of Steven E. de Souza's love for America and being American and killing things that aren't American, so the first thing we do (just like in every Schwarzenegger flick) is take a man who can barely speak English, or at least well enough to seem anything but miscellaneously European, slap an American flag tattoo on him and hope that Deaf people love movies based on Japanese Video Games from the 80s. In all this film is that generic 80s bad where you can still watch it. Some guys like Kylie Minogue, I guess. But going back to my first point, the only reason to watch this film is reassure yourself of your masculinity whilst at the same time releasing effeminate Awws for the genuinely adorable way one of the franchises biggest, sweatiest and most Russian-est guys is shown as a lovable mentally challenged bear-man. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.......","Date":"17 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Being a fan of the Street Fighter video game series, I welcome the chance to see if someone can actually design a good film or series based on the game. This came close, but it seemed to me they did not put enough planning into it. Of course, I am a fan of Jean Claud Van Damme and the late Raul Julia, but the choices for the other cast of characters could've been more thought out! Raul Julia did add flare of drama to the scenes with his menacing portrayal of Gen. Bison, but it seemed too bad he wasn't trained to fight like Bison actually could. Van Damme's Col. W. Guile was pretty good where fighting was concerned and his acting had improved some from when he first started. Although they all had good acting ability, the martial arts left something to be desired. I almost cringe, anymore, when the media announces another Street Fighter title, and I cannot decide whether or not I actually want to go see it. This title did bring back a magical feel to the matine that I experienced as a child, but when compared to the video game title of Street Fighter, it falls just short of 'pretty good.' "},{"Title":"An extra slice of cheese please","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Oh dear. The Van Damme movie. Hated by street fighter fans and those who are not. In terms of expectations, the fans wanted the shoto centric characters to fight in a tournament where plasma is thrown freely. They wanted all the special moves and the original story lines intact, the costumes and the exact looks. Probably wanted Japanese subs as well if not the whole movie.Instead they got one of the loosest adaptations to come along. Something so far out of street figther it baffled them. And so in their ignorance they shouted BOOO and all claimed Hollywood was hurting their precious franchise.But when I watched this movie I expected something dumb and colourful. A few fights her and there some nice sets. I got way more than I bargained for. The movie blew me away with how outlandish it was to the point of being cartoony. The characters were so exaggerated as to have trivialised the plot. Fight scenes took weird turns where the fighters tried to outdo the other. Dialogue was chock full of the most quotable things to have you asphyxiate under the strain of hilarity.Everything that went wrong in this movie somehow enhanced it. It became a joy to delve into scenes to pick apart the small out of place details in a where's Wally like quest.This movie can only be described as so bad its good. So out there in both bizarrely and ludicrously that somehow it was all funny. I guess the interpretation is varied. In the mood of watching something serious, slapstick may seem inappropriate and yet the laughter here is so funny as you don't expect to laugh.The fact that the movie has only a passing resemblance is but a blessing. It could tell a story no one would care for and yet push characters into the scenes which gave whole new reactions.A faithful adaptation would have only given what was already there.I would be hard pressed to enjoy viewing the fights over being able to play out those fights myself. The story played by real actors with silly wigs talking in the the silly Japanese stock phrases such as growing stronger would have been annoying. In the game the story could be ignored but a theatrical version would try and be so faithful as to remove that luxury. Pitting all the character with their stories intact for the goal of fighting would mean they might not be able to do much else. To put it plainly fighting games including street fighter have poor plots. The nerdiness of the video game would still come across to the general audience. Fans were selfish enough to think the film should be just for them.This film turned those weaknesses into strengths. By changing the characters whilst exaggerating the more core characters the film became a far better showcase. The games already give plenty of coverage to the shoto's so a film where Guile and M.Bison square of is refreshing. Raul Julia plays M.Bison with such zeal in what it the realised parody of a deluded dictator. From the Nazi skull hat to the sweeping cape, M.Bison is played so grandiose that his insane schemes seem hilarious. Raul Julia, one of the best actors puts his full effort into this swan song. For nothing else of street fighter the movie was about him. Van Damme's guile has a french accent for an all American soldier. He has good chemistry with Raul Julia who exchange insults and threats like a wwf showdown. The whole film pivots on this epic confrontation of the two opposing characters. Everyone else does a decent enough job.So what wins the film for me is mainly the funniness of the whole movie. They didn't care for a poor story but they were creative enough to play on the aspects not fully realised in the video games. Many people will not forget the memorable quotes and scenes used in that movie. They may insult it whilst slightly snickering or they may hold their noses high. Even some will say this film killed Raul Julia. I like to think he lived a completely different life during that movie. The movie which should be by all accounts bad is still enjoyed by some. RIP Raul Julia. "},{"Title":"Cheese on real life.","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Oh dear... I completely forgot that I watched this movie when it came out on theaters! I was a HUGE Street Fighter II fan and this movie was like a dream come true despite the fact that Guile was the main character; overshadowing Ryu and Ken. Still, I bought the idea and went to the theater with high expectations.To be honest, the movie is not a disaster but it just didn't catch the vibe of the video game; it just didn't feel like Street Fighter. The kung-fuesque action sequences were very interesting but didn't follow the greatness of the game. Mortal Kombat worked because it's characters were real persons while it was extremely complicated to get on the big screen real persons that were originally cartoons. Also, the plot was very complex when the video game makes it very simple. Still I enjoyed the cheese factor of it. The producers and Director tried too hard to make it feel like the video game but they couldn't reach the objective. Sadly, this movie is remembered as one of the worst of it's kind. I'd say give it the chance to witness cheese at it's maximum.R.I.P. Raul Julia. "},{"Title":"*1/2 out of 4","Date":"19 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The evil warlord General M. Bison and his troops have kidnapped Allied Nations relief workers along with three U.N soldiers that were assigned to protect them. M. Bison demands that the United Nations pay him ransom money in exchange for the hostages, where M. Bison has given the United Nations 3 days and he threatens to kill the hostages if the United Nations fails to pay the ransom. Learning his best friend, Carlos Charlie Blanka is one of the hostages, U.N military commanding officer Colonel William F. Guile leads his army of troops against M. Bison. But Guile isn't the only man after M. Bison. Guile sends low-life martial artists Ryu and Ken Masters to infiltrate M. Bilson's one-eyed arms dealer Victor Sagat and his masked Spanish cage fighter Vega and discover the location of M. Bison's jungle fortress. News journalist Chun-Li Zang and her crew, former boxer Balrog and former sumo-wrestler Edmond Honda are out to settle their scores with M. Bison. M. Bison's unwilling chief scientist Dr. Dhalsim is transforming Blanka into a genetic mutated super soldier, in M. Bison's goal for world domination. Joined by martial artists and fighters from around the world, Guile and his troops engage in combat as they set out to defeat the evil warlord and rescue the hostages from his jungle fortress, before the 72 hours up, as Guile and M. Bison faces off in the ultimate showdown.This film is a pretty junky cheesefest. This film screams bad and cheese. It includes an alternate ending. Is that like the exploding shark ending from Jaws The Revenge? I hope not. But this film is bad.Rated PG-13 for Graphic Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Not the worst, but could've been much better","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was thrilled when I discovered that there was a Street Fighter movie, because I am a huge fan of the game. When I saw it, though, it was pretty disappointing for what I was expecting. The movie could've have been much better in so many ways.The basic plot is that M. Bison is trying to take over the world with his minions, and Colonel Guile is leading the allied nations forces against his forces. Some other street fighter characters are in the allied nations army. Otheres are civilians with personal vendettas against Bison, others are cons forced into the mix, and others follow Bison.The acting is pretty bad, and I'm not just talking about Van Damme. The only actor who was really good was Raul Julia, perfectly cast as the evil Bison. Some of the others were not good or bad. Also the storyline is very clichd with many jokes/plots/lines that have been vastly overused or are ridiculous. A good example is where the spokesman for the allied nations says he stopped Guile from taking all the soldiers, and there's 1 cook still on the base. Another example is when Guile has to pretend he's been shot, the medics don't even try to perform CPR or anything. The plot where it looks like the allied nations won't attack was way too quick. It should have been a at least a few minutes long where the characters had to think.The film's worst problem, which defies logic of a Street Fighter movie, is the lack of action. There should have been intense, lengthy fights scenes coming every which way! Instead we are treat to a bunch of quick fight scenes with only a few moves per fight, some of which are not choreographed well at all. Some of the characters from the game don't even throw a single punch! The best fight, and the only one that was really good, was the final fight between Bison and Guile. It was pretty intense and well choreographed. However even it has a flaw. Bison is supposed to be an extremely tough and skilled fighter who can shred any other street fighter. But for a good portion of the fight, Guile is kicking his butt with almost no problem.The plot of the game Street Fighter is to fight off 12 opponents in order to confront and beat Bison. This movie should have been nothing more than all of the street fighter characters entering a world combat tournament and trying to get the chance to defeat Bison. Throw in a few few vendettas and personal reasons to want to defeat Bison, and some dramatic dialogue between actors after the fight scenes, and you would have a classic adaption from the game. This honestly shouldn't have been too difficult. Some might enjoy it, but I didn't. I don't recommend this one. "}{"Title":"Not the terrible movie everyone thinks.","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For some reason Street Fighter The Movie has a terrible reputation but I think it is a brilliant action comedy. It never takes itself seriously and is always good fun to watch and that maybe why so many people hate the film.This isn't a great action movie and everything feels very cartoonish. The action is passable but nothing better than that. Jean-Claude Van Damme isn't at his best here but is OK. It is Raul Julia as Bison who is a joy to watch. He is over the top but in a good way, with some great one liners. Such a pity this was his last film. Anyone who wants to see this movie needs to go in with an open mind. It isn't a great video game movie, it is a very funny action comedy and will worth checking out on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Good Plot bad characters","Date":"31 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen this movie a lot but after watching it last night I realized this movie was bad.I mean it had a good plot but the characters in this movie everyone is a dead-pan role.but there are a few good performances for example Raul Juila who plays Bison probably gives the best performance.even though you don't much about his character his only motive is take over the world that's it.Mina-Na who plays chun-Li give a good performance and her character has more motivation she wants revenge at bison for Killing her father and wants world peace.as for Jean-claude van damme yet another Dead-Pan Lead role.even his performance wasn't breath-taking just dull.what really makes me mad is my favorite character from the street fighter game Ryu has no personality what's so ever.instead of being the quiet,smart warrior fighter he's nothing more than a two-bit hustler with Ken his partner even though Ken is somewhat comical in this movie but just in a corny way.but out of the characters the funniest would have to be Zangief he's really the only character that matches the same personality as in the game but he isn't given enough screen time he only in a few scenes.out of the characters in the movie from the game all of them are Wac.but it's not so bad a lot of action scenes but some of the fighting scenes are forgotten even the big fight with Bison and Guile.the most memorable fight would have to be Ryu and Vega which is to short.but this was not that bad so if you like street fighter i suggest the animated version that one is the the Godfather compare to this one. "},{"Title":"It's Okay","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I watched this movie on one of the movie channels because I didn't really have much else to do, and it caught my interest since I have seen the anime before. It was different from what I expected, and things like the mispronunciation of Ryu's name bugged me (and by that, I mean I was tempted to yell at the TV since mispronunciation has always bugged me). The characters were written differently from what I knew, and that irked me. I'm used to Chun Li working at a hotel in Hong Kong, not as a journalist trying to defeat Bison, same with Cammy being a lieutenant for the AN rather than an assassin. Also, having Jean Claude van Damme play Guile was rather funny, especially since he speaks with a European accent and in the movie Guile comes off to me as a hardcore patriotic American colonel for the AN with the American flag tattooed on one of his arms. (He tried though. At the end of the day, he tried.) The special effects also bothered me, like during the fight between Guile and Bison, and Bison had those electricity sparks around his chest; however, the movie is twelve years old, so I can't really expect them to be excellent. Bison's life support system underneath his clothes bothered me as well. I don't like god modding like that. In the end it was pretty enjoyable, but it's not one of the movies that I would watch five times over or until I get sick of it. I might possibly watch it again if I'm bored and I really don't have much else to do. It's one of those titles that supports the sentiment that Japan should handle its own franchises. "},{"Title":"Corny but can be fun","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter is one of the best known fighting games out today. It has spawned off action figures, animated movies, an animated cartoon show, other various games. Jumping on the success band wagon a live action movie was made based off Street Fighter 2. The movies it self was corny but was the first successful video game based movie.Bison who is a ruthless General in Shadowloo. The A.N (a UN ripoff) has been called in to fight his forces. Colonel Guile is in charge of this A.N military group and leads the attack to stop Bison.The characters from the game are there but they have different roles, which I think hindered the movie. While Guile is a military officer he is a Captain in the US Air Force. Chung-Li is now a reporter, E Honda is a camera man along with Balrog. Ken and Ryu sell weapons. Vega and Sagat gives weapons to Bison. Dee Jay works for Bison, and T Hawk and Cammy are with the A.N forces.The one lines are corny but fun at times. Most of the moves that the characters do in the game (except projectile weapons with Bison being the exception) are shown but are poorer versions of the moves. I'm not going to get into the details on this but it is a must watch.Some of the characters are lessened from the roles in the game which does not do any justice. Some of the action at times can be wooden but overall is decent.This film has a cult following and if you are interested in seeing it rent it first, it is not for everyone. "},{"Title":"terrible acting but decent fight scenes","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The acting was terrible and cheesy, the only good actor was Raul Julia he seemed to be the only one making an effort.The lines that were said in the movie made me laugh not because they were funny as the movie intended just because it was terrible acting and the lines were really cheesy.And the odd thing is there is one guy wearing a staff sergeant insignia and he is the only wearing his insignia.I gave this movie 4 because well the fight scenes are good i wouldn't say great but good.The fight scenes are pretty good for a movie i guess if you cant act out lines and emotions you can still fight.Fight scenes seemed to be well co-ordinated.And the story,it could've been worse bad acing didn't ruin it terribly but it did not help. All in all the movie is good for the life at the cheesy acting and decently entertaining for a fight scenes. "},{"Title":"Wheres the Action???","Date":"12 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm going to cut this film some slack. Movies based on comic books and video games have high expectations to live up to and are open targets for criticism.CAST There are some recognizable faces in Street Fighter like Jean Claude Van Damme, Miguel Nunez, and Raul Julia. I thought this movie was cast greatly because the actors resemble the video game characters. There are complaints about Van Damme as Guile, seeing as he has an accent and hes not American but physically he was a good choice.Story They'll be no tournaments or fighting on the streets. The story is basically Bison keeping hostages for ransom.Most of the characters seem thrown in. Anyway, T Hawk and Cammy are Guiles assistants in the army. E Honda, Chun Li and that boxer(forgot his name) work in television/media. DeeJay and Zangeif are Bisons right hand men. Vegas a prize fighter. Ken, Ryu and Sagat had there own stories but got mixed up in the main story.It sucks that Blanka and Dhaslim were poorly represented. Blanka was an experiment gone wrong with no fight scenes. Dhaslim was a scientist and was nothing like a witch doctor. Thats OK though because they're were so many characters you cant heavily focus on all of them.The only thing that always ruined this film for me is the lack of action. Especially with Van Damme you'd expect more action scenes. This movie mainly crams all the action in at the end. *Good note is Guile does that hurricane kick* The action scenes before the end are very brief and disappointing(like when Chun Li goes off on Bison). This movie puts the story ( a weak story at that) ahead of the action and most people prefer that. So its your call. As years passed I learned to appreciate the film for what it was. "},{"Title":"This movie was a lot of fun!","Date":"9 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Granted, I think that those who have played the video game probably appreciate this movie more than those who haven't. But I really liked it because it was so much fun. It came out sort of around the same time as Mortal Kombat, which was dark and dramatic and much more well-received. But I enjoyed the goofiness and not-taking-itself-too-seriously attitude that Streetfighter presented. It was more of a family-style movie (although I would NOT recommend it for children under 10) and it was Raul Julia's last performance before he passed away. It was definitely in Mr. Julia's style; Addam's Family-type fun and goofiness. I think it's worth watching! "},{"Title":"not worth the street fight","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie does not even lead up to the game. The plot isn't good at all. Terrible acting performances by most of the actors/actresses. I was surprise to know that Kylie Mingoue was Cammy. The fight scenes were fake. My favorites in the game were Ken and Ryu, and they made them unreal. Stick to the game other than the movie. The movie probably made more the movie. And for the rest of the other fighters, their background stories are also fake and very hard to believe. Basically, the whole movie from start to end was very boring. In my own opinion...they SHOULD MAKE A REMAKE OF STREET FIGHTER!!!! SAVE UR MONEY!!! "},{"Title":"Ahhh good old Street Fighter...","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well what can I say about this movie that, I am sure that Everyone has seen... Well I this was actually the first movie I saw when I first came to the country I am currently on right now. and to be honest, even up to now I still have mixed feelings about. A side of me agrees with the fans of the original Video-Game sub/storyline (Ryu being the Main Character and Ken basically being like a clone of Ryu... a Show off none the less, talented)... For a true fan of the Game, I would say that this Project was the greatest catastrophe to the street fighter franchise... Every fan of the game remembers this nightmare of a movie.But, Just as the movie itself... It's still entertaining. My mother really enjoyed it... She hasn't played the games let alone seen anything related to it. The solution to the problem is...Either watch the movie or play games... BUT FOR GOD SAKES DON'T DO BOTH... ESPECIALLY ONE AFTER THE OTHER! All in all, Just the very sight of the front cover for this movie makes me laugh, as well as the entire movie.... is like watching one of the Monty Pythons videos.P.S If your a fan of the Game Franchise, See Street Fighter The Animated Movie Instead... It's up to you. "},{"Title":"maybe I was wrong...","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I wrote a review for DERAILED (also a Van Damme film).In it I seem to remember saying that it was perhaps the worst film I'd ever wasted 2 hours of my life watching. Then I got to thinking about it. It's not even the worst Van Damme movie I've seen. This has got to be it. You've really got to hand it to everyone who contributed anything to this film. It really takes a lot of effort to make a film with no redeeming value at all. Like another reviewer I read said of another film, Look ma, No Plot!. It's really too bad that such a talented actor as the late Raul Julia had this blot to any actor's filmography as one of his final films. I hope he got paid a whole lot of money for it. "}{"Title":"Bison hunting...","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The video game makes (A disastrous) leap to the big screen as a commando unit takes on the terrorists organization led by M.Bison and his minions. On the commando's side are some smugglers, journalists and lots of soldiers. However a super soldier is created in the lab to help quell the forces of good. I think it's interesting that Roshan Seth(Who played Dr. Dhalsam) said he enjoyed making the movie but when he saw it, it was so awful that him and his wife walked out. Indeed I don't know more that needs to be said. Raul Julia does put in a good performance that manages to have the best lines and Jean-Claude Van Damme is tolerable as Guile but the action is bloodless and the special effects unimpressive. In other words it's made for kids and invested with little imagination or life. There is some unintentional humor to be had from this awful movie but not enough for camp fans. Indeed this is a video game adaption that should have stayed a video game.Terrible. Just terrible.* out of 4(Bad) "},{"Title":"a movie!!","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the worst movie that I saw. It was so dumb, that at the end I started to like it, no but this movies suck big time. The movie is very ridiculous, because of the Army that is doing almost nothing till the last two minutes in the movie and the actors are their worst in this movie, I think that Jean Claude Van Damme was desperate to do a movie. THere is a lot of goofiness, yes I rolled my eyes saying this is very stupid, and it was acted out pretty much, it seems the cast wanted to finish this movie fast and go to the beach to relax. The best past though is when Guile is faking is death at the morgue and surprise the journalist, I rated it a two over a one, because of Van Damme acting in it and the ladies was beautiful, besides that, it is the worst movies that I ever rented. If there is some who liked it, good for you I am happy for you but for me, I was very upset of renting this movie. Take care you all. "},{"Title":"Watch it for the nostalgia","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw Street Fighter in theaters with my older brother and a few of his friends, and, as a four year old, I was upset by the lack of hadokens, yoga fires, hundred hand slaps, and sonic booms. Now older and (slightly) more mature, I can point out some of these movie's flaws accurately. First off, the campy style, as funny as it may be, takes away from the gritty and dark attitude that video game of Street Fighter II conveyed. Too many one liners, and predictable reactions are present. POSSIBLE SPOILER ---When Bison tells orders Chun-Li be taken into his personal quarters, E Honda and Balrog struggle harder in the same clich way most heroes do when a villain is taking a female member of the team---- Some of the choices for actors were also under par, like Van Damme being Guile. I understand he's a kick@$$ action hero, but the guy is not all American, which is what Guile was all about. The portrayal of Sagat was disappointing; he's supposed to be a terrifying 7 foot tall menace, not some weak looking failed businessman. Removing Fei Long altogether was understandable, but Blanka should've been more prominent, rather than some odd rehash of Charlie and the Brazillian beast. Making Dhalsim a doctor, with NO powers at all, does not do justice to the real Dhalsim. I liked this doctor, but I want to see Dhalsim! Some of the characters were okay though; Dee Jay made a surprisingly good villain, Bison was well chosen, and Zangief was hilarious, but that's about as good as it gets. This movie also lacked any special moves at all, I mean understand they were on a low budget, and it was nearly 12 years ago, but come on, you can have a corny movie with cool colors, a cool movie with no colors, but you can't have a corny movie with no colors and expect people to love it (colors means ha-do-kens by the way). The only move they tried to portray was Bison's psycho crusher, and that kind of failed. Although the game was amazing, this movie should only be watched if you're not expecting the glory of the game, and can take this crap lightly. I feel like a teacher who has failed a student... "},{"Title":"Despite the changes of the characters, the plot could have improved a bit","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It was a great attempt to do a video game based movie, however the results were indeed obvious Jean-Claude Van Damme was the perfect choice to play Guile. He did that awesome Flipping Flash Kick! Raul Julia(1940-94) as M. Bison was not bad at all. Too bad this was his final big screen. It was nice for the movie to say good-bye. Chun-Li play by Ming-Na really displayed her character well. And her pigtails were cute as well. Singer Kylie Minogue as Cammy? Not bad! I liked her Thrust Kicks and Hooligan Ride. Gregg RainWater as T-Hawk, great choice. The changes in other characters was a shocker Edmond Honda, Hawaiian? Get Real! He's still sumo. At least he did the famous Hundred Hand Slap. Suzuki Balrog? His first name is Suzuki? And a good guy? Now that's something you don't see. I liked the part when he helped Cammy with the controls. BALROG Allow Me. , and punches the controls really hard. Deejay was bad, Blanka was an Incredible Hulk reject, Zangief is a moron, you figure out the rest. This movie could have improved, it was a bit too gamy, and the results was no surprise to me, other than that, it was watchable. Rating 2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Two things this movie got right.","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You know this is one of those movies you saw when you were a kid and you thought it was cool just because it was Street Fighter and you grow and up and watch it again and you're like, I liked this movie? The movie wasn't well done to say the least. It sorta played off of that feel when Street Fighter II game was first released that Guile was the lead character. But the way that they had all of the characters set up was just an insult to the game. Ryu and Ken being street hustlers, Chun-Li being a news reporter, E. Honda and Balrog as her news crew, DeeJay as Bison's lacky, and Sagat being old and short. What really killed it was when the fight started with Ryu and Vega and he did that sorry-ass Hadou-ken which was nothing but a camera flash. The whole plot just screwed the movie up. The only things that the movie got right was Zangief and Vega. Zangief was a big, brainless brute who indeed did work for Bison. The guy they had to play Vega fit his entire profile. He was a pretty boy and he had the fighting techniques from the game down somewhat. The only difference with Vega was that he didn't have any dialogue and he didn't get all hysterical when he burned his face. It just really puzzles me to know if CAPCOM had any say in the making of this movie at all. "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  as I say, give this a chance! So many things are not being considered about the movie, I read a comment stating that the characters were not as they were in the video game, but the way I look at it is that at least the movie included ALL of the characters from the game were placed somewhere in the film. Personally I thought there was a pretty plot to the story, It was basically a rescue mission for a group of refuges and a soldier who is being turned into a hideous beast. Also to bring to all's attention, Raul Julia, who played M. Bison (Brilliantly) died before (or just after) the movie was made so I believe the ending was changed or cut, so for all thoughts who were disappointed in the ending may be interested in that.So in the long run, there are just a few points too consider when you see this movie, so if you keep these in mind, you will see what I see, Street fighter The Ultimate Battle!  "},{"Title":"quick!  change the channel!  (well said, zangief)","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Please excuse my formatting.  The Internet Movie Database's forms code is not  very good, and it causes breaks to be randomly inserted into my reviews, forsome reason.Doomed at birth by its video game-based premise, Street Fighter The MovieThat Killed Raul Julia never had a chance.  First it shot itself in the foot with its  casting (this means you, Jean Claude I'm going to kick Bison's AHHSS VanDamme), then it shot itself in the head with its mangled telling of the Street  Fighter mythology.  What did I expect?  They had to figure out a way to makeGuile the main character...I mean, HE'S the American, right?So in a crusade to glorify Guile's military antics, everybody else gets kicked in  the groin, metaphorically speaking.  Ryu becomes Raiyu, and his well-knownromantic involvement with Ken (just ask anybody!) ceases to be.  Jimmy/Blanka  and Charlie/Nash become one in the same.  Balrog becomes Vega, Vegabecomes Bison and Bison becomes Balrog, like some sick game of rock paperscissors.  Sagat becomes an ascot-wearer.  Cammy becomes ugly, although, Iadmit Kylie Minogue has gotten better with age.  E Honda says dippy lines like,  I'm sumo, brotha.  Now there's a quotable one.Some characters have changed sides for no reason.  Cammy now fights forGuile's army!  Zangief now fights for the bad guys!  It's enough to make your face  explode.  I hold the filmmakers in great disdain because they obviously paid no  attention to the game's actual story elements.  Rather, it seems like they got  together and said, HEY!  Let's make a Street Fighter movie!  You know, thatgame.  Street Fighter.  No, I've never played it.  Yeah, I think it's American.  Well,  yeah, I know about all the characters...I think.  Research?  No, I don't see any  need for that.  Anyway, who cares?  Kids will watch it.  Kids are stupid.And why on earth did they put Deejay in this movie?  It's a known fact thatnobody, in the course of human history, has EVER played as Deejay in thegame Super Street Fighter II Turbo Mega Tunafish Challenge.  Deejay is amaraca-shaking loser.Thus we are left with only one saving grace  Wing Na Wen as Chun Li.  It's not  that she was so great.  It's just that her character was so unmemorable, I can't  think of anything to complain about in regard to her.The moral of the story is, if you're making adapting a game to a movie, you had  better be prepared to go all-out.  By that I mean, don't try to fool anyone into  thinking you're making a serious film.  But filmmakers don't listen to that voice.   And that's why, a few years from now, we'll have Pokemon The Live-ActionCrime Drama, starring Sinbad as Pikachu. "},{"Title":"PG-15, not suitable for people over the age of 15...","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's face it, a movie based on a video game...a FIGHTING video game, is already off to a bad start.  I'll be the first to admit that this movie is stupid...in the sense that the script is cheesey, the acting is B-rate, and the plot is MST3k worthy.  However, if you don't take the movie seriously, it can be kinda fun.  Mostly thanks to Raul Julia...who's campy-Nazi-Bisson is the most entertaining part of this film.  I also think secondary characters, Ken, Ryu and Dhalsim also add some entertainment value. The bottom line is this a good movie?  Not really, but It can be fun to watch- just remember to watch it with friends who have a good sense of humor.   "},{"Title":"Could have been so much more","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I waited with anticipation for Street Fighter the live action movie to be released over in the UK, i waited in line calmly holing my own video copy of the movie patiently waiting to be served.  Finally it came to my turn i paid for it and was on my way home to watch it in the comfort of my own home.  I sat back and prepared for utter thrills, spills and kills to be unleashed upon me.  I sat for about 90 minutes thinking did i make the right choice in buying this?  At the end i put the video away and continued with waiting for Mortal Kombat Annihilation to be released in the next 3 years.The thing with the Street Fighter movie wasn't that it was bad, it just wasn't good.The story has three perspectives 1) Ryu and Ken are 2 ruthless Honoured martial artists who like the thrill of gun smuggling, the reason why is they would sell toy guns to a very powerful cage fighter called Sagat but they are arrested along with Sagat and his faithful follower Vega who is also a cage fighter.  The foursome wind up in a UN prison camp.2) Colonel. Guile is a hard American (Belgian if we are speaking of Jean Claude van-damm)soldier who has held a grudge against warlord general M Bison for a number of years, after striking an agreement with Ken and Ryu to set up Guile's fake assassination in exchange for there freedom and help.  Guile leads a UN army to battle that of Bison's.3) Chun LI a feisty Japanese reporter turned mercenary along with her two bodyguards an ex-boxer and a sumo wrestler also are on Bison's trail, after a failed attempt at killing him they are imprisoned with Ryu and Ken after they to were discovered to be spys.The Film ends with the confrontation between Guile and Bison with some other fights with the rest of the cast, and the destruction of Bison's HQ, hooray everybody good wins every bad guy loses.  Your basic good vs evil plot, the film is to be taken as light-heartedly as possible because there is quite a bit of non sensical humour.New comers will enjoy, whereas fans of the cracking Manga and games will feel unimpressed.My rating would be about 5/10  "},{"Title":"I don't get it....","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why does everyone say this is a bad movie? The only thing that sucked was the last scene of the movie- why the hell would you pose when something's blowing up? Regardless, overall I thought it was pretty decent. AND because IMDB won't let me submit this without four lines........(imitates airplane gun) "}{"Title":"Not really good, but not really bad either","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can say this, it was a million times better that the Super Mario Bros. movie. Basing that on just the simple fact that its a video game adaptation. I think its cool when they try to bring video games to life, its a cool idea. Sometimes they turn out crap like Mario Bros. and other times they turn out ok, and Street Fighter is ok. Not too bad. "},{"Title":"what the crap?","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just have to say... what the heck we're they thinking?  I was flipping through the channels and saw Bison's costume... but it wasn't really Bison. At least they could have made the characters look more like the game. They did a good job with a few of them, but they could at LEAST given Ken his blonde hair and cast a better Ryu.The acting was pretty bad, the camera work could have been better, and so much more about this movie that could have been improved.  I'd rather play the game or watch the anime videos of Street Fighter.At least they realized their mistakes before they made Mortal Kombat. "},{"Title":"Class","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bison is a favourite character in the game, and his appearence in the movie did not dissappoint. Totally unlike the 800pound floating fatman of the anime and alpha games, we have a lunatic here played to the full. The bit where he gasses chunli was perfect. The rest of the film was crap. "},{"Title":"Being totally realistic, this is probably the worst film ever made.","Date":"16 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember this was my favorite movie back when I was 12. What could possibly be better than seeing my favorite video game characters coming to life? Well, now that I'm not 12, I went back to it. This movie is an abomination of human endeavour. It's just mind boggling how bad it all is. This thing plays like a Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle made-for-tv movie. Every line(no, I actually mean that - EVERY line) is a one-liner. The action scenes look like SNL sketches. There is no character development whatsoever. None of the women are naked. There is more right-wing propaganda than you can shake a stick at(which of course, I missed when I was 12) The characters actually use phrases like Thrust kick! I could go on. Now, the one thing I will give this movie is that the video game translation was just short of perfect. The moves are done exactly like the game, and the casting was flawless(other than Guile's hair, of course). Considering that Street Fighter II is part of my psychology now, this element will always be cool to me. Sure, a lot of fans don't agree with this, and will complain about how Cammy's background isn't exactly like the cheese in the game, but since any time not spent beating those a******s is time wasted, we'll move on. In the opinion of this jobless, 21 year old college student who, in his youth, has waited 45 minutes in the hot sun at Windsor Water Works, just to play the arcade for a minute and a half, the video game elements are totallyrad, and make it worth watching. Plus like, it isn't like this movie isn't enjoyable. It's so profoundly bad that it's fun to watch. Being an SFII junkie helps a lot though. Overall, it may be the single worst film ever made, but what the heck, I'll watch it stoned at 3 in the moring, provided I don't have anything better to be doing. "},{"Title":"Was that movie really based on video Game?","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok in 1992 Street Fighter 2 (video game) was released and it was one of its kinds, a true classic. When I heard that this game will be converted into a motion picture, I counted days for it release and when I saw it, please don't ask me how disappointed I was to see what the hell was done with the story.First of all the hero of 'Street fighter' is Ryu not Guile and it does not mean that Van Damme, a very good actor playing this role, you make that character hero of the movie. I was very disappointed that Ryu was not the hero and more of all they made Ryu and Ken nothing like their video game cousins. Also character of Cammy is originally a brain washed soldier of Bison, not UN soldier and Kylie Minouge should stick to singing. This movie was total diffrent then game and that's why it failed on Box Office.All in end I want to say that if you want to enjoy this movie forget that street fighter game ever existed otherwise you will be very disappointed  "},{"Title":"Lessons Learned","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter was one of the first game to movie translations, and it made a few mistakes that would more or less define how to and how not to make a film based on a video game.Lesson 1.  Don't try to cram every character into the movie.  SSF2T from which the movie is based has 17 playable characters.  As a result we have cameo after cameo with a loosely strung together excuse to get them on the screen at the same time.  Select an elite few and form a good detailed and intricate plot around them, then you can slide in plotless references/cameos of other characters without taking up any exposition time.  This will increase chances of the film's success, and it also leaves room for a sequel!Lesson 2.  Games usually lack in the plot department.  Especially fighting games.  Liberties here and there are tolerated, but when half the characters are rewritten and the entire  plotline/premise of the game is altered then you start running into problems.  Sure, it's okay to tweak a few things and make Chun Li a reporter, but when you rewrite Honda, Ryu, Ken, Blanka, Dhalsim, Zhangief, Sagat, and Balrog?  This is like a corny fan-fic where you take your favorite game character and throw them into a stupid sit-com situation.Lesson 3.  Bright colors work in comic books and video games . . . not in movies unless you're doing a kid's movie.  Granted Street Fighter has kids in its audience, but Mortal Kombat and X-men do too.  Even if de Souza wanted the movie to come across as camp, it ended up campier than he could have anticipated, and that killed any hope the movie may have had.  Mighty Morphin Street Fighters?  I dunno . . .At least the very next year the game-to-film adaptation genre would receive some redemption with the far superior and  probably one of the better translations, Mortal Kombat.     "},{"Title":"How to waste money!","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When the idea of the Street Fighter movie was presented, everybody start dreaming that it would be perfect. Van Damme as Guile, wow, that is great! So, the problem is that the videogame is too good...to many fighter options...too many to be in the movie...The screenplay was like a zoo. Nothing is connected. Unfortunatelly, a big waste of time and money. "},{"Title":"Corny plot and acting, but wicked cool action...","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...sure, the story is crap, but nobody goes to a movie based on a video game to see acting or plot, they go for action.  This movie pleases, with many different characters with different fighting techniques that keeps you entertained the whole way through.  The only incredibly unrealistic part of this movie is when Ryu is fighting Sagat (played cooly by Wes Studi) and Ryu uses the Hado-Ken.  This move is from the video game, where Ryu fires an energy ball at his opponent.  I didn't understand how this fit in, because there was no talk of his powers before.  Aside from that, great adventure movie. "},{"Title":"What were they trying to do...?","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie proves one thing at least. If you are going to make a movie based on a popular game at the very least make an attempt at pleasing fans of the game... (note since the movie uses the dubbed names for most of the villains I will too)Chun-Li, the first real female fighter in my opinion, has gone from detective to... news anchor...? Better yes, Balrog, one of Bison's henchmen in the original storyline is one of her sidekicks, as is Honda. But... It' s Ming Na, I'll give 'em points for that.Guile, Mr. All American Air Force, is played by Jean-Claude Van Damme. Should be a 'nuff said but yeah... I can't get over Captain America boy with a foreign accent... I have no problem with the accent, it just doesn't fit the character. And Cammy is... wait, her character hasn't been butchered. Nevermind.Dhalsim... has... hair...zangief... well, not to bad... actually he is what makes the movie watchable. Comic releif, pure and simple.Dee-Jay, on last check, only cared about music and dance/fighting to it. Now all of the sudden he is Bison's crony. Apparently if you remove one black guy (Balrog) you gotta put a new one in.Sagat... well, he isn't tall enough? Without the height he just seems like any old guy.Ok, now for Ryu and Ken. Yeah, I am sure that the characters, especially Ryu were meant to act that childish. If you've always wanted to see the Karate Clones fighting like third graders this is the movie for you...Now for the ending... No, I won't give it away (not that you couldn't figure it out on your own...) but yeah... You know those really corny cartoons that would end in episode with a group shot of everyone laughing...? Yeah... this is worse, mainly because it isn't an animated cartoon... "},{"Title":"hey at least Raul Julia was good....","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A lame film, yes. But how did it ever get into the bottom 100??I can't believe there are people out there who actually manage to hate this film. Ok the plot is weak, characterisation non-existent, and most of the acting ranges from poor to mediocre, but it has a number of small things going for it and one very big thing (hey don't get excited girls)The plot may be lame, but c'mon, you have to give it points for focusing on it rather then bogging down the run time with masses of pointless subplots. Hell even the obliquity romantic subplot is pushed so far into the background so as to be almost unnoticeable. It's not a laugh a minute, but some of the lines did strike me as funny. Yeah yeah I have a lame sense of humour, but it's not like I get to choose what I find funny.Neither of these two points are any reason at all to watch the film. There is in fact only one reason to do that. Raul Julia. Wow. If you're playing an insane megalomaniacal villain you have to go all the way or the whole thing falls down. Raul Julia goes all the way, then a little bit further. The screen positively lights up when ever he's on it, frankly the film is worth watching once just to see him in action. I would go as far as to say that Bison is now one my favourite film villains ever, and the only thing that stops this film from becoming utterly forgettable. Don't get me wrong, it's still a bad film, but Raul Julia's performance prevents me from hating it.I am surprised to see it so widely panned. C'mon, it's a street fighter movie, what did you expect?? You didn't go into this looking for an emotionally moving experience with numerous fine understated performances, and if you did you're a moron. It's action fluff, that's all it aims to be, and on that level the film is a success.I have no idea what to rate this film. On one hand it's a piece of crap, on the other I can't slam a movie that had such a great villain. Watch it, but keep your expectations low and you won't be (to) disappointed.Character by character line up (in no particular order).Bison - well I just went into how great I thought Raul Julia was in this film. A+Guile - huh?? Who cast Jean Claude Van Damme as an American soldier? Once you get past his accent though, he turns in a fair performance. Make no mistake though, that accent is very distracting for the most part. Weren't there any American action guys (with smaller salaries) available? C+Cammy - again with the casting. Why is Kylie Minogue playing a British solider when she's Australian? Granted the American audience won't notice, but it was bothering me for the whole film. Anyway a small part, and again a fair (if dull) performance despite the accent. CKen + Ryu - well their both fairly interchangeable (hey just like the game). They both look fairly good in a fight (or at least their body doubles do), and when their required to actually say something they do a fine (albeit bland) job. C+Zangief - the main source of the comic relief. Hey I liked this guy, and the accent actually fits! Wow! B+Dee-Jay - apparently he's the computer guy. Huh? So why's he called Dee-Jay? The name made much more sense in the game. A lot of his part consisted of having to look at Zangief when the Russian makes a stupid comment. Not very demanding, but he it done well. BE.Honda - this guy sucks. Only the Godzilla reference while fighting Zangief was funny. Otherwise he was just another good guy. Ho-hum. DBalrog - like E.Honda. only without the funny Godzilla bit. D-Vega - well he's not in it very much, just around for the fight scenes which make assessing his character difficult. Still, from what little we got he was good. CSegat - suffered from being the second villain to Bison. Hell anyone would have paled next to that, but the fact that you actually noticed Segat in comparison says a lot. C+Dhalism - yep, he's in it. He's the nice doctor bloke in case you where wondering. Utterly different from what he was like in the game, they really only made him the doctor because there was no other place for him. D+Blanka - green guy with a dumb wig. Sounds interesting? It isn't. Still, the wig was funny. D+T.Hawk - who? His name was only mentioned once in passing, he was one of the generic solider guys. Seriously, they could have cut him out and noone would notice. Hell I doubt anyone noticed him anyway. FChun Li - cute girl. Lame actor. But still.. She's cute, and her opening news broadcast was well done. She bought two irritating sidekicks with her though. C-  "}{"Title":"It's not great, but it entertains!","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Based upon the popular capcon game of the early 90's, streetfighter is an action movie featuring the characters from the second game.Although the animated feature (released a year later) with the same name and characters, is more superior in terms of story and dialogue, this movie is certainly worth a fair rent. It's not great, but it entertains and the occasional funny moments and wisecracks balance some of the terrible acting (from especially Van Damme) out.  Raul Julia was perfect in his role as the psychotic dictator called General Bison.  Another things that made this movie worth while was his appearance and to some extend it made up for the story (or lack of it) and once again the bad acting.   The movie is okay, but a bit clichd (especially the ending) but then again most of the so-called Van Damme driven movies are.  "},{"Title":"Raul Julia's last cinematic performance.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The saddest thing about this movie, is that it is Raul Julia last appearance in a movie. It is also his worst. He certainly deserves to be remembered for all of his other movies, in which he was always great.Nothing more to be said about this terrible movie. "},{"Title":"Hardcore 'Street Fighter' fans won't enjoy this","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't even know there was a live action version of Street Fighter until I purchased Street Fighter 2 for PC, and this movie along with a computer gamepad was included free with the game. The gamepad was worth it, but the movie..well... free is still a little stiff.I give it two stars, and that's being generous. I admire the producers drive to want to make Street Fighter into a live action movie. I really do, but there were so many things wrong with that I don't know where to even start. Well first of all (a bit of repetition a head), everything was backwards. I can't even say backwards; they just stuck people in roles the producer wanted them. Ryu a hustler? Not hardly. And Vega hispanic instead of Spanish? Don't think so. They had a cast full of notable actors, but 1.) many of them were not suited for the role (first thought that comes to mind is Wes Studi -most notable for playing Geronimo- playing Sagat), and/or 2.) their true talent was suppressed (such as Ming-Na who played Chun Li). The producers should have really thought about this one before they made it.I don't want to continue with this rant because I know I'll end up spoiling the movie for those who haven't seen it (as if I hadn't already). I wouldn't recommend buying this movie, but if you're looking for something to humor you then this is it. "},{"Title":"Who messed this up?","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The characters could have had enough to make this work, but if you let a movie be written and directed by a newby this would have been messed up from the start... Vega, Guile, Bison...all those could have been made cool...but it's too cartoony and the action is the lamest I have seen around.I wonder if this would have had sequels without the death of Raul Julia... Very very disappointing movie... "},{"Title":"A good comparison to the game, but I'd rather just rent it.","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, well, well, Jean-Claude Van Damme has made his presence felt in another hard-hitting film.  And this one is one of my favourite Video Games, STREET FIGHTER.  Well actually it's based on STREET FIGHTER II, but that doesn't change much.  Plenty of nice moves and slightly comical.  Kylie Minogue is in it too, I noticed, but she's not really for the acting department, she's better off as a singer anyway.  Everything has managed to be kept in similarity to the game unlike other films based on games (check out my other reviews).  There is nice sound in the film, plenty of action and a storyline that makes it worthwhile to be watching it, as Master Bison is smuggling weapons, instead of just a plain old fighting tournament like Mortal Kombat.  IMHO this film deserves more than a crappy 3.1 as a rating - I'd give it 6.5.  It's a pretty darn good film but after you watch it three times or so, you can quickly get bored.  So my suggestion is renting it from somewhere, but pretty good overall. "},{"Title":"Such a wasted opportunity","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The premise behind the Street Fighter games could have lent itself to a tremendous action flick.  Instead, we get this Van Damme travesty.  Lame dialog, stale, juvenile humor, and yawn-a-minute action scenes make this dog something to avoid.  The film's one saving grace is Raul Julia's performance as megalomaniacal overlord Bison, and it's a great travesty that the last performance of such a magnificent actor is a turkey like this.Recommendation to AVOID. "},{"Title":"Not for the general populace.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Do you enjoy random explosions and inside jokes?  Then grab a copy of this quirky Van Damme comedy, and make sure you stay through the credits to catch all of the lovely juvenile humor.  This is one of Van Damme's best films, especially because he gets to make fun of his reputation as an egomaniac.  Sure, the plot is threadbare and it never takes itself seriously, but then do you always like to be pulled in by movie drama.  What's that - no?  Well then, take a seat and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Jean-Claude is all that made this movie good and thats pretty sad","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"            The Street Fighter video game really didn't have enough of a story line to make a movie adaption. So all in all this movie is pretty homolicious. Jean Claude's performance is pretty good about as good as it usually gets with him.             The animated Street Fighter movie is a lot better even if you're not a fan of animie (which I'm not). It's sad though that this garbage was Raul Julia's last movie. But as far as Van Damm movies are concerned this ones better than Death Warrant ** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Like nachos, a really cheesy salty dish, but tasty and worth a bite or two, or three. . .","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although Street Fighter II (SF) is based on a video game, ( I did not play the game so there is no baseline to compare) it does not seem too overtly game like. I personally believe this movie is mostly under rated because of its video game connection. Since its release, I have seen it several times and each time it becomes a little more entertaining. This is because the movie is really built around Raul Julia's stellar performance as the quintessential, over the top megalomaniacal evil dictator M. Bison. Van Damm Plays a likable, but cocky, driven tough good guy that exists as a supporting protagonist for Julia (its all about the bad guy). The rest of the supporting cast play small parts that are probably based on the video game but are well enough integrated into the plot not to set off major alarm bells. Several minor characters really add a twist to the irony like, the pacifist Dr. Dhalsim, the simplistic Zangief, the geeky Dee Jay, and others, give Bison's organization a corporate/Nazis feel and make Bison's warped dreams possible. Guile's timid bureaucratic superiors unintentionally aid Bison through appeasement (Chamberland/Hitler). But, back, to Bison. Bison violates almost every rule in the evil overlord rule book, which makes SF a must see for B movie buffs. And, If one reads the personal quotes used by the most unsavory people who ran/ruined the world in the 20th century. The similar type of quotes are used by Bison as all his dialog. My personal favorite Bison line about burning a village is;For you, the day Bison graced your village was the most important day of your life. But for me... it was Tuesday. There are also several art/decor references to serial killers and dictators (i.e. Clown pictures/Gacy). For the teenagers there are explosions, fights, and cheesy jokes. For the adults there are enough scientific/ethical/moral/historical undertones to make it passable as a cheesy what if story. Strip the comedy, the silliness, and the absurd extremes, you would have a James Bond-ish film based on current world events. In a way, SF is a little like Casino Royale (1967), laughable, yet held back a grade (Production values and music) for being the class clown that no one takes serious. SF is not very deep, but it's not shallow. Like nachos, don't ask which wine it goes with best. "},{"Title":"I'm confused.","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is called Street Fighter, right? I'm watching it right now and they're not doing a lot of fighting on the street, as far as I can see, at least. Most of the fighting takes place in some underground facility. I guess some mad-man general is large and in charge, he's not going to take it anymore and took hostages. How many mad generals wear red uniforms; the real baddies wear dark green or black, so you can tell right away this guy is nothing. Sorry I'm not pay much attention as you can see from me reviewing the film and watching it at the same time. I love how they cut from one fight to the other back and forth. I guess they made this movie with ADD crowd in mind.Jean Claude Van Damme is still a horrible actor and he's doing really bad in this movie. Raul Julia is equally horrible; but we should expect more out of this man, but for someone who was in Overdrawn At the Memory Bank we shouldn't be completely surprised by it. The rest of the no-name cast does what we should expect from no-names nothing.This and Mortal Kombat Anhiliation are tied for the two worse computer games turned movie ever. The ending is just the icing on the cake, you can tell from that one scene the guys who made this movie were idiots. "}{"Title":"elevated by one inspired performance","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Van Damme is the hardened leader of an elite American armed forces unit; he and his troops are called into action to try and thwart General M. Bison, a ruthless and power mad dictator who kidnaps a group of Allied Nations workers and holds them hostage for a twenty billion dollar ransom. Based on the popular video game of the same name, this action movie predictably has plenty of fight scenes and a good dose of special effects, but the story is weak, the acting (with the exception of Julia) is one-note, and it all builds to a familiar and ineffectual climax. Julia dives deep into his role as the merciless Bison, but even he can't save this sorry script. * "},{"Title":"poor excuse for a disgrace of a horrible movie","Date":"25 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If this movie was a guy I saw on the street, I'd hit punch him in the mouth and take his wallet.  Actually, I'd probably leave his wallet because the only thing in it would be a horrendous script, a no-name cast, and maybe two dollars. Maybe I hate this move as much as I do because Van Damme is the worse actor of all time.  All of his movies are just a bad reincarnation of Bloodsport (his only good movie).  My recommendation Just go rent Mortal Kombat.  "},{"Title":"The worst possible screen translation of a video game that ever could've been made!","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are no real words for this film than to describe it as godaweful. The entire picture is a horrible drain on the Hollywood icons who were let down by this. Absolutely no regard to Van Damme, I mean namely good ol' Raul Julia, whose last screen performance must make him turn in his grave. Van Damme is as wooden as ever, but it's hard to believe that the disgustingly poor script can make it seem any worse. This film as a whole field full of expensive A-List actors who are, for the most part, wasted in either poor filmwork or dramatically underused. That would be Wes Studi as kickboxer, Sagat and Indian/British actor, Roshan Seth as Dr. Dhalsim. Not to mention others. Kylie Minoque gives a weak co-lead but provides enough high-kicks to keep an undemanding poor Martial-Arts fan quiet. It's hard to believe how bad the Ryu & Ken actors are too, the Ken guy doesn't even look like a fighter. His unhealthily pale skin and deep sacks under his eyes say that he'd been snorting coke before the takes just to lower the depression. Or else Van Damme would've kicked his ass had he quit the set. A real worth-while miss. If you have some kind of video-game movie fetish, just see Mortal Kombat as many times as it takes for you to get bored of the genre. Even that film ain't great, but it sure as hell is better than this. "},{"Title":"All Brawn and No Brain","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter The Movie has nothing to do whatsoever with the Video Game.It relies too heavily on guys with muscles and has a very week plot and dismal acting. But, its one of those film which you'll love or hate. I hated it but it doesnt mean you will too.  The worst thing about this is that it has Jean Claude Van Damme, surprizingly, he sucks in this movie.4/10If you like this tryMortal KombatKickboxerRocky I,II,III,IV,V "},{"Title":"its just not the same!","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only thing I like about this movie is that it has a lot of action in it,but its not the same thing as the video game. Another thing is that to me it was a bad idea that they put Raul Julia to play bison.They should have put someone else who has fighting skills.I give this movie a 5/10. "},{"Title":"CHIP GAGGLESBORN REVIEWS STREET FIGHTER WITH JEAN CLAUDE VAN DAMME","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never knew that Jean Claude's acting ability could be as stiff as the animation for the game under the same title (go rent it tonight). The thing that I was pleased to see was the entrance of Ryu's fireball, also know as the energy wave HA-DO-KEN. It is shown to the audience as a frame of white. This movie was like eating golf balls, it was hard to swallow. I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A fun action flick for youngsters that tries hard to please,well worth a look.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter is ideally a kids movie,but is watchable for adults and the Die Hard Van Damme fan.it's slightly thin on plot,but then again works surprisingly well for a video game tie-in.The cast see's Van Damme (Colonel Guile) teamed with aussie pop babe Kylie Minogue (Cammy) to take on the lunatic General M.Bison,and foil his twisted plans for world domination (Cough).The late Raul Julia portrays the madman convincingly,and puts in a steady performance throughout the film,proving again that he was worthy of better roles.overall,it's a fun flick that tries hard to please both youngsters and adults,well worth a look. "},{"Title":"A painful blister on the thumb of videogaming.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And now, I provide a checklist of the things to keep in mind when creating a movie based on the classic videogame Street Fighter 1)Any Street Fighter fan will tell you that Guile is NOT the main character, Ryu and Ken are. Their story of the two gifted Shodoken fighters (one absorbed in the pursuit of the ultimate fighting skill, one self-absorbed and fun-loving) is far more developed than Guile's shallow backstory (basically an excuse to put an American in a Japanese game).  Why do you think all of the new characters in the sequels are Shodoken fighters, not marines?  2)Street Fighter is a fighting game.  Apparently the creators of this film interpreted it as a military shoot 'em up, since we see far too few intense fight sequences and far too many dumb action movie conventions.  3)Chun Li is a perky detective, not a mature news reporter.  I'm not saying that Ming Na Wen isn't attractive (far from it, she is beautiful), it's just that she isn't Chun Li. 4)Charlie is a dead marine, he is not alive, and he'll never be turned into Blanka. 5)Dhalsim is a Yoga master, not a brilliant scientist. 6)Guile is an American marine, not a Belgian kickboxer. 7)...Why bother?  I could go on for years and still not fully describe what is wrong with this film at a conceptual level.  Still, the Super Mario Bros. movie had absolutely nothing to do with the game and still proved to be an interesting vision (If a much maligned box office failure).  I have no idea why the SMB movie is more hated than this one.  Street Fighter throws all of the good points of the game out the window and replaces them with horrid direction and acting.  Yes Raul Julia is a great actor, but he is a horrid choice for M. Bison.  Bison is not an intellectual Viva La Revolucion style dictator.  I always pictured him more along the lines of the Street Fighter anime's MWAHAHAHAHA type of all-purpose evil villian.  But even if you think fanboys like me are full of it, I can assure you that there is no pleasure at all to be gained from Street Fighter The Movie.  Avoid this film like the plague.  It isn't even a guilty pleasure, it'll just make you feel dirty. "},{"Title":"See the animated film instead","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A completely horrible movie, that felt like they did their best to force everyone from the game into a movie roll. Its a pity that it was also Raul Julias last roll, and perhaps is one of the few reasons to see the film. Fitting so many arcade game characters into a 2 hour movie coherently is a difficult enough task, let alone keeping the plot worth watching. The animated film (and even the anime series) did the whole Street Fighter genre so much more justice. "},{"Title":"VD's 1st PG-13 movie","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ah, well this movie was good but not 1 of VD's best. VD tries 2 b funny but it doesnt work but there is kind of cool dialogue I'm going up river & I'm going 2 kick that son of a b***h Bison's a$$ so hard, that the next Bison wannabe is going 2 feel it. VD does his awesome helicopter kick, so cool but its not the best like in Bloodsport. what the hell was with Blanca-talk about cheesy & not scary looking. anyway, this is worth seeing. "}{"Title":"oh man","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  nine years ago, we used to form lines to play street fighter two. it was extremely popular. i was pretty good at it.when the movie came out several years later, i was one of the six people to see it in the theater. a classic example of 'too little too late.' unfortunately, this film was more TOO LITTLE than too late. stupid, predictable, and almost insultingly retarded.however, if this movie were made in the 80's, it would been considered......uh nevermind it still would have sucked.JCVD should have retired 9 years ago.  "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One day, a friend and I were desperate to rent a movie.  We ended up getting Star Trek Generations and Street Fighter.  I would not exactly recommend Street Fighter, but I will say this it was better than Star Trek Generations.  Contrary to popular belief, this was not Raul Julia's last performance.  His last film was Down Came a Mockingbird. "},{"Title":"Lamely Written and Campy","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter is a mixture of things, it's a film that occasionally threads into lame dialog, provides embarrassing campy moments, and some unremarkable action scenes.  While the story is relatively simple, it also tends to be predictable and seems to be lacking in character development (perhaps due mainly to the fact that Street Fighter contains too many characters).  For a film that's based on a video game that comes from the fighting genre, the fight scenes (besides the final showdown which is absurdly over the top) here don't really stand out.  The fight scenes aren't completely drawn out well in my mind.  Frankly Street Fighter is something that isn't worth wasting your time on. "},{"Title":"trying too hard...","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not so bad, but below average.  I've read a gaming magazine's interview on Steven deSouza and this film.  In it, he pointed out why Super Mario Bros. was a disappointment because the characters were being to be like the videogame too hard.  One such example was how the producers could make the Mario Brothers leap high like the game by giving them mechanical boots.  Ironically, the Street Fighter movie suffers from the exact same reason.  We get lame reasons for some of the characters' costumes, and Ryu's fireball.  Both movies also have trouble with their setting.  Why can't Super Mario Bros. be in some fantasy land with cartoony mushrooms?  Why can't Street Fighter be some sort of tournament or challenge?  Some kind of realism had to be applied where it just couldn't be done.I don't have much problem with the relation of the characters since Mortal Kombat successfully switched Scorpion and Subzero into Shang Tsung's minions.  It's not all bad since we see Kylie Minogue, Ming Na Wen, and basically awesome fight between Guile and M. Bison.The verdict 2 of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Pointless waste of time.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Like the awful Sonic the Hedgehog cartoons, this is a complete waste of time in which the producers think fans of the games will watch it no matter how dire it is.  The characters are all just cardboard cut-outs, most of them looking nothing like the video game versions.  Non-stop action might be fine and dandy in video games but it just becomes tedious here in a film which will only appeal to violence-crazed, undemanding kids.  Raul Julia appears as M Bison but is completely wasted.  This was his last film and you can't help feeling he deserved a better swansong than this twaddle.Even if you're a fan of the games then this film isn't worth the money. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!!!  GUILE'S THE MAN!!","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of my personal favorites.  All my friends who've seen it said they liked it, too.  Raul Julia really went out with a bang playing the madman Bison! Plus, I loved Van Damme as Guile, my personal favorite character...who could forget his immortal words, I'm going to get on my boat, and I'm going upriver, and I'm going to KICK, that son-of-a-b---h Bison's @$$ so HARD, the next Bison wannabe, is gonna feel it.  Now who wants to go home, and who wants to go with ME?!?  Followed by all his Allied Nations buddies screaming a loud YEEEEEAAAAAAHHHHHHH!!!!!!!  I'm with ya til' victory, Guile!Chun-Li, Ken, Ryu, Sagat, Blanka, Honda, Balrog, Dee Jay, Dhalsim, Cammy, T.Hawk, Zangief, Vega, and new addition Sawada were excellent, too!  Also, if you're wondering why there was no Fei Long, it's probably because they already had Ken, a real bigshot, and with Fei Long, there'd be two characters of the same personality.  Ken's a required character in the game, so if Fei Long was included, he'd probably end up being Johnny Cage's character in that Mortal Kombat movie.  So at least Sawada can count as a stand-in for him.Also, which Blanka plot seems more realistic and original?  That he's either a little boy named Jimmy lost and raised in the jungles of Brazil (sounds just like The Jungle Book.) or that he's Guile's comrade Charlie captured by Bison and genetically mutated into a beast by Dhalsim?  You see what I'm getting at.As well, at LEAST this movie is trying to be ORIGINAL!  Mortal Kombat felt so slow and boring, because for one thing, MORTAL KOMBAT CAN ONLY BE ONE THING...A FIGHT TO THE DEATH BLOODSPORT.  That's it.  Street Fighter can be anything, from a drug bust to a save the hostages and the world before time runs out deal.  Why do I prefer the Street Fighter games to Mortal Kombat?  Read what I said earlier in this paragraph, please.I thought it was great that Van Damme was Guile!  Now my parody of it can work!  I also see the Street Fighter games being remembered for game itself, while once-popular games like Mortal Kombat (anyone remember Mortal Kombat Annilihation?)  will fade away.  It's got great characters, a consistent plot, lots of action and better acting from Van Damme.  Great movie from a great game, so give it a shot! "},{"Title":"It's not TERRIBLE!","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, Street Fighter isn't Oscar caliber or anything but it is the best video game film like EVER!!! I mean this movie had some plot....M. Bison taking hostages and acting in a Saddam Hussein like manner.  Then an INTERNATIONAL league of fighters (finally a movie when other countries help fight evil) comes and saves the day.  The movie wasn't great but it wasn't bad either and deserves a shot, at least if you just watch it for Raul Julia's last performance.  "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm.  Worth a look.","Date":"4 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Really a kids' movie, but one that's well made enough to be watchable by adults, too.  As in most films of this style, it's pretty limited, but I would encourage you to watch it purely for Raul Julia's performance.  It was his last film and he was outstanding as the lunatic Bison.  Truly a great actor, and a terible loss, even though he was so constantly underrated. Plus, of course, Kylie Minogue's in it...  o) "},{"Title":"Money making garbage which didn't care whether it was a good film or not.","Date":"5 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Trash!This would be the best word to describe this train wreck of a film. As a boy I was a huge video game player and I adored the fighting genre. Double Dragon, Final Fight, Golden Axe and then came Street Fighter II and blew everybody's socks off so it was only a matter of time before a film version was made but I don't think anyone expected it to be this bad.Just to clear things up, I adore low budget 80's and 90's action/martial arts films. They have a quality that is so pathetic and funny yet is backed up with tremendous action and fight sequences and the reason they are like this is because they are trying to be serious. Street Fighter has none of this charm! The film was not made to be good, it was not made to stand the test of time or reach for any awards or even please fans, it was simply a quick cash making effort with the name of an immensely popular game.For a start the film looks dreadful! A scattered assortment of tents, boxes and scabby buildings make up the wobbly sets giving the whole film a cheap and grubby look that just doesn't work at all. Seriously, King Of The Kickboxers probably had a fraction of the budget of this film and looks 10 times better with genuine Thai locations and vastly superior fights. The costumes all look like they were made the night before by the cast's mothers and aside from all looking far too new, they don't fit very well and would be better suited to a high school pantomime.The script is laughable, chock full of crap one liners, crowbarred in to attempt to get the 8 year old's in the audience to laugh and probably failing miserably. Then comes the changes, the many changes! Street Fighter II should have been what the game was, an Enter The Dragon style tournament which, while not being original in any way, would have more than kept the feel of the game rather than the crappy dictator style story. Ryu is now an American, Guile is now Belgian, Sagat is Native American Honda is Hawaiian, Dhalsim a Doctor....OK the last one wasn't so bad and I sort of liked the crossing of Guile's friend Charlie with Blanka but it was handled in such a shallow, Batman & Robin sort of way that all credibility was taken out. Vega does look pretty accurate I will admit but doesn't actually do much.The fight scenes are few and child friendly (e.g. short, boring and fast cut!) I was shocked to learn that the action was choreographed by the great Benny The Jet Urquidez. A superb martial artist and star of many Hong Kong martial arts films and names including Jackie Chan, but I have s suspicion that the studio told him to calm it all down.It's really hard to like Street Fighter, even as a bit of fun because it's such a poorly tacked together piece of filmmaking that simply doesn't care about whether it is a quality product or not.The wonderful Raul Julia does what he can with the horrible script and actually looks like he is having fun with it. Kylie Minogue looks very hot in a uniform and she's always a joy to watch but that's honestly the best things I can say about the film.If you haven't seen it, then watch it and see for yourself and then watch the infinitely superior Mortal Kombat film which not only manages to be a reasonably faithful conversion of the game but is a great looking action film in it's own right with really some decent fight choreography and special effects (for the time!)If you really crave Street Fighter II specific action on screen then I highly recommend the superb Street Fighter II anime film which pulls no punches and is almost infinitely superior to this garbage in every way including fight scenes, story and accuracy. "},{"Title":"Kills everything about the original source&#x85;","Date":"2 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" And I mean every single thing from the original video games, and even in anime cartoons! And I'm ready to spill it all out, everything toxic about this piece of crap. First of all, Steven E. de Souza&#x85; kill yourself. Really, kill yourself. You, you monster! You ruined the good old Japanese stuff! There's a new rule! Americans are not allowed to touch anything Japanese and turn it to a film! Nothing! Got that?! Based upon the popular Japanese arcade fighting games, of course, it's impossible for this game to run away from Hollywood. I hate when that happens. This movie is definitely one of the biggest failures ever. Bad writing, bad directing, I mean everything&#x85; OK, let's start&#x85; CURSES!!! Hollywood changed characters names, to be a little more easier for American audience to pronounce, or to read it&#x85; and during the process they mispronounce Ryu's name every single time. OK, I can understand that name change thing, but as we move on&#x85; more crap is about to come. Not just names&#x85; even their characters are ruined! Because it's an American film&#x85; we must have an American character as a leading guy, well of course&#x85; who else wants an Asian guy to be a leading guy&#x85; a little racism, I feel&#x85; Let's review the characters Ummm, forget it. There are just too many of them! And they are all badly written. They are totally opposite from the original, in kinda childish way&#x85; You need to check the film out, to see what a hell I am talking about. I'll mention only this example, well, I mentioned it before&#x85; Col. Guile (Van Damme) is a leading man, instead of Ryu (Byron Mann)&#x85; and that's unacceptable! I give it up&#x85; For the end, Raul Julia&#x85; OK&#x85; Julia was the best actor in the film. No more, no less. From his theatrical background he brought us a different kind of M. Bison. By the original, Bison is dark, calm and super evil. Here, he is cheerful, evil but extremely over the top. Thanks to Julia and his enormous acting talent and unmistakable charisma, his Bison is marvelous. Every word he says, every move he makes, we are watching him, he knows how to attract attention. Raul Julia stated that he starred in the film because of his sons, who loved the video games. So, just for his kids, well fathers are real heroes in real life. But, when the film was nearly over, he died from cancer and the movie was dedicated to him. That's noble&#x85; but is it really noble to dedicate this piece of crap? I would spin in my grave. I would give a posthumous Oscar to Raul. He did a magnificent job. Just like Frank Langella did a good work with Skeletor in Masters of the Universe (1987). Great actors can't save the crappy films, but they can make them more interesting and fun to watch.Overall&#x85; don't watch this film, you have something better to do. Stick to the games and anime. It's far more better and more faithful to the spirit of the original. "}{"Title":"Disappointment?","Date":"31 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When I heard all the negativity about this film I just had to see it. And I can't see what the problem is with this film.Supposedly the problem was that it put more focus on comedy then martial arts, but both seemed rather well here.Many of the jokes put in seemed to get a giggle out of me such as Zangief's stupidity and Bison's lack of taking anything seriously. As for the martial arts, what is here is pretty good too such as tag team fight, a sumo wrestle and the main one with the Protagonist and the Antagonist. Another problem I suspect the film may of had was that not many of the characters were fleshed out enough, but I personally can forgive that since there isn't much room for all characters and it's nice to even see them put in here at all.The effects, while many outdated nowadays, are pretty passable and the sets were really well designed.I understand this film didn't do well for many but its one I can personally recommend if you have not seen it. "},{"Title":"Much better than IMDb users think","Date":"30 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this film back in 98 when I was too young to understand many things. I mean, this film is easily understandable by any child, but anyways... Bison's character is so well played by Raul Julia that I was hoping he would win that war. Both his lines and his acting were extremely well done. Guile's character isn't as good, but Van Damme plays it decently, despite the fact that a million soldiers of Bison shoot him with rifles and he was able to divert from all of them. It's totally absurd and incredible, but I have to remember that Street Fighter is a film for children, not for old teenagers like me. Vega is 100% the same from the video game and I remember I really liked this character on game. Moreover, this film captures the essence of the game and gives a good time. Very recommended. (ps how does it have such low rating on IMDb?) "},{"Title":"This film is Schitt","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Its absolutely abominably gut wrenchingly sister fuckingly horrid is what this is! If i wanted my girlfriend to dump me this is the very movie i would make her watch with me. Its cheesy and off the wall rubbish that has no relevance to not just the story of the video game nay it has no relevance to any kind of logic and is therefore kind of enjoyable if you like to watch retards act lame or you've got ganga giggles.If your suicidal and your ready to throw yourself onto a bed of spikes then think of this movie, it maybe a last resort, recollecting on the screenplay you smile at the stupidity and b4 you know it your pissing your pants with laughter and at least you'll feel good and happy when your lying there in bleeding agony or it may annoy you so much that it will provide instant incentive for you to plunge head 1st into permanent sleep. Like i say it is so bad to the extent that it is at times hilariously lame and worth watching for that reason alone. Alternatively if your feeling a little poorly and you think your gonna be sick but nothings coming out then gather your bucket and stick this film on and i guarantee you success. "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"17 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't get what people hate about this movie. It's a very fun lighthearted action film that has fun with it's source material. Unlike the 2009 movie adaptation of the world famous street fighter video game series this film knows what it wants to be. The movie is very cheesy and never tries to hide it. Raul Julia delivers a memorable performance as warlord General M Bison in what was sadly his last film. This movie is a fun movie in the same way that the 1980 Flash Gordon movie was. All of your favorite characters from street fighter 2 are here such as Guile, Ryu, Ken and Chun Li and all of them wear the costumes from the video game. People should really give this movie a chance because it's not as bad as gamers or film critics make it out to be. "},{"Title":"A little uninformed","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie was fine. It served its purpose. It was supposed to draw in folks who knew about the franchise and hopefully bring in new fans. It did that by CREATING fans of a movie as opposed to the game solely.Also, Street Fighter isn't about Ken and Ryu. They are simply characters IN Street Fighter. The entire game is about ALL the characters, they each have their own story. So what if your favorite set weren't the main actors, boooooo movie must be bad now because of that.Looking back at most of the movies from these days it's easy to say Ooh, cheesy as all hell. Sucked, blah blah because of what we have now. I remember when SFtM came out, people were raving about it for a long time after its theater release.Hindsight is 20/20 folks, this movie was enjoyed by hundreds of thousands. And like all movies, it was easily replaced by newer things(i.e. - CGI, etc etc.) That's the way of the world.Get used to it. "},{"Title":"I like this movie. (There, I said it!)","Date":"4 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I didn't get to see this movie when it first came out. A lot of people said it was terrible. I finally saw it on TV in the mid-nineties, and I have to say, I wasn't great, but I wasn't nearly as bad as everyone said it was.The movie is set in the fictional country of Shadaloo, and involves a military showdown between the Allied Nations strike force, and the terrorist army of M. Bison. Bison has captured a group of hostages and will execute them if the A.N. doesn't give in to his demands (typical terrorist threat). Col. Guile steps up to face Bison. Also, other characters from the Street Fighter game get involved either by accident or on purpose.I completely agree that the movie has many gaping plot holes, it's not always coherent, and many parts come off silly. I know most fans were hoping for a serious action movie as opposed to a campy spoof, but in all honesty, it's still entertaining. I think they were trying gear it more towards kids and that's why it was so campy.Quick! Change the channel! Omigosh! That has to be one of the funniest things I've ever heard in my life.One thing I would like to address Many people claim that his was the movie that tainted the image of Raul Julia. I disagree. If you watch closely, you can tell he's lampooning the role. The result, Bison comes off as a humorous cross between Adolf Hitler, Josef Stalin, Saddam Hussein, and Dr. Evil. It was great. Van Damme does a good job as Col. Guile. He definitely a great job on the fight scenes. Ming Na Wen probably does the most believable performance as Chun-Li, who is probably the most credible character in the movie.Bottom line While this movie has a weak plot and cheesy acting, it's so silly, that it becomes a so bad, it's good movie. Check it out for some good action and a good laugh. "},{"Title":"This incredibly stupid movie does have some funny moments but suffers from miscasting and a bad script.","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Colonel William F. Guile (Jean Claude Van Damme) and his troops are trying to stop an sadistic evil General M. Bison (Raul Julia) and his men. Since Bison has kidnapped tourists for $20 Billion Dollars in three days and he also has Guile's close friend (Robert Mammone) kidnapped as well. But there's trouble in the way, when an mysterious reporter (Ming-Na Wen) and two crew members (Grand L. Bush & Peter Navy Tuiasosopo) wants to kill Bison for personal reasons. While two con-artists Ken (Damian Chapa) and Ryu (Byron Mann) find themselves caught in the middle between the good and evil. Guile needs to find Bison before he murders the hostages and takes over the world.Written and Directed by Steven E. de Souza (Who wrote action films like Commando, Die Hard, The Running Man) made an intentionally silly movie, based on a hugely popular Capcom video game. Julia is actually the main reason to watch this absurd feature, since it was one of his last films. Julia does has his moments in the movie and he gets some of the biggest laughs in it. Same goes for Andrew Bryniarski (Best known for playing Leatherface in the recent The Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake and prequel) as Zangief, who's playing not as bright bad guy. But it's actually de Souza's script and some of his cast hurts the movie badly.Van Damme is certainly miscast as the lead and he's never believable as the American Colonel due of his Belgium accent of course. It's bizarre seeing Pop Star Kylie Minogue as Lieutenant Cammy, who gives the worst performance in the feature. Even Minogue admits that as well. The best acting from the film besides Julia is Roshan Seth as the sympathetic scientist/doctor and Wes Studi playing one of the main villains in the picture. Since Street Fighter was made for kids, the script could have used more imagination and better written as well.It is not a total waste, thanks to good production values and most of the cast tries hard to make it work. But in the following year Mortal Kombat was much more successful and better than this campy movie. Street Fighter over the years does have some loyal fans, even those who enjoyed watching bad taste in horrible movies. I find it watchable but it is not the kind of picture, i want to play it on my DVD player soon.From the Van Damme Quadruole Feature, DVD features an clean non-anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The Collector's Edition of Street Fighter wasn't anamorphic as well. From watching the film, it sure does looks like a mess. Which it explains they were five editors working on this picture. Producer Edward R. Pressman (Conan The Barbarian, The Crow, Wall Street) produces better features than this one. Fans of the video game will be more forgiving at this failed attempted to be a good kids movie. But it should have been much more darker and a lot less campy humour. Super 35. (** /*****). "},{"Title":"Terrible?  Perhaps.  However, it's still terribly funny.","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A list of good movie adaptations of popular video-games is unsurprisingly short. The material, in terms of story-line, characters, etc, really doesn't lend itself to movies. However, that's never deterred even somewhat ambitious studios out to make a quick buck and, in rare instances, these studios unintentionally create a gem.Street Fighter is not a movie to be taken seriously. The plot is unimpressive, the casting is terrible, and you'd be hard-pressed to find a line of dialogue that can be spoken with a straight face. However, all of these seemingly awful elements come together beautifully in one of the greatest examples of camp that the movie industry has ever churned out. Almost every line is quotable due to how unintentionally (or maybe intentionally) bad it is. The entire movie is basically one huge comedy with three minutes of seriousness, in the form of a speech, towards the end with intermittent fight scenes.Fans of the Street Fighter franchise will, most likely, hate this film on general principle. Producers cast the physically diminutive Raul Julia as the power-mad General Bison, relative unknowns as Ryu and Ken, few characters resemble their video game counter-parts (Jean-Claude is possibly the closest fit), and the writers took many liberties with the characters' backgrounds. Likewise, fans of action flicks will be unimpressed (or possibly even annoyed) by the lackluster fight scenes, weak (but strangely hilarious) story, and the like.However, despite (or rather, because) of its flaws, this movie is a great laugh and I'd highly recommend seeing it with a few friends just so you'll have someone nearby that you can turn around to and ask, Did he really just say that? "},{"Title":"seen this movie is like being torture.","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I seen terrible movies but this one tops them all. I saw the poster before the release in 1994. I was excited, I love the game and the characters, everyone was talking about the movie and there was lot hype. When the movie was release on December of that year I was one of the first in line to see it. While I was in line I was thinking that this was going to be a great movie it has Van Damme as Guile, and the late Raul Julia as Bison. The movie started and it was all good but 10 minutes later I got the impression that this was not what I expected, 30 minutes later I was starting to get anxious, 40 minutes later people were starting to leave the movie theater, 50 minutes later the theater was half empty, and 60 minutes later I definitely realize that the movie was not what I expected. That night I left the theater with a really bad taste in my mouth. I couldn't sleep that night thinking about the waist of money and time. The movie was awful, the acting was cheesy, the costumes where terrible, and the plot was stupid. It was perhaps the beginning of the end of Van Damme's carrier. Never have I seen such a bad movie. Seen this movie was like torture. If the US army wants to interrogate terrorist they should put this movie to them, and believe me they will talk. "},{"Title":"102 minutes of torture","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you're not a fan of the Capcom video game it was based on, this movie will bore you to tears with it's pathetic plot and hilariously bad acting. If you are a fan, like me, then this movie will question your faith. Why would God allow this? Street Fighter is a fantastic video game series with many likable characters that have very different reasons to fight each other. The movie pits them in two simple groups the good guys led by Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme), and the bad guys led by M. Bison (Ral Julia). It makes no sense to see a Japanese sumo wrestler in a Hawaiian shirt, a native American soldier with face paint and a feather on his head, a Chinese reporter (Ming-Na), a banned heavyweight boxer, a British special forces agent with a part-time singing career (Kylie Minogue), and two traveling karate bums all helping the U.N. fight the evil drug-dealing tyrant M. Bison, whose team is composed of a Spanish bullfighter, a Jamaican rapper, a semi-retarded Russian bear wrestler, a one-eyed kick-boxer from Thailand (Wes Studi) and a Brazilian green-skinned monster who hates happiness. I wish I was kidding.It's a shame this was one of the last films of the great actor Ral Julia, who did what he could to play a madman bent on world domination. Vaya con Dios, Ral.If you somehow make it to the end of the film, be sure to watch until after the credits roll to witness one of the biggest jokes in Hollywood history, topped only by the ending of Masters of the Universe, which is quite possibly the worst movie of all time. Priceless! "}{"Title":"So corny that it killed the game with stupid sense of humor","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a big fan of the Street Fighter video games and anime movies and series, I gotta say that this movie was very corny that killed the Street Fighter feeling. Most of the characters of the movie were totally butchered. This is a terrible video game based movie just like Double Dragon.Van Damme was horrible making a fool out of himself by playing as Guile with a corny accent. For example, this is how all of the characters were butchered.Chun Li was never a reporter, she's a detective working for the Interpol and plotting her revenge on Bison for her father's death.Ryu and Ken were never a pair of small time hustlers, they were trained under their master Gouken. Ryu is always wandering in places seeking his rival and Ken is a rich guy who is Ryu's best friend.Guile was never the main character of the game.Charlie was presumed to be killed by Bison and he was never Blanka. Blanka is a monster named Jimmy who disappeared in a plane crash.Cammy and T-Hawk were never part of Guile's army.Sagat was never an arms dealer and he is a muay thai champion and Ryu's rival.Dee Jay was never a bad guy. He is a Jamaican rapper and fighter, not a computer genius.I do not remember Balrog being one of the good guys.And Sawada was never part of the game story. Steven E. Souza was afraid to put Fei Long since it payed tribute to Bruce Lee.AND Shadaloo is supposed to be Bison's narcotics group that smuggles drugs and guns worldwide, not a city.What I can say of this story is that it is stupid, corny and a total waste of time.I give this movie a 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"just scraped a pass","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First of all, i hope that my comments do not offend anybody, they are clearly stated in terms of the Movie and that is all. I am a huge street fighter fan and am disappointed with the movie. The plot was fine, however, the characters were ridiculous! T-hawk, one of the largest characters of the classic, was so tiny it was a joke. Edmund Honda, who, as i understand, is Japanese, the movie portrayed him as being Hawaiian. And Guile...supposedly 100% American, was played by the muscles from Brussels. (no offence to Van-Damn). This movie ruined the classic street fighter image, and if it weren't for my favoritism of street fighter, i probably would've voted a 4. "},{"Title":"The Best video game movie ever!","Date":"1 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first and only successful, and most successful, video game movie of all time, STREET FIGHTER is a movie I admire. The best actor in the entire film is the late Raul Julia. He gives the popular video game character, M. Bison, human traits and a personality. It's sad this was Raul's last film, but he did his best to the last. There are other actors to admire. One is Wes Studi, who, as Sagat, has great chemistry with Raul Julia. Damian Chapa is really good as Ken. Byron Mann is perfect for the role of Ryu. Andrew Bryniarski is quite good as Sagat. Ming-Na Wen does well as Chun-Li, too. Grand L. Bush is also good as Balrog. The cast seems perfect, with two exceptions Jean-Claude Van Damme and Kylie Minogue. Julia, Studi, Chapa and Bush make Van Damme and Kylie Minogue look like the leading couple of the Brady Bunch! The music, most notable in the scenes with Bison, is pretty good, too! Steven E. de Souza is an interesting director. This film beats other video game movies, including the RESIDENT EVIL films, the TOMB RAIDER flicks, SUPER MARIO BROS., DOOM, ALONE IN THE DARK, etc. This film was made possible with the contribution by Raul Julia. Good day! Raul Julia was the Ian McKellen of the group, and Wes Studi was the Alec Guinness of the group! "},{"Title":"Unmitigated awfulness that must have been an embarrassment for everyone involved","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter epitomizes the bad action flicks of the late 80's and early 90's, joining the ranks of other terrible films such as Commando, Navy SEALS, and Masters of the Universe. This one, however, tops them all in the way of being sheer nonsense, and here's why.This movie simply has no cinematic merit. For starters, the filmmakers' first mistake was making a movie based on a video game. Their second mistake was casting non-actor (and non-martial artist) Jean-Claude Van Damme in the lead role. Their third error was casting Raul Gomez Addams Julia as M. Bison, the evil leader of a subversive group who is trying to take over the world, and can only be stopped by Van Damme and his tight-knit group of chop-socky film rejects. This should be enough to deter any film-goer anywhere, but wait, there's more! The plot goes like this M. Bison has gained influence in the southeast Asian country of Shadaloo. He has taken hostages and demands $20 billion ransom, giving the AN (Allied Nations) 72 hours to comply. American Colonel Guile (Van Damme, who sounds more like Ricky Ricardo than any American) sets out to defeat Bison and free the hostages. He does this with unimpressive (and very few) fight scenes, bad dialog (Bison you have made me a very happy man! Guile and next, I'll make you a dead one!), and excruciatingly bad acting. Brilliance, no less!What was anyone thinking when they made this atrocity? Even Wes Studi, the only real actor in the film, sinks to new depths, especially when you consider his involvement in good movies like Heat and The Last of the Mohicans. How this movie ever got produced is simply beyond me.All in all, this is quite possibly the worst movie of the 90's. Raul Julia died shortly after this film was released, and I think I know why (anyone who did so much as operate a boom mike for this film probably became suicidal after it came out.) My brother and I watched it for cheap laughs, but by the end we were astounded by how terrible it was, not entertained. When I have children, I'll punish them by making them watch Street Fighter. "},{"Title":"If you are a Street Fighter fan, do yourself a favour, DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE!","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First of all some questions?, why didn't Sagat fought Ryu?, who is Captain Sawada?you know in the game they had moves..Hado-ken, Shiryuken,sonic-boom..remember?WHERE ARE THE MOVES?,Balrog with the good guys and Blanka is Charlie???! Oh dear, where is the real storyline??? the movie could have been much much better.....wrong cast, wrong storyline,they should have casted Dolph Lundgren as Guile, Antonio Sabato Jr as Ken Masters,Brian Thompson Victor Sagat,Balrog they could have talked with the one this design was based on, or a big black guy? ,Ryu an unknown, well trained Asian dude, is that too much to ask for?,Akuma BOLO YEUNG! and there was no space for either DeeJay or T-Hawk in the story, sorry guys....they had no role, they didn't look like the characters.E. Honda, Vega (couldn't they just color his hair blond!?), Chun Li, Cammy and Zangief was OK.....less complains.Don't know why they just could not follow the original story? a quick overview of master Gouken and Akuma, Sagat Vs Ryu, and then over to the Bison crisis, with RYU in the attention, not Guile, and just one scene of Ryu with evil intent..... Something like the anime sequel? If you just want to see a movie, go ahead, if you are fan of the series like me, it's not something for you. I hope, and are pretty sure that most of the SF fans will agree with my comment. "},{"Title":"The. Worst. Film. Ever.","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I may be biased. I'll admit to that. I'm a huge fan of the Street Fighter video games, and that may have clouded my judgment. But here's what I think. Not only does this film get the story of the games wrong(Chun-Li is NOT A DAMN NEWS REPORTER!!!), but the acting is hideous(particularly Jean-Claude Van Damme), the script is infernal(it makes Mighty Morphin Power Rangers The Movie look like The Lord of the Rings), and the special effects leave much to be desired(some of the worst I've ever seen). Those looking for a good martial arts movie should stick with The Matrix, those looking for a good beat-em-up action flick should stick to Batman Begins, and those looking for a good video game-based movie should stick to...Street Fighter II The Animated Movie. All in all, this is the worst film I've ever seen. Definitely skip it. "},{"Title":"This is horrible, please avoid!!","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is sad that people think that video games are just for kids, and Jean Claude clearly didn't realize that Street Fighting is not something children should watch. This film is unbelievably bad, it is absolutely terrible.The action scenes are a complete disaster, and there really isn't a story. There are attempts at jokes, but they all suck. Clearly, they should never have tried to recreate this game as a live action film, but Jean decided it was worth it, and thus we have the worst attempt at a marshal arts flick we have ever seen. Please avoid this at all costs.I beg you- avoid "},{"Title":"A very, very underrated movie","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Most people dislike this movie, and I can sort of see why. There are some weird parts, but generally the fighting is cool. The plot was pretty good A mad warlord has taken hostages and two friends, a team of a martial arts women, sumo, and boxer, and a small team of commandos led by the A.N. (Allied Nations) are their only hope.The action in the story is pretty good, and there are good fights. The plot is a bit clich, and at times almost silly, but I can see this movie becoming a cult classic. Not because its-so-bad-its-good, but because its not a movie made to appeal to a wide audience. Either way, I really enjoyed watching this movie, and would recommend it to anyone who like action movies. "},{"Title":"Now this is awful","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is suppose to be based on the Street Fighter 2 game of the early 90s and is way off base here. Only the characters in my opinion they got rihgt for one, but everything else in this movie was a complete waste.The story for one had little of the game in it, the characters were a bit off in traits, it seemed too far-fecthed to even be a movie, and wrong actors for some of the characters. I mean who would cast Raul Julia as Bison or singer Kylie Minouge as Cammy (even though she did look hot in her army uniforms). Some characters were too predictable like the boxer, the sumo, the scientist, and even Guile were predictable.Mainly I say if it had better actors or better acting it might have been better but no. The only good thing about this movie is probably the female characters in this movie.1/10 stars. "},{"Title":"What did you expect?","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Wow. Bad. Avoid.You'd have to be a fool to even consider, you must have read the reviews and heard the slating, this film has not received an inch of good press since it was released, and is quite possibly one of the best known flops around. Look at the cast in disbelief, even Raoul Julia died soon after, I don't blame him, still, he's in a better place now.A testament to bad film-making everywhere, you'd be better off putting broken up pieces of bread into your DVD player than touch this worthless rubbish. Marketing executives do not make good producers, this is a disgrace to the Streetfighter name and deserves to be jettisoned into space next time we send someone up there, its crappiness might just save us from a Martian invasion, "}{"Title":"A list of things wrong in the movie","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 1. the character that plays ryu is Chinese, ryu is Japanese. 2. sagat is suppose to be at least 7 feet tall. 3. sagat is suppose to be thai, not played by a native American. 4. street fighter is suppose to focus on ryu and ken, not Guile and Bison. 5. Cammy is played by an Australian, cammy is British. 6. since when was dhalsim a scientist. 7. one minute dhalsim is in a scientist outfit, next thing u know he half naked with a shaved head. 8. Balrog is a good guy???? 9. Vega is played by a native American, Vega is Spanish 10. T.hawk doe not throw a single punch in the movie (as if he was even noticed in the film) 11. not one fight took place in the streetsI could go on and on and i ain't even joking This movie is kinda funny in a way so i rather enjoyed it.. "},{"Title":"A pitiful excuse for celluloid .....Stick with anime damn you!!!","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like Judge Dredd, this movie should have been made into an animated feature not a live-action piece of garbage like this. The plot is flatter than a thin-crust pizza and has just as much cheese as one,too.Indeed, like the popular, smash-hit video game the characters are interesting, but provide very wooden performances. The action of Street Fighter is equivalent to watching paint dry or weeds growing in the crack of your patio....DULL, DULL, DULL, boring as hell. Don't ask about the dialogue, please! Whoever wrote the script to this should never work in Hollywood again, seriously.Even if I were a 7-13 year-old(the audience that this so-called action/adventure movie was intended for), I for one still would prefer the video game over the movie. The game had something going for it something that is obviously missing from the damn movie itself...I don't know what it was...oh yeah...ACTION!!! But the sad fact remains and it's very disturbing to say the least this was one of the late Raul Julia's last films. Why would he do such a thing? Luckily, he was the best actor in the entire film, not-to-mention he made it work as a convincing villain. But this film is not worth buying or even watching on cable! "},{"Title":"Bless Death for Taking Raul...","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ... Julia before he had to see himself lowered as a great actor for being in this piece of crap. I am sure that he must have known that he was on the verge of death when he decided to take the film. They must have offered him some great money to help out his family or something. The movie certainly is not up to the other kinds of work you saw from Mr. Julia.The performance is wooden and seems to be pieced together from what the director may have had on hand. that is, maybe Julia did not even finish his scenes before his death. I just remember watching the film and thinking that he looked terminal to a degree that even make up artists could not make him seem healthy.And most certainly this movie had to be the moment when the world decided, no, we will not let Jean Claude go any farther in Hollywood. Draw the line! "},{"Title":"Play the video game instead","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Even though everyone had told me that this movie was really awful, I felt like I had to see it because I've played the video game Street Fighter 2 a lot. So then, I saw it. Video games based on movies are most of the time poor productions. Movies based on video games tend to be even worse. And this movie is even worse than that, if that's even possible. And I promise you, when you see this, you'll know that it is. For starters Guile is American. Van Damme with his French accent is a totally wrong choice for the role. He also looks totally different than Guile. The story is Ridiculous. Even when you had expected a bad script since it's based on a video game, it still disappoints you. The fighting scenes suck, if you can call them fighting scenes at all. I just don't figure why van Damme didn't quality-check this crap out of his movie portfolio. The only good thing in this film is Zangief, and that is only because he was so stupid and funny. "},{"Title":"Street Fighter fan? Then stay clear from this movie...","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw this movie when I was a kid, and I loved it. However, I recently saw this movie again and I can't find a single reason why. I've always been a Street Fighter fan, and this movie is just an insult.The basic story Bison is a bad guy, Colonel Guile wants to stop him. More or less accurate to the game, but that's pretty much where the similarities end. First of all, if you make a movie about street fighters you'd think it would make sense to actually include actors that can fight. Van Damme (Guile) can fight, but that's pretty much it. Because of this, the fights suck obviously. This movie should revolve mostly around the fights but there are only a few and they suck. The Street Fighter are known for their signature moves, and there aren't any. Sure, Ryu puts his hands in a familiar way and you see a blue flash, and Cammy (who the hell casts Kylie Minogue in a fighting roll?) yells Thrust Kick while she kicks a random bad guy in the face, but that's it. Obviously they wanted all characters from the game in it, but they didn't know what to do with them. So T.Hawk isn't a huge native American who wants to take revenge on Bison, he's a scrawny dude under Guile's command. Dhalsim isn't a Yoga master, he's a professor who happens to know how to make big green monsters with red hair. (sounds familiar?). So they changed all this to fit all characters in it, and still Fei Long (the only actual movie star from the game isn't in the movie) is missing, but I suppose that's a good thing.So in short, they changed everything there is to change and more, the acting sucks and the fighting sucks even more. Usually I'd like this kind of movie because of it's cheese-factor, but because I'm a Street Fighter fan I can's stand this movie. "},{"Title":"This is terrible","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am a Street Fighter fan and I think this movie sucks. It doesn't make any sense The characters look nothing like the characters in the game. Except for my favorite, Vega thats the only good thing about this movie. The movie is even humorous at parts (Blanka) Major Bison looks so bad that I started to cry.The acting is nothing short of awful. The song at the end of the movie is pathetic. In all fairness it does make as a good martial arts movie.You can also see this as an alternative to Mortal Kombat. So I recommend this movie if you like to laugh, Vega is your favorite Street Fighter Character, or you like cheesy martial arts movies.So heed my warning next time you are looking through the discount section in the video store do not buy this even if it marked down to twenty five cents. Actually play the games. Cool someone read my review "},{"Title":"the M in M. Bison stands for sucks","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What exactly does the M in M. Bison stand for?  In the video game, I always just assumed that it stood for Monsieur or (video games love plot twists, remember) Madame.  However, Street Fighter The Movie reveals that the M stands for M. Bison.  Couldn't they have just called him Bison?I must admit, though, that that one minor complaint should not get in the way of enjoying this cinematic tour de force.  And by tour de force, I of course mean punch to the uterus...even if you're a guy.Let's review the special moments in this movie, shall we?  Jean-Claude plays Guile, and American soldier with the flag tattooed on his shoulder and an accent that belongs in a European disco.  Raul Julia actually says GAME OVER!  Really.  Despite the title, there is no street fighting in this movie, and almost all of the hand-to-hand combat takes place at the end.  Guile tells Bison's hostages to hang in there on national TV and then gives several specific words of encouragement to Charlie, who is (of course) Carlos Blanca.  Remember when you called your buddy Carlos Charlie?  No, you remember.  It was all the time.Let me put this bluntly.  This movie is bad, and I mean that in comparison with all movies, action movies, Jean-Claude movies, and movies with bad scripts.  So, should you see this movie?  According to Jean-Claude, pro-bab-ally.  And who are you to argue? "},{"Title":"Jean-Claude Van Damme, in the same crap you've seen over, and over, and over again!","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I cant believe that I actually liked this movie when i was a kid. This is the worse video game based movie I've EVER seen. If you've played the game, you know that the game was based upon Ryu's character. But in this movie, its based upon Guile, played poorly by Van Damme. Ill give them credit for keeping the main bad guy of the game, M. Bison, the main bad guy in the movie. M. Bison was played by the late Raul Julia. Ill be honest, I actually thought that Raul Julia played his character very well, as the dictator. Everyone else was just forgettable to me. Its sad how they'll try to make money off of a game by making a movie, and usually it flops. Avoid this movie at all costs! If you wanna see a game based movie done well, check out Street Fighter II The Animated Movie. That is much better.2/10  "},{"Title":"A cult film for the kids of the 90's, so please respect","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For us kids who grew up in the 90's, it's a cult movie. We grew up with the videogame Street fighterII, and admiring the characters and their moves. It was a success that game. Van damme was in fact the best actor they could arrange to make Guile, although he's Belgian, and his accent didn't help very much, but theres no one better than him to make Guile. Raul Julia was the best actor in scene, playng Bison. Despite his health, he was able to create a vilain with presence and carisma. Wes Study was great too, making the role of a vilain ,Sagat. The movie was cool, one of the best adventure video game movies ever made. The script was basic, but provided adventures, and fun. Dont be too rude with the movie. It was one of the first vg adapted movies. And I think it is not so bad. In my opinion the movie deserved a sequel. At least its better than MK2 anihilation. "},{"Title":"thumbs down","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i watched this when i was little and had the street fighter video games on the super nintendo.watching something that was based upon the most popular fighting game ever i found the film quite exciting but now when i watch it i think...this film is awful.the while storyline is messed up,bad script,bad acting and bad costumes.some things are just best kept as a video game or as a cartoon/manga.any street fighter fans out there,stick with the manga street fighterthe animated movie is much better.if you are thinking of buying this,don't bother,save you money. "}{"Title":"As bad as it gets","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many know this, but I just had to say it This movie sucks! Sucks for the Street Fighter fans, and for the general audience. Sucks at all! Plain characters, horrible story, horrible Bison (Sorry, Ral Julia. You didn't deserve this part). Horrible main character (Van Damme stinks as a Guile, and Guile is not even the main Street Fighter character). Stinks at all! If for some divine joke you get to see it, try thinking in flowers or Freakzoid's relax-o-vision. If you even got it on DVD, put your cold glasses on it. Period! "},{"Title":"Is this movie really based on the game?","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember that as a kid I watched the movie and was wondering when the fighting would start. I mean there was no fighting at all in this movie. I mean why base a movie on a videogame where they fight and then make a movie about a American soldier (from Belgium) who doesn't fight? The casting was done all wrong since they all couldn't fight either.I remember watching Mortal Combat and was like..WHY COULDN'T STREETFIGHTER BE MORE LIKE THE MORTAL COMBAT MOVIE? At least that one had some action. "},{"Title":"This movie almost destroyed my love of Street Fighter","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you played the Street Fighter games then here is the review in a nut shell Neither Ryu or Ken uses Hadouken even once, there is no sonic-boom from Guile, and we don't get to see Chun-li's Spinning Bird Kick, DJ is a bad guy, Balrog is a good guy, and they have Jean Claude Vandam play Guile (not bad in itself but he has to give a long and moving speech, but the man can't act and thus is not very persuasive. If you haven't played the games then just trust me those things listed above are staples of the Street Fighter games and should have been included, and *please* do not judge the games by this movie. I haven't seen this movie in a long time (thank God) and thought I had blocked it out from my memory, but as I sit here late at night the memories seep back in and I feel obligated to warn people about this piece of garbage. However I do feel bad about just saying negative things about this movie, so here is one positive note Raul Julia makes the perfect M. Bison, if I were to remake the movie I would definitely recast him (In fact thats why I am giving it 2/10 instead of 1/10). Other then that this is just a really bad movie, if you want to see a good Street Fighter movie I recommend Street Fighter II the Animated Movie, it feels a bit compressed but has everything you could want. "},{"Title":"Travesty","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think the chief insult of Street Fighter is the fact it has absolutely nothing to do with the game it was based on, sans character names.  Everything, including the wafer thin storyline, seems to be randomly woven around the characters and it just results in absolute chaos.  I can't imagine what was going through the writers minds as they decided to cast E. Honda as a be-shirted Hawaiian van driver and Balrog as his cheery and lovable accomplice who just happens to box, not the brutal Tyson like boxer we were pitted against in the games.  Ken and Ryu, the central protagonists of the SF games were blatant mockery in the film; a couple of bumbling crooks who attempt to swindle arms dealers by selling them Nerf guns. What???  These two were the heroes of the game - every kid wanted to be either Ryu or Ken, and here they are just presented as a couple of smarmy cowards.  Guile's role was also far too central, but obviously this is due to Van Damme's selling potential.  Blanka, arguably the best character in the game, was also pretty useless in the film, his history also changing for no reason.  (No longer a mutant raised in the Brazilian rainforests, but now Guile's comrade Charlie curiously mutated into Blanka, despite the fact Charlie was just murdered by Bison on the &#145;official' story.)it really irked me that most of the characters just seemed to have been there for the sake of it; Dhalsim for example appeared to just be an ordinary doctor, and not being able to find a place in the film for our elasticised voodoo practitioner, they simply named the guy Doctor Dhalsim.  Pathetic! Oh, and costume.  What the hell was happening there??? Again, going back to Dhalsim, throughout he's a very Indian/Asian looking Doctor, and then at the end, for no reason whatsoever, he's suddenly bald and kitted out in some of his tribal getup.  Also Bison's trooper uniforms just happened to match the colour and styles worn by Ken & Ryu in the games, both men inexplicably given different colours just so they looked a little more like their pixelated namesakes.  Balrog also appeared in his full boxing outfit for no reason, as did Zangief in his little red hot pants. *shudder* I also hated the pointless little tangents that were intended to give the film some form of remote depth; Dhalsim's moral dilemma, the A.N. ordering Guile to cancel the attack resulting in Van Damme's moving little speech etc.  That horrible little bit where Guile lets slip to Bison that he knows Blanka made me cringe also, how contrived and artificial did that need to be? Arrrgh!Sagat and Bison were both portrayed with reasonable accuracy, and possibly the only people on the set who could act.With all things considered though, Street Fighter is an incredible good laugh to watch.  I really have to remove myself from both the original SF games and standards of good cinema to do so, but I usually end up enjoying it, although admittedly not on the intended level. I'm in stitches every time I see the comically tragic flaws in the character writing and the absurd and incomprehensible paradoxes always bring a great big grin to my face.  The shock value in realising the film really is that bad, is comical in itself.  Yes it angers me, but the unintentional laughs are plentiful and for that it deserves a little credit.  "},{"Title":"2nd to Super Mario Bros. for biggest game to movie flop","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I would've called this the biggest videogame to movie flop ever but I realized Super Mario Bros. holds the crown so in 2nd place we have Street Fighter. What can I say about this awful movie? well I just said it, it's awful, it's stupid, it's humiliating to anyone who's familiar with Capcom's Street Fighter series. It's so dumb yet it's so funny at the same time because you want to laugh at the horribly written script which has absolutely nothing to do with the game. I guess everyone involved figured they could pull a fast one but afraid not, they fooled themselves big time. Very dumb, skip, or watch just to laugh at the humiliation. 1/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films ever made","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another comment on this movie likens it to Wood's Plan Nine From Outer Space, and that is a negative comment.  I would also compare it to that movie, only that is what makes it brilliant.  Streetfighter is the worst movie I have ever seen and one of my favourites.  I am a huge fan of the video game and I think the movie adaption is perfect.  Take for example the movie Mortal Kombat.  It took itself way too seriously and the movie sucked. Streetfighter never tries to be a good movie, and that is the beauty of it.Best quotes Chun Li My father saved his village at the cost of his own life. You had him shot as you ran away. A hero at a thousand paces! Bison I'm sorry... I don't remember any of it. Chun Li You don't remember?! Bison For you, the day Bison graced your village was the most important day of your life. But for me... it was Tuesday.Zangief You mean I'm a bad guy? "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever...","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...is what the comic book guy from The Simpsons probably would have said about this film! This is with out a doubt the worst piece of crap I've seen my entire life!!! I'm disappointed the lowest grade I could give it was a 1, as I doesn't deserve anything higher than 0!! If the scale went up to 100 it didn't deserve higher than 0! I've seen only ONE movie my entire life that I would call Absolutely terrible and it's this one! If the film has a story, it's terrible! I don't even now if it has a story or if it's just a bunch of scenes smacked together! The most stupid and exaggerated ending I've seen in a movie! It's not like Bubble gum bandits that's so crappy that it's funny, this is just plain awful! A clear 0 out o anything! "},{"Title":"Disaster","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Van Damme sure can pick them. Video games Rarely make great Movies. this has so little to do with the original game. The Story is Pathetic. The Action is so badly done. And only Raul Julia has anything to be Proud of. He will be Greatly Missed.A really bad movie.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"They killed the game.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is really a great waste of film, time, art, ideas and anything you can think about a movie. To begin, what did they have in mind when they did the cast? The only one who looks like the game's character is actually Raul Julia (I'm sorry for this being his last movie). And I only mean his face. Van Damme may be a good martial artist but he doesn't look like Guile anyway. And now, he's NOT the main character in the games, the comics, the animated series, nowhere. Why here? Because it was an american release? C'mon! If you take a look at the game you'll see Sagat is about 7 feet. And in this movies Ken is taller than him! Where was Tong Po? Now, Balrog is an spanish handsome bullfighter who never takes off his mask to protect his face, but in this movie we see his face the whole time and he looks like a mexican. Zangief is a powerful russian wrestler and in this movie is powerful russian idiot. Why? Because he's russian? If they didn't know, Vega has psycho-powers, not magnetic powers, and the movie version of the psycho crusher almost revealed the strings used to make Julia fly. The movie has nothing to do with the real storyline of the game, and the FX looks like any episode of the Saban's series (Power Rangers). And they had face to make a Mortal-Kombat-style game of this. In three words Don't watch it! "},{"Title":"Stupid Fighter should be left in the street","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cutting right to the chase, watching Street Fighter - based on what was the most popular video game in the world until Mortal Kombat came along - is not the equivalent of observing a train wreck; it's the equivalent of being in one. The thin story has Colonel Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme, complete with a bad dye job and American flag tattoo) attempting to rescue relief workers held hostage by General M. Bison (portrayed by the late Raul Julia, always a professional to the end) in the fictitious Southeastern Asian country of Shadaloo. Guile is in charge of a military force, called the Allied Nations, that has been recruited to defeat Bison. I guess we're finally at peace, because apparently every world leader could afford to deploy hundreds of their soldiers to some destitute armpit of a country to fight someone wearing a red leather suit and cape.While the plot is simplicity itself, it's too bad that the other 99% of the film is an utter display of stupidity, such as having the ethnically diverse cast portray characters of totally different races. For example, Native American actor Wes Studi plays a character of Thai descent, while casting Belgian Van Damme as gung-ho patriot Guile makes as much sense as having Ronald McDonald play Norman Schwarzkopf. It's a wonder that writer/director Steven E. de Souza didn't make someone show up in blackface.Never mind that Street Fighter is based on a game built around the martial arts, because there is virtually none of it to be seen anywhere. There is an incredible amount of gun violence, and of course the good guys are perfect shots while the baddies couldn't hit water if they fell out of a boat. Guile even holds off over a dozen of Bison's henchmen with a bottomless machine gun clip &#150; as he sits out in the open, no less. Meanwhile, two soldiers, each armed only with a handgun, are able to confront an entire army equipped with AK-47s.The ending is pathetic. Try to keep a straight face when Guile gives a pep talk to a group of soldiers as they gear up for the big showdown, or when he says to Bison, This is the collection agency&#133;your ass is six months overdue, and it's mine. Besides rampant intercutting between several inferior fight scenes, the lousy showdown between Guile and Bison consists of an incomprehensible and dizzying hodgepodge of fast edits in order to conceal Julia's stunt double. (During this contest, the 180-degree rule is broken quite often in one scene, Guile is facing screen right as he attacks Bison. After a brief cut to Bison, Guile is suddenly facing screen left.)Plot holes are as abundant as the story's lack of coherence. For instance, the AN soldiers navigate inflatable assault crafts &#150; complete with outboard motors &#150; through a river that leads to Bison's fortress. Not only is the word inflatable misspelled on every one of the boats, but how could those huge motors fit in the flat carrying pouches, and how were they able to inflate all the boats?On a closing note, here's an interesting bit of trivia In 1999, de Souza had an equally lambasted script for another video-game-to-film adaptation rejected. That movie was Tomb Raider. Praise the Lord for small favors. 3/10  "}{"Title":"A complete waste.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Whatever money, talent and time were invested in this movie was completely wasted. What were they thinking when they wrote this awful script? I'd rather not know. The less I think about it, the better it will be. If you are a fan of the Street Fighter gaming legacy, this movie will have the same effect as a slap to your face. Especially if you paid to see it since the characters used in this real life adaptation of the game are so unconnected to their original background from the game that I found it sickening. Chun Li a reporter? Balrog her camera man?! No, no NO! Even though it might have been difficult to write a decent script to follow SF's original storyline, the final product I saw was just unacceptable. Their casting decisions might be considered mediocre at best as well. Thank God that time where Hollywood had to cast a well-known figure as leading role has somewhat passed. Jean Claude is a sucky Guile if I've ever seen one. It might have been okay if he wanted to go pass Halloween of something... but he just doesn't look like Guile at all.To be really honest, this movie is mediocre even if you forget the fact it's an outrage to the original Street Fighter's essence. Some good performances on the acting part by Raul Julia. (Also his last film, poor man... to end his career on this type of flick... some say he might have died of shame.)If you're a fan of SF and just must see every movie ever made about it, this movie will rank very high in your worst movies of all times list. (In fact, it will surely be a reference for bad movies for the rest of your life.) If you're not - although you might enjoy it a tad more, don't waste your time on this movie and rent something else.  "},{"Title":"Words cannot describe the sheer awfulness","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is possibly one of the most embarassing movies ever. Take a really, really poor script that for some reason rejects the most obvious approach - an Enter the Dragon/Bloodsport/Kickboxer martial arts tournament - and goes for a ridiculous special forces operation against evil dictator Bison. The large crew of comicbook-like characters could logically turn up for a martial arts tournament (that's what the game is about), but that they all happen to turn up in Thailand at the same time instead is absolutely ludicrous. Just as silly is the film's attempt to recreate the characters from the video game onscreen. John Claude Van Damme would have been an acceptable Guile had he been a supporting character that didn't say much, just kicked ass, but as the lead....he sucks. The guys supposed to be Ryu and Ken are hilariously wrong for the part, as is the wrestler-type guy supposed to be the male model like, acrobatic Vega. And why is Kylie Minogue Cammy? The only casting that is in anyway accurate to the game is Raul Julia as Bison, and he gives the only decent performance, an amusingly tongue-in-cheek explosion of evil. Thankfully the urban myth that this was his last film isn't true. Then there are the terrible attempts to recreate the moves from the game. Watch 'Ken' do what's supposed to be a Dragon Punch on 'Sagat' and laugh - that's what we kids used to do in the school yard in 1991! The other moves are just as laughable. The entire film is shot in a bright, cartoon-esque way that makes it even more ridiculous, and the costumes and make-up are cheap and tacky. To put it as bluntly as possible, Street Fighter is terrible.  "},{"Title":"Utterly terrible","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is Undeniably the worst film I have ever seen...The acting,the direction,The story are all Utterly Atrocious.Raul Julia must be turning in his Grave thinking...my god was that really my final film...and Understandably so.I could go on and on about How rock bottom this film is....But I wont Bother...No words could possibly describe it.All I can say is...PLay the game instead....cause It is much more fun...and heaps more CheaperI give this....-100 out of 10 "},{"Title":"The reason why movies made from video-games have a poor reputation.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Flicks based on video games don't get as bad as this one.  Ok, maybe thats not true- Double Dragon was even worse.  But lets face it, when you go to watch a movie, there are plenty of elements that you would look for in a motion picture.  It's either good acting, great direction, perhaps an involving plot, explosive action, or possibly humor.  Street Fighter possesses absolutely none of these elements.  Hence it totally fails in all catagories.  Overall, the casting was terrible, save a few minor characters and Raul Julia as Bison.  But I mean, the popular Ken and Ryu play limited roles (oh and their outfits are prison uniforms in the movie) and instead they substituted a Frenchman (JCVD) to play the heroic Guile as the main character.  How stupid.Not only that, but nearly all the characters in this movie are American (so much for the World Warrior gag).  And half of them don't really fight. Perhaps the biggest problem with Street Fighter was that they tried to put too much of the game into the movie (and they didn't do a good job of that either).  They tried to fit in too many characters, who mostly do nothing but let you know that they're in the movie.  But there is one very retarded part in the movie that tried too hard to capture the essense of the game Bison remotely tries to kill Guile using a joy stick controller with a large camera display (just like in the arcade), while Guile is in a hovercraft.  Bison actually manouvers the joy stick in ways as if he's performing special tasks, just like a dragon-punch in the game (street figher fans know what I'm talking about!).  When I saw this part, I was laughing my ass off (at the movie, not with it).  After that, I knew that the rest of the movie would be pathetic too, which it was of course.4/10 for Street Fighter! "},{"Title":"Something for real fans...","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ... but I liked it (I'm a fan)!!!  I suppose the story is quite hard to understand for someone who doesn't know the video game, and those who know it might say, the game is better, but I really think it's a movie to be watched! "},{"Title":"Avoid","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had absolutely nothing better to do when I watched this movie.  It was playing at a local theater which played movies in limbo between theatrical and home video release, and I thought I had nothing to lose by seeing it for a mere 1.50.  It turns out I had 1.50 and 90 minutes of my life, plus any shred of dignity I previously held. Quite simply, this ranks right down there with Class of Nuke 'Em High II, Bloodsucking Freaks, Star Trek V, Frightmare, Microwave Massacre, and Mac and Me as one of the worst movies I've seen in my entire life, hands down. Please take this warning seriously.  Do not, under any circumstances, view Street Fighter The Movie.  I guarantee you will regret it. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie... I still can't believe how they didn't manage to get even _one_ decent actor into the thing. Every single line is spoken badly, and written even worse. Filled with plotholes, illogicalities and just plain stupid ideas, this movie is nothing short of a classic. The beginning is only stupid, and as the movie advances, so does the brainlessness. And when the finale is reached.. I'll tell you, you won't stop laughing for quite a while. Bit of a shame, since this isn't actually a comedy.  "},{"Title":"I felt physically ill - It's a disposable film that should be disposed.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a watchable action film, even if it is a mediocre and painful one at that.When they base a movie on a computer game or some lame action figure, you know they are making it just for money and you can bet that the quality of plot and acting is going to be substandard. It was.This is one of those films where Bart Simpson's comments on Van Damme rings true Want results?  You have to go to the Schwarzeneggers, the Stallones, and to a lesser extent, the Van Dammes.I've seen and enjoyed many excessively violent films featuring actors such as Stallone and Schwarzeneggers. However one of the things that I found utterly appalling in this film was the graphic nature of how many people have their necks broken. That awful sound made me physically ill because someone was dying that way every five minutes. It was just disturbing to see this being portrayed and know kids at home are watching and don't need muscle-bound strength to copy it.It's a disposable film that should be disposed. "},{"Title":"A tale of disbelief...","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rarely am I so aghast that I'm left unable to speak, and this movie was able to do it.  Really, I'm left wondering if this was just the most ill-conceived idea for a video game-to-movie translation, or a brilliant work of evil.  I understand the rigors of making a successful story out of a multi-character (with no absolute main 'star' character) game that has multiple plotlines and viewpoints...  I understand how difficult it is to please fans of all the characters, by including as many as possible.  But, brother, this is almost as bad as most of those old Hanna Barberra cartoons, like the Super Globetrotters or Galaxy Trio.  All the famous Capcom characters (all of which ooze personality) are reduced to shallow bastardized versions of their former selves.  They portray the menace and horrors of war with as much depth as a Three Stooges Short, only the Stooges have better fighting scenes.  It's not that the cast doesn't have the skill, they were just too busy degrading their Capcom counterparts to do anything special.But all of this adds to one hell of a jaw-dropping movie.  It sucks so hard, you are forced to figure that it was intentional just to see how low they could go.A french actor with an accent thicker than L.A. smog, portraying a clean-cut all-american soldier (who is, according to Capcom, actually a Major)? What's wrong, did Arnold Schwarzenegger ask for too much money? "},{"Title":"Terrible, Terrible Movie","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Anyone who liked this movie is completely ignorant. It's pathetic when the video game has a better story than the movie based off of it. This is a horrendous movie. Jean Claude Van Damme in his worse role ever (you thought some of the others were bad). I'm sorry, but I didn't buy him as an AMERICAN soldier. Raul Julia shouldn't have take this role. When his character says, You thought you were fighting Bison the human when you were fighting Bison the God, you can't stop from laughing. The dialouge is absolutely rediculous. It's funny when it's not meant to be. And, the special effects are terrible, as well. Such as when Bison flys. It's so fake.I am a fan of the video game, but I hated the movie. "}{"Title":"Street Wimps","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie stinks! If you want a REAL movie based on the game Street Fighter, go rent Street Fighter II The Animated Movie which is much better than this crap. Animation is better, Live-Action sucks. Even Mortal Kombat is better than this movie, at least that one tried to be like the video game.This Street Fighter movie should have been called Street WimpsNo Stars "},{"Title":"Uhhh...","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Who wrote this crap? This movie is stupid!  Well, the only good exception is Raul Julia.  But it's not like the game, there's fighting but no chemistry, everything is just as stupid as the back of Jean-Claude Van Damme's back side.  Van-Dammit, I can't think of any Video-game movies that are good instead of this.  All of them suck!  If you want to make an appealing video-game movie, make it animated! "},{"Title":"A prime example of why Jean Claude Van Damme deserves retirement.","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a piece of trash.  It's mystifying how quality actors such as Raoul Julia and Ming Na Wen got involved with this sad mess.  Even the actors seem to be having a rotten time, never having seemed to have thought for a second that the end result could be anything but a train wreck.  At least the actors were not spared the pain they would soon be inflicting on audiences.  "},{"Title":"It should have remained in the arcades!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Isn't it sad, when the plot of a video game is better than its movie version. The actors are totally miscast in their roles (especially Belgian Jean Claude Van Damm as Guile, the AMERICAN soldier; and Kylie Minogue as Cammy) And worse yet, all their signature Street Fighter moves has been removed, making this just another dull, ordinary action flick.  Don't rent this movie. Save your money for the arcades  "},{"Title":"Won't forgive yourself for watching it","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes u watch a movie and feel hard done by it. wondering why you wasted your time. This movie takes it to a new level, making u wonder if u should continue living after seeing it. I screamed my head off for the most part. Sometimes at night I still here the screaming. Has to be the worst acted, scripted and edited movie in the entire history of movies. Van Dam has gone too far with this one. The movie industry has insulted us in ways I cannot say and I 'm sorry to have seen it. Was a street fighter fan ever since the game was released several years ago. I watched the animated series with much delight. All that enjoyment has been tainted by the movie. DO NOT WATCH "},{"Title":"Not As Bad As Everybody Says, But Still Horrible","Date":"5 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well the script and cast was weak, but the action was pretty decent and Van Dam as Cor. Guile a perfect fit for the role, i mean who were you expecting, Robert DeNiro? Even the rest of the cast were F-Level actors who only got casted because of the resemblance of the video game characters, which were good only for that. Lets take this film for what it is, a chance for Hollywood to capitalize on the fighter video game craze of the mid-nineties. It's no Mortal Kombat but i'd rather watch this film again than Resident Evil any day (don't ask why). Besides, The Soundtrack was Way better than the film. Any Hip Hop fan should check it out. the soundtrack i mean. "},{"Title":"Very Good Film","Date":"4 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm probably one of the few individuals that will actually defend this film. Due to all the negative comments this movie receives, believe it or not, it is actually a good film. Though the film's plot strayed far away from the actual game's plot line, you must give some credit to the writer for actually trying to come up with a workable plot for the film. Anyway I felt like this film is good for what it is worth.Though this film was critically panned and bombed at the box-office, this film couldn't have been released at a better time, as I feel. This film was indeed released when Van Damme was at his prime in movies. On a whole, this film is not as bad as people make it out to be. To be honest, this is one of my favorite Van Damme films ever.All in all, don't let the negative attention centered around this film turn you away from watching it. You might actually like it. I admit if I would've seen this movie for the first time, now, at my current age, I might not would've liked it. Street Fighter happens to be, in my opinion, one of those great childhood action films that you can fondly look back on. Anyway it's a good film that is worthy of a view at least once. "},{"Title":"Unutterably dire","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film entirely fails. It fails to engage, it fails to entertain, it even fails to amuse. Based on a video game, with some attempt to create a comic book style, but there's no meat on the bones, and the bones are rickety. VanDamme is VanDamme. When it comes time to kick someone, he's your man. Up until then, he looks pretty. Why has someone tattooed a US flag on his shoulder? Minogue is very easy on the eye, especially in the blue vest. And she isn't singing. But there's any number of ways of admiring pictures of Minogue and most of them can be effected without having to hear her singing if it's not to your taste! Ming-Na is also easy on the eye especially in the very silly dress or the black catsuit, and she's not quite so ubiquitous, so that could be this is the film's saving grace. She also has the only role that comes close to having anything in it to work with. Raol Julia tried hard, but even here the character just doesn't work. I suggest you watch The Addams Family, which is brilliantly written and really gives Julia a chance to show his not inconsiderable talents.At the end of the day, this is a waste of good celluloid. Watch something else. Anything. "},{"Title":"For me it was tuesday.....and other great Bison quotes","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Seen this movie a million times. Despite its lack of accuracy to the game it was still amusingly cheesy. And Bison ruled! Raul played the hilariously patronising dictator genuinely well. Great lines you MIGHT have been successful I guess you didn't SEE that did you? and so on. Patronising and funny. Imagine if Hitler was like that, seeing as Bison pretty much WAS Hitler, for example Wanting to wipe out every creed/nation, the gas chamber, his dictator hat, had his own Auschwitz (Dhalsim etc) to experiment on people (Blanka). Makes me wonder.None of the American forces were actually American it seemed. Cheap actors I'm guessing.Guile was crap.A great classic for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"As Luke De Ayora once said...What the crap...","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And thats exactly what I said when the ending credits rolled for this movie. Only I said it a lot louder.This movie is a mockery and a shame to a good game called Street Fighter. EVERY character was out of place, the acting was horrible, and the fight scenes were REALLY mediocre.Here are examples previously stated by others... Cammy is on the good side, and Zangief is on the bad side...Blanka mysteriously turned into Charlie Nash...Dhalsiam is a scientist (since WHEN is he a scientist?), Bison doesn't know how to fight, Vega lost his coolness, and there were other large things you might notice.The acting was so lousy, that you didn't even care if Ken or Ryu got killed or lived. Jean Claude Van Dammit STILL cannot pass himself off as an American. The only good acting came from Bison.This movie did no justice to Street fighter, nor did it follow the real plot of things.For those of you who might think this movie is good, but haven't seen it yet, don't ruin it for yourself and see it.  "}{"Title":"Aw, it wasn't that bad!!","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I think people are being very unfair about this movie. For a 1994 film it's got great production values, and also a fair deal of (intentional) humor. The plot is pedestrian, but no more so than any James Bond flick. It's true that Jean-Claude isn't very good; in fact, this movie, despite being a vehicle for him, would have been just as good (or bad) without him. But you have to admit that Raul Julia is a class act! In short, this movie was a lot better than I feared (though I'll grant that my expectations weren't high).Ming-Na Wen is very cool, and even Kylie Minogue is into the overall slightly self-ironical feel of the film. It's not a tenner, but, guys, it deserves more than a 3!6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Soooo much $","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie cost me a lot of money to watch. First there was the $10 for the ticket, the $5 for the pop corn and soda, and then $50 to clean the guys clothes I puked on. This movie made me sick. Street Fighter is a classic video game, and then they turned it into a movie. BIG MISTAKE. This had nothing to do with the game. Dont waste your time watching this movie.Rating One Thumb Up "},{"Title":"Everything Could Have Been Better!!!!! But the idea was genius!!!!!!!!!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  DANIEL MANIA COMMENT #10This was one of the greatest box office travisties in the history of film!!!! I admit that Van Damn was the best person to play Colonel Guile and Raul Julia was a great M.Bison but the rest of the entire film was left in shambles!! Why Oh Why??!!!!!!!! First of all there were no decent special effects in the entire film. Second, the costume designer should have been drug out into the street and shot after the film's premier!!!!! Blanka looked like E.T. on steriods and why the hell was Balrog rolling with Chun Li Zhang.  Here are some questions I have for the producer and director of this film!!!Why did Vega have black hair?? Why was D.J. a computer hacker??? Why were the two actors who played Ryu and Ken casted???? Where were the special effects?????!!!! Why was T-Hawk with the A.N.??????  I would just like to know.Ok the movie was very bad, however, I do suggest that it be added to your Martial Arts dvd collection because of it's genius concept. I mean the story was great and the martial arts choreography was ok minus the so-called special moves!!!! This is an 8/10 and nothing more and the only reason I don't scorch this film with a 2/10 is because of the idea in general and the story.Once again this is Daniel K. Nelson giving you a better comment on an underrated movie. Be sure to ask about my burning of the film 9 Deaths of the Ninja, the absolute worst ninja film I have ever seen!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"They're not laughing with you Jean, they're laughing AT you","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh boy this is bad. Not even worthy of a comment. There are some small, re-deeming bits in it. Some notable fight sequences, but to be honest its all wiped away with a really tacky plot for a game that had the potential to be the next Enter the Dragon clone.Ah well.Overall 0/10. "},{"Title":"Quick! Change the channel!!(Spoilers)","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie sucked big time... This comes from a MEGA-SF Fan... The script was awful... With the exception of the Quick! change the channel!! line from Zangief... The cast was horrible with the exception of whoever played Zangief(Very similar to the videogame counter part.) And Ral Juli who was a great actor. The story was a bit lame since the Street Fighter story circles around RYU not GUILE. The scriptwriter destroyed the characters. Ryu's a natural fighter and Ken is a mega-rich dude... But they are trafficking illegal nerf guns... Chun Li the Interpol detective a REPORTER?! Blanka's name is JIMMY, not Charlie!! It would've been better if they would've stayed closer to the game's storyline (Like the first Mortal Kombat movie) I feel sorry for most of the actors who worked on this movie... I Think I saw Ryu do a Hadoken to Vega but still the movie sucked... At least Van Damme didn't do the split and showed his butt. A Ral, Vaya con Dios... To the rest of the cast... At least you got paid for this...err...movie "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The film is awful, from start to finish. If you've ever played the game (even once) you will be disgusted by the terrible use of such a great story. The characters are wrong, the setting is wrong and the film is just WRONG. I feel sorry for Jean Claude van Damme and Kylie Minogue whenever I pass this film by. As for Raul Julia, this was a horrible end for such a great actor. "},{"Title":"A poor film in itself and a terribly bad adaption of the games.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Anyone with a fondness for videogames is bound to be familiar with the Street Fighter franchise. Those who grew up or were around during the big home console boom have even very probably played some version of Street Fighter 2 to death and know the characters quite well. And to those, it will be blatantly obvious how -wrong- this choppy adaption of the game is. People bad-mouth the Super Mario Bros movie for being too loosely based on the games, but the Street Fighter film is much worse in that department. So much in fact, that this almost looks like an alternate universe version of the Street Fighter saga, and not a very pretty one either.As usual with videogame adaptions (especially fighting game ones), one shouldn't really expect anything of earth-shattering levels. Most of us will be satisfied just to see the characters from the games fleshed out on the screen and strutting their stuff for a bit. Well, not so here. There's some kind of silly plot going on about rescuing a bunch of hostages from flipped dictator wannabe M. Bison. Oh well, any excuse would be good enough to have the characters from the games appear and beat each other up, but the movie starts to do everything frighteningly wrong almost right from the start.Primo, some bright spark decided that almost all the characters had to be completely changed from their game selves. I'm all for originality, but this just ends up looking embarassing. The grim and mighty Sagat from the games turns into a dopey-looking smuggler of sorts, Ryu and Ken are cast as bunch of semi-outlaw ruffians instead of the worthy warriors we know (also note that the Yank actors don't even know how to pronounce Ryu's name. If I was called Ryu, I'd slap the face of someone who called me Rai-yoo), and it goes on and on. To fans of the game, a lot of this will seem terribly clumsy, if not downright insulting to the characters they know and love. Beefy Russian Zangief was never a faithful servant of Bison's, and neither was Dee Jay (Balrog the boxer has also changed sides suddenly and is one of the goodies...and a news reporter at that). The whole shebang just seems like a total mess, thrown together after just playing the game for two minutes. The way Blanka and Dahlsim were turned into complete farces speaks volumes.It's doubly painful to see how shoddy this has become when you consider how easily all these mistakes could've been avoided. Unlike a number of other game adaptions, there is some simple, yet solid base material for a film to be found in the Street Fighter games. The movie could've taken on a more linear path, describing a big martial arts tournament just like in the games, where everyone has their own (sometimes slim) reasons for competing and taking on Bison. It would perhaps have been unoriginal, in a Bloodsport-on-acid kind of way (side note; Bloodsport actually reminds one much more of the Street Fighter games than this film, with a world warrior flavor clearly present in there), but at least it would've done it's job of turning a game into a film properly.The way it is now, the character's names and costumes are the only slight similiarities to the games (plus a few teeny-tiny references). Overall it's just a messy and corny film, that's more like a trippy action movie for young children rather than a film based on the games. It doesn't even resemble a martial arts movie very much. Sure, there are fight scenes, but they're not quite Bruce Lee (Fei Long is missing from the movie, by the way), and are hampered by cheesy lines and dumb hampering around. Most of the action you get here would feel more at home in a standard run around and blow everything up kind of film. This is not so much a Street Fighter movie as just a forgettable action/warfare film on caffeine.Although the cast features some big names, one really has to wonder who came up with the bright idea of casting Raul Julia as a flipped dictator (who's even supposed to be a grandissimo martial artist. No, seriously). It's nice to see Van Damme again, though the day-glo yellow rinse they did for his hair won't go down well with everyone. And seriously, if you're going to star him in a film, at least have him strip off large amounts of kit at some point.In a nutshell, this is a travesty. The film fails miserably at everything it tries to do. Still, at least there's an anime version of the game (several ones, in fact) that does a more faithful and overall far better job, I'm told. Just goes to show you that Japanese games are better off being adapted by Japanese studios. Or studios who have some kind of clue, for that matter. "},{"Title":"Should have been better, but wasn't","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It seems that there was a trend to movies based on video games. Before the first Mortal Kombat came out, no film could quite get that enjoyment level. Super Mario Bros. and Double Dragon turned out to be huge flops, and sadly, so has this movie. All three basically have the same problem in common - the plot of the movies has little to do with the video game, which may turn off most viewers familiar with each series.Granted, I was expecting Street Fighter to be a high-impact movie laden with special effects and spectacular fight scenes, but this film delivered on neither. The only convincing fight scene was the showdown between Guile and M. Bison (and even THEN, I wasn't convinced).There were lots of inaccuracies in this film (that only hardened Street Fighter purists might notice) - for instance, Dhalsim as M. Bison's evil doctor, E. Honda's character being played by a Samoan, Balrog holding a gun (with his boxing gloves still on, no less!). And whoever did the casting for this film should have been fired immediately after the film was completed! OK, OK, so maybe there were a few casting accuracies (Ming-Na Wen as Chun-Li, and Raul Julia (God bless his soul) as the sinister M. Bison), but there were a few BIG misses (Jean-Claude Van Damme as Guile, and Peter Tuiasosopo as E. Honda --- they don't really fit their characters) that couldn't be overlooked.I can't say that this is the WORST video game-themed movie ever made, but I'd give it a 4, because it did manage to retain some of the game's hotness. I'd rather watch Mortal Kombat over this one, though. "},{"Title":"He tries so hard, but...","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing several of his attempts at film, (Timecop, Universal Soldier, Bloodsport, Street fighter, Hard Target) I have decided that Jean-Claude Van Damme just can't make a good movie.  I feel I have given him ample opportunity to prove otherwise, and I get let down every time.  He consistently fails to incorporate the necessary elements (worthwhile supporting cast, interesting plot and at least a decent script) that would make any of his films successful.  After so many downers, one would think he'd try to deviate from his standard, (selling the whole movie on himself and his martial arts skills..) but no... here he manages to scrape up only one positive component - a great villain.  Street Fighter's only asset is the intense and talented Raul Julia, who (unfortunately) got his name attached to it just before his death.  If nothing else, consider the film some kind of shrine to this notably fine actor. "},{"Title":"It burns!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film has nothing to do with streetfighting - not even god knows what the plot is - or Streetfighter - it just uses the characters costumes and names. All american guy Guile is played by Van Damme, who doesnt speak english. The other characters are all played by ex-baywatch losers, and the cast is generally an ensemble of beefcake brainless wonders. There are all 3 signs of bad-acting on display in this movie - 1) Many pauses in dialogue 2) No emotions shown throughout whole movie 3) Jean-Claude Van Damme At the end of the movie the bad-guys lair blows up and the heroes all pose while the credits begin to roll. It just feels like the makers expect us to be cheering + that theyre showing us a picture of the team for future sequels. The sript is poor, its not funny, the action sequences suck to hell (this film was crying out for some techno), there is an air of low budget, its a lame end for Raul Julia - this is one of the worst films ever - next to Moonwalker, Beastmaster 3, the secret agent club and - thats right, youve guessed it - Mac and Me. I cant believe this writer De Souza came up with this script after such greatness as Die Hard - well i can he also wrote the catchphrase and cliche laden Running Man and Judge Dredd, which this is also. I mean who really wants to hear unfunny lines after killing someone in an amusing way - its just easy and lame. + In the game M Bison can fly right so when he gets electracuted at the end he can fly - its pathetic. The costumes loom clean and unrealistic, everyone is tanned and dont even look like theyve done a days work let alone had a fight.Dont watch this film its pitiful. "}{"Title":"How low can you go?","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I watched only the end part of this movie, and I would have left if it weren't for the fact that I had absolutely nothing better to do at that particular moment. I'm glad I didn't see more of it. Shame on the person who came up with this ridiculous stuff. Bad dialogue, bad humor, bad plot, all bad. A word of advice turn off your brain before attempting to watch this movie, otherwise it will be damaged. "},{"Title":"I Wasn't Impressed","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie when it aired on t.v. a while ago and I felt that the movie was predictable, badly written, at times went over the top (like the scene with Bison flying), and had some cheesy effects (like Blanka, who sort of reminded me of the live action Incredible Hulk t.v. series when he could have been more hairy and arcade game controls on Bison's hover craft). I also wasn't really impressed with the action in the movie (it seemed like there wasn't enough fighting in the movie) and some of the continuity with the game.  They could have left out the scar on Sagat's chest because in the original Street Fighter game, the scar came from a fight with Ryu but the two don't fight each other in the movie. "},{"Title":"Crikey, Jean-Claude!","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is amazing to me that this film ever gets shown on TV anymore But it continues to pop up like the bad penny it is. Jean-Claude leads a ragtag crew on a mission to defeat Colonel Bison, played by a visibly ill Raul Julia, who looked like he could barely stand when he made this one. The film was shot on the ultra-cheap and it shows. It also apparently does not conform in any way to the video game, not that I care. Videogames and I parted company pretty much around the time the Playstation 2 arrived. Jean-Claude was definitely on a downhill slide when he made this, and shortly thereafter the Muscles From Brussels found himself relegated to the STV racks. He was starting to age by 1994, and not in a pleasant way. I don't know why, but my favorite part of this awful pic is Jean-Claude leading a flotilla up a river toward Colonel Bison's fortress. Better he and his men should have gone fishing. Then we might have had an adaptation of one of my all-time favorite games, FISHING DERBY. "},{"Title":"Streetfighter  is Beyond Tragic, Rather It Sucks","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are clearly no other words to describe how terrible Streetfighter the movie is, other than the director, writers and producers of this film have paid little attention to the video game. I've played Streetfighter 2 a few times in the past and so I am well familiar with the characters in the game. By far, one of the most horrendous films ever produced, the truth is this could've been a great film to watch. Sadly however, the martial arts fighting style has been mostly watered down in favour of ammo, guns and bazookas. As for the cast, I beg to differ when in comes to criticising the cast choices; likewise, Cammy- she is supposed to be British and so she has an English accent and yet who plays her role? Kylie Minogue, of whom is in fact an Australian and is more famous for her pop career than a film one. If I was the director, I would've hired Tamzin Outwaite who used to be in the British soap opera east enders, as a) she's blonde and b) she's a Brit. As for Guile, Van Damme? Are you sure? He has a Belgian/french accent, for goodness sake. I would've had Dolph Lundgren instead, never mind Van damme. Okay, Lundgren is from Denmark but he sounds more American than Van Damme does. And instead of Ming-Na Wen for the role of Chun Li, I'd have Zhang Zhi in her place. I have nothing against Ming, as i think she is very talented and deserves better than this tripe but rather I'd have an actual Chinese born actress playing a Chinese Born character. Speaking of Chun- Li, whoever thought of the idea of her being a news reporter?! That is so ridiculous. As others have said on here, Guile was never the main character in the game- and yet to the directors, they thought that because Van Damme was more well known and recognisable than Kylie and the others in the acting, sorry film world, they thought we might has well have him as the main focus of the movie. The inconsistencies in this flick are there for fans to see. The fight scenes are almost laughable to watch. This version of Streetfighter, is OMG so bad that this movie and Super Mario Bros must rank up there as the worst of the worst in film video game adaptations. De Souza has got everything wrong in this movie that Streetfighter the live action flick has become a complete and utter turkey- and a big turkey for that matter.If you are looking for some genuine Streetfighter action, turn your attention to the awesome Anime version and AVOID this piece of turd. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you think","Date":"11 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Since this is an old movie I'll try and keep this relatively short. Everyone has already said how and why this is a bad movie and everything they say is a legit reason to hate this movie. However, I actually want to give this movie a positive review. Looking beyond the inaccuracies to what is considered canon in the Capcom storyline (which is probably the main complaint), this movie is just fun to watch. Lots of great dialogue exchange, some pretty nice action sequences, and excellent campy comedy. That doesn't mean it's a good movie though. The story overall is only average at best and there were a lot of noticeable editing mistakes (or just lazy editors). However, I still find this an entertaining movie to watch. The best way to enjoy this movie is to take it for what it is action comedy.Pros +Actors look close to their video game counterparts +Good overall action +One of the most quotable movies +Simply hilariousCons -It is at best an average movie -Bad editing -You still might be mad because it's not accurate to the game "},{"Title":"Hmmm... Does my nickname tells you something?","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was bout 10, big fan of the video game and didn't even know who Kylie Minogue was. I've always hated Jean-Claude Van Damme, except for his butt. Who ever told him he was an actor, must be hanging in some plaza and its balls should be selling as costume earring. He's always hideous, and this film isn't an exception.Know, Raul Julia, a Latin pride. Did he die because of insanity? Only someone as not well coordinated of his faculty would choose a movie like this and play a character like that. After this movie, I've become European. The movie used to fascinate, that's why I give it 2 stars. But know I find it pointless, and don't let me start with the VG that inspired this piece of crap.And know to the matter that brings me here... Ms Minogue. She's my idol, but I can't stop thinking how come she's always involve in such terrible movies (I've heard good comments bout The Delincuents tho). She's part of the stage here. She's doin nothing. Tis a shame cos I've always adored female characters on video game.Besides that, cute ending. "},{"Title":"I think this takes the cake for worst game to movie conversion.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember when Street Fighter 2 came out.  Oh, it changed my life.  It changed everyone's lives.  Why?  Because it was an amazingly addictive fighting game with cool moves, cool characters, and cool graphics (at the time).  It truly changed the face of video games for ever.  I was so excited about the movie...Well, it's horrible.  I mean it's really, really, really, bad.  I'm talking worse than Super Mario Brothers bad.  Okay, where's the main problem (among many) Jaun Cluade Van Damne.  How many people out there like this guy.  Okay, the two of you go somewhere and die.  Now who thinks he is a horrible actor who is also bad at martial arts mostly due to the fact he is getting too old?  Okay, that's about 2, maybe 3 million people.  I didn't know that many people came to the IMDB.  Anyway, the man is down right one of the worst actors of all time, right next to Daulph Lundgren.  And guess what?  He does a bad job in this movie.Okay, next problem.  There are too many characters.  Aparently, whoever made this movie decided to put EVERY DAMN CHARACTER FROM THE GAME INTO THE MOVIE!  Only really good directors can handle a large amount of characters.  Well, guess what?  This guy sucks, so he failed at his job as well.  Oh, and none of the characters are very interesting and I really don't care who lives or dies.I will say one thing.  Casting Raul Julia as M. Bison was a nice touch.  The man is a good actor and he shows it.  Too bad this was his last movie.  If he were still alive, he'd kill himself in shame.So, other than that, is there ANYTHING to savor about this movie.  Well, it does have a cool high tech boat.  And the fight sequences are... wait a minute.  The fight sequences suck too!  There only a few seconds long and they're horribly done!Okay, in conclusion this movie suffers from too many characters that the audience couldn't care less about and that no one put any effort into this movie to make it any good.  I guess it's pointless to say that the plot is SOOOOOOOOO stupid.  If you thought that Mario had a dumb plot, oooooo boy, wait till you see this.  No, wait, don't see this.  Save yourself while there is still time.  This movie isn't funny bad in an MST3K way.  It's bad in a way that it will kill you if you stare at it for too long.2/10 "},{"Title":"Lots of fun and who cares if it's not like the video game","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sure you can say it used the success of the franchise horribly but still I couldn't careless about the crappy story in the video game. This movie was a lot of fun, it has the right amount of humour, action, story. The comical timing in this is great, there are some really great moments in this movie that'll leave you laughing even at the end of it. Even if it's corny a lot of movies nowadays suck I would rather watch something like this then whatever crap is on TV. I'm a huge street fighter fan too I have all the games at home but some us just need to enjoy life a little more and stopping being picky about every little detail "},{"Title":"***.53.5 out of 5 stars,an entertaining but has a rather bit more ofa prob. with artistic license(not gratioutous) but in more of plotwisefighter flick","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I personally thought the film was well entertaining although unlike SMB,the movie, the artistic license wasn't gratuitous but it more affected the characters wrongly,(true Guile & BLanka & Dhalsim went well so with Bison,but everybody else got a little messed up true E.honda could be helping with Chun-li on her line of work(Newscasting) but Balrog well face it HE'S SUPPOSE TO BE ON BISON'S SIDE C'MON!,I think ryu should be fighting Sagat instead of vega & let ken face vega,& I know it's practically impossible to get T.Hawk to look authentic without it looking like fake padding but they apparently tried their best,but we should well know ZANGIEF & DEEJAY WERE NEVER ON BISON'S SIDE DESPITE THE ANIMATED SERIES(for zangief),& although Ming-na wen looked like a well authentic Chun-li, Kylie Minogue didn't look like a completely authentic Cammy,(perhaps they're trying not to get someone too busty),& although rather minor I think Vega's mask looks a little cheap(common Store-brought)but still it has a well good amount of entertainment value & guile,bison,chun li,E.honda,Vega,Sagat,Balrog,Blanka(after the change),Dhalsim(even though you'd wish he had a little bit more fighting time),deejay,zangief(everybody else looked amuteurish I already said for Cammy,T.Hawk,but ken & ryu didn't look right with the haircuts,& okay so maybe this Sawada can be a okay fighter but why use him for a replacement for Fei Long),& this is also Raul Julias last performance(M.Bison) which would many filmwatchers whould think that his last performance would be of a film like this,furthermore despite the large amount of plotting & smaller amounts of casting problems,the film turned out very good.  "},{"Title":"if only it was REALLY bad!","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" before i start let me say, i like all kinds of movies, and i like my fair share of crap. but this film is just awful, i don't mean funny-awful, like Troma or Roger Corman, i just mean amateur-ish and weak, there is not one element to redeem it, not the casting(laughable) the set design(clichd) the costumes (home-made?) the action sequences(slow, ponderous and poorly executed). if they wanted to rape and exploit the franchise in an engaging way then they should have given it to Corman, then at least we could have had a laugh. this director clearly has no interest or knowledge of the subject. they could have taken the opportunity to go all the way and make something monumentally baaaaad, but unfortunately the director lacked the skill for such lofty aspirations and were stuck with this tame, lame studio turd that won't engage anyone over the age of twelve.if you have attention deficit disorder,thought Sylvester Stallones Driven was much better than Grand Prix(1966) or have never seen a motion picture before in your life and have a pre-occupation with Kylie Minogues rear end, then you MIGHT, just might be able to make it to the end of this stink bomb. Having said all this if you've gone as far as reading this your probably gonna watch it anyway, but take my word for it, your time would be more productively spent masturbating "}{"Title":"It was good!","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I can't understand why so many people hate this movie. It's a great action movie with a great plot! Maybe the problem was that the plot had so many details that if you turned your head for too long, you miss something important. But then don't look away. It's a very detailed movie but it's good!If you haven't seen this movie, see it and then make up your mind. I loved it. It's one of my favorite movies. I made the mistake of waiting years to see it because I heard how bad it was. It was on TV so I decided to watch it. I'm sorry I didn't see it in theaters. Like I said before, I loved it.Lots of action and great dialogue. The acting was pretty decent. 9/10.  "},{"Title":"why do people hate this movie?","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Almost everyone i talk to hates this movie.  They think it is the worst movie ever made.  I would have to disagree.  I think the movie has some good parts and some not so good parts (like when Ryu, Byron Mann, tells Ken at the end i know you don't, in the deep voice)  I believe that Street Fighter is one of the best made from a video game movies out there.  I wish people would see that. "},{"Title":"Watch the animated movie instead.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being the fanatic of the video game series that I am, I was eager to see this movie when it first came out.One word.Garbage.The movie does the video game on which it is based no justice whatsoever. If you want to see a good video game based film, watch Mortal Kombat instead.And what the hell was up with those guys playing Ryu and Ken.And Jewan-Claude Van-Dumb playing Guile? A Belgian playing an American. How dumb can you get!And the script?Someone actually got PAID to write that crap-ola.Let me take a shot at it....while I'm not a professional screen writer, I certainly couldn't have done any worse than that.Whoever did the casting for that film needs to go flip burgers if that's any example of how they do their other projects.Maybe I'm being to critical here, but I expect the movie to at least remind me of the game. Nothing did.Watch the animated version.  "},{"Title":"Good Van Damme film base on the video game classic!","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie based on the classic Street Fighter 2 video game is a good film and I don't think it deserves to be on the IMDb bottom 100 #48. Sure it may not exactly follow the game and some of the characters maybe inaccurate and the movie may seemed rushed at times but isn't other movies like that also especially if they are based on video games?Jean-Claude Van Damme is very good in the movie Guile but the late great Raul Julia put on the best performance in the film!He made M. Bison a really great and feared villain with such a spectacular personality!They other characters are good and most of them do resemble the ones in the video game.If you haven't seen Street Fighter and love Van Damme films and what to see Raul Julia in an excellent performance(arguably his best) then I recommend you see this action packed movie based on the great video game! "},{"Title":"you have to understand","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't like when people have unilateral opinion that Street Fighter movie is bad.I saw it when I was 15 yers old, and I absolutley loved it; why is everyone so critical of acting and plot.  Did the game had plot at all?  I agree that it is certainly not the type of film for movie goers or amture audience; but it is descent for the fans of the game.I mean late Raul Julia takes excellently on the role of the game villain Mr.Bison, who kills A.N. soldeirs; van Damme is adequate in his depiction of Guile; other notable performances are Miguel A. Nez Jr. (he is actually funny in every scene), Wes Studi (i had him pictured for the role of Saggat before movie came out), and Andrew Bryniarski as Zangieff.  And you got to appreciate Roshan Seth as Dalsim.I mean, its just a game, and the movie was good treat for game fans, it even produced a game based on the movie; yes the plot is kind of silly especially when it comes to tragedy of Blanca turning into beast and van Damme's stealth boat - so what - good action, nice comedy, nostalgic for game fans - don't like it - dont watch it7/10 "},{"Title":"!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!! I Don't Know Where To Start.... Poor Adaptation, Bad casting.., Very Crap Dialogue, !!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being a huge fan of the fighting game franchise. I expecting the simple process of bringing the game to movie screen. I was wrong, very wrong. First off the worst casting in history, Van Damme as Guile, an american. HE CAN'T EVEN SPEAK ENGLISH. The whole movie his crappy accent doesn't even come close to a spoken word of english, let alone an american accent. Ken and Ryu as characters, was a bad choice. COME ON THEIR GUN DEALERS, WHO DEAL FAKE NERF GUNS!!!! ? COME ON!!!!!!!. Why ruin two perfectly good characters and turning them into comic relief. Jeez. Not to mention the stupid and very cheezy Dialogue.. One of my favourites by Van Damme is trying give a speech about democracy..... Meanwhile, ideals like these - freedom, and justice - they get packed up. But... we can all go home. . And the even dodgier Dialogue Cammy Cammy here, are you alright? Guile Yes. I'm just half dead. Cammy And Bison? Guile All dead. Avoid this like the plague. It reeks of stupidity and bad writing. The fight seqences were slowly done and poorly acted out.   "},{"Title":"A must-see for all Streetfighter fans","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK, so it may not be the most eloquent or intelligent movies of all time, but Streetfighter is a classic for all enduring fans of the game and characters. As someone who as a boy, was an avid collector of the figurines and a great fan of the game, this movie was a must-see. It's a simple story with a simple theme-good vs evil.Set in a parallel or future Earth, a war rages. General M. Bison (Raul Julia) is the megalomaniac who desires world domination but believes his purpose is just and noble. Colonel W. Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is the UN Commander out to stop him. All fans of the game, look out for Ryu, Ken, Vega, Sagat, Zangief (a dumb follower of Bison), E. Honda, Balrog, Chun-Li (a reporter), Dhalsim (a doctor) and my favourite character, Blanka (who is a loyal friend of Guile). Featuring a cameo performance of Joe Bugner (an Aussie boxer) and starring Kylie Minogue (an Aussie singer), the movie leads to a final showdown between Bison and Guile.Entertaining, funny and always corny, Streetfighter is a lighthearted movie, in my opinion, solely aimed at the fans of the game, videos and figurines. As for those who have no background of the film, watch it but don't expect to see a meaningful film-it's an action vehicle for Van Damme and Julia (RIP). "},{"Title":"I don't care what anyone says...I like this movie!","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why is this film getting such miserable reviews?  I, for one, loved it.  The game and the movie can be two separate worlds, and still get their points across.  (Sorry, Disney's Inspector Gadget doesn't count)I read in a Gamepro magazine from July, 1994 where Steven E. De Souza (director) discussed some details in this movie.  He did say that all 16 characters would appear, though some briefly.  This movie wasn't trying to be a clone of the game...it was trying to exist on its own terms and merits, off today's headlines, so a few changes were made.  (I appreciate originality) The problem they did have was, the way this movie was being made, they had too many heroes and too few villains, so, to make this movie work, they needed to make a few changes.  Some characters will switch sides.  (ie. Balrog, the American boxer, known to the Japanese as M. Bison, is now a good guy, while DeeJay and Zangief, the kickboxer and the Russian, are aides for Bison)  In the October 1994 issue, a later annoucement was made that everyone but Fei Long would appear.  (I'll discuss it later)  But, still, most of the other characters do appear on their respective sides, in one way or another.  Guile, Chun-Li, Ken, Ryu, Honda, Dhalsim, Cammy, T. Hawk and Blanka are all good, while M. Bison, Sagat and Vega are still bad. Also, I do like the new story they gave Blanka.  The options were a young boy named Jimmy lost and raised in the jungles of Brazil, or a soldier named Charlie (Guile's friend in the game, who Bison murders)taken prisoner and mutated into a beast.  I mean, the former is something right out of Tarzan and the Jungle Book.  The latter plot must have pleased the CapCom execs, otherwise they wouldn't have permitted it!I see Sawada as a stand-in for Fei Long.  If he was in this movie (a Hong Kong movie actor) he'd probably get a wise-guy personality, making him like Ken Masters, the less serious of the two Shotokan students, and Johnny Cage of Mortal Kombat.  It wouldn't be Street Fighter without Ken, so, no Fei Long.  All in all, this is a cool movie.  Better than the Super Mario Bros. and Double Dragon movies.  And unlike Mortal Kombat, it can work on its own, without the game behind it.  It may be mindless fun, but hey, at least it's fun.  I thought Van Damme made a good Guile (he seems to stand up for everything good and right, making him a well-respected SF character), and Raul Julia really went out with a bang (no pun intended) as evil Major Bison.  If you can, also try the American Street Fighter cartoon.  (I have a comment on it, too) And if you hate this movie still, you'll love it after Paul Anderson releases that Resident Evil movie. "},{"Title":"Absolute rot","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Typical Van Damme theatrics as he leads a band of AN a thinly disguised glorification of the UN forces, taking on a madman dictator intent on world domination. How unusual! Many full auto magazines emptied, much screaming, and boatloads of martial arts techniques. Phony and totally lacking in realism, but action fans should love it. "},{"Title":"This film deserves more respect!","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm disappointed that this film is anywhere near the bottom 100. I agree some of the dialouge is cheesy (Bison's speech to his troops before the assault on Bison's island) but some of the scenes are brillant. Personally I crack up every time Van Damme pulls out the swiss army knife and believes that to be the reason that Bison's army is backing off. The role of Bison is played to OTT perfection as it should be in my view by Raul Julia, and also Kylie ain't that bad either. One final comedy scene to leave you with is when Bison is talking about how the world will rest in his loving hands and Zangief starts to sob That was beautiful. LOL "}{"Title":"Ihope this review will make you think why this really wasn't a bad movie.","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the best ORIGINAL sega, capcom games produces a blooming great movie,I don't know why everyone's rating it so poorly .I do know that it is a bit farfetch'd and sometimes seems ridiculous even compared to the sega game however if you look at it realistically and compare it to the multi million selling game it is a brilliant movie and lives up to the standards of the game. All the characters have kept to the game and it is obvious that the producers or whoever spent a lot of time adding detail and effort to the characters personalities, clothes etc. However it is obviously a hard job scripting the film due to all the characters backgrounds and so it often seems a little peculiar putting categorising certain characters but it's still good.The acting is mainly good however for some character there is little to see and the script is basic because, well so was the game. In a review i wrote that actor was cheesy however some actors wern't great but simply went by the script but the brilliant acting by Raul Julia was truly one to see as he plays a brilliant eccentric, You may know him form Addams Family. .They do give Van Damme and Kylie some poor lines but if u ever played the game u'd give this GREAT movie a 7/10 . They do,do great combat and their is often tension built so i say to not to slate this movie on it's random plot but to commend it's efforts and doing well to keep the game still going..The story goes that a mad man kidnapps loads and loads of important people for 20 billion dollars and it's cournal Guiles job to get them back .With combat, street fighting, romance and a good list of celebs it should appeal to most.Kylie Minouge = Cammy . M.Bison = Raoul Julia . Jean claude van damme = cournal guile .Ming Na = Chun li . MAY CONTAIN SLIGHTEST HINT OF ENDING. "},{"Title":"Street fighter","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the best ORIGINAL sega, capcom games produces a blooming great movie,I don't know why everyone's rating it so poorly . All the characters and that have kept to the game because the was a game . Brilliant acting by Raul Julia he plays a brilliant eccentric but Kylie's acting is POOR and CHEESY .They do give Van Damme so rubbish lines but if u ever played the game u'd give this GREAT movie a 7/10 . They do,do great combat .Mad man kidnapps loads and loads of important people for 20 billion dollars and it's cournal Guiles job to get them back .Kylie Minouge = Cammy . M.Bison = Raoul Julia .Jean claude van damme = cournal guile .Ming Na = Chun li . "},{"Title":"For the fans","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bottom line is, slam this movie all you want. If you are not a hardcore fan of street fighter then it is probably going to do nothing for you. But being a huge street fighter fan I think the movie rocked. Got to see all your favorite characters (chun li is so hot too) and it was entertaining. To me it's the best game to movie adaptation yet though I also liked Resident Evil.  "},{"Title":"Sucks","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is TERRIBLE.  Van Damme give his worst performance. Who wants to go home and who wants to go with me? This movie is as entertaining as a 9 volt battery. This one is not worth it. This movie will probably be way cool if your a 6 or 7 year old. Too bad Raul Julias last movie had to suck so badly. They can't even say Ryu's name right for crying out loud. Street Fighter is about Ryu and Ken not Guile. Raul Julia did do a good job playing Bison though. That was the only part of this suck-fest worthwhile. This movie is totally opposite from the game except for the part about Bison trying to take over the world. This movie is a JOKE. So are the fight sequences.  Never watch this movie. "},{"Title":"the greatest cinematic achievement of all time.","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time. unfortunately for you video game fanatics it might be a different story. but for all us G.I. Joe fans foaming at the mouth for an awesome cheesy G.I.Joe motion picture, this movie was a dream come true. Jean Claude Van Damme at his absolute best. and Raul Julia (God rest his soul) was in top form in his final bow. just the way i .like to remember him. in fact everyone was cast so well, barring Ming Na When as Chun Li, its hard to put my finger on who was the best. plus being written and directed by Eteven E Desousa, my favorite screen writer, wow. if there is a fault to this film, i have not found it yet. and in the immortal word of Van Damme. who wants to go home and who wants to go with me. "},{"Title":"Best Movie of Our Time","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am horrified to see the low reviews that many were giving this movie. My analysis? The movie is too smart for the reviewers.If Street Fighter was simply a serious action movie, than it would be lacking on several levels. However, Street Fighter is not a serious action movie. In fact, the movie is a parody of every action movie, and ultimately a parody of itself.Imagine being a writer and being told to write a script bringing together such random characters as the Russian Zangief, the Brazillian monster Blanka, the Thai kickboxer Sagat, and all-American Guile. What would you do? It would be nearly possible to create a serious and realistic plot from this. So the clever writer, de Souza, didn't. He made fun of the randomness of the game by creating a story that was paper-thin and dialogue that made no sense but sounded like action talk. The result was one of the funniest comedies of all-time.My evidence? Examine this line.Bison Why do they call me a madman? All I want to do is create the perfect genetically engineered soldier.That line, delivered by the amazing Raul Julia, summarizes the perfection of this movie. It is a hilarious and fitting line.Above the obvious humor, there is also a level of subtlety that is very amusing. Some of the jokes are hard to catch unless you've seen the movie 184 times, like me. For example - the text on the boxes that the AN troops are loading reads Inflatable Assault Vehicle. And during the prison break, Vega pulls out a prison claw, made from sticks and twine. These moments are nothing but comical genius.The bottom line is that Street Fighter is a beautiful and perfect movie, one of the only ones that I have ever seen. The only problem is in the ignorant viewer, who can't appreciate humor at its best. "},{"Title":"Bad, really bad","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie was in a theater in the fourth (!) grade. Of course back then I had no idea that there is such a thing as criticism when it comes to movies. But I still didn't find it entertaining(about a 100 times less than the video game).About ten years later I found out why I didn't find it entertaining. It's because hands down the movie sucks like a hungry calf sucks a teat. Anyone who has seen it and who is over the age of twelve can tell you that.The last time I saw it is now over a year ago. I thought the acting was god awful, even the representation itself of the characters from the video game (!) was horrible. And don't even get me started on the ridiculous plot. What's also sad is that this was the late Raul Julia's last performance on the big screen. I don't mean to be offensive but that would be a crappy way EVEN for Van Damme to end his appearance on the big screens.Because I was a huge fan of the video game, I will generously give this mess of a film a 2 out of 10 and also because it's one of those movies that make you laugh because they are so bad... 1/5 .. "},{"Title":"Bleh!","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Alright, when I first saw the trailers as a kid, I was expecting a good movie, I've played the old SNES Street Fighter games, and thought it would be great to see a movie based on the game. But instead I get this, it didn't seem to have the feel of the game, but I was a kid back then, I watched it. Man, this is another one, a game to movie that didn't work, just like that Super Mario Bros. movie. It was a mistake to put Van Damme in it, it probably was embarrassing for him to be in this. Maybe we're better off playing the game instead, because this, this is just plain awful. Avoid this at all cost. This deserves this quote from the game. YOU LOSE "},{"Title":"Probably the worst movie ever based on a video game.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Movies based on video games are usually pretty bad, but few sink this low, and it's incredibly sad that this was Raul Julia's last film. The script is ludicrous and the acting mostly awful, though this may be because of some terrible miscasting. There are a few mildly funny moments, some of them intentional, but the martial arts scenes are unconvincing and not very exciting.  "},{"Title":"Not Horrible.","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter wasnt horrible. You people act like this was the worst movie ever made. Ive seen hundreds(literally) of films that make this look like oscar material. This movie was obviously not taking itself seriously, lots of good humor and it was exciting. Bad movie or not i found myself enjoying it. JCVD was not that bad. Raul Julia did a great job as Bison and there would have been a sequel made to this if it werent for his death due to cancer. RIP. Ryu is suppost to be asian..i know in the game he looks white but hes not so im happy that in the movie they made sure he was what he was suppost to be. Him and ken are also not brothers, they were both trained at the same dojo, which is also mentioned in the movie if you pay close enough attention, so this film did not totally mess up the storyline of the game, it actually corrected a few things. I think this was an exciting and enjoyable film if you dont take it seriously, do not listen to pretty much all of the people reviewing this and give this movie a try, its not too bad. "}{"Title":"Wants to be entertaining, not violent - that's why some people don't like it","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"18 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Aside from Jean Claude van Damme's traditionally wooden performance, this movie is quite entertaining - that's because it is planned as a funny spoof of fighting movies rather than a cruel beat'em up. This is also what the game on which it is based was originally all about - fun rather than violence, parody rather than blood. Unfortunately, the movie attracted mainly people who expected cruel, violent massacre and were angry not to see it - an audience obviously not high enough to see and appreciate dozens of little jokes scattered throughout the movie (there are some, which are quite obvious - such as the parody of Japanese monster movies from the 1950s - and others, which require a more careful look - such as the lovely scene with the drawing, a parody showing Bison as Hitler, with a similar creative ambition and similarly ridiculous results!). The script was apparently too good for most of the audience who expected more of a violent fight such as Mortal Kombat the Movie - which those people obviously liked more. However, unlike any other fighting films, this one you might show to your kids and people who dislike fighter films - that is because Street Fighter is a harmless fighting comedy rather than a violent fighting action feature. "},{"Title":"Laughing at most reviewers (Read before giving this movie a 1/10)","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie ranks as one of my favorite films I have ever seen. I have watched the film over 7 times over the past month and have still enjoyed the work. Reason? People keep viewing this film as a serious VidGame-to-film adaptation. It isn't. This film has a creative license, which has it's own storyline, with a few game ideas thrown in. This film isn't supposed to be a serious action flick. It's a light-hearted action spoof, which is meant to entertain.I disagree with 99% of all reviews i have read all around the internet, in which to say that this movie doesn't suck. People just can't see it for what it really is - a spoof, not unlike Hot-Shots (albeit, not so obvious).Raul Julia is the best, and from what i feel, the Bison I'd imagine to be. Mad, self-opinionated, and damn sure of himself. So sure that he can still joke.People need to stop viewing this film as a straight forward VidGame-to-film adaptation. This is a film, with Street Fighter characters and a couple of Street Fighter backgrounds. I could guarantee that if all the characters were given different names, people would be complaining that it was a street fighter ripoff.Take my advice - give the film a go, and view it as a spoof. Something just to laugh at, and not taken seriously. Once you master that, you may begin to see why i love this film so much "},{"Title":"w-o-w","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i am pretty sure that no one will read this but man was this movie almost the exact opposite of what street fighter is.For instance Sagat is not 85 and Ryu is not 46,Balrog is not a good guy and E.Honda is not Hawaiian.The only character that was almost right was Vega (thats the only reason this movie get a 2) and i don't even like Vega.Now I'm starting to sound like a street fighter nerd but come on this was bad. This is what happened when they were thinking about this movie. noteThe boss is John and all of the other people are Bob JohnNow everyone to make this movie complete i need everyone to gather all the information about Street Fighter (Moments later) JohnNow everyone did you get and study everything about street fighter BobOf course we did so now we can make a great street fighter movie Johnexactly now i need all of you to throw everything out and keep only the bare minimum of street fighter Just from that little story you can get the gist of how this movie was made i would say more but i have other things to do at the moment so see all of you movie lovers later 1 "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics, this is a very good film","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"20 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't see why everyone hates this movie. All the characters are wonderfully portrayed. The dialogue is excellent. I'm glad Raul Julia listened to his kids and took the part. There is nobody who could portray M. Bison as good as him. This is one of my favorite movies. "},{"Title":"Everyone says its terrible but...","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"29 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first watched this as a young lad when it came out in 1994, i would have been in grade 4 at that point. I watched it as a street fighter gamer and loved the movie. I still watch it occasionally and I'm a 19 year old harsh movie critic. Now its obviously no Goodfellas or The Pianist, but for kids its a fun movie to watch and is pretty faithful to the games.I still watch it and cannot understand why everyone thinks it is so terrible, i only see the massive gunfight between Van Damme and Bisons army as the only terrible part of the movie. Its not oscar material and was never supposed to be.The plot has Bison (Julia) causing trouble in Shadaloo, some fictional pacific rim area I believe. He uses his drug money to fund his army in an attempt to take over the world. Guile (Van Damme) is a colonel in a fictional version of the UN, and is charged with stopping him, rescuing some hostages Bison has captured, and saving his old buddy. Now its personal.Long story short, it obviously lacks in some acting, character developement etc. But on the plus side the fight between Ken and Sagat and Vega and Ryu is as good as gold.People may think this movie is terrible, but i enjoy it for nostalgic reasons. "},{"Title":"Come on people, this was a decent movie!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"37 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just don't get why everybody did not like this movie. I mean it wasn't Shakespeare but I was very entertained for the roughly 100 minutes that the movie ran. Van Damme isn't the greatest but he was still beleivable This was a decent action movie with a plot and with some decent emotion and acting. Give it a break already! "},{"Title":"Re-defines the word turkey. Elevates PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE to Oscar material!","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"42 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There can be only one.....film that is, which is worse than all others and THIS is it folks! A movie for adolescent pea-brains. Not a solitary video-game has transferred to the big screen with even a modicum of success. Is money THAT available to make movies, that such an embarrassment as this could reach the point of actual RELEASE? Maybe no video distributor would touch it and they had no choice?By far Van Dumb's worst flick. Playing Colonel William Guile, he leads his commandos against the seriously insane General Bison, dictator and megalomaniac of the fictitious Shadaloo. Filmed on the cheap, up on Australia's Gold Coast amidst the worst plasticised sets you ever saw. Phony explosions fill the sky, make-up is at the level of Grade 2 face-painting and a script to match. The acting beggars belief, Kylie Minogue's just about topping the list! This is seriously heavy-duty garbage! Much was made of the singing budgie's  martial arts training for the film. From memory, she gets to perform a total of three high kicks which would be unlikely to cause distress to an elderly pensioner.As for Raul Julia as General Bison? It was to be his last screen role, completed just before his death (maybe he saw the rushes?) It is a sad epitaph he would never have wished for. No-one comes out of this mess looking good, not even the paying audience - ESPECIALLY them! In hindsight, the very last scene sums up the cringe-factor..watch it! "},{"Title":"The worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"11 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is without a doubt the worst movie I've ever seen. Usually when a movie is so bad you just move on and stop watching, but been a fan of Street Fighter I had to watch this thing from the start to the finish (twice in my life).The story is completely different that the story in the video games or the story of the other animated movies, Ryu and Ken are secondary useless characters, this movie is a waist of time.They just tried to make another action movie for Van Damme which impersonated Guile and was the main character in this movie, just another waist of time.I cannot believe how bad this movie was, just horrible. "},{"Title":"Laughable kitsch","Date":"23 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Written and directed by Steven E. de Souza (writer of Die hard , The Running man and Commando) this movie is often criticized as one of the worst movies ever. It's was based on popular computer game with no plot. Was there any plot in the game ? It doesn't really matters. The whole game was about colorful characters fighting with each other &#x96; that's it. Not really a material for good and serious movie. Street fighter is quite obviously aimed at kids. The whole story (bad guy wants to rule the world) , the dialogues , the humor , the costumes , music and art-direction are proof of that. The movie makers assumed that little kids are the fans of the video game , so they made movie aimed at them. That's why the movie is so bad.Fans of the game weren't happy with the movie , since it took some liberties with the characters and story. It works however as a decent adaptation. It presents quite many characters from the game that are quite well written into the story. Most of the characters did look like themselves or at least tried to.The movie has it's share of memorable and funny one-liners and dialogue. For example  Quick , change the channel , I guess you didn't see that or Bison's speech about burning the village.The best thing about this movie might is probably Raul Julia (The Addams family) performance as the evil general Bison. Julia understands perfectly the whole B-class movie style and is simply adorable in his performance.Jean Claude Van Damme , Kylie Minogue and the others are terrible when it comes to acting.There are some little jokes hidden in the movie - parody of Japanese monster movies from the 1950s , lovely scene with the drawing , a parody showing Bison as Hitler. You can even hear the voice of who was the main hero of movie Good morning Vietnam If nothing else this a so bad , it's good  type of movie. You will get quite a lot of cheap laughs of it. It's definitely more entertaining that many of those serious and professional movies. It never takes itself too seriously and it's so silly that it's almost an art. Today movies are trying hard not to be cheesy. This one embraces the cheese. The just don't make them like this anymore and that's at least one good reason to watch this movie.I give it 1/10. It's better than the Street fighter  Legend of Chun Li . "},{"Title":"Pure 1990s Cheese","Date":"14 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Colonel William Guile (Jean-Claude VanDamme) and various other martial arts heroes fight against the tyranny of Dictator M. Bison (Raul Julia) and his cohorts.Who else (besides this film's director and producers) can picture Kylie Minogue as a martial artist in the military?? Not I. Apparently they thought she had the right look to be Cammy. And I guess she does. With some of the others (Dhalsim) they did not even try to stick to the video game.This is generally considered a terrible movie. And, indeed, it is a terrible movie. But give them credit for what they were trying to do -- take a game with no plot and construct a narrative out of it, utilizing several characters in a coherent way. As silly as the result might be, it worked. Perhaps Mortal Kombat is the better film, but this still beats the heck out of the Mario Bros movie... what was going on there? "}{"Title":"Campy, ka-pow!, brain numbing entertainment","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After many years, I have have to admit that this movie isn't that bad after all. Note that I didn't say it was good, just not that bad. It's camp at it's best (or worse depending on your point of reference). Both the good guys and bad guys are silly, over act and shed no blood when killed. It's a throw back to the old fashion Saturday morning serials with a hearty hero, a raving madman and pretty girls. (Flash Gordon, Buck Rodgers, etc. anyone?) With so many characters in the Street Fighter game universe, it's virtually impossible to weave every single character into the story and still maintain cohesiveness in the story. I think they did a decent job, most fans of the game should have seen their favorite characters represented. (Unlike some game to film titles.....mumble.....DOA Dead or Alive....mumble ) Anyway, I think it's OK for what it is. They made one and let's keep it that way. What? Street Fighter The Legend of Chun-Li? Sorry, I don't recognized that movie. "},{"Title":"Shoryuken...","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" More like Sure you can't! I'm a fan of the Street Fighter video games. Like the Super Mario Bros Movie, this movie sucks. Why should this movie deserve a super-sized shoryuken with a side order of hadoukens? Let's find out...Let's take a look at the actors first. Jean-Claude Van Damme as Guile? BZZZZT! Jean-Claude Van Damme was born in Belgium and his accent doesn't match with Guile. Couldn't you get Sylvester Stallone to play Guile? And then there's a guy called Raul Julia. Now, I know what your thinking How could you be so insensitive? This is Raul Julia's last movie! He died after the movie was made! Well... I'll let Raul Julia go... For now... Hold on! Why is Dee Jay a villain in this movie? He's just a happy-go-luck Jamaican kick-boxer in the Street Fighter games! Why is he a villain?!! Okay, I'll get on with it. Now, on to the relationship with this game. Did the people who made this movie actually play the game? It doesn't sound like it. All the movie is about is corny dialog, phony fight scenes, and special effects so bad that it makes Baby Geniuses look like the original Star Wars Trilogy.There are movies based on video games that have no effort whatsoever and this movie, along with the Super Mario Bros movie, is no exception. If you disagree with me, then what the hell were you smoking? If you're a fan of the Street Fighter video games(Like myself), I suggest that you stay far away from this movie unless you want to pay tribute to Raul Julia. "},{"Title":"Not Faithful to the game","Date":"29 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Street fighter movie is the worst film adaptation of any game i have seen so far.The movie was not really faithful to the game. the characters had their background stories changed. In the game; the major character was Ryu; but in the movie the story was centered around Guile; i believe much story could have come from Ryu's side and it would have made the movie very interesting. Chun Li was another character that was not well developed in the movie; she was depicted as a news reporter which was not the case in the game. the Chun Li character would have contributed to making the story worth watching; but unfortunately her character was reduced to nothing. there were no special moves in the movie; the only moves we saw in the movie were poorly executed i.e Ryu's hadoken move against Vega and Ken's shoyuken move against Sagat. the storyline was too campy; there could have been a better storyline on the side of either Ryu or Chun Li. compared with Mortal Kombat and Dead or Alive movie adaptations; this movie bombed. "},{"Title":"This is why you shouldn't make movies based on videogames","Date":"26 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Here's the thing videogames are NOT movie material. Period. In videogames, the story serves just one goal to lead us into the game. The characters are NOT developed on purpose, the idea is the player fills the blank spots with his imagination... and I just can't figure out who thought anyone was filling Colonel Guile's space with a Belgian dude.Seriously, this movie is just boring garbage. Its more shameful flaw is that it's the last Raul Julia movie he was in some stupid movies before (such as Overdrawn at the Memory Bank), but, he was a great actor, and he should have been redeemed after this garbage... but life is cruel sometimes.There is really not much to say about this movie boring characters, boring story, laughable performances, strange plot-devices (Dr. Dhalsim?). It's one of the prime examples of why movies based on videogames suck.2/10 "},{"Title":"Stay away from this turd","Date":"29 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching Street Fighter in theatres back in 1993 when I was just a kid. At the time I thought it was a descent movie. After revisiting the movie after 17 years, I have to say this is the worst video game movie to date. The casted characters are just awful, the script is terrible, and the acting is worst than a STV movie. Raul Julia does a horrible job and he thinks this movie is Shakespeare or something. Van Damme is horrible and does not fit the character of Guille. I cannot believe they made a movie about Chung Li after this crap. Stay away from this movie and do not even pick this up if you see it in the dollar bin. "},{"Title":"Fight scenes are cheesy and no brutal action","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I must explain this to you that this movie has cheesy action fights and no brutal fights with some blood. I can say that this is not good enough if Jackie Chan should play Ryu. I think Lucy Liu should play Chun Li because she should be the one to play and speaks wonderful Cantonese and mandarin. Even Stallone would not make a good Balrog because he is 5 foot 10 inches and weighs over 200 pounds. Even if Stallone is 270 pounds, he still would not be a good Balrog. Raul Julia is not a good M. Bison because he is not Thai. Why not get a male Thai bodybuilder to play M. Bison? I think the cast is not good enough because it is a hard to choose problem. Stick to Jackie Chan movies. "},{"Title":"Van Damme Sucks","Date":"30 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I really don't like this film, because Jean-Claude Van Damme is definitely not right for the role of Colonel William F. Guile. Raul Julia was very good at playing General M. Bison, he was a fantastic actor. The plot was good, but Van Damme spoiled it for me. The fight scenes were realistic. Van Damme was not believable and the script was poor. The only thing that saves this movie from being a disaster is Julia's performance. Kylie Minogue was a pleasant presence in the movie. Obviously the plot was fantasy but with Van Damme's performance it felt even more far fetched. Ming-Na was also pleasant on the eyes but also a very bad performance. "},{"Title":"One man's trash is another man's M.Bison!","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" We all love the Super Nintendo classic game Street Fighter, but what was so annoying about it was that you had to press buttons and be interactive. And it didn't have Van Damme. Now you can sit back and relax and let the storyline take over! The plot involves General M. Bison (Julia) who wants to take over the world using genetic supersoldiers such as his guinea pig Carlos Blanka, but stopping him in his quest for world domination is Colonel William F. Guile (Van Damme) and his team of Street Fighters which include all the classic characters you know and love from the game, such as Ken, Ryu, E. Honda, Balrog, Cammy and Chun Li. Some of the evil characters are Zangief, Sagat, Vega and Dee Jay. They obviously took some liberties with the good and bad characters from the game. Naturally, Dhalsim is a scientist (with no stretching power).The 90's gave us some classic video game movies besides this one, such as Super Mario Bros.(1993), Mortal Kombat (1995), and Double Dragon (1994). What a golden time for unabashed cash-ins.When Van Damme isn't wearing his blue beret, we see that his hair is red. Not only is this the only movie to date where he is a ginger, As we all remember, Guile in the game is blond. A Van Damme highlight is when he says Bison...how many children are you going to orphan...I'm coming to get ya Bison! and then flexes his muscles in strange meathead fashion.Raul Julia as Bison once again proves the old adage Never have a last movie. See Raw Nerve (1991) for more information on this. After a speech about stoicism he then proceeds to chew the scenery to pieces. But what would you do in his situation? You have to feel somewhat bad for Julia, but he seems to be making the best of the situation before his tragic death. There is a point in the movie where we see an artists' rendering of Bison as a sad clown. Huh???!!?? Bison's suit has rocket boots and a CPR function. In other words it inflates in and out very funnily. His big line in the movie is GAAAAAMMMMEEE OVVVEERRRR!!!! You gotta love it...I think.Street Fighter is tailor-made for dumb-dums. Everything is spelled out for you. When gas floods Bison's HQ, Honda proclaims It's gas!!! When Chun Li jumps out of a window, Honda yells out She's gone!!!! Either Honda is a big moron, or he thinks the audience is.The budget must not have allowed for Dhalsim stretching, ha-do-kens and sonic booms. All the characters at least attempt to say their catch phrases. However, one of the most disappointing things about the movie is that E. Honda failed to do his classic move, the thousand-hand slap. Why even make a Street Fighter movie if that's not in it? The movie almost justifies its existence when at the end, all the heroes jump up in the air and shout Yeah! and there is a freeze-frame. Then the title comes up (sans the subtitle The Ultimate Battle, inexplicably seen during the opening titles). This is a great fan-favorite technique.After Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter is the second best video game movie of the 90's! For more insanity, please visit comeuppancereviews.com "},{"Title":"I like bad movies that are so bad they're good. This one is near the top of my list.","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like bad movies that are so bad they're good. This one is near the top of my list and like to explain why.First of all, in all so-bad-they're-good movies the villain is just pure hate and villainy. (check, the main baddie being a disapproved over-the-top version of Darth Vader) Second, all characters should look like they ran straight out of a comic book (obvious check, since the base of this movie is a computer game).Third, the army of baddies can't hit a thing with overpowered / modern weapons, when the hero has a small rifle (or a handgun) with he single-shots every baddie in the area. (check, and this movies makes that a double-check) Fourth, clich's about women. The only are annoying and just screw up everything ( according to the clich of course ;) ) (check, with one exception, a blonde girl does succeed in kicking some a**. Mr. Tarantino, have you been inspired by this?) Fifth, really dumb sidekicks (check. Only the bad guy has a dumb sidekick, but I take that as a check) Sixth, the plot is either very dumb or non-existent, with plot-holes the size of Texas (check, it really makes no sense at all, although the drop in the middle of the action twist was nice for a change) Seventh, it has to be predictable. (Check, at the end, the main building collapses with Jean Claude trapped inside. The main cast all thinks JCVD died, one minute they cry a bit, and in the next minute he walks up to to them and says that he is alive. / ) Eighth, even with all mentioned and taken into account, it has to be entertaining to the point it's actually re-watchable. (CHECK!!!, this one is really hilarious. The absolute rock-hard bottom in the movie is when the two heavyweights fought and it looked like they actually fell through the stage, I LOL'd very loud and thought I died, chocking in my laughter.)Wow, that's a 8 out of 8. Even Chuck Norris doesn't get that score with his Invasion USA. The script writers must have tried very hard to get to this level of cinema.In short high entertainment value, but still an obvious 1/10 being obvious. "},{"Title":"embarrassment to film industry","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Where should i start? Steven E. De Souza OMFG WTF is this ? u call this a movie ? JVCD was the only thing i thought i should try and watch this,because i love his awesome kicks,or maybe Kylie Minogue sexy ass,don't bother u ain't going to see anything like that in this movie..i was watching'it with my 10 years old nephew,at some point he started saying crap crap crap...if it could be worse? suppose so..Steven could gave Kylie the role of Guile, in my opinion its a disgrace to any producer writer director ...this should probably stand as a what NOT to do in a directing class...don't recommend this to anyone,its a waste of time and money. "}{"Title":"Solid 10 Stars!","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is so awesome! It gets my solid ten! Wow, I can't believe you guys hate it. You guys are just huge jerks, and I hope you come to realize it someday.Why do they still call me a warlord? And mad? All I want to do is to create the perfect genetic soldier. Not for power, not for evil, but for good. Carlos Blanka will be the first of thousands. They will march out of my laboratory and crush every adversary, every creed, every nation! Until the world is in the loving grip of the Pax Bisonica. And peace will reign and all humanity will bow to me in humble gratitude. - M. BisonSee guys, did you even watch the movie? Because you missed out on some great sh!t. "},{"Title":"is it not good?  in the words of M. Bison OF COURSE! but it's not the worst","Date":"18 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One could say simply this at least it's not Paul Anderson's Resident Evil, right? The 1994 Street Fighter is a movie anyone who grew up in the 80s (or maybe even the 70s) have seen at least once, either against their will kicking and screaming or with a bunch of friends laughing and yucking it up - or maybe even legitimate die-hard fans of the video-game, one of the definitive fighting games. It may have been impossible for there to ever be a good Street Fighter movie (and lets not kid ourselves, this is far from the Sonny Chiba Street Fighter in terms of just the fights themselves let alone the story), but perhaps we got the Street Fighter we deserved. It's colorful, crazy, a little random and even a little epic thanks to the BIG if inferior-to-Schwarzenegger presence of Jean-Claude Van Damme. Also very good is the decidedly one-note Raul Julia who did this as his last movie as one for his kids.So, what to criticize then if I'm trying to be fair? How about the completely non-sensical and basically militaristic plot, the weird blue camouflage gear made up as if the soldiers are fighting in the sea, the ill-attempts at comedy and the overwhelming bits of unintentional comedy, or just the cheesy make-up done for that guy in green with the orange hair? There's no limit to what to criticize, but at the same time Street Fighter is non-threatening in that way that sometimes bad movies can be. It arrives with a thud, and does some damage, but you can't say that you didn't have a little fun... unless, of course, you're looking for a really good video game movie, which is almost redundant at this point of modern cinematic history. "},{"Title":"So bad it's almost good","Date":"19 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter was one of the first computer games to be made into movie and help start the trend that computer games don't make good films. Street Fighter is at best an expensive B-Movie and few people deny that it's a bad film. However at the same time they is something strangely compelling when watching film.The story of the film is an international peace-keeping force is sent to a fictional country in South-East Asia. This force is led by Colonel William Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme (a bad Beligan actor playing an American)). His mission is to help stabilise the nation after the overthrow of the director M. Bison. Bison has an evil plan to regain power of the country and then world dominion. He kidnaps civilians and he demands $20 Million and all the Allied Nations forces to leave the country in 2 days or he would start killing them. Instead of giving in, Guile leads his forces to fight back against the villain, like the American hero that he is. Ryo and Ken are involved as well, but they are con-men in this film, who are involved in the underground fighting scene before getting involved with Bison. Blanka is also in this film as a part of Bison's evil plan, where he hopes to make to super-soldiers that would help him on his quest.There are a lot of problems with this film it is poorly written and directed. They is so much going on that it easy to get lost and lose interest sometimes less is more when it comes to film-making. The acting is terrible, the action is sub-par, only Van Damme is any good at fighting. It also has too many characters from the game, which ends ups people not caring for some of them. It would have been easier to just have a few of the major characters from the game and focus on them. As well the film is disloyal to some of the game's characters, especially Ryu and Ken, who were not lovable rogues but good guys in the game. Balrog was also made into a good guy, when in the game he was bad game. The filmmakers also seem to be on a mission to have as many nationalists as possible and be a politically correct as possible. It adds to a scene of unintentional humour. The film is funny but for the wrong reasons. It is like a car crash, you know you shouldn't watch it but you can't help it. "},{"Title":"A Great attempt at one of the First Video game Movies!","Date":"8 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This Movie is not as bad as people make it out to be, very fastly contradicting themselves without looking into the fact that this was a movie that Capcom put their money into not some huge name company like warner brothers.The Actors in this movie did well for one of the first video game movies ever put out, i believe they deserve a lot more credit, especially since if you were a movie actor and were handed a script for a video game, at that time how would you prepare for such a role? I don't think there are too many actors out there that were at home playing video-games at the time, lets face it they are a little more busy. So they did what they could, read some of the comics and did their best, which i have to say was pretty impressive, especially since most games at the time were more considered for the teen consumer.The Movie has a few Gags and the fighting styles are a little humorous, take the time to put yourself in mind that this movie might have been more than a challenge to make at that point in time and don't be to serious with it, enjoy the film as a kid comedy and I'm sure it will be much more appealing if you are looking for a violent no holds bars kind of movie i'd think about another film. It's not like they lied to us before the movie came out, they said it would be self funded by Capcom and the movie was directed towards a younger audience in the trailer. That in mind, try it once more, enjoy! "},{"Title":"Really Misunderstood excellent Interpretation","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I also agree with the reviewers that say this movie is horrible. I must also say, I can spot a bad movie from a mile away, and I usually agree with most reviewers, but not in this case.I've personally seen this movie about 8 times, and I don't think I was bored anytime I saw it. That's because I watch the movie for what it was meant to be, a more light hearted, witty, fun, action movie; NOT A THRILLER, OR DRAMATIC FILM.The more Dramatic interpretation of movies like Batman begins and Spiderman is suited to those type of movies. They tried to make Batman more comical, example- Batman Forever and Batman and Robin with disastrous effects; but this is not true in the case of Street Fighter.The Dialogue, cheesy as it may be, as it was meant to be cheesy, was witty, and extremely appropriate for THIS SPECIFIC FILM. These characters were not meant to be Humans with 50 emotional episodes for the duration of the movie. They were characters.WITTY MOMENTS THAT STAND OUTBison's over the top speech. But why? Why do they still, call me a War-Lord. And Mad....... All I wanted to do, is create, the perfect Genetic Soldier, Not for power... Not for Evil... But for Good... Carlos Blanka will be the first..etc,etc.. genetic soldier to march out of my Laboratory. They'll wipe out every creed, and every adversary, ..etc..etc.. is in the loving grips of Bisonica. And All of Humanity, will bow to me, in humble gratitude... And Zangief says, It was Beautiful..This movie was obviously not trying to be dramatic, or set new standards in film. Watch the film for what it was meant to be. If you want a dramatic interpretation of Street Fighter, studios may well make it. But this wasn't supposed to be dramatic.Great acting as well. "},{"Title":"This is the movie police. Put the DVD down and back away slowly.","Date":"24 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I dunno, it's not so much that Street Fighter is that putrid. There are moments when things don't suck all that much. The real problem is that Street Fighter is so cheesy and ill considered that you can't believe that a) the movie produces would release it to the theaters and b) that anyone who wasn't a 14 year old male arcade dweller would ever pay money to see it. Consider some the inherent problems in making a quality adaptation of this game to the silver screen. First of all, you need at least a dozen male and female actors in good enough shape to at least LOOK like martial artists. You have to work up some decent fight choreography incorporating both wildly diverse martial arts style and the 'over the top' stunts that are only possible with wire works and CGI. You have to come up with a story that gives all these characters something to do, and you have to do it in a way that caters to the demands of the original fans of the fighting game. You have to have actors who can pretend to fight, or at least fighters who aren't total stiffs on camera. And (if background info on this movie is accurate) you have to try to do it on the cheap, sparing every expense. Street Fighter solves none of these problems, except for the cheap part. Instead, it goes for camp from the very start, and aspires to be a 1990s version of the original 1960s Batman movie (the one with Adam West, Caesar Romero and Eartha Kitt). It features Jean Claude Van Damme (a fighter who can't act) and Raul Julia (an actor who can't fight) mouthing some of the hammiest, corniest dialog in the history of cinema and forces them to do things neither of them were suited for. It features a plot that would have been rejected by the story editors of the old Republic serials. It utilizes virtually none of the the signature moves and styles of the supporting characters from the video game - the actors basically do ballet at each other while the camera cuts around to make us think that actual fighting is taking place. And the SFX and costumes are so cheap that you long for the purity of the hand drawn animation and character designs of the original games. I will say this for it, though - there are two or three moments in the film that are actually funny - most of these belong to the actor who plays the hulking Russian Sambo expert Zangief as a dim-bulb for comedy relief (BTW the movie never mentions that he practices Sambo). My favorite line in the movie belongs to him - You get PAID ?!?! That line and the way he delivers it add an extra star to the rating. Do NOT approach Street Fighter as anything other than purest Velveeta cheese food product, and you may be OK. Even then you may get annoyed enough to turn the DVD into a Frisbee and sail it out the nearest window. "},{"Title":"Street Fighter rules!","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Street Fighter' rules. Sure, it is either plain old terrible movie or movie so awesome and cheesy that only few people will actually admit to liking it, but it rules.Shadaloo is a nation in crisis. The Allied Nations force, led by Colonel Guile (Van Damme) controls the capital city, but General Bison (Raul Julia) remains at large. Bison is totally off his nut, and threatens to kill 63 AN hostages if the AN does not pay him twenty billion dollars. With the help of some of the world's best fighters, Guile is going to kick Bison's ass so hard, the next Bison wannabe is gonna feel it!. 'Street Fighter' rules.'Street Fighter' rules. I can't say that often enough. Every line, every moment, and every explosion is awesome. Sure, 'Street Fighter' may push the lines of silly comedy into inept stupidity, but I love it. Sure, Kylie Minogue would normally belong far away from a martial arts film, and Van Damme will never pull off a convincing all American GI, but I love it. Sure, there is a strange lack of martial arts for a movie based on 'Street Fighter' movie, and it displays some real miscasting, but I love it. 'Street Fighter' gets sillier and funnier as the movie progresses, and providing some really funny lines and even better scenes (the Godzilla scene between E. Honda and Zangief is my favourite).Watch 'Street Fighter' for laughs, and don't think about the game. In fact, don't think at all, just watch and laugh. It is a really entertaining film. In IMDb's worst 100? That's not fair, there are plenty of worse films than this. "},{"Title":"what a letdown...","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" wow. this is an action movie with Van Damme that is based on a FIGHTING GAME for home video game consoles.Sounds like it could be pretty cool huh? wrong. where's the action anyways? there's a couple of fight scenes in the film, but nothing is even close to impressive.Isn't the reason WE (van damme fans) watch films like this for the fighting? So much potential, but the film would rather wallow around in the cheesiest plot line ever...as opposed to giving fans a lot of kick ass fight scenes.The film attempts to throw a bunch of the popular video game characters into the film, if only to have them in there and nothing else. It was a tremendous letdown to see the character Vega turn into such a wimp. Vega didn't even do much fighting either...very disappointing.The bright spots are Raul Julia's character, M Bison. Although, its a sad film for such a great actor to leave on (RIP). There's also some humorous moments (intentionally) that made me chuckle, but those moments also took away from the film at the same time.CLIFF NOTES hardly any real action, mostly some cheesy gun battles. when the fight scenes did happen, they weren't anything impressive...especially since most of them DIDN'T have van damme in them. The film gets stuck in trying to make a plot and throw as many characters from the popular video game into the mix. This doesn't even seem like a van damme movie, now that i think about it. where's the van damme fightings?!?!?!?! RATING 3/10 "},{"Title":"worst video game-to-film adaptation ever!","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is an insult to anyone who's ever played a video game. Much less die-hard Street Fighter fanatics. Making Guile the main character instead of Ryu was criminal, and don't even get me started on Dhalsim as a friggin' scientist! I do have to say though, that the casting was pretty spot on. I never much cared for Jean-Claude Van Damne, but he did make a good Guile.Raul Julia also gave a good performance as M. Bison, even if he isn't supposed to be as insane as he's depicted here. Also, most of the fight scenes were well choreographed. Aside from this, I must really take issue with all the creative liberties they took with this. It just didn't do the game any justice at all. The dialouge was horrible, a lot of the acting a bit too corny (except for Raul Julia of course), and I'm convinced that writer/director Robert de Souza just didn't care at all about either the game or it's legions of fans. I still don't know how Capcom could have approved this abomination. Still, it's pretty good for a laugh. That is, if you don't mind risking your sanity. Otherwise, do yourself a favor and stay far, far, away. By the way, what a waste of a great character like Blanka. "},{"Title":"It does follow the game.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Note this may spoil some parts of the Movie. if you have not seen the movie, do not read. This is a great movie for action fans. Sure, it won't get a Grammy, but it's just a great movie dedicated to a great game.I know that many where disapointed when the Street Fighter movie came out. People said that it didn't follow the the plot of the game. I ask What was the plot to the game in the first place. The world VS Bison, enough said. Many say that the movie didn't relate to the game at all. I find that very untrue. There are many relations to the game. The costumes were very alike. Most were the same as in the game but with color changes. Chun Li's costume is blue, but in the movie it's red. Guile's is green, in the movie, it's blue. The costumes of Bison, Ken, Ryu Zangief, Vega, Honda and Blanka(minus the camo pants) are exactly alike. (I mean Vega's first arena costume not the one he has in the end of the movie.) There are a few other small things about the movie that relate to the game. The cage arena in the movie was taken from Vega's level where you fight him in a cage in the game. There is a little exchange of dioluage taken from the game that few notice in the movie. In the game if a character wins a match, he gives a little comment to his opponent. When Bison and Guile stare each other down for the final battle, Guile says his comment form the game. Are you man enough to fight with me? And Bison replies with his comment from the game. All who oppose me shall be destroyed. I thought that was an interesting dedication to the game. During the Vega, Ryu final battle, notice that Ryu uses a force ball like in that game on Vega. It's a half second flash but his hands are just like in the game. Vega also uses his roll n' stab move from the game a few times in the fight. The best example of how the movie relates to the game is Guiles legendary flip kick. It is amazing that Van Dam does this by himself, completely unaided. That was probable the best part of the movie, watching Guile using mostly authentic moves from the game to defeat Bison. My only disappointment was the under-rated death of Bison. I would much rather see him die from just unending beat down from Guile. It would have been nice to see him die from another flip kick or Guile's other classic move, the Sonic Boom. In all, this movie was very entertaining and I watch it a lot. others who like the game should at least watch it for what it's worth. it is a Van Dam after all. (One of my favorite actors) "}{"Title":"I'll be Van Dammed!","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Recently I have had a decision to make whether or not to evict Van Damme from  the elite, after watching Replicant he would have been gone in a shot but good old Channel Five came to his rescue and saved his pointless career which I have funded for a long time.   This movie was based on the popular video game of the time and I felt it was portrayed well, the characters were all in it and on whole it wasn't a bad film.  Ok, enough of the professionalism this movie starred Van Damme as Col Guile and it was a terrible performance, for starters it was Van Damme and he didn't need to be made more of a fool but that hair colour and the script he was given made The Order look like a masterpiece (if you are wondering why I didn't compare it to Replicant just watch it and you will see why).  Some of Van Dammes quotes were just plain awful, F*ck you...Bison, you son of a bitch, yeah sound good quotes for an action movie but listen to him say them and you will hear what I mean with that accent.   It was very disappointing to see the character Blanka in this movie, he was like the anorexic incredible hulk, I detect it was just kylie manogue with her make-up on. As for Kylie Manogues acting in this movie, well lets just say Van Damme was an Oscar winner compared to her.   I'm still not sure what the story was about, oh yeah, rescue hostages or something, there you go; there was a running plot behind this trash.   I have seen worse (for legal reasons these movies will remain anonymous) but this movie was borderline Executive Decision (certain people know why I have chosen this movie), which makes it technically a classic in our books. (Long live Timothy!)  "},{"Title":"Comparison of the movie to the game","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter the movie is a cool one because Street Fighter is also my favorite video game in the 1990s until now, but there are few and weird things that are differences between the movie and the game. First, Colonel Guile is the main character of the film and not the Shotokan Karatists which is Ryu and his American friend, Ken Masters. They were only comic good guys in the film. Another one is that Balrog, the American boxer, is with the good guys, and Dee Jay, a rythmic native of Jamaica, is with the bad guys in the movie. In the game, it is the opposite. Plus, in the movie, there were no special moves like Hadouken, the technique of Ryu and Ken.  "},{"Title":"Aw come on, what did you EXPECT?","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I begin with the rating - i gave it 5/10. And i am telling you guys of the zero patrol what did you EXPECT? This movie is taken from a VIDEOGAME, come on! Yes, the whole purpose of the movie is coming to the end and show all the characters in suitable costumes doing suitable special moves. So? I don't think you were expecting Bergman, right? So i tell you - it's bad, bud not THAT bad. It's a comic book, period. "},{"Title":"The begining of the end of Van Dammes carreer","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Van Damme's downard spiral started with this film. The film tries to incorporate to many character storylines from the game and in the end make a mistake. Deejay and Dhalsam are both pussys in this movie, the fight sequences are lame and Van Damme gives a crappy performance. Skip this one. "},{"Title":"Good for fans...","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I agree with everyone that said this movie is good for street fighter fans. I simply LOVE street fighter the game, and the reason you should see the movie is for the CASTING. the characters are so fun to watch because they look exactly like the people in the game. But then again, I also liked AI. "},{"Title":"It's SO bad it's GOOD","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I know that it is a bad movie.  I know that the acting isn't exactly Oscar-worthy.  Heck, I know that it wasn't faithful to the video game that it is based on, but WHO cares??? I know that I don't.  This is simply a fun movie!!! I loved Raul Julia's over-the-top camp performance and I loved the rest of the cast as well.  Jean-Claude Van Damme was hilariously cool as the AMERICAN Colonel Guile with a BELGIAN accent. Ryu and Ken made a good buddy team, as did Balrog and E. Honda.  Wes Studi was wonderfully scum as the evil Sagat the dude who played Vega was perfect, Roshan Seth was dignified as Dhalsim and Ming Na stood out as Chun-Li.  The movie IS INCREDIBLY cheesy but in a good way and the cast has wonderful chemistry together. "},{"Title":"Such a Shame","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has got to be the worst movie ever adapted from a video game. Jean Claude Van Damme continues to show off his stupidity in his selection of movies. This is even worse than Super Mario Brothers. Mario brothers was intentionally hokey-jokey. Street Fighter has no appeal whatsoever and tries to take itself seriously. What a croc of s**t. "},{"Title":"very very poor","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  when this was first coming out i was really excited because i (also my dad) was a big fan of the street fighter game and the advert for the cinema was revealing it was a 12 i was upset (mind you i was 9)but i finally rented it on video. after the film was over i felt somewhat cheated i mean this film was crap bad special fx,bad acting (apart from Raul Julia).but what got me was the most was since when has guile been the hero of street fighter i always thought it was Ryu or Ken also i was disappointed at Dahlsim cause on the game he is a witch doctor but on this he's a god damn scientist (since when) also he didnt do his stretch attack which he is best known for. But one good thing i can say about this film is that some of the characters where close to the game i.e Vega. If you have to watch a film based on a game watch mortal kombat or if you want to see a street fighter film watch the manga version that is a good take off of the game. Out of 10 = 2  "},{"Title":"A good story for a new talent cast...but the game?!","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's a good story for a new talent cast (exclude Van Damme and Julia). The movie don't copy the games (I'm very hungry, I don't see the Ryu's HO-RYU-KEN!!!), and find a new way for Street Fighter's combat. And the story about the character is new (excluse Chun-Li's father story). A question to the writer...why all this??! Why Guile is the principal character??! And Ryu??! It's a background and stupid character. And the only Ken's think is the money, not the combat!The casting is the best thing is this movie.I recommend this to the people don't see the game! "},{"Title":"Two things were bad about this movie...","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There were only two VERY unfortunate things that made this movie what it is. The first was that it is a sad state of affairs that this was Raul Julia's last picture. The second was that it was NOT Jean-Claude Van Damme's. I love all the movies that they turned into video games but honestly found myself repugnated by this movie.  "}{"Title":"Dull action film","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter is not the high point of Jean-Claude Van Damme's career. It just might be the low point. Based on the video game, this is one of the most boring action pictures that I've ever seen. I sat in stunned silence while watching it because it was so dull. This movie seems to be aimed more for kids and I think that will disappoint most die hard Van Damme fans. I'll give you a hint of this Van Damme usually doesn't star in PG-13 movies. Van Damme doesn't appear to be having a good time in Street Fighter, and Raul Julia hams it up outrageously as the villain in his final feature film. A major disappointment.* (out of four)   "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter wasn't that bad of a movie. I know it isn't the best movie in the world, but it isn't the worst either. Raul Julia was excellent as Bison, and Jean-Claude Van Damme was pretty good as Guile. The plot was all right. The acting wasn't the best, especially out of Van Damme, but I've seen worse. But the actors, and actresses did fit the characters pretty good. It had lots of action. The plot could have been better. As I said the movie isn't the best, but it isn't the worst movie out there. I do recommend this movie to anyone who likes action movies. "},{"Title":"Not bad.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Really, I don't see why so many people hated this show. It was aired not long ago on television and I felt it was quite gd only the plot could be more realistic and less complicated. The costumes and script was real good. Only I had a hard time deciphering Jean Claude's words since he was speaking with a stupid accent.Raul Julia, Ming Na Wen etc were great in their roles. On the whole, this show was average. Oh yeah, loved the fighting scenes.  "},{"Title":"Hmmmmm..... not much to recommend here","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter had much to live up to when it was released in 1994, because the videogames are so great.  Unfortunately the movie itself didn`t deliver what the audience and I expected. Even for an actionmovie, the plot is TOO weird and off the wall to be liked by anybody and many of the fight-scenes are cartoony and poorly directed.  Jean-Claude Van Damme delivers his usual martial-art-stuff but this is one of his worst film ever, but its still better than Universal Soldier The Return.  The fact that the movie is bad is a shame, because the videogames are really good, so don`t let this movie put you off playing the games(except the poor game based on this poor film).  2,5/10 "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm no fan of Van Damme the ham, but there's a studied ripeness about Street Fighter that makes it a guilty pleasure. Raul Julia is terrific as the evil General Bison and Roshan Seth brings more dignity than the film possibly needs to his role as a scientist forced to do the General's evil bidding. Add in a good turn from Wes Studi as a gun runner and you've got yourself a winner. And it's way better than those Mortal Kombat movies.  "},{"Title":"Bad idea for a movie.  Bad movie. Can't blame Van Damme.","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, everyone knew it would be bad.  How can a movie based off a video game promise much?  The story stuck to the game too much where it shouldn't have and sidetracked where it should not have strayed.  Van Damme is the star and he does not do a good job but the writing, concept and directing didn't help either.  Julia's last movie, one of his worst moves.  There was not enough commitment on the part of the entire movie to make it bad, yet entertaining. Like so many movies doomed to failure, their only hope was to not take themselves seriously, which they somehow managed to do.  Not a movie worth watching, even for the fans of the game or the stars.  Mortal Kombat was a better adaptation, and that says a lot. "},{"Title":"Would be perfect Mystery Science Theater 3000 fodder!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's face it--this movie sucks. It's especially painful to me that this is Raul Julia's last movie. His performance is about the only thing to like about this piece of trash. It can't even be true to the video game it's based on (any similarities seem to have happened purely by accident). One of the worst movies I've ever seen--and this is coming from a MST3K fan! I only wish they could get a hold of this one and give it the treatment it deserves. "},{"Title":"Nothing redeemable","Date":"9 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie just plain sucks.  Street Fighter II fans will hate it, kids will hate it, adults will hate it.  Probably VanDamme fans will hate it, too.  As has been stated before, it lacks Van Damme's trademarks. (Showing his rear end, explaining away his accent, etc.) Raul Julia's last role; he took the role because his children were fans of the video game. This video game has been adapted to screen form several other times.  Any of those versions are better than this one.  Check out the animated movie or the Street Fighter II V TV series instead.  "},{"Title":"Painful to watch.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Of all the bad movies based on good video games, this is the worst. Being a huge fan of the games, I was more insulted than disappointed at this movie. On every level, it fails as an action movie, as an adaptation of the games, as a Van Damme vehicle. The most degrading thing is the deliberate mispronunciation of Ryu's name it's REE-YU, not RYE-YU. Overall, just a terrible, terrible movie. "},{"Title":"I'm a lover of the games...but this film.....","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Overall, the film was pretty appalling, it's gotta be said. Firstly, the American hero doesn't even have an American accent. They try to cover this by tattooing an American flag on his arm. Secondly, Kylie as Cammy? What the hell were they thinking? Thirdly, Ryu was not the ripped main character, just a mere skinny sidekick of Guile who knew how to fight. Dee-Jay was hardly featured at all and wasn't Blanka meant to be from Brazil?? The only attempt of a proper move from the game was a pathetic attempt at a dragon punch from Ken- which was not only hesitant but lacked his feet leaving the floor. I did think though that Chun-Li and Honda played good parts but the rest....was just awful. Sorry street fighter lovers! "}{"Title":"Makes the bastardisation of Batman by Joel Schumacher look like a fine tuning job!","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you were to ever walk into a video games arcade in the early to mid 90's, you would often come across the game known as Street Fighter. Made by Capcom, it's what passed for Tekken in those days although it's still kinda going now. It's a basic 2D fighting game like Mortal Kombat (without the gore) although 3D versions were released in the late 90's Playstation era.And yeah it had its moments. I remember Christmas 95' when the New Challengers version was released. Hours of fun of me and my brother kicking each others heads in over the second controller! Although one memory that it would do well to forget ever happened, would be the reason why you're reading this review in the first place, it's movie based on the series.Street Fighter the Movie is like the first turn on the left as you drive along Hollywood's tunnel of shame. With Red Zone Cuba, Manos and Gigli being at the far depths....but hey let's not go there of course. It is a truly awful horrible film that deserves no part whatsoever in anyone's movie collection, with the exception of Joel and the bots.I know I'm often one to talk about dubious achievements so I might as well get this little tid-bit out of the way. Street Fighter the Movie is the worst ever movie based on a video game. And the video game based on this movie, is the worst ever video game based on a movie! Amazing how it holds both titles.Remember how most sensible Batman fans felt after seeing what Joel Schumacher did to the caped crusader? That's how Street Fighter fans will have felt after seeing this hateful wreck. It takes all the characters, stories and personalities and puts them in a blender. And then decides to convey them with some awful F-Grade actors and terrible role play.Now one of the excuses that the producers of this mess gave was that they weren't sure how to fit people into roles and find the right actors with a low budget. Fraid that doesn't pass Pedro. Just look at the original Mortal Kombat movie. It was no masterpiece, but it still stuck the the roots or the games story and considering it was a low budget, they didn't do all that badly in terms or actors and personalities, and the finished product (although formulaic) was tolerable.Anyone who even has a rough idea of the Street Fighter games before this was released would be able to tell you the following three things. 1) Ken and Ryu are the main characters. 2) Guile is an All- American boy scout. And 3) Chun Li was one of the weakest characters in the game apart from her lightning kick.OK....So why Mr Director, even though even the most average gamer knows these three things, how come 1) Ryu and Ken take a back seat as B-characters?! 2) Guile is a muscle bound machine with a french accent?! 3) Chun Li is one of the best fighters?! To call the casting bad is an understatement! Which brings me onto the two main players in this debacle. Raul Julia and Jean Claude Van Damme. Raul Julia was ill during this movie and was in no position to play the top bad guy, M.Bison. Whose role is reduced from super-villain to a mere crime boss! And since JCVD is playing a character that he's nothing in common with, the result?....The final fight scene is basically JCVD destroying M.Bison.You're telling me that THAT passes as a final fight scene? Get out of here. As a matter of fact, I think I'll get out of here. Look at any other video game action movie, particularly Mortal Kombat or Doom and you'll see where this appalling movie went wrong.Don't Watch This Movie. "},{"Title":"I don't know whether to laugh or cry.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter is set in the South East Asian country of Shadaloo which is recovering from a bloody civil war, evil warlord General M. Bison (Raul Julia) kidnaps some aid workers & Allied Nations soldiers & demands $20 billion or he'll kill them. Colonel William F. Guile (Jean-Claude Van Damme) disobeys orders & decides to attack Bison's hideout & take him down, however he isn't the only one who wants to see Bison dead & various assorted character's & fighters join in to help including boxer's, sumo wrestler's, karate experts & kung-fu kicking news reporters!This American Japanese co-production (it was part financed by Capcom who made the Street Fighter games this was based on) was written & directed by Steven E. de Souza & I don't quite know what to think about it. The film is based on the very popular Street Fighter series of computer games up-to Super Street Fighter II The New Challengers (1993) which I was a big fan of & without wishing to boast was pretty darned good at & I could complete the entire game without losing a single fight! The script tries to shoehorn every character in even if they don't have a particularly large role except that of Fei Long who is the only character from the computer game that was left out (the final boss Akuma doesn't really count!) which is odd because considering this is a martial arts film I would have thought he would have been the easiest to fit in being a straight Bruce Lee homage. As a straight action flick this is pretty bad, there's actually a distinct lack of action & not that much fighting either. As a film based on a computer game it's bound to upset some who think their favourite character doesn't get to do enough or fight enough & some of the character's seem surplus to requirements & are there purely to get name-checked. Having said that this is one of those so bad it's good type films, the best comparison to it I can make is the old 60's Batman TV series as they both have a certain embarrassing camp value which makes them watchable & it only lasts for just over 90 minutes. For those who don't know keep watching as the end credits roll as once they finish there's another few minutes as Bison's hand bursts through some broken monitors & rubble on the floor.Director Souza is more used to writing big budget action films rather than directing them & it show's, the action isn't anything special & as already mentioned there's not too much fighting. Some of the computer game character's look silly on screen, Balrog in his boxing short's & gloves looks stupid & where did he get them from? Sagat doesn't look like his computer game counterpart, Vega isn't right, Blanka looks awful, Dhalsim looks nothing like his computer game persona & here they turn him into a scientist for some reason nor does T. Hawk, Dee Jay doesn't get to fight anyone although Chun-Li, Guile (played by JCVD even thought the character is American), Cammy (played by an Australian even though the character is English) & especially Bison all look good. There's nothing that violent here or particularly exciting & there's a lack of the character's special moves from the games as well.With a supposed budget of about $35,000,000 Street Fighter actually made triple that at the worldwide box-office even if it didn't deserve to. It's reasonably well made on location in Australia, Thailand & Canada & some of the sets are impressive but you can't help but cringe at the camp bits. The acting isn't that great, Raul Julia in his last film before he died is in top form, JCVD puts another nail in the coffin of his theatrical career while both Ming-Na as Chun-Li & Australian pop star & actress Kylie Minogue as Cammy are pretty hot looking.Street Fighter is one of those films I have a hard time deciding whether I liked it or not, I mean on the one hand it has a terrible story with stupid character's but on the other it's so camp & fun it's hard not to like it. I'll give it a straight down the middle 5 stars out of 10, I liked & hated it in equal measure. "},{"Title":"This Is Just Terrible.  The Video Game Movie Even Casual Fans Hated!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is probably one of the worst (of many bad) films spun by Jean-Claude Van Damme over the years of his feigning stardom. This screenplay was written obviously by someone with no knowledge of the game, no sense of timing, no feeling for continuity, no love of martial arts, and no understanding of the basics for a good thriller.Why would I say that? Because this work exhibits none of those qualities, while at the same time, it attempts to BE the game. In a word? EWWW! The performances are classic C movie fare, the dialog delivery will make you cringe or laugh, depending on whether you paid to see this or not, and the execution of the finished product comes off uneven, conflicted, and lost.This just plain sucks.It rates a 1.6/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Eh... wake me up when it's over...","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When Jean-Claude Van Damme is starring in a film, you're already preparing for something bad, but this might actually be the worst film he's made, as it's more than just bad; it's excruciatingly bad. It's not the worst film ever made, but it's close. For an action/martial arts movie, the fighting/action sequences are very tame and far between. The plot is laughable at best, and full of holes. The acting is painfully bad. The characters are badly written stereotypes, not to mention that the film obviously tries incredibly hard to implement all of the characters from the video-games in the movie, which results in far too many characters, and far too many supposedly interesting characters are pushed into the background and settle for cameos, to make way for the more popular characters. The dialog is awful. The script is horribly badly written. The humor is childish and lame. The film has so many unintentionally funny scenes that it must be a record of some kind. The fight sequences are predictable and, like I mentioned earlier, tame. There are also far too few of them, considering that it's supposed to be the driving point of the film, rather than the predictable and badly written plot. The film really doesn't have anything to offer, honestly. I recommend it only to huge fans of Van Damme, and kids/teens with nothing better to do than watch some badly choreographed fights by Van Damme and various badly trained actors. Everyone else, find a better way to kill 90 minutes and skip this one. 1/10 "},{"Title":"What the heck?","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie based on a fighting game actually has very little martial arts action in it.  Instead it has a very bad plot and lots of bad comedy and Raul Julia in his last role doing a bad job as Bison.  Van Dame sucks too, but that is no surprise...what really makes this movie bad though is the almost complete lack of fighting.  And why is Raul Julia Bison...Raul hasn't exactly made a career playing super tough fighters has he.  Seeing him fight Van Dame in the end is laughable.  They also try to squeeze every Street Fighter character into the movie they can which doesn't help the plot along.  All in all this movie is pretty bad and if you watch it don't expect to much Street Fighting. "},{"Title":"Who doesn't like Raul Julia, huh?","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I best known him from seeing Overdrawn at the Memory Bank, which, of course, got the treatment it deserved on Mystery Science Theater 3000! Later, he starred in this movie (based on a video game) called Street Fighter. (Some people in the movies are really just SOL, huh?) I have been talking about pop stars that can't act a lot. Now, how about video game movies that don't perform well? I, like the pop star theory, feel different about this, because I think Street Fighter is a really awesome film with all the effects and action you can find in a video game movie of the time. Who cares if people shun this movie? I give this one a 10! "},{"Title":"This movie is ok","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ive seen streetfighter around about 8 times and i don't see what so crap about it.the only thing that i thought was crap was the last fight scene between guile and bison it should of had more action and should of went longer.The cast was well chosen and the actors played there parts perfectly.i really don't see what so crap about it.If any of you think this is crap go F!*%yourself ok.Cos this movies good and i suggest you go and watch it.id give it 6 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Vastly better than it had any right to be","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"22 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's definitely either for kids or fans of the game but speaking as someone who played the games you could definitely see the characters emerging and the fun of spotting the characters from the game before they are named made this worth watching.Raul Julia was nothing short of brilliant and even Jean Claude Van Damme was pretty good, the plot was at least consistent, if obvious as hell and the whole thing seemed well thought out.The ending however is nothing short of crap, leaving a very, very huge loose end. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter is a typical video-game Dumb, boring and poorly made, with zero appeal to most viewers, even those who, unlike me, can enjoy a dumb action flick as long it is entertaining. The sad thing that is Street Fighter is not only dumb, but also terribly boring as well. It has an idiotic plot, bad performances and many pathetic scenes that made one viewer wonder in what were the makers of this movie thinking. It also has Jean-Claude Van Damme (one of the worst actors from the entire cinema history) as the main star, and that is enough reason to stay far way from this terrible movie.The Street Fighter movie is just as bad as the Resident Evil movies. "},{"Title":"Don't Expect a Cinematic Masterpiece","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In the fictional South East Asian nation of Shadaloo, an international peacekeeping organisation, the Allied Nations, has sent a military force to confront the armed forces of a drug lord turned military dictator named General Bison. As the AN's personnel all wear pale blue headgear it is not difficult to work out which real-life international peacekeeping organisation they are based on. As the United Nations are not always popular in America, particularly in right-wing circles, someone in Hollywood evidently thought that they could do with some good publicity. . The AN commander, and the film's hero, Colonel William F. Guile, is supposed to be an American, even though he speaks with a foreign accent and is played by Jean-Claude Van Damme. Given that the AN is a multinational organisation there is no reason why a Belgian could not be in command, but the film was evidently made on the basis of the American assumption that they will always be in charge of any international peacekeeping efforts. Guile's female second-in command, Cammy, is supposed to be British, even though played by the Australian Kylie Minogue, presumably reflecting the view that the Special Relationship means that Britain will always play second fiddle in supporting America's efforts. (At least Minogue does attempt a reasonably credible English accent). When Bison kidnaps several dozen humanitarian workers, and the AN's High Command want to appease him by paying the twenty billion dollar ransom he is demanding, Guile leads a mutiny and mounts his own operation to free the hostages. Several other characters play important roles in the subsequent developments, including Chun-Li Zang, a beautiful Chinese journalist with her own reasons for seeking revenge against Bison, Bison's ally the arms dealer Sagat, and Ryu and Ken, two con-men who get caught up in the action after trying to sell Bison fake weapons. The film resembles a sort of cross between a James Bond and a martial arts movie, although it never reaches the standards of any of the Bonds, even the weaker ones like On Her Majesty's Secret Service or Quantum of Solace. (It doesn't measure up to the standards of many martial arts films either). The Bond influence is most apparent in Ral Juli's characterisation of Bison as an evil megalomaniac with dreams of world domination, and in the final assault by the AN forces on Bison's headquarters. Bison comes across as a cross between a Goldfinger-style Bond villain, Hitler (his uniform with its death's-head insignia is reminiscent of an SS officer) and Pol Pot (the Shadaloo flag is that of the Khmer Rouge with a green rather than a red background). This was Juli's final feature film- he died soon after completing it- and he is about the only actor to emerge with any credit. Van Damme, however, is as wooden as he normally is, and even his fight scenes, normally something he does well, are not very convincing. Kylie originally came to public attention as an actress (in the TV series Neighbours), but her performance here shows just why she has been well advised to concentrate subsequently on singing rather than acting. About the supporting cast, the less said the better. Street Fighter is based on a video game, and it is a general rule that whenever the words based on a video game appear at the beginning of a movie, they can also be translated as Don't expect a cinematic masterpiece. There are a few partial exceptions to this rule- Prince of Persia, for example, was not exactly a masterpiece but still managed to be a pretty decent action-adventure film- but this is not one of them. The acting, Julia apart, is wooden, the plot clichd, the action sequences unconvincing and the attempts at humour leaden. The Bond films, at their best, can take implausible story lines like this one and turn them into stylish, sophisticated entertainment. Director Steven E. de Souza has been unable to turn Street Fighter into anything other than a prize turkey, devoid of style, sophistication or entertainment value. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Why do they still call me a warlord, and mad? All I want to do, is create the perfect genetic soldier! One of the most enjoyably cheesy experiences, you will ever have!.","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter is by no means, a good movie. In fact it's pretty bad, but part of me thinks a lot of them knew that going in, and they all managed to make the most of it. The lighthearted tone of the film really helps make it better, then it ought to be. I laughed a lot with some of Bison's cheesy, yet undeniably classic lines, and Van Damme showing off a comical side that is refreshing to see. A perfectly wooden, yet fun cast, provide many entertaining antics along the way. I enjoyed the chemistry between Damian Chapa and Byron Mann. They were natural together, and gave the movie a lot of laughs. The absurdity of the costumes worn in this movie, only made the movie that much more fun. Because you see, Street Fighter is all about the creativity, and cheerfulness. It was never meant to be a great movie, just a fun one, and I think they accomplished that well. The silly fight at the end between Guile and Bison, is the worth the price of the rental alone, it was a hoot!. This movie undeservedly gets too much flack for my liking, there are a lot of movies, much worse than this one.Performances. Jean-Claude Van Damme is certainly not good in the acting sense, but he is a lot of fun, nonetheless. His comical awareness is top-notch, and his silly bantering with the cast, gave me a lot of smiles. This is the reason I am such a fan of his, he is very charismatic. Raul Julia is great fun as Bison. It's a shame this was his last film, but he is the true Bison. Ming-Na is cute, and lively as Chun Li, I rather liked her. Damian Chapa and Byron Mann play off one another, wonderfully, I really loved watching them together. Kylie Minogue is pretty sexy, and most certainly wooden, but she had fun in her role, and that's all I wanted. Wes Studi is pretty good as Sagat, and did his job well. Grand L. Bush and Peter Navy Tuiasosopo are a lot of comic relief, and managed to be pretty entertaining. Miguel A. Nez Jr. is silly and fun as Deejay. Rest of the cast are very lively, and do their jobs well.Bottom line. Street Fighter is a lot of fun, if nothing else. I'm aware it's a bad movie, but you know what? I don't care. All I care about is what entertains me, and Street Fighter does just that, every time I see it. Recommended for some cheesy fun.6/10 "},{"Title":"A Gamer's Movie","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I grew up in the 90s playing this game to death. I never got to see the movie in theaters because of a previous engagement at the time. I can see partially where people would complain about it, but for the most part it is a movie that any gamer or one well-acquainted with the series will enjoy. Non-gamers may enjoy it as well. It has plenty of action. This movie is pre-special effects. This is what makes it so powerful yet so simple at the same time. It doesn't rely on effects--it relies on the storyline alone. For adults who were growing up back then, this is a serious trip down memory lane. You have to stop and ask--where were you when the Street Fighter movie came out? I suppose as hardcore gamers and fans, nit-picking is in our system. We expect video game movies to be right on the dot of the storyline within the game. We are disappointed when these expectations are not delivered. A good movie about a fabulous game really doesn't have to do so. Street Fighter proves this by taking elements of each character's story from the game and putting in on screen. It is a classic in its own right. "},{"Title":"One of the movies you love to HATE!","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is the worst movie ever. The casting is totally off and ridiculous. The acting was not realistic.. God is sucked! I'm still a street fighter fan, but this is one of the movies you gather a bunch of friends around and make fun of it ALL night!The flip kick for Guile was good.. I liked that a lot. Bison was some skinny geek.. Oh let me not mention DeJay.. What the hell!?! Some skinny bad-speaking Jamacian.. I wish I had more good things to say, but I don't.Cammie was not sexy at all, Blanka was ridiculous, ken and ryu were some skinny no skilled fighters. My man, Sagat was some old geezer.. and the list goes on. I think if they had the casting right, the movie would be more barable. "},{"Title":"Best Part of the DVD was the Interactive Menus.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK right from the start I'm watching the popgun scene and immediately thinking Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker. A stupid scene that was contrived to introduce the Ryu and Ken characters. Now in every other media that I have seen regarding Street Fighter (the game, the anime, the comics) these characters are rather complicated and are normally handled with care. They really don't come off correctly as goofballs. So I hated this interpretation of them. Van Damme was COMPLETELY miscast as Guile. With his accent there was no way he could have pulled it off. Guile's character is supposed to be the gung-ho all American G.I. Joe type. He doesn't even look like the video game character. They could have at least given him the big brush cut and the green fatigues. Sagat looked like an old man. Again...to the casting director...have you even looked at the video game character? He's freakin' huge. He's virtually all muscle. How can you miss things like that? Mr. Julia didn't fair much better, although I like him as an actor he just could not pull this off. Bison is a TOTAL psychopath, Julia gave it his best shot but really fell short. He doesn't particularly fill out the uniform either. The action was also too slow to do justice to the characters. Perhaps they should have thought about enhancing the speed. As for the other characters, I think there were just too many to build upon. I found it familiar to Mortal Kombat Annhilation where they were introducing SO many characters that it was hard to keep them straight. In summation, I didn't really care for ANY of the characters but Vega and Zangief were probably the best cast even though they were still misused.Now as for the plot, I still really don't know what the plot was aside from Bison taking over the world. Bison was dressed up as Hugh Heffner in one scene...maybe that was the plot...hard to tell.Things that stuck out 1. Most of the extras were wearing red uniforms...how convenient 2. The pilot...would have to be...out of his mind.... Come on, I'm no actor and I can deliver the line better than this. 3. Bat boat...stealth mode detected...hmmm not very stealthy 4. This is the collection agency...your ass is six months overdue. Ouch...good line Van Damme...who wrote this little gem? 5. Took Chun Li 20 years to get this far? Wow, that is one long case. I probably would have given up after 5. And she's been allowed to expense things for that long? Must be a government job. 6. DNA mutagens? Anabolic Plasma? Sounds like good watching. 7. Prison escape? Classic. Always needed in a movie with weak characters and story and everything else. 8. They will talk...or they will...die. 9. Incredible Hulk Paint...where do I get this? "},{"Title":"The Crap, crap is made out of.","Date":"29 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie really has no redeeming qualities at all. I saw it opening day, and i couldn't believe what total crap it was.  Very recently I saw it on TV as a late night movie. And you know what? It's still total crap. It saddens me to see Raul Julia wasted in this farce.  "},{"Title":"Video Game Movies are all bad, but this was TERRIBLE.","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Street Fighter II is quite possibly my favorite video game of all time. I don't think I pumped more quarters or lost more brain cells in the screen of any other video game. I think I beat the game with every single character 2 or 3 times. So when I saw a commercial of a Street Fighter movie, my 12 year old heart went like a jack hammer. I never saw the movie in theatres, though. Disappointed, as most of my friends said it was 'AAAwwwwsome!! 'No worries I figured. I'll rent it. It was, without question, one of the worst movies ever made. I was able to come to this conclusion at age 12! TWELVE! At age twelve, any move with blood, or lasers, or pointless violence and/or explosions, AND Jean-Claude Van Damme was indeed 'AAAwwwwsome!!' But STREET FIGHTER was so unimaginably terrible that I almost stopped playing the game, my FAVORITE game ever, altogether. I couldn't imagine continuing to play a game whose subsequent movie cost me a good 25 points of my IQ. I did continue to play the game though, after a brief hiatus, on the simple basis that the movie had jacked the game up so badly, and had changed so many things around, they were too different things. That was the last Jean Claude Van Damme movie I ever saw, and looking back over the last  8 years, (actually, the last however long Van Damme's been making movies years) that was a fine decision my part.What's worse was this was the final film that the great Raul Julia made before his untimely death. Sometimes I jokingly think that watching this movie is what did him in. On imdb.com's rating scale, I gave this movie a 1. Forced generosity on their part. If I could, I would've given this movie a negative number.    "},{"Title":"Silly but lots of fun","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe all the negative comments I've been reading here about this movie.  Really, people, what were you expecting from a Van Damme movie?  Citizen Kane?  Yes it's silly, Van Damme's acting is atrocious and Raul Julia looks very ill (and is miscast) in his last theatrical film.  Still, the movie is not overly violent (hence the PG-13 rating), the script and the actors never take things seriously for one moment, everybody (except for Julia and Van Damme) give out good performances and some of the jokes are actually pretty funny.  Also there's a STRONG gay subtext between the Asian and American friends.  Maybe I'm seeing something that's not there, but the looks those two exchange at times...  It's loud, it's VERY fast-paced...it's a HUGE amount of fun!  It's not classic cinema...heck, it's not even good cinema, just fun!  Turn off your brain and enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Too young, so I won!","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I didn't see this movie until later after it came out on video. I did stand in line to see it as a 14 year old but they wouldn't let me see it alone because I was too young at the time. Maybe what really happened is the ticketeer didn't want me to waste my money on this hunk of junk. I saw the Santa Clause starring Tim Allen instead and that movie might have been bad but compared to Street Fighter it was Oscar worthy.I actually still have this movie on VHS collecting dust, I taped it off TV and before it was the much better (still terrible) Double Dragon Video Game movie.Only Video Game movie worse then Street Fighter is Mario Brothers. Now that was a disappointment! "},{"Title":"I'd call this film crap, but that would insult fecal matter...","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the mid-1990s, video games were more popular than they have been before or since. It was therefore only a matter of time before films based on actual video games, as opposed to based on the concept like Tron, began to appear. To say that this new sub-genre had a less than impressive debut is like saying that Star Wars A New Hope was a mildly unexpected success. When one views this example of the genre, however, one can see all sorts of reasons why.First of all, was it really necessary to include every character in the video game? Ken was often regarded as being unnecessary for the video game on which this dreck is based, and very few characters have any distinguishing characteristics. Guile could have had a chance to develop and show a personality, but they chose the worst possible actor on this planet to play him.To cap that off, the filmmakers make it clear in a hurry that they not only had no respect for the actual story of the video games, but for the slightest cultural details relating to it. Ken, in spite of being listed as hailing from the USA in the second video game, is actually Japanese. The bio given in said video game explicitly states that he is only in America to train against a wider variety of opponents. Someone also should have explained to the writers that Ryu is pronounced Ree-you, not Rye-you. That I know this in spite of not speaking a word of Japanese should tell you something about how much effort was put into this turkey.Raul Julia gets a thankless turn here as Bison, the evil dictator that took the story of the second video game out of the realm of mildly implausible and into the downright absurd. No explanation is given of who Bison is, what motivates him, or how he came to be the dictator of a satellite island of Thailand. This is acceptable in a video game, where stories are basically an excuse for action sequences. In film, however, where one is paying to basically see a story presented in a visual form, it is completely unacceptable.Making it worse is the fact that the action in the film is so bland and weak. If you're old enough to go and see a film like Hard Target or Face/Off, you have absolutely no reason to bother with this turgid effort. Not surprisingly, this was the beginning of the end for Jean-Claude's career, and it has more or less permanently crippled many others.All in all, I gave Street Figher a one out of ten. It was another eight years before they managed to make a decent film out of a video game. While this is no Wing Commander, it does come awfully close at times.  "},{"Title":"The greatest film ever made...","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yet another classic from Van Damme, truly one of the most gifted Austrian actors with a double-barrelled surname and the initials J-C. V-D. ever. He is backed up by a superb supporting cast of talented thespians who wring the audience through a whole array of emotions as they grunt, swear, wear stupid costumes and kick each other in the face repeatedly.  "}{"Title":"Beyond terrible, but redeemed by three aspects","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Street Fighter The Movie (why call it 'The Movie'? Isn't it obvious that is IS a movie?) is obviously horrible, but there are three things in its' favour.1) It's better than the Double Dragon movie2) Raul Julia, as the sinister M. Bison, showing everyone else in this film how a real actor acts...the fact that he was quite literally dying during the shoot only shows how great Julia truly was. 2a) Bison calling his planned super-city 'Bisonopolis' was an inspired decision. I would like to live in a city called that, just so I could write it on the SENDER ADDRESS box on the back of envelopes. Jeff Stone, 43 Sagat Lane, Bisonopolis, New Zealand.3) Kylie Minogue running round in a skintight leotard.Otherwise this is one of the worst films of all time. Not as bad as Spy Kids, Get Shorty or DC 9/11 Time Of Crisis, but then what is?Stephen E. DeSouza had a lot to do with this flick...De Souza also worked on the utterly atrocious 70s TV series The Gemini Man. Need I say more.Did I mention Kylie Minogue runs round in a leotard? Oh, I did. I know this isn't a serious review, but a film this bad doesn't deserve to be taken seriously for a moment. Noisy, stupid, fun. That's all. And perhaps the weirdest swansong for a world-class actor since Bela Lugosi's posthumous cameo in Plan 9 From Outer Space. "}]