[{"Title":"charming and magical","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this listed in TV guide, and watched it because the description made me imagine it would be a simple, charming movie.  I didn't realize it was a John Sayles movie until I saw his name on the credits and then I thought it might be something different; I don't associate Sayles with simple family movies.  But in fact, this is pretty much the movie I was hoping for, full of Irish charm and blarney, beautiful filmed and full of magic and wonder.  One hesitates to call it a children's movie or a family movie because those are generally awful, but it is very much the sort of movie that is perfect to take the family too (although it is unaccountably rated PG).  But it's not *just* a kid's movie, it's a movie with magic for anyone, and I would put it in the same category as Alfonso Cuarón's A Little Princess, another movie that treats children not in the Disney aren't-they-cute way but as real thinking individuals.  This is a lovely drama featuring a child rather than a kid's movie, but it works on either level.   "},{"Title":"The most mystical movie I've ever seen!","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"27 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Some people would label this a children's movie...and yet, it has all the mystery and beauty that accompanies films for adults who love poetry and traditional storytelling and classic literature.  Watch this film, and you'll get a good idea of Irish tradition and life and their constant belief in legend and lore, which has made them into the wonderful and strong race that they are today.  There is a deep sense of family...a truly strong family who has clearly had its ups and downs and yet has come out even stronger than before.  A family that has been through generations of change, adapted, continues to change and yet still holds onto the traditions and stories along the way.  Stories that others might assume are myth and faery tales.  And stories that we know aren't anything but the truth woven into a magical tale.  In most Irish tales and legends I've read, there is a quest which keeps the main character(s) pushing forward through all the challenges of life.  Fiona's store in this movie is no different.  She's a little girl lost at the beginning when we meet her, wandering through the smog of the city to find some way to latch onto her father who is lost and sad with grief over a dead wife and a dead and missing baby boy.  Her true quest begins when she is sent to live with her grandparents who still live by the sea.  And the quest truly becomes a quest when she learns that her baby brother Jamie has been spotted on Roan Inish, the Island of the Seals where her family originated from.  The music weaves itself around the characters and the story to make it more complete than it would be without it.  It is both peaceful and stirring, providing the background for the cultural ear.  With the music and the intricate storytelling, one can become truly lost in this story.  And truly a part of it.  If I had children, this is one movie I would have them watch over and over again.  Like Disney's Darby O'Gill and the Little People, this is a movie to entertain children of all ages.   "},{"Title":"Charming and full of wonder","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Secret of Roan Inish is a departure for John Sayles, in that his normal cynicism and mildly jaundiced eye is replaced by the completely credulous child's view, and his film is all the more charming because of it.  In essence, this is a children's movie, and only through Sayles' brilliance are we adults allowed in.Roan Inish is a deserted island off the coast of Donegal, where Fiona's mother died and her baby brother was lost at sea.  Her father has moved to the city but Fiona is sent back to live with her grandparents for her health.  Her grandparents live on the coast opposite Roan Inish, having moved off the island at the same time.  In fact, the Conneelys have a very special bond with Roan Inish, as Fiona starts to discover as she talks with the local townfolk, especially to a dark and brooding relative named Tadhg.  Tadhg tells her about the selkie -- a shapeshifter of Irish lore who is half-seal and half-human -- and why Roan Inish is so important to the family.  From that, Fiona must unravel the mystery of what happened to her baby brother.I don't want to spoil any of the story, so rather than recount any more of the plot, I'll just tell you that all the performances are wonderful.  Mick Lally as the grandfather especially shines, as does Eileen Colgan as the grandmother.  Jeni Courtney is terrific as young Fiona and Richard Sheridan as Eamonn, her young cousin, is very good too.  In fact, I couldn't pick out any bad performances at all.The Secret of Roan Inish features some beautiful Irish music, both instrumental and Irish-language, and of course features lush cinematography of the Donegal area and coast.  Beautifully shot, wonderfully written and performed, and masterfully directed, The Secret of Roan Inish will delight everyone in the family.  Don't hesitate to buy or rent this one. "},{"Title":"A quiet, magical and elegant movie.  Timeless","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I happened to rent The Secret of Roan Inish, when it was first out on video and it has been one of the best movie finds. This movie tells a captivating story with beautiful scenes of Ireland. It looks so realistic to me for the Irish culture and home-life. This movie is very quiet but never boring. It does not jump up and grab your attention or startle you, it just gradually lays out a very magical yet timeless story. It is a story about love, found and lost, and a little girl who refuses to believe that she has lost a beloved family member. It is told through her magical eyes and the Irish background and characters that cross her path easily come to life. I watch this movie whenever I need to relax and just get away from the everyday craziness of life. It is well worth the time. This movie reminds me of, The Winter Guest, by Alan Rickman. It has a similar pace and feel to it. If you like this movie, you will probably enjoy, The Winter Guest, as well.  "},{"Title":"A good story well told","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie. While this was not a movie specifically made for a young audience (by that I mean, it's not a kid flick,) this is a great family film. If you give your kids a chance to love an intelligent film, they will. This story is told so vividly, so beautifully, that it held my 6 and 9 year old daughters rapt in spite of the fact that it did not resemble a Disney Channel video.Anyone who can appreciate folklore tales should love this movie. The cinematography is absolutely breathtaking, the script well written, the actors all wholly believable. I could watch it again and again.  "},{"Title":"Heartwarming and rich in Irish culture, but not in a sappy way","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"18 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  One of the things I love about the Irish culture is it's rich legends and storytelling. This story follows Fiona (Jeni Courtney) who has returned from the city with her father to live with her grandparents. They had previously lived on the island of Roan Inish, but are now living on the mainland. The director, John Sayles, bring us a version of the legend of the selkie, a creature that is half seal-half human. I found this movie to be very heartwarming and rich in Irish culture, but not in a sappy way. Jeni Courtney turns in an excellent and completely believable performance as Fiona who learns about the legend of the selkie and uses it to find her little brother Jimmy who had disappeared at sea at an infant. The Irish landscape and sea are gorgeously filmed and it's as if you are there in Ireland learning about the legends yourself through the eyes of Fiona. '***1/2 (out of 4) "},{"Title":"An Irish Fairy Tale for All","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to suspend belief during The Secret of Roan Inish and accept Irish legend as fact. This shouldn't be too difficult for moviegoers weaned on Star Wars and Die Hard.  Let's hope so because The Secret of Roan Inish is a rare movie, a fairy tale, told from a child?s perspective, but for adults as well as children.Roan Inish is an island off the coast of western Ireland from which 10-year-old Fiona's family has recently decamped for the mainland because of hard times. Now directly across the water from their beloved island, Fiona's grandparents take her in after her city-living father can no longer care for her. And there are secrets. Unbeknownst to Fiona there is a branch of her family descended from Selkies, beings half seal and half human. Unlike mermaids though, Selkies are either all human or all seal, depending on their mood. And if you can catch a human Selkie, they're yours until they discover where you've hid their seal skin. And with a beautiful female, Fiona's grandfather did just that, married her, raised a family, but alas one day she finds her seal skin and she's off to the sea. This legend segues into a modern mystery and a challenge Fiona must face.Slow paced, beautifully photographed, well acted and directed, this is a unique gem of a movie.   "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Tale with a Fearless Young Heroine","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie for a number of reasons.  First, its just a beautiful setting.  Second, John Sayles does not succumb to Hollywood norms and resort to special effects, rock songs or cheap dramatic plot twists to jazz up what seems to be a simple folk tale.  Most of all, I love that all of the characters are allowed their humanity and dignity.  Fiona, the 10 year girl who is at the center of the film, follows her curiosity in a brave but realistic way, never spouting wise cracks so common with most American child characters.  Imagine being told an old family story by your favorite Uncle or Grandfather while sitting around a living room late at night, with only the low light provided by the glow of a fire or one old lamp so nothing distracts your imagination's journey.  That is what this film is like...   "},{"Title":"A lovely magical tale in 1940's Ireland","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The film examines a young Irish girl, Fiona Coneely, and her search for her baby brother, Jamie, in the late 1940's. Jamie disappeared a few years earlier, and hints begin to emerge that he may have been carried off by the many seals that haunt the island where he lived.Fiona is portrayed quite well. Although she looks frail physically, she nevertheless conveys a deep strength and fearlessness as she uncovers strange elements of her family's past and begins to believe that Jamie may still be aliveThe Irish setting is played up very strongly. There are lovely seascapes and good use of Irish music. The faces of the people are very evocative as well, with many rugged, homely appearances that feel very honest and comfortable. The magical elements are portrayed seriously and delicately without getting too corny -- no dancing leprechauns.The messages of the film are done intelligently, without much dialogue, relying mostly on visuals. One thing I noticed in a second viewing is how much of the time the film shows people working. It opens up in a tough-looking laundromat or factory of some sort, and many of the key scenes are set with the main characters talking while they are busy with the work of their daily lives. There is an important scene where children labor especially hard for something that has a strong influence on the resolution of the story. At no time is there an overt quote about working, but the importance of labor comes through seeing people do it.Roan Inish works well for young children as well. My younger sons were swept into it, although it is quite unlike any film they had seen before. They definitely thought it was unusual, but they seemed to enjoy the characters and situations and had a lot of interested questions about what was going on. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" My father's family left a small island off the Donegal Coast early in the 20th Century and this film gave us a wonderful insight into life on such an island.The reality of the film really made it for us, the soda bread (or scone bread) as we called it on the table, the turf fires and the whitewashed walls. Even the seal colony is like Inishtrahull Island where our Dad was from.I recommend this film without hesitation if you have any roots or interest in Ireland.One blooper we noted in the subtitles. A kid is being teased for speaking Irish at the start (the film clearly shows why the language was so damaged in the early 20th Century and who was to blame).His fellow pupils are shown in the subtitles as saying Eject, Eject when of course they are actually shouting Eeejit, the word Idiot in an Irish accent!.One other blooper we noted in the subtitles was a complete misinterpretation of Killybegs, a fishing port in Donegal which was titled something completely different. "}{"Title":"Great film","Date":"12 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Some people would label this a children's movie...and yet, it has all the mystery and beauty that accompanies films for adults who love poetry and traditional storytelling and classic literature. Watch this film, and you'll get a good idea of Irish tradition and life and their constant belief in legend and lore, which has made them into the wonderful and strong race that they are today. There is a deep sense of family...a truly strong family who has clearly had its ups and downs and yet has come out even stronger than before. A family that has been through generations of change, adapted, continues to change and yet still holds onto the traditions and stories along the way. Stories that others might assume are myth and faery tales. And stories that we know aren't anything but the truth woven into a magical tale.In most Irish tales and legends I've read, there is a quest which keeps the main character(s) pushing forward through all the challenges of life. Fiona's store in this movie is no different. She's a little girl lost at the beginning when we meet her, wandering through the smog of the city to find some way to latch onto her father who is lost and sad with grief over a dead wife and a dead and missing baby boy. Her true quest begins when she is sent to live with her grandparents who still live by the sea. And the quest truly becomes a quest when she learns that her baby brother Jamie has been spotted on Roan Inish, the Island of the Seals where her family originated from.The music weaves itself around the characters and the story to make it more complete than it would be without it. It is both peaceful and stirring, providing the background for the cultural ear. With the music and the intricate storytelling, one can become truly lost in this story. And truly a part of it.If I had children, this is one movie I would have them watch over and over again. Like Disney's Darby O'Gill and the Little People, this is a movie to entertain children of all ages. "},{"Title":"Music to my fears","Date":"7 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Much like The Secret Garden, this is a film about the unlikely combination of everyday reality and pure magic. The character of Fiona (played by Jeni Courtney) is like every free and beautiful little girl that you've ever encountered rolled into one. She has such a wonderful outlook on life; honest and serious, faithful and fanciful. This is an improbable film for director John Sayles, an American filmmaker who usually sticks much closer to home. More pleasing still is the fact that he takes an honest, unfiltered view of the Irish culture that is so intrinsic to the story being told.The Secret of Roan Inish is about storytelling, from an inner and outer perspective. Each character is deeply concerned with sharing his or her own tale or take on local folklore. The script takes all sorts of beautiful sidelines into the tales of Fiona's relatives and anyone else who happens to pass by. Particularly fascinating is the performance of John Lynch, whose character tells the legend of the Selkie (played by his sister, Susan Lynch). The images of the seal woman are breathtaking, painful in their uncertain waking beauty.The final result of the film is something between the purity of childhood and the trust of self. I was taken in not only by the overwhelming sense of the unknown, but by everything fearful and wonderful in the making known of the same. This is one of the most enrapturing motion pictures I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Family values in the best sense.","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a true family film -- for and about families.Except for very small children (who might get bored) this film is has something for all ages. The actors -- both young and old, animal and human -- are excellent. The story-line is interesting for children but complex enough for adults.It's as beautiful as most art movies but as plot-driven as a Hollywood movie, again making it appealing to a broad range of people.It's non-offensive but not at all cloying like some family movies. (Well, unless you're offended by drinking or toddler nudity.) It's magical and mythic but still rooted in characters that seem believable. It also has interesting rural Irish culture which, I assume is accurate. My wife and I saw this movie in the theater before we had children and we now watch it with our kids on DVD. I've seen it three or four times and I'm still not tired of it! The only possible downside I can think of are the fairly thick Irish accents. I have no problem understanding but some people might. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Great Scenery","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's a great Irish movie and you can actually understand what they are saying. The seals in the movie were mysterious and cute. It's a movie about one of those moments in life where life is stranger than fiction. But totally believable. )The characters are not over done, the story is pretty simple and would be a great film for anyone of any age to see.The main heroine is a young girl who leaves to go live with her grandparents after her mother's death. She learns more about her family and the family stories. The family is originally from the island Roan Inish where the stories come from. "},{"Title":"A lovely family film","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is absolutely lovely! I watched this film a few years ago with my little brother, who was 8 years old at the time and only watched Disney. However, he was hooked on this film. It shows everything that is good and pure about Ireland. It is a bit similar to 'Fairytale, a true story' but is so pure and lovely. I have just spent an hour searching for this film (as I'd forgotten the name) just so that I can buy it for myself, and I would recommend it to people. I challenge you not to feel touched by this magical film! The girl (Fiona) is sent to live with her grandparents in a remote part of Ireland, which overlooks the deserted Islad of Roan Inish. There are legends relating to this island which she learns, including the fact that her baby brother disappeared. She see's a small boy on the island, and is sure that the seals are bringing him up as their own. This begins her search for the truth. "},{"Title":"Marvelous for the literate family","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My kids want to watch this one over and over.  They love the accents as well as the magical story.  It's just as terrific for adults  - with lovely landscapes, beautiful music and fine acting.  Highly recommended for families weary of the usual garbage marketed to kids. "},{"Title":"Mythic Storytelling and Ethnic Culture Done Right","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Secret of Roan Inish is a unique film which reveals in a slow paced story, the relationship of the Irish people to the sea and land. Roan Inish weaves its magic through the well written dialogue of characters who tell the story of a family ancestor who was a mythological selkie, as well as the lost infant raised by seals who populate the abandoned island. They comment on the loss of native language and culture by a generation of young islanders who left for jobs in the city. The return of a small island girl to her grandparents permits director John Sayles to examine with the girl, the island's history, and its community whose knowledge is grounded in oral history and the past. Set in the post-war economy, desire to leave the old ways to incorporate benefits of modern urban life is seen only briefly as intrusive on the people whose community is intimately tied to the sea. The strength of the film is in how it presents the need and place of intergenerational knowledge, the preservation of the language, and the unique place of ethnic heritage based in oral traditions.What sets this film apart from others is how it is a family film without resorting to clichés, but instead, is the kind of movie entertaining to all age groups without talking down to anyone. That the film was not better marketed is likely the fault of the studio that did not know how to sell the film's idea to American audiences grown accustomed to mindless car chases, exploding buildings, and gratuitous violence as well as irritating, smart-mouth kid actors. Roan Inish has none of these elements although the brief nudity of one child actor could offend some who would find offense in any presentation of the human form in any context. But for this, the film allows audiences to be drawn into the story of children who value and desire to restore their heritage and family, and take responsibility to act.The production values of this film are high, its plot thoroughly believable. DP Haskell Wexler uses the beauty of the Irish countryside to paint a stunning image of the landscape and sea that makes one wish to return to the old sod. Sayles's cast are character actors not familiar to most audiences in the US, but who are able to carry the film with authenticity and grace. The child actors are especially mature and believable. This is a film that should be seen by more audiences but probably won't and that is unfortunate for The Secret of Roan Inish is a gem in a sea of mediocre Hollywood fare. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A truly charming film, with wonderful actors, which captures the very essence of rural Ireland and its windswept islands offshore. Few movies can be shown to children these days; however, this is one that can. Jeni Courtney as Fiona is terrific, and a remarkable young actress.Having spent time on the unspoiled coast and in the quaint villages of County Donegal, this film brings them to life for all to see and enjoy. It is a magic movie and I recommend it to anyone&#151;unless magic and fairies have gone out of your life, in which case this film and Finding Neverland (with brilliant acting by Johnny Depp and Kate Winslet) might bring them back. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The reviewer who reveals his ignorance by decrying, What's a selkie? and then proceeds to place both feet in his mouth, should bother to read a bit of Irish folklore.  A selkie is NOT what some suggest, a half seal, half human.  A selkie is a spirit which can take the body of a seal and a woman.  It is the celtic counterpart to the Greek sirens or the oceanides, river spirits, to the Japanese kawakami, the Basque Lamiñak and others.  Shapeshifters abound in folklore and this story winds around such a tale.  Bored?  Go watch one of those mindless teenage slice'n dice films and leave this gentle tale about a little girl's odyssey in a breathtakingly beautiful setting in a wonderful land to children of all ages.  My grandfar came from County 'Derry (what the Protestants call Londenderry) in Northern Ireland near Lough Boyle and told me stories as a child that were as gentle and awesome as this.  This is a fine film.  Not as goofy as Waking Ned Devine, as wacky as the Purple Taxi, as wrenching as Angela's Ashes or as poignant as The Quiet Man.  But, it wasn't meant to be.  It is wonderful.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"Quiet story about a girl, her grandparents, and legend","Date":"9 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie, but be warned.  I have recommended it dozens of times and  no one who has seen it at my urging has sought my movie advice again.  Hmm.   I would like to think that these are friends  who don't  appreciate fine film, but I must, in all fairness, entertain the thought  that perhaps this is a movie that isn't for all tastes.  Do you like poetry?   Fantasy?  Story-spinning?  This movie is like a song.  It can take you  away, if you're willing to go.  It effortlessly shows off the beauty and  mystery of Ireland in a way that The Matchmaker (with Janeane Garofalo)  wanted, but that film just made the landscape a lovely background to a  silly, throw-away plot.  That's not the case with The Secret of Roan  Inish.  The story belongs in Ireland and makes you want to go and capture  a bit of the magic it spins. "}{"Title":"A quiet gem of a movie","Date":"3 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a rare movie one that can hold the attention of adults while at the same time keeping children entranced.That said, I have to add this is not a movie for very young kids, who will not understand the mythology involved or get the plot. It is also not a film for people who are looking for a lot of action, special effects, cornball humor or over-the-top near-hysterical acting. It's a movie that works quietly for its effects.The first thing I have to comment on is the beautiful setting of the film and the photography. The setting is the west coast of Ireland, in a small fishing village, and on the sea and the land around the village. I believe Secret is as successful at conveying the rugged beauty of this landscape and seascape as any movie made. No tricks, no special effects, just the beauty of a place that has a lot of history and mythology associated with it.The actors and actresses in this film are not big names and not well-known, and I would say that this is a movie that is more story-driven than character-driven. At the same time, the lack of name actors or big bravura performances works to the advantage of the film, in that the personalities of the actors are submerged in the plot.There is a lot of kindness in this film, and a sense of the people being really connected to one another and caring for and about each other, and about the land and time they live in. That's one of the things that I loved about this film there are no real villains, nothing evil. Nobody is considered stupid or demeaned in any way. And yet there is a tension to the story, and a move towards resolution of a history that had sadness and tragedy in a way that is literally magical.I loved this movie and I recommend it to anyone who can enjoy a movie that isn't big on action, that doesn't try to do more than tell a story in a way that's thoughtful and beautiful and makes you wish that you could find that kind of magic in your own life. "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"11 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" On the soundtrack to Tarantino's Kill Bill, Vol. 1, rapper RZA dedicates his witless contribution to character O-Ren Ishii, half-Chinese, half-Japanese-ie. Well this review is dedicated in its entirety to the isle of Roan Inish, all Irish, no Japan-inish. John Sayles has spent most of his stellar career as a writer-director documenting the making of modern America with the searing, masterfully-woven race relations dramas Lone Star and Sunshine State and the classic coming-of-age film Baby It's You, which doubles as a portrait of the immigrant experience. This change-of-pace outing finds him amidst the myths and mysteries of rural Ireland, where a 10-year-old girl is hunting for the baby brother who was swept to sea when her family evacuated its remote island home. The film builds slowly, mesmerisingly towards a cathartic act of mercy, incorporating several nuanced diversions which either bolster the narrative or flesh out its highly evocative portrait of a sea-faring community.Medium Cool director Haskell Wexler's lustrous cinematography and a soundtrack of Celtic folk songs add to the very special atmosphere, while the sensitive performances remain doggedly unsentimental, young Jeni Courtney representing the movie's poetic but earthy sensibility as the resourceful, single-minded heroine. Meanwhile, Sayles' unmatched ear for dialogue is as attuned as ever, his empathy for the characters reinforced by inventive direction that sees the world from Courtney's height for its first five minutes. Roan Inish is a tender, affecting and ultimately magical film - and one of the best few I'll see this year. RZA was unavailable for comment. "},{"Title":"Intersection of Nature and Spirit","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is the most emotionally satisfying film John Sayles has ever made, which tops a long and excellent list. Working with a virtually unknown Irish cast, Sayles brings to life a story that wanders on the borderland between mystical and blue-collar realism, without becoming cloying or simplistic. The only film to which i think Roan Inish can be effectively compared is Whale Rider, but with no insult intended to Whale Rider, to me Roan Inish is a richer and more complex film. The basic story concerns the relationship between humans and non-humans and how long- standing relationships between species can be torn apart by world events; in this case the Second World War, which forces a community of Irish fisherfolk to relocate to the mainland. A young girl, whose family has been damaged through these actions and other forces, is sent to live with her grandparents on the coast, at which point her nonhuman relatives contrive to bring her and her family back to the home they once shared with other life forms.The little girl, Fiona, who is the primary human character, played by Jenny Courtney, is wonderfully written and played. She is not your standard cutie-pie, but a budding force of nature. It is obvious why of all the members of her family, the nonhumans single her out for their attention. The story is drawn from the traditional Irish and Scots stories of relationships between humans and seals, or selchies, but transposes this into a more modern setting, without losing any of the mystery or wonder.One of the strongest recommendations I can give this film is that has become one of the most popular and respected films at Haskell Indian Nations University here in Kansas. Indigenous Americans seem to identify with the experience of the Irish, which shows them that modern European culture has been destructive to Indigenous peoples in Europe, and allows them to realize that there have been and continue to be, Indigenous people with distinct cultures in Europe as well as the Americas. I was once in a video store, when a person I knew slightly asked me if I could recommend a film that would appeal both to him and his children. Without hesitation I went over and picked up the store's copy of Roan Inish, and told him, Not only will you enjoy this, but it will give you and your kids a lot to think and talk about. I make the same recommendation to anyone who reads this. "},{"Title":"many ways to look at Ireland","Date":"29 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have liked every one of John Sayles's movies that I've seen, and The Secret of Roan Inish is no exception. The movie mainly focuses on ten-year-old Fiona going to live with her grandparents in Donegal, Ireland, and learning family stories. But there were two aspects that I found particularly important.One was the focus on how England sought to destroy the Irish culture. Students weren't allowed to speak their native language in school, and Fiona's grandparents have to give up their house to an English family. But there was also the focus on seals. Aside from the story about the woman who could turn into a seal, there's Fiona's disappeared younger brother might the seals be raising him? Rarely have I ever seen such a mystical and edifying look at the relationship between humans and animals.All in all, this is the sort of movie that could only come from John Sayles. It's about as far from a Hollywood movie as you can get, and I recommend it to everyone. You just might want to take a trip to the Emerald Isle after watching it. "},{"Title":"A gem to be discovered","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a magically quiet masterpiece of storytelling by John Sayles, who also gave us, amazingly, LONE STAR. No one tells stories the way the Irish tell stories. This movie celebrates that gift and passion with story after story told within the frame of the film's story. The idea of the ultimate return home is given an even greater resonance than usual with a special reunion here. The whole notion of the loss of language, Gaelic in this instance, is universally moving and significant today. A wonderful story, gorgeously shot by Haskell Wexler, with beautiful music. The seals are amazing. This is a real find. "},{"Title":"Story about a magical connection to the land","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Following the death of her mother, Fiona Coneelly (Jeni Courtney), a ten-year old girl, is sent to live with her grandparents Hugh and Tess (Mick Lally and Eileen Colgan) in a fishing village on the West Coast of Ireland. Based on the children's book, The Secret of Ron Mor Skerry by Rosalie K. Fry, The Secret of Roan Inish by John Sayles is about a family, a tradition, and a magical connection to the land. It is also the story of the island of Roan Inish where the Coneelly family lived in harmony with the seals for many generations until they left shortly after World War II. Brilliantly shot on location by the great Haskell Wexler, the film transports you into a world of black rocks, gloomy seascapes, squawking sea gulls, and seals that look human. The mood of solitude is enhanced by the tin whistle, flute, strings and bodhran (old style frame drum) of Mason Daring's enchanting score (I would have loved to also hear Selkie of Suleskerry and Rockin the Cradle).The film wonderfully recaptures the tradition of oral storytelling, especially by Fiona's grandfather who tells her stories about her ancestors with passion and conviction. The film depicts a version of the tale about the Selkie, the half-seal and half-human creatures that are regarded in Irish folklore as being able to transform themselves from seals into humans by casting off their skins. Her father's cousin Tadgh (John Lynch), one of the dark ones, tells Fiona how her ancestor Liam (Gerald Rooney) married a Selkie who was called Nuala (Susan Lynch), had children together, and lived happily for many years. Later when the children told Nuala where to find her sealskin, she left the family and returned to the sea. Fiona wonders if her baby brother Jamie (Cillian Byrne), lost at sea in his cradle during the evacuation, might still be alive under the protection of the Selkies on Roan Inish, waiting for the family to return. Fiona visits the island with her 13-year old cousin Eamon (Richard Sheridan) and, when she discovers footprints in the surf, begins a process of unraveling the truth of Jamie's disappearance. While I had problems with the internal logic of the story and some very stiff performances, The Secret of Roan Inish is a genuinely moving parable about preserving family tradition, being part of the natural world, and having the courage to seek the truth for yourself. The film can be recommended for older children, but keep in mind that the pace is slow and the car chases are kept to an absolute minimum.  "},{"Title":"A truly magical tale","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a tale that is laced with whimsy, magic and charm.  I absolutely fell in love with it.  Not a movie for the action movie lovers who need exploding cars and bridges etc. This movie requires sensitivity and love of lore. I fell in love with Irish music after watching this one.  The characters spin a tale around a traumatic event, the loss of the main characters' baby brother to the sea.  I loved how she seeks information from many different sources with a solemnity far beyond her ten years.  She was well cast, as were her grandparents. The location was spectacular and I loved the island in particular.  The movie is not fast paced, but it takes you along without leaving you hanging. I give this movie an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A wonderful poem on film.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Just a simple little film, wonderfully done.  An Irish ballad in pictures, a skillful rendering of legend and family.Sort of Quiet Man meets Ring of Bright Water.If the folks who butchered Mists of Avalon had only hired John Sayles... "},{"Title":"Celtic crowd pleaser masquerading as edgy indie art","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The older the fiddle, the sweeter the tune. - Irish proverbPart of cinema's Irish boom in the lead up to the Anglo-Irish ceasefires, The Secret of Roan Inish is a low key, fairly unassuming piece of fantasy by director John Sales, notable mostly for some good cinematography by the legendary Haskell Wexler. Like all of these films (Waking Ned Devine, Far and Away, Riverdance etc), The Secret of Roan Inish exemplifies what writer Natasha Casey calls Cletic commodification, reducing Ireland and Irishness to Celtic myths, quaint, pre-modern, rural landscapes, and a depiction of the nation as being forever pre-colonised. Unsurprisingly, the film was widely distributed in America and Britian (since John Ford, Irishness has always been used as a vehicle to allow white audiences to role-play being white minorities/victims), but only had a limited release in Ireland. Its pastoral, regressive image of Irish society is more commercially viable outside of its home territory. The film is often touted as being Sayles' only non-political film, but this isn't true. Its tales of when man and beast lived side-by-side, sharing the sea, of monsters shedding their past skins, of a little girl's self determination and slow journey back to her roots, are designed specifically for the Irish diaspora. It's a call for a people to return to their homes and live alongside the now tamed beasts of Old England.Everyone wants to march into the future, one haggard Irish character says, mourning about how his country just got left behind. But the film's solution is to avoid modernization and to delve deeper into the past; a regression into some mythical pure origins, a move backward to re-establish a pre-colonial Ireland. This is not surprising. The grand narrative of a society moving from the pre-modern to the modern to the post-modern, breaks down in Ireland. After the Anglo-Irish and Civil wars, as well as hundreds of years of struggle, the Irish were concerned with maintaining the nationalist cultural identity that they were finally free to express in their self-governance. But what Sayles' film does is advocate delving into the rich identity of Ireland's past, whilst serving up only Disneyland trinkets. It's the condescending David Lean view of Ireland; the art house equivalent of a Lucky Charms cereal box. So it's not only that the film fails to give a genuine ideology of contemporary Ireland, or that it chooses an escape to the past instead of clarifying historical events, but that it pretends to be about identity when actually it's relying on mythology in order to avoid questions of authenticity (or the impossibility thereof). Ironically, with the Irish film industry in ruins, Irishness has increasingly become a sort of viscious circle, foreigners projecting Irishness onto a country who must now parrot (and export) such cosy, plastic Irishness in their own art if they hope to garner international attention. Sayles is unwittingly participating here in the kind of damaging, bottled-tourism and cultural kitsch that he denounces so well in Limbo and Sunshine State. Ignoring these issues, the film works fairly well as a children's fantasy, though I suspect most kids and adults will find Roan Inish too plain and too slow. Compare the film to Victor Erice's The Spirit of the Beehive, a masterpiece which, like Roan Inish, merges history, myth and childhood. 7/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Slow but interesting","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The scenery of the coast of Ireland is breathtaking and director John Sayles makes good use of it. A little girl, Fiona, comes to live with her grandparents and learns of the legend of her ancestors and seals with mystical qualities. The film moves very slowly but the innocence and belief of Fiona in magic make the fairly tale atmosphere almost believable. Jeni Courtney is perfectly cast in the lead role and she effortlessly displays a natural ability to seem like a real ten year-old kid. Sayles lets her appear in virtually every scene of the movie and it is a wise choice. The sea and its creatures are the other major element and it all works to make The Secret Roan Inish worth a 7.5/10. "}{"Title":"Best movie about selkies I have ever seen","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I am a Language Arts Teacher and I use this movie to go along with my folktale unit. In the literature book that I use there is a story called Sealskin, Soulskin, which is an Eskimo story about the selkies and so after we read that story we watch The Secret of Roan Inish. It shows the Irish side of the selkie story. It is a great closing activity for this unit.I would recommend this movie to any seventh grade Language Arts teacher who uses the Holt, Reinhart Elements of Literature book. It really goes along with the folktale unit. I hope you can get as much enjoyment from this movie as I and my classes have. "},{"Title":"Delightful and beautiful fantasy","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is truly one of the great films of our time. It's a fantasy, set in the glories of Western Ireland and involves the story of a little girl who is sent from the city to her grandparents in the isles. Once there, she learns of a mysterious lady who came into the family having once been a seal. The disappearance at sea of the girl's little brother leads the girl to the ancestral home on the island of Roan Inish. There, in time, and only after the family decides to move back to Roan Inish, the child is found, mysteriously cared for the seals. The movie is filled with glorious photography, splendid acting, and a story that should appeal to all sensitive people. John Sayles was responsible for the writing, directing, and editing. It is a tribute to his genius. "},{"Title":"A wonderful Irish tale of a little girl's quest to find a loved one","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is beautiful. A beautiful story, a beautiful setting, and a beautiful ending. The entire family will enjoy this. This film will appeal to those interested in ethnic movies, paricularly tales of the Irish. It has a unique combination of folklore, drama, comedy, and charm. The actors are very authentic and natural. If you have watched When the Whales Came you will also enjoy The Secret of Roan Inish. This is a movie you will not only want to watch once, but again and again. The story line is to the point, and it is not long and drawn out. The film will hold your interest from beginning to end, so have the bowl of popcorn ready before you sit down. "},{"Title":"The secret is that it's a great film","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Enchanting version of a children's book about a ten year old girl in post WWII Ireland who, following the death of her mother, is sent by her father to live with his parents in a small village near Roan Innish, the island where she grew up. Once there, she begins to hear colorful stories about her ancestry that lead her to seek her baby brother who was lost in the ocean during the evacuation of Roan Innish during the war.Jeni Courtney, who plays 10 year old Fiona, is a revelation. Unlike some of the precocious and/or obnoxious children so often used in Hollywood, she is miraculously innocent, sweet without being cloying, and talented. The movie lives and dies by her performance, as most of the action is seen through her eyes, and she surpasses expectations. You can't help but root for her plucky character. The rest of the small cast is superb as well.John Sayles is an incredibly gifted writer and director as he has shown in past films like Return of the Secaucus Seven and Eight Men Out, and he is at the top of his form here. The film has a beautiful and dreamy look to it, perfectly suited to the subject. It's never boring and always original, with a really terrific ending. Altogether a magical film experience for children and adults. "},{"Title":"Secret of Roan Inish Review","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The best understanding and best feeling of this movie are hard to quantify. The element that caused me to rate it highly is the sense of the return to an old life, as well as the connection to the ocean and the islands. I've always wanted to renovate my mother's bulldozed home in Kansas, the old stone house that was bulldozed when fire raged through the area and consumed the beams. This is a story of young folks cleaning up the old abandoned spaces and convincing the old folks to come back. That always finds a place in my heart. Further, this story tells of a link between the ocean creatures and humans, and that speaks of goodness as well. This is an extremely satisfying movie if you love family and beautiful, simple older ways of life. The touch of the supernatural heals and suggests that we don't know or predict everything that can happen in the natural world. "},{"Title":"I don't usually like this kind of movie, but ...","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" In this film John Sayles creates a mood of mystical enchantment where Irish myths come alive in a way that can involve even a hardened realist. One thing that makes this story work is that it is told through the eyes of a young girl - I was able to identify with her belief in the story she tells.The natural setting around Denegal, Ireland, is one of the big stars. The seascapes are beautifully filmed and the extensive footage of the seals is endearing. Is there anyone with soul so dead who does not find seals adorable? One of the greatest values this movie had for me was Sayles' reference to Robert Flaherty's Man of Aran in his director's commentary. He said that he had watched that in preparing for the filming of Roan Inish. That put me on to watching Man of Aran, which I had never heard of. It provides background, in addition to being a worthy film in its own right. Having liked Man of Aran I went on to see Flaherty's Louisiana Story which is better yet. "},{"Title":"Another John Sayles Masterpiece","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I have always admired the style that John Sayles uses in making his films and this one is no exception. The movie is based on Irish stories of seals and the dark women and how one family grew up on Roan Inish. I did not get the chance to see this film in the theater , however, I saw it on cable and then purchased the tape. What an excellent film. As usual, John Sayles flushes out the very human qualities of his character. I felt pained for Fiona in that she lost her mother so young and her father was having a very hard time raising her on his own. You could almost see the sweetness of her grandparents . The grandfather with his excellent story telling abilities retelling stories to Fiona of family history. The grandmothers run of the house. I just really loved the story and the characters that were present. The movie contains many of the human elements that I have seen in all of John Sayles films that I have viewed. He has this great ability to flush out very human elements in his character.  This particular film tugged at me because of my Irish heritage, but I think anyone could enjoy it. "},{"Title":"a young girl is sent to live with her grandparents by the sea.","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie captures the beauty of Ireland and the magic of the Irish to create a enchanting story.  The actors and actresses give stunning performances and repeatedly throughout the movie I had to remind myself that characters weren't real.  I loved this movie so much that I have watched other movies about Ireland and based their merit upon this exceptional production. "},{"Title":"A wonderful experience","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most pleasant, enchanting movies I've ever seen.  It is part fairly tale, part folk tale, part fantasy.  A wonderful film to watch with a friend or a loved one.  I give it my highest recommendation.  If you haven't seen it, take a chance on this one. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Mysterious","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The magic of this movie sneaks up on you. Our heroine, Fiona, is a quiet child, who tends to isolate herself. At first, we think this is a gentle tale of a lonely little girl.  Woven through the mystery, and then the magic of the tale is the common child's lament, no one ever listens to me, no one ever believes me.  And Fiona uncovers a mystery that is fairly unbelieveable!The old sorrow of her family is in the tale of her lost baby brother, who's cradle washed away out to sea one day.  Local legends tell of silkies, wonderful creatures who are seals in the water, and beautiful women on land. It is said that Finona's baby brother is now being brought up by the silkies, and there is some reason to think she may be correct!  "}{"Title":"Superb modern myth storytelling","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Secret of Roan Inish is a film for those who want a taste of the Irish myth. It is wonderfully filmed and heartwarming in its characterization. The whole world revealed by director Sayles is enticing and intriguing magic. But it's believable magic in the way some life elements defy normal explanation. That's why this film stands out and apart from equally sweet tales like Into the West.I warn you that it's old-fashioned storytelling. Its pace is slower than what most are accustomed to these days, but that doesn't mean it's boring. If you must have fantastic elements and don't like subtlety and family focus, this film isn't for you. But if you like rich and original old-style tales that make you feel good and happy to have heard them, see The Secret of Roan Inish and relish its perfection. "},{"Title":"A well-done folk tale","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This story is charming and refreshingly uncontrived. Imaginative whimsy fills a tale that takes the viewer into a land overlaid by myth.  The soundtrack is one of my personal favorites, filled with authentic Irish music.  I highly recommend this for viewers interested in a movie that's a little different from the norm, but is still rich, innocent fun. "},{"Title":"Magical, powerful and believable","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  A wonderful story set in circa 1945 Donegal of the selkies ( strange creatures of human and seal). I have seen Irish seals and the knowing looks they can throw at you have to be seen to be believed.  One has the strongest sense that centuries of wisdom lie beneath those eyes! This tale is enchanting and centres around the lead, an unknown little actress who searches for her baby brother.  I won;t spoil the story but be prepared for superb cinematography combined with some great story telling.  The only weak link was the actor who played Eamon, I felt he was reading (badly) from a script and it was jarring.  Overall an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife and I have watched this film several times, and have never failed to discover something new. This is a priceless treasure for young and old alike. For an American, the anonimity of it's actors is half the charm. The only one I'd seen before was John Lynch who plays the mysterious Tadgh (IN the Name of The Father, Some Mother's Son). Jeni Courtney is adorable as Fiona, and I could listen to Mick Lally's Hugh (grandfather) tell tales all day. Ireland has a magic that grabs you and won't let go. This movie captures that magic. It is simple yet complex, an enigma that is a microcosm of Ireland. I weep from it's pure beauty each time I see it.  "},{"Title":"A beautiful story that was well filmed","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say that I had no idea what the movie was about when I sat down to watch it for the first time. However I was reminded of the stories I was told as a child about Ireland and the sidhe. I was very surprised by the film and found it to be wonderful and really well filmed to give a good impression of the beauty of story told and the land it takes place in. I think that if you love fairy tales this is definitely a movie for you. "},{"Title":"Another great movie by Sayles","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  John Sayles is one of my favorite directors, so I automatically go to his movies.  He knows how to tell a story.A little girl (Fiona) is sent by her father from the big city to her grandparents' house on the coast of Ireland, where she learns about her heritage, which includes an island her family once inhabited and the dark ones (selkies, half seal and half human, sort of like mermaids).The movie has several stories inside the main story.  Everyone is a teller of tales.  The charm and the magic of the movie enthralled me.  What I remember in particular is that in mid-movie, I looked over at some guy with his two little girls, both of whom were as wrapped up in the movie as I was. I realized that it's a great movie for kids and for grownups, too.And you don't often see a movie where a little girl is the main character.On my most recent list of favorite movies, it's number one.  Local Hero is number two.  Another one of my faves is Cold Fever. "},{"Title":"One of the most magical films ever made!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This wonderful film is a true sleeper treasure - and one I never tire of watching!  The story is fantastic, the cast is brilliant, and the filmwork is just beautiful!  Whether or not you're a fan of Celtic myth and traditional stories, this film is a must see for anyone looking for a tale of magic in a mundane world! "},{"Title":"Lovely and Magical - Appeals to ALL ages!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is one of the most magical and lovely I have ever seen.  The characters are wonderful and it is set in the most magical of places, Ireland.  The story incorporates family ties and history, myth, loss and restoration of hope.  I highly recommend this film to everyone, child and adult alike.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Storytelling at its finest","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  We have rented this film a half dozen times and fall under its spell every time (even my husband, who is almost exclusively a fan of the Terminator/Die Hard ilk). Sure, it's fine for kids, but storytelling is for all ages -- in some ways, even more for the mature amongst us -- and oh! such a story, and such story tellers. Without doubt on my top ten lifetime films maybe top three. "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was nothing short of magical. You became immersed in a mythical world which was totally believable. The characters were all very interesting, the scenery was beautiful and, as a whole, it was a wonderful film in every sense of the word. "}{"Title":"This is not a children's movie.","Date":"14 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Fiona Connelly is not thriving in the city her father has taken her to. A couple of years before her mother died on the island of Roan Inish and the family decided to move off the island. During the move her infant brother Jamie, in his little cradle boat, was washed away seemingly by the waves. His father and uncles try to go after him, but he's gone. Fiona's father has taken her to the city where the jobs are supposed to be better than the fishing life the family has always known. Unfortunately father spends most of his time drinking in the pub. A kindly bar maid suggests that he send her back to the Grandparents who could probably take better care of her. That's were the story really begins. Grandfather tells her the history of the Connelly's and Roan Inish. They are descended from a Selkie. A female seal that could shed her skin and sun herself on the rocks. If you steal her skin she will stay with you, and that's what the ancestor did. They had many children and lived happily until her eldest told her where the skin was hidden. The Selkie went back to the sea. Fiona's cousin Eamon has also run away from the city and come back to fish with his grandfather. The Grandmother thinks it's just a bunch of old tales. Then Eamon takes Fiona to Roan Inish where she finds evidence that a small child has been living there, taken care of by the seals. Eamon believes her, and they decide to try to make Roan Inish livable again. This story is magic but without the abracadabra. Nothing supernatural, just old tales come to life. My favorite scene starts when Fiona says I hope Jamie comes in tonight. "},{"Title":"a sweet, beautiful little film","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Secret of Roan Inish is a charming film about a little Irish girl who believes in magic.  Fiona, sent to live with her grandparents, begins to hear of the stories and legends surrounding her family.  This movie felt very calm and enjoyable to me.  An interesting story told by charming characters amidst beautiful scenery.  I thoroughly enjoyed the simple pleasures of this movie. "},{"Title":"magical fable of the power of childhood dreams","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  What better place than the west of Ireland to make a story about how a child can make her wish come true by her own determination. A girl wants to return to her family's island home, left years before because the family was devastated when her baby brother was lost at sea. The legend was that an ancestor was a Selkie (half human, half seal). She repairs the island houses and finds her little brother again, safe and a few years older - he was cared for by the local seals - and the family joyously return to the island. The scenery is stunning, the girl is luminous and the story told with an air of wonder and mystery. There is plenty of room in the story telling for viewers to add their own dreams.   "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If John Sayles, the independent American filmmaker, is not the greatest director in the history of the medium, he certainly has to be considered among the most daring and diverse filmmakers ever. From tales set in America's past (Matewan), to yuppy dramadies (The Return Of The Secaucus Seven), to urban social satires (The Brother From Another Planet), to more modern looks at American life (Sunshine State, Lone Star, Casa De Los Babys), Sayles has shown a desire to explore things no other filmmaker has. And while he does not have a distinctive look nor style, each of films is well wrought, and a worthy addition to world cinema. One of his most daring films was actually one of his most popular and financially successful- 1995's Irish fantasy film, The Secret Of Roan Inish.OK, let me rephrase- to call The Secret Of Roan Inish a fantasy film- even if Sayles adapted the screenplay from a 1957 children's book (The Secret Of Ron Mor Skerry) by Rosalie K. Fry, is to sell it short. It is a very sly and deep look at childhood and the loneliness that accompanies such. In this way, it is very much in league with such other explorations of early childhood loneliness as Val Lewton's 1944 film The Curse Of The Cat People and 1968's Godzilla's Revenge. It is also very much a great family film along the lines of October Sky and My Dog Skip.It is also very much a mythic film. That term is often overused to describe films that deal with 'epic' characters or situations, but that sort of description and film too often wallows in the pseudo-babble of faux intellectuals like Joseph Campbell. This film succeeds by using the exact opposite tack- it presents the film very much from a child's eye point of view, that of its lead character Fiona Coneely (Jeni Courtney)- a cute ten year old blond girl who goes to live with her grandparents after World War Two, because her mother has died, and her father has had to go off to Scotland to find work.The film did only mediocre at the box office, but that's because it is a terrific and deep film that never condescends. It is a children's film sans explosions and wiseass children, and explodes the idea that films aimed at children need be lesser versions of their adult counterparts. In fact, they have a greater charge- to appeal to kids as well as adults, and on both levels. Children's films, in fact, should have more ideas crammed into them as children can absorb more and learn from them without the biases and fears that a typical adult has acquired.The film runs a crisp hour and forty-three minutes, and not a second is wasted. The only quibble one might have with the film is its title. It really should have been called The Secrets (plural) Of Roan Inish, for more than the secret of Jamie's fate is involved. Yet, the flaws in this film are very minor- such as Fiona's repeated inability to outwit her wild child brother, compared to the film's virtues- almost all else. The Secret Of Roan Inish is one of Sayles' best films, and arguably a great film in its own right. That this film did what it did with so little shows that true creativity thrives no matter what its source of nourishment is, and that when that creativity is a product of John Sayles' mind, it's likely to be something well beyond the norm. "},{"Title":"Modern Fairy Tale","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The film starts a little slow but the wonderful cinematography makes up for it and by the time the main character, a little girl, comes back from the city to her grandparent's cottage in the Irish countryside I was completely captured.  The poetic style of the film is really different and even though I usually don't like slow movies this one was an exception.    "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is by far one of the best movies, I could compare it to Lord Of The Rings. In a way, it does have that feel to it. All, I know is that I love Celtic lore and stories and I love this movie. It's just a very well done movie and I love to watch it when I get a chance! "},{"Title":"A beauty to be discovered","Date":"30 October 1999","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I agree with the mysterious Mr Meyesme  this can't be a moviefor all taste. If your idea of fantasy is Star Wars, end, trysomething else. This one is entirely atmospheric, beautiful inthe way only ireland can be, to be appreciated by the gaslightas a Lorenna McKennit, Mike Scott or Clannad song or one ofKeats most beautiful poetry. Having the chance to translate thenovel in France, I can say the movie is almost better. Butcomparing it to other fantasies, even the most exotic like Achinese ghost story would be like comparing Kate Bush to Korn.Both are incredibly talented, but can't please the same people.(Okay&#133; maybe I'm not the only one to like both, but you get mypoint !) This story of dreams, foggy banks, silkies and renewalcould make a good double-feature with the uncredible,  one-of-a-kind fantasy The "},{"Title":"Evocative, somewhat slow  - an excellent children's film.","Date":"22 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" While seeming to aim for the sense of mystery of 'Picnic at Hanging Rock', 'Roan Inish' never rises above the level of a strong TV drama. The problem isn't the central performance of Jeni Courtney as Fiona, which is outstandingly good, or the rest of the cast who must have frozen their assets impressively filming the lives of poor fishermen on the East Atlantic foreshore. More power to them. The kid playing the lost boy Jamie, Cillian Byrne (who didn't trouble the costume department), is also amazing, the way he (apparently) steers that floating cradle; and the scene with the seal and him having 'tea' is tremendous. But essentially this is a children's film, a sort of 'Railway Children' with Irish pipes and seals. Lots of Irish pipes. Lots of seals. Lots of seagulls. Lots of cold-looking water and rowboats. Lots of beaches, grass and flowers. Yet more Irish music. The only real suspense is whether there's a happy ending or not, which I won't give away, but no-one ever doubts that Fiona's story of what she has seen is true. Fair enough, they're simple people who believe in faery folk, but it all seems a bit cut-and-dried in the end. At the beginning, there's too much exposition from blarney-gushing Oirish characters, the late middle segue sequence goes on a bit too long and the pacing tends to slow up towards the end. But it's a genuine, well-made, innocent sort of film that you can safely let your smallest kids watch. The sort of film to rent at Xmas, or Easter. Especially if there's any Irish in you, or you particularly like seals. Much better than 'Ryan's Daughter', btw. "},{"Title":"A beautiful new tale of an old Irish fable","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  To honestly enjoy this movie, you have to be at least dimly aware some of the finer points of Irish mythology, or be willing to acquaint yourself with them. This is not the stereotypical American view of an Ireland possessed by banshees and leprechauns. This film is a beautiful adaptation of a legend that is not too widely spread. The story reveals the legend of the Selkie--the fairy creatures who were half human, half seal. It is an old tale, probably originally out of Scotland and coming into Ireland through County Donegal, which is also the setting of this movie. The actors are mostly unknown to American audiences but their performances are wonderful. The music is all traditional Irish folksong, and you'll hear a bit of the old language (Irish Gaelic) in the film as well. This movie is perfect for all of us Irish and Scots transplants and emigrants' children who are or want to be in touch with our roots. The scenery is absolutely breathtaking, and it'll make you want to move home in a hurry. The story might be a tad difficult to follow unless you concentrate, and unless you have an ear for the dialect, I'd suggest leaving the closed captioning on the first time you view it, as the Donegal Irish speech is not an easy one to decipher at first. Once you get past those small hurdles, however, you will find yourself in possession of a true gem of a film that treats a wonderful old legend with the respect and wonder it deserves. I highly recommend it to anyone interested in their Irish stock. "},{"Title":"Just see it.  Preferably in a theatre.","Date":"13 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I heard the best review for this movie that I've ever heard for ANY movie. It went something like I would happily tell any friend, 'Go see this movie, then let's sit down together, have a drink of something warm, and we'll talk.' That was the whole review.  Simple, unqualified approval. I'd never before gone into a movie with such high expectations without being disappointed. Ten out of ten.  This show is in my top twenty favourites. "}{"Title":"Magical realism at its best","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a delightful film. Master Sayles presents the viewer with a tale of changing the conditions of rural communities as they become part of the global village, with a spry hand. This film is as accessible for 30-something intellectuals as it is for 10-something children. "},{"Title":"Nothing Happened!!!","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I just finished watching this movie and immediately went online to see just how terrible the reviews were only to see it has a 97% on rotten tomatoes upwards of 7 out of 10 on IMDb. Shocked by this I filled out the required information just to write this one review. This film struck me as borderline unwatchable. The child acting is on par The Phantom Menace. The little girl is cute, but good lord it was just embarrassing to watch. I kept telling myself it had to be intended as a children's movie and I was being unfair to assess it as harshly as I was until the movie had been playing for about an hour and NOTHING HAD HAPPENED! The only event that had occurred, excluding the painfully boring exposition, was the little girl chasing the naked kid for 40 seconds or so only to lose him in his little boat. I kept holding on hoping something, anything, would happen, but it never really did. This is literally how the movie ends The little girl's family , for no reason, starts believing her about the little boy so they go out in the storm to find him. They walk outside their newly repaired house and the girl yells Look! We then see the kid on the shore and when he sees his sister he tries to flee, perhaps horrified at his sister's acting ability. When he tries to get in his little boat some seals, bear with me, come onto the shore. One seal chases him away from his boat and the others push the boat into the water. The family captures him and that's the happy ending? Does that not seem, at best, extremely dumb to anyone else? I can maybe buy someone liking the cultural overtones of the movie or even the occasional whimsy, but who in their right mind could truly say that they were ENTERTAINED by this film? Maybe this movie just went over my head, but in order for me to enjoy a movie i would need a few events to occur and maybe a plot or something. "},{"Title":"Mostly Dull","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll have to add another dissenting vote here.  I'm a Sayles fan, but this film was terribly dull most of the time - I think I fell asleep while watching it.  The first 1/3 of the film's narrative was difficult to follow, and only in the last 20 minutes or so did the film manage to sustain my interest.  Roan Innish is my least favorite John Sayles effort, though I haven't seen his early 80's films since they came out.  "},{"Title":"I really hate bad mouthing movies, but....","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I really hate bad mouthing movies but....WHO CAME UP WITH A SCRIPT LIKE THIS?!?!? And what is a Selkie!?!? It's creepy, for one thing, there's some material, that isn't suitible at all, and it just had no Plot to it. I watched it and wanted to turn it off, but I din't have the remote. I wanted to leave. Please, this movie is directed well, but that's it. I'm sorry. DO me a favor, don't watch it, you might as well, be sick. "}]