[{"Title":"A great film","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"64 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Danny Boyle seemed like he was destined for directorial greatness before the surprise success of Trainspotting got to his head.  His first two pictures, however, are wonderful.  Shallow Grave is one of the best modern thrillers I have seen in a long time.The story centers around three British roommates who are trying to rent the empty room in their flat out to another person.  When they finally do find a man to rent the flat out to, he dies in his sleep, leaving behind a briefcase full of a whole lot of money.  What to do?Much like Trainspotting of a few years later, Shallow Grave has very dark comical undertones to it.  Unlike Trainspotting however, it is a much more serious film.  Like Sam Raimi's A Simple Plan of four years later, it explores a moral dilemma between three friends on what to in a situation when you find a lot of money that does not belong to you.  Do you compromise your morals for the money or do you do the right thing?  One is never quite sure how the story will turn out and as you approach the ending of the film, you are never quite sure which one of the three friends is more sinister than the next, which makes the twists in the last part of the film such a darkly hilarious and chilling delight.Films like Shallow Grave are exactly what independent filmmaking is all about.  It's a smart, sleek and stylish film made on a small budget, driven by a cleaver story and interesting characters.  Ewan McGregor and Christopher Eccleston both give great performances in this film.  `Shallow Grave' is miles better than any thriller Hollywood has come up with in the last 10-15 years (if not longer).  I give it an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Vibrant and suspenseful","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"43 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A great modern thriller containing all the necessary ingredients of a decent suspense story constantly growing tension, sly humor, and genuinely surprising plot twists. It's kind of like a 90s version of a Hitchcock flick (think Rope), and like somebody here wrote, once you start watching it you can't stop.The plot is deliciously wicked. Just how far are you going to go for money? Will you kill for it? Are you willing to share it? Will you give up your best friends for it? How insane will a large amount of cash drive you? And in the end, and this is the most important question Shallow Grave rises, will it make you happy?If there was any more violence in this movie it would turn disgusting, but Danny Boyle knows how to measure it just right. Though he doesn't quite reach the virtuosity of Trainspotting here, his trademarks are all present the fast pace, the urban background beats, the enthralling camera angles and so forth.The three leads are all great, but there's no question about who the movie belongs to Ewan McGregor is energetic, powerful and photogenic in his portrayal of a young journalist. No wonder he became such a star. "},{"Title":"House Of Straw, Ton Of Bricks","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" See, there's these three little piggies (Ewan McGregor, Kerry Fox and Christopher Eccleston) who live together as flatmates in Glasgow. The one thing that ties them together more than the genial contempt they have for one another, is the DOUBLE amount of contempt they have for everyone else. To take in extra rent money, they decide to let a spare room in their place. After having a lot of fun at the expense of many 'unsuitable' candidates, they decide to award the spot to a very dodgy looking character named Hugo, (Keith Allen), who has a shady demeanor and a rather large suitcase.This situation is ripe for betrayal, deceit, coercion and oh, let's not leave out murder, shall we? It's dynamite with an unlit fuse, just missing a match. And that 'match' is finally struck when the three roommates find a nude Hugo dead the next morning in his room, and that in his mysterious suitcase is more cash than the three of them combined will make in a year.Anybody hear a sizzling noise in the background? That's nothing. The explosion is coming, and it is a DOOZY! Director Danny Boyle and writer John Hodge certainly know their noir thrillers, and they skilfully weave the strands of this twisted story together like a Hitchcock chamber piece, filtered through the gimlet-eyed gaze of the Coen Brothers. With a Glaswegan accent, of course.The acting is top notch, especially Ewan in his first major movie role. The realistic outcome of each nerve-wracking situation ratchets up the suspense and the tension without a single false note, as the 'straw' friendships of these three not-so-likable characters goes up in a puff of spontaneous combustion...all for, as the O'Jays put it so aptly, the love of money. And speaking of classic songs, a great director knows how to infuse a scene with just the right touch of irony, comedy or even downright horror, such as what Quentin Tarantino did with the confectionery pop standard from Stealer's Wheel, Stuck In The Middle With You. I could tell from the word 'go' that Danny Boyle would be one artist to watch, just through the way he took a gooey retro classic like Andy Williams' Happy Heart, and infused it with chillingly fitting gallows humor for GRAVE'S jaw-dropping ending, that will stay with you long after you've seen it...even after the second or third time! No matter how many times I watch it, it still hits me like a ton of...well, you know...Highly recommended, with great scoring work from artists like Simon Boswell, Leftfield and Tomandandy. "},{"Title":"Well-done approach to classic suspense plot.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Good first feature film from director Danny Boyle and writer John Hodge.  A good, solid thriller with a healthy dose of dark humor.Interesting dynamic among the three principle characters, though their motivations toward each other could have been made more clear. The age-old plot of ordinary people getting mixed up in an unexpected acquisition of dirty money and finding their worst tendencies coming to light is done with style and clever wit, with a couple of nice twists that I doubt anyone will see coming.  (Although, I'm a little hazy on just HOW it ends up that way.)  Boyle is definitely one of the great, stand-out directors of the 90s-and-beyond crowd, in the upper ranks with Tarantino, Fincher, Ritchie, and a few others.7/10 stars "},{"Title":"Pretty effective thriller, but could have been more","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"33 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shallow Grave is directed by Danny Boyle, the genius behind Trainspotting. Shallow Grave is about three friends, who live in the same apartment and try to study and work normally. They want to find one person to fill the room that is empty in their apartment, and soon they find the right one. However, one day something horrific happens and the friends find something very interesting in the new tenant's room. After this incident, their friendship starts to change and weird murders appear. I won't tell you more about the story as this must be seen without knowing too much about it. I hope others have not spoilt you and disturbed your viewing experience.This film is about themes of friendship and greed and greed for money especially. Which one is more important, huge amount of money or a true friend? Ewan McGregor's voice at the end of the film tells us everything what the main character learned about life and these things throughout the film. This is pretty mean spirited and too much for others, because there are so many mean characters and some graphic and gory violence in Shallow Grave and everyone will not tolerate that. After all, this is very important film and gives us some difficult questions and something to think about. A human being can easily been seduced and once it has happened, everything the one has kept important may not be that anymore and the person's set of values has changed..Technically Shallow Grave is very great and effectively scary. There are great camera movements and angles and weird ways to use camera. Music is okay but nothing too special, in my opinion. The atmosphere is pretty disturbing and this should have been enjoyed in the big screen. The real skills of this director are visible more completely in Trainspotting, a masterful drama about the world of drugs, also starring Ewan McGregor. The scenes in forest are especially spooky and as a horror thriller, Shallow Grave is very noteworthy.There are, unfortunately, couple of scenes or characters' reactions, that I couldn't tolerate and that affects to the rating a little bit. The youngsters act sometimes stupidly and are too irritating. And the other fault in this film is that the clues for the gangsters to find these youngsters are not explained and all seems to happen too easily. But these are not too dangerous considering the great horror and cinematic elements of the film. I was waiting a little too much I think, because I had read many praising reviews about this film but still, I'm definitely not disappointed, even though the film could have been closer to perfection.7/10 "},{"Title":"A great little thriller who's pace covers it's weaknesses","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Alex, David and Juliet share a flat together and are looking for a new flat mate to help fill the flat out.  They see various applicants who don't fit until they meet the mysterious Hugo who is `interesting' and takes the room. Almost a week goes by and he doesn't come out of his room once, so they break down Hugo's door to find him dead with a suitcase full of money.  To keep the money, they agree to destroy Hugo's body and draw straws to see who does the cutting.  David ends up doing the deed but it affects him badly and he becomes increasingly erratic and paranoid.  Meanwhile two criminals are dredging the underworld looking for the money.Any film that can pose a moral question that stays with the audience is off to a good start and needs to build on it.  That is the case here with the `would you keep the money' question - the answer being `yes' in terms of the characters here.  The plot then sees the greed do what greed do best - feed paranoia and divisions between the characters.  It's a theme that has been done before but is still well done here.  The plot has weaknesses in logic and flow - David's paranoia doesn't totally go the way that seems most likely, rather the way that the film requires.  Also the film doesn't build good characters.  However what it does do well is turn up tension and drama very well - as the net closes and the characters start to turn on each other.This is where the comparatively short running time helps - it keeps the whole thing from being onscreen too long to be analysed to death while you are watching it.  I didn't question the weaknesses because I was caught up in the story.  It has a good pace on it although it can't keep up the speed it set with it's stylish opening credits (which have been impersonated so often since).  The final act is a fitting denouncement and, like I said, even if some of it doesn't totally scan the film moves along fast enough to cover it.Despite the lack of really developed characters, the cast do really good jobs on the whole.  McGregor is great - this and Trainspotting show how great it can be, just makes it harder to see him looking miserable in the Star Wars films.  Fox is also very good, although she is a lot subtler than McGregor.  However it is Eccleston who steals the film, even if he is required to go further than he should have in his downward spiral; contrast his character at the start and the end of the film, he did very well to gradually go from one to the other convincingly.  The support cast is made up of familiar faces who don't really do that much - McCredie, Stott, Allen and Mullan.Overall this is not without it's flaws but it works as a tight little moral thriller that is really enjoyable while watching it.  And the ending will have you in the pub or on the message boards talking about it (in a good way). "},{"Title":"All the Makings of a Cult Classic","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film opens with three hip, cynical young Scottish professionals, David, Juliet and Alex (Christopher Eccleston, Kerry Fox and Ewan McGregor)who are looking for a fourth to share their spacious flat. That they aren't very nice people is clear in the opening scenes. when they taunt and mock the hapless applicants with insults and absurd questions, it is a foreshadowing of future nastiness and some of the choices they make. Finally an older man who seems to be their match takes the room, then immediately up and dies on them--and leaves a suitcase full of money. Did the guy commit suicide? And if so, why? More than likely the money came from some ill-gotten source, so why not keep it? But first, his corpse, which is, as Alex puts it, starting to go off and smell must be dealt with, hence the title. Scotland is such a great setting for a horror thriller, it's a shame more of them aren't set there. These are the people who gave us Burke and Hare after all. Add to that all the stereotypes about Scottish people and money and it's a perfect set-up for this plot. The sexual tension among the three also adds a suspenseful twist. Ewan McGregor was even more heartbreakingly handsome in those days, long before he was a Jedi knight, but in spite of that, he does an amazing job playing a lout.It may be my imagination, but Danny Boyle seems given to Clockwork Orange references here as he was in Trainspotting (Watch for the scene at the charity ball with Ewan McGregor on the floor with Fox's foot on his face. There are others.) Nothing wrong with that. And as with Trainspotting, there are some flights of pure fantasy, though none as protracted as the toilet scene. Though not heavy handedly, I think that this film, perhaps even more so than Trainspotting makes a pointed comment on the spiritual condition(empty) of young people in the nineties. These are very much films of their time--they could not have been made in an earlier time, and not just because of explicit drug and violence scenes. "},{"Title":"A glimpse of the greatness that became Danny Boyle, and a fabulous thriller.","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this film before Trainspotting came out, so I had no clue who this Ewan McGregor fellow was, or what sort of director Danny Boyle would turn out to be. Shallow Grave is a great enough film to have sealed the deal for me I have sought out his work (and have, for the most part, loved it!) ever since.You've already read vague bits about the plot, I'm sure, and I shan't give away any more than the basics - three roommates and best friends are inseparable until a suitcase full of money, found through some rather unpleasant circumstances (to say the least), causes not only friction and paranoia but also potential for violence, as they each struggle with their own morality over what to do. Do they call the cops and return the cash? Tell no-one what they had to do to keep it, and live the high life? It seems so simple in the beginning, boiled down to a single conversation over a kitchen table, but the complexities of that one decision soon become awfully clear. And as David (Eccleston) says at one point about a camcorder, bought as a new toy by his flatmates, Yes, you PAID five hundred quid for it, but we don't know what the COST to US will be yet. Eerie foreshadowing, there. And that is where the fun...and fear...all begin.What follows is a story that manages to ratchet up the tension at a furious pace. The whole film fits into just over 90 minutes, and it is very impressive to see how effectively the entire mood changes as these three roommates begin doubting each other, themselves, their neighbours, the police, and the occasional unfamiliar car parked outside their Edinburgh flat... The fun and hijinx for the trio (and for us, the audience) are brought to a screeching halt, and the rest of the film stays taut, never tipping its hand to let you know what might happen the next time someone comes to their door.If you've seen and enjoyed Boyle's more recent works (Millions, 28 Days Later, Slumdog Millionaire, 127 Hours...and especially Trainspotting, as you'll see a LOT of familiar faces who got their start here), go back to this one to see where his true style came to be. It's no surprise at all that he's gone on to Oscar acclaim; he's clearly been building his craft and unique methods for some time. Shallow Grave is a fantastic noir-ish thriller, managing to be laugh-out-loud funny in places (the three leads are fabulous, particularly McGregor and Eccleston) and then turning very, very dark on you without warning.And I must say...the ending alone is worth the ride. ;) "},{"Title":"engrossing as much as off-putting, psychologically interesting and thrilling, well done","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shallow Grave, the debut film from director Danny Boyle (also from his fellow producer and screenwriter from other films he made in the 90s), has a fatalistic edge to it, but where it will really go is anyone's guess. It's practically impossible to identify with these three main characters- Kerry Fox as Juliet, Christopher Eccleston as David, and Ewan McGregor as Alex- as they're all cynical and sarcastic to the bone, rarely sympathetic, and friends through and through. The latter part might be a little more recognizable in such a very easy kind of story for these characters, who after finding their new roommate dead in his room have to 'take care' of the situation. This becomes further complicated, both practically and morally, when a suitcase of money is found from the ex-roomer. This is at the core something of a simple dilemma kind of issue tale that could fit very easily onto a kid's show (minus all the death of course, as finding-money was also used in Boyle's film Millions). But Shallow Grave also happens to have the ingredients for a horror film as well as film-noir, tragedy as much as thriller, with bits of pitch-black comedy thrown in for good measure.One of the cool, unnerving things about the film as well is how, after a while, you can't really be sure who's really sane or not. But even as it is a story of friends, it is more closer to being Eccleston's movie, as a character who goes through the darkest change out of the three of them. He starts out as the sanest of the uptight middle class three, or at least the most reasonable when the circumstances strike up. But through grisly turns of events, he becomes the most un-balanced of the bunch, and Boyle is able to get with his DP Brian Tufano some really powerful moments visually up in the attic. As further complications go on, it becomes not really a tale of morality but one of keeping a bond that is breaking always. But the psychological turns are made better, and not too circumspect or dumb, by the actors. In truth, some of what the characters decide and then go through is a bit too implausible even for a thematically violent film like this. But it's a fresh showcase for all three actors for their gifts- McGregor's Alex seems like a sociopath through most of the film, and his change doesn't make him more likable but still very intense by the acting. Eccleston has what should be one of the performances of his career as the mild-mannered and then loose-edged flat-mate. And Kerry Fox is good, if a little typical as the lady of the house. Her own role in the film is further complicated by lustful intentions and all that- she could be considered a femme fatale if it were that easy.And Shallow Grave is, above all else, a very good film at style trumping the substance, which itself isn't that bad as being B-movie fare, to which he would put to best use with Trainspotting. Here I'm reminded of the cinematic freedom and inventiveness taken in such 'pulp' matter by first time filmmakers in the 90s, and even in the story's weakest points (and there are a few in due to logic and the dialog sometimes) it's never boring. There's a cringe/funny kind of scene with Alex and Juliet using some new merchandise for some lewd and f***ed up purposes, and it's filmed in a perfectly amateurish way. And in dealing with the more disturbing subject matter, it helps that Boyle and writer John Hodge only show what is necessary (i.e. some of the 'grave' scenes) so that it doesn't become stale or with that sort of kick needed for the material. By the end, too, as in other noir stories, there is a twist that comes, but it isn't even much expected as the characters have met their fates. But it has the advantage of not being a cop-out either. Shallow Grave is, when it comes down to it, that splendid of things- a directorial calling card that speaks to his skills with actors (more so in casting to a T), mixing comedy and drama, and hip use of camera-work. Nothing really 'deep' or great, but it's a nifty little midnight movie from merry old England. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"The weed of crime bears bitter fruit.","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The story is pretty threadbare. Three roommates or flatmates (Eccleston, MacGregor, and Fox) find their fourth roommate or flatmate dead, evidently a suicide. They're pretty nonchalant about the naked dead body in bed. They go through his drawers and his luggage and find thousands of pounds sterling, which gives them ideas about disposing of the body and keeping the cash.They matter-of-factly saw the body into parts, disposing of the hands and feet in acid, bashing in the face, and bury it in a shallow grave in the kind of densely wooded area where all dead bodies are found, as this one soon enough is.One of the three conspirators, Eccleston, a creepy guy with glasses to begin with, starts acting -- well, a little twisted. He sequesters himself in the attic and drills holes through the floor so that he can peek down on the other two.Two business-like goons looking for the missing cash show up and are killed by Eccleston, and disposed of in the same way as their erstwhile roommate or flatmate. The police find their remains as well.The police investigate. Things get a little more tense. Eccleston takes up with Fox and they are about to leave for Rio together, but it develops that there have been one or two, or maybe three, double crosses concerning the lolly. Everybody winds up dead.What this film has going for it are a number of things. For one, the performances are uniformly splendid. The principles and subordinates do a fine job. And Kerry Fox is attractive in a non-conventional way, slightly plump, but with magnetic eyelids. MacGregor looks as if he stopped having zits the day before yesterday.The direction is more than just functional. I think we notice it mainly when the film deals with the two detectives. There is one shot of these two goofy looking characters -- one who looks like Happy of the Seven Dwarfs and the other like a scarecrow -- seated next to one another on a sofa. They are silent. The shot lasts so long that the image itself turns slightly grotesque.But then these two detectives are really Doozies. Their dialog is almost surreal at times. Only three people in the flat, not four, says the senior detective to the other, Write that down, would you? (Long pause) You can use either letters or numbers. (Long pause) Which did you use? Answer Both. It's quite stylishly done, especially given the budget, and worth catching. "}{"Title":"Brilliant but brutal","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  With all due respect to the reviewers who have commented on the humor in this film, I must strongly disagree. I see absolutely no humor in 1994's Shallow Grave, possibly a slight chuckle occasionally but that is all. This is a very grim and brutal story and if you are a person who is disturbed by this kind of gruesome reality, I would suggest you find another film to view when you are in the mood for a relaxed evening. 	But, for those of you made of sterner stuff, Shallow Grave is brilliant. Shocking in story line and at times graphic in depiction, it is nevertheless an excellent film and story. 	Filmed in Edinburgh and Glasgow, Scotland with some nice location shots, it begins with the main characters, (three young adults, two men and a woman), interviewing prospective tenants for the spare bedroom in their apartment. We see early on that these persons are fairly callow, immature people, as they delight in making fun of the prospective roommates who show up to be interviewed. This is interesting because all of them are presented as successful persons in their professions. Juliet, played by Kerry Fox, is an MD, Ewan McGregor is the smart mouthed Alex the newsman and Christopher Eccleston portrays the buttoned down businessman David. It is David who is the most interesting character, as we see very early that he is moody and very intense. We are not surprised as we move into the heart of the story that David is most affected by the events the three friends bring upon themselves. 	Unknown to the three, the person they chose to let the spare room to was a professional criminal who assisted in a robbery murder. When he is found dead in his room of a drug overdose with a suitcase full of cash, Shallow Grave truly begins. The three make a fateful decision to dispose of the body and keep the money. The decision is made to remove the hands, feet and teeth of the dead man so as to make it difficult to identify the remains should they be discovered. At this point the human aspects of Shallow Grave become interesting and very intense as David drew the long straw, thus assuming the task of mutilating the body for disposal. We see the psychological changes in him happen right before our eyes as he carries out his grim task and it is mesmerizing to watch. He goes over the edge totally when the dead crook's friends show up at the apartment to search for their friend and the money. Juliet and Alex, who had berated the geeky David until now, become fearful of him when he murders the two intruders. From this point on, the friends become more and more separated by suspicion, greed, fear and lack of trust in each other. Double dealing and backstabbing change the  last 1/3 of Shallow Grave from nightmarish to intriguing, and it is indeed a film which the viewer will lose him / herself to totally. The ending? Well, I won't give that away. I will just say that the dark side of human weakness and frailty make for a very interesting climax. 	If  films such as Shallow Grave are of interest to you, then by all means do not miss it. If you have seen it before, watch it again, as I have noticed something I had not previously every time I view it. To sum up, Shallow Grave is an underrated  masterpiece, it's just not for everybody. "},{"Title":"With Hindsight It's The Film That Introduced Boyle To The World","Date":"14 January 2010","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This was shown on Film4 earlier tonight where the voice over stated  From maverick director Danny Boyle ...  which probably caused a few film critics to fall out of their seats gasping  Maverick ? Maybe there's two Danny Boyle's directing movies ?  . I was speaking to a professional film critic a few weeks ago where I mentioned Danny Boyle as Britain's best director to which the critic replied  Oh is that the same Danny Boyle who frames and shoots every single scene in the same way every film he makes ?  . Boyle you see is a director who stirs up strong feelings . There's no in between with him . He either love his movies or you have a strong dislike for them . I recognise his efforts can be very hit or miss but he's a director who makes films over a wide range of genres . I'll state that we've yet to see the best of him . He might have won a well deserved best director Oscar for SLUMDOG MILLONIARE but his masterwork is just beyond the horizon . Mark my words SHALLOW GRAVE was released in a wave of hype and critical acclaim . With hindsight it's possibly little deserved . British films in the those days seemed to begin and end with FOUR WEDDINGS AND A FUNERAL and this movie is the perfect antidote since it's bleak , dark and cost next to nothing t produce . Not quite grunge , not quite Brit pop but certainly a counter attack against the commercial muzak film making of FOUR WEDDINGS and for that we should be thankful The problem with the screenplay is that the main characters are painfully unlikable . It's summed up in the opening sequence where they humiliate prospective flat mates . Who'd want to share a flat with these arrogant , middle class tossers ? In other words why should an audience want to share 90 minutes of our lives with them either ? There's also an aspect of existentialism from Hodge's screenplay which begins with a voice over from David but it's not very well developed and becomes a straight forward thriller by the end with a not very clever twist Exitentilism is a favourite theme with Boyle and that's what made 28 DAYS LATER so much more than just a zombie movie . It's easy to see some of Boyle's trademarks in SHALLOW GRAVE . The strange camera angles , the sharp cross cut editing , and the use of music . Fittingly the main benefactor of SHALLOW GRAVE has been Boyle himself . The cast didn't really reach their potential though possibly underservedly McGregor came closest to film stardom whilst neither did screenwriter John Hodge which is something of a shame "},{"Title":"Cold blooded thriller has murderous money scheme go awry...","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" SHALLOW GRAVE is a mean spirited, cold-blooded Scottish thriller, stylishly directed with three interesting performances from EWAN McGREGOR, KERRY FOX and CHRISTOPHER ECCLESTON, as roommates with a deadly secret--a fourth roommate who died in bed with a trunk full of money hidden underneath the bed.Discovery of the money has the three of them wondering whether to simply report it to the police or share the spoils of a dead man. The temptation to keep the money is too much and they work out a scheme on how to get rid of the body. Telling any more would be giving away what turns into a very gripping tale of suspense with the crime ripping apart their loyalties and their friendship turning deadly. None of the three are likable characters with their shallow, iconoclastic values. It's no great surprise when they turn on each other.It's full of irony and none of that irony is lost on the viewer who will never look at trusting relationships the same way again.The performances are all top-notch with some excellent supporting work from the entire cast. It's the kind of film Alfred Hitchcock would have been proud to call his own with a twist at the end.A dark tale, relieved by bits of humor (mainly from Ewan McGregor, who comes up with some clever lines). Well worth watching, it's disturbing in some of the more graphic scenes of violence, but well worth watching for the final payoff. "},{"Title":"Decent to the max!","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a helluva decent movie. It's about three roommates that deal with the death of a fourth new arrival as well as his suitcase full of cash! I especially like how in this movie the characters are each likable and dislikable for certain reasons. Alex is funny and charming, but immature and irresponsible. David is creepy and bipolar, but gets done what has to be done. Juliet smart and fun-loving, but slutty and conniving as well. This is kind of a character study.Too many films about friends betraying each other either have the change from friend to foe way to sudden or have some cheap plot device like they were against me all along. I think this movie really captures the delicate dimensions of a three-way friendship slowly falling apart at the seams. Each character even makes attempts to help the others or save the bonds they have. In the end, when greed overcomes them, it is still very believable and even a little bit touching in the sense that they've sincerely tried to make everything work out in the most peaceful way possible, but still fail. In the end I felt only completely disgusted by the moral display of one particular friend. The other two left with a shred of decency still intact.8/10 Good stuff. Almost 9. "},{"Title":"Early and Well Directed Film by Danny Boyle","Date":"2 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shallow Grave is a modern and witty thriller. This film is often funny, suspenseful and even scary at times. This film gradually builds in it's suspense and violence. There is one scene in particular that is hard to watch - make that hard to hear; it is one of the most disgusting moments in cinema yet shows you absolutely no gore when the 3 have to dismember a corpse. Kerry Fox, Ewan MacGregor, and Christopher Eccleston give 3 excellent performances as the somewhat obnoxious, but funny roommates. They are very lively and strong in their roles. The directing and cinematography are powerful and stylish. It is certain that there was a real vision for this film. Many of the scenes and sequences come together so well, it is impossible to think that they were not planned as such. Where so many films seem unsure of their direction, this one is stedfast and clear. "},{"Title":"profound shallow","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" In the past twenty years, Danny Boyle has become a noted director. His oeuvre includes Trainspotting, Slumdog Millionaire and 127 Hours. His directorial debut was the black comedy Shallow Grave. The premise seems routine some friends find a cache of money near a man who apparently committed suicide and decide to keep it. But it's only after that when the real part of the movie begins. You see, these friends aren't the nicest people to begin with - they're real a**holes to their potential new apartment sharers - but once the episode with the dead body ends, they turn practically psychotic.Ewan McGregor in his debut here looks almost like a teenager. His character's handsome looks hide a Machiavellian side. He, Kerry Fox and Christopher Eccleston turn in some great performances as the friends, growing more suspicious of each other as the movie progresses. But the bulk of the credit should go to Boyle, who moves everything along at the right pace to a surprising ending. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful, grotesque and funny - a great little British film","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Before getting his big break with Trainspotting, Danny Boyle gained attention with a clever, intriguing dark comedy. That film was Shallow Grave, which can now be seen as a warm-up to Boyle's drug-related masterpiece, having the same sick humor, tense and paranoid mood, and part of the cast and crew (producer Andrew MacDonald, writer John Hodge, actors Ewan McGregor and Peter Mullan).The movie is set in Edimburgh, where three people share an apartment (or flat, as they call it in the UK). For some reason, David (Christopher Eccleston), Juliet (Kerry Fox) and Alex (McGregor) suddenly decide to find a fourth flatmate and after discarding several candidates they finally agree on giving novelist Hugo a chance, on the grounds that he is interesting. Shame this guy dies mysteriously overnight, leaving a suitcase full of money behind. This triggers a conflict between the protagonists, as Alex and Juliet want to keep the money, while David doesn't think it's a good idea. It takes quite some arguing to convince him to hide the cash somewhere in the flat and get rid of the corpse as fast as possible (hence the title). Having done this, David starts to develop a dangerous paranoia, while in the meantime two gangsters are obsessively looking for Hugo and the money.On a thematic level (the exploration of greed and its effects on people), Shallow Grave is hardly original, yet Boyle manages to compensate this by creating a suitably eerie atmosphere and alternating moments of shock and laughter. This is also due to the great cast, the director and writer's decision to focus solely on the leading trio proving both a weakness and a stroke of genius the weakness lies in the fact that no back-story is provided, thus giving no information on the exact nature of the bond these people and no explanation to their behavior in some sections of the movie; in addition, all the other characters who show up, particularly the two gangsters, are quite hollow, their presence having only the purpose of moving the events forward, leaving a good actor like Peter Mullan, for example, with no real material to work on (although, in retrospect, that can be forgiven by Boyle's wise decision to give him a larger role in Trainspotting). On the other hand, constantly keeping the eye on the three leads is a brilliant idea, given how satisfying the performances are, especially the contrast between Eccleston's coldness and McGregor's carefree vitality (another hint of things to come), while Fox remains in the middle, willing to have fun but more rational and subtle than her accomplice. It is the work of these three terrific actors, as well as the short running time and consistent pace, that keep Shallow Grave interesting and smart throughout, with little time to stop and think about minor flaws. And that goes without mentioning the superb conclusion, which I cannot spoil of course. Suffice to say it deserves to be discussed in late-night conversations as much as the epilogues of Se7en and The Usual Suspects (yes, it is that great).8,5/10 "},{"Title":"It's not a story, Alex. It's a corpse","Date":"31 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Three flatmates offer a room to a dangerous thief who has ran off with a pair of gangsters' loot. When they find this guy(whose name is Hugo, claiming to be a writer)dead from, I'm guessing, overdose, they chop up his body and bury it so they can share the money.Juliet(Kerry Fox)is a doctor whose uses her feminine whiles to pit chartered accountant David(Christopher Eccleston)& newspaper reporter Alex(Ewan McGregor)against each other as greed becomes a seducing emotion overwhelming all three. When Alex and Juliet go on a mild spending spree, David goes berserk, hiding the remainder of the cash up in the attic and hermits himself up there drilling holes in the ceiling so he can watch the other two intently. Soon, the gangsters find their flat, but David has completely turned a bit wacko awaiting them to enter his lair. What will ultimately push these three into complete turmoil is when the police start fishing.The film gets really grim as David never quite recovers from chopping up and burying Hugo's body(he lost a drawing of straws). We see three people plotting against each other until certain violence erupts as paranoia and corruption come to the surface. We see right from the very beginning as these three are interviewing possible candidates for their flat how crude and rude they can be. It doesn't surprise that these supposed friends could harm each other over A LOT of mullah.I say that if you don't like dark, dark comedies where people turn on each other or change twistingly into a different person then stay away. It's visually exciting thanks to Boyles' impressive camera-work and the writing is a psychologically nasty piece of work. One question that did poke around in my brain was why they just didn't divide the loot amongst themselves and remove any form of angst or aggression. "},{"Title":"Criminally overlooked and underrated thriller","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" A lot of people have tried to do Hitchcock over the years, and more recently a lot of people have tried to emulate the Coen Brothers (especially the Coen Brothers of Blood Simple and Fargo). Most would be imitators have come close (for example, Brian DePalma), but I would say that Danny Boyle and his cast and crew have actually managed to pull it off.Shallow Grave has a lot of subtle and inspired touches to it that add to the fun, but these flourishes are just little bonuses to the gruesome, creepy fun of the plot (which I could summarize a twisted version The Trouble With Harry channeled by Quentin Tarantino). The three protagonists are such smug, arrogant pricks that you can't help but enjoy watching as their smarmy hipster cool and affected friendship start to disintegrate under the pressure of the menacing developments in the plot And yet, the screenplay and the skill of the cast make these people real to you. You may not like them, but you sure can feel what they are going through (given that this is a gruesome thriller)!! Ewan MacGregor (in his first major role, as far as I know) plays the most sympathetic character of the trio; Shallow Grave shows us that from the very beginning of his career that he was top drawer material. MacGregor never hits a false note and is engaging and believable throughout. His two co-stars are equally strong in roles that call for a bit less humanity and the ensemble chemistry is solid.Although I am sorry that Shallow Grave didn't get the commercial success it deserved, its director Danny Boyle did go on to bigger things (Trainspotting, 28 Days Later, Millions), and we all know how things turned out for MacGregor (Moulin Rouge, Trainspotting, and some obscure space opera that made a bit of a fuss in the early 90s (heh)). So there is at least some justice in the world.Be sure to catch or rent Shallow Grave if you haven't seen it and you are in the mood for some mean-spirited suspense. "},{"Title":"Best British thriller to date.","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shallow grave is about three flatmates who are searching for a fourth flatmate.After interviewing many people about the vacancy,they finally find someone they like named Hugo. After they don't see Hugo come out of his room for sometime,they bust open the door to find him dead with a load of cash beside him. They dispose of the body and keep the money,not knowing some gangsters were after it. Not just the gangsters,but there are arguements over the money and temptations begin to rise.Shallow grave is a great thriller and also a black comedy.It uses as many elements as it can to try and plot up a twist and add elements of sex and graphic violence.It all becomes chilling at points were you don't know how it will turn out and in the end,one minute the violence will have you staring away,and just before the credits you will be finding it hilarious.I rate 4/5. "}{"Title":"Buried by Shallow Grave","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  For a couple of hours I was buried by the movie Shallow Grave. Unable to move from my seat in front of the television. What gripped me from the beginning was the first scene, in which I learned that all was not as it seemed, while I was let in on an exciting secret that something grave was going to happen. The movie quickly progresses to a trio of flat mates, quite involved with each other and living harmoniously. When a new flat mate is introduced, I just knew the movie was about to take me on an adventure. An adventure to a shallow grave. I find movies quite predictable and therefore unsatisfying, but not with this one. Under Danny Boyle's direction this movie made twists and turns that I did not foresee. Up until the end I laughed in horror as the once close knit flat mates became enemies. This was a movie wonderfully written, directed, and acted. Excellent.  "},{"Title":"A likable film about unlikeable people","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I'll address what seems to be the primary criticism about 'Shallow Grave,' i.e. the three main characters are as shallow as the graves they dig for their victims. Even the usually charming Ewan McGregor is as nasty and spiteful as his two flatmates, played by Christopher Ecleston and Kerry Fox.So, if you're looking for a film where you can truly identify with a bunch of nice, loyal, brave heroes, then Danny Boyle's first film probably isn't for you.But, if you can put up with the deliberately dark tones of the film, you should enjoy it. The three stuck-up friends come into possession of a suitcase-load of money (courtesy of a forth flatmate - now deceased). They - naturally - think they're entitled to it and set about having a jolly good time.If the film really did contain such unlikeable characters as some people seem to hate it for, then I doubt it would ever have been considered the classic that it is. I think we tolerate these selfish individuals because we know that, once they've decided not to turn the money over to the proper authorities, then retribution is never far from their door.It's not as stylish as Trainspotting, as Hollywood as A Life Less Ordinary, as action-packed as 28 Days Later, or deep and aspiring as Slumdog Millionaire, but it is a great and raw flick from undoubtedly one of Britain's finest modern film-makers. Definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Good combination of crime and black comedy","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is an enjoyable little movie with an interesting premise, some good plot twists, fine acting and a lot of humor and style. Boyle's directorial debut is very impressive the camera-work is at times very stylish. The movie is able to build a lot of tension and to keep the viewer glued to the screen. Some specific sequences and ideas are just great. Having said all of these good things, I can't help but to think that the final part of the movie didn't fully convince me and in its excesses it becomes less and less plausible. The evolution's of Eccleston's character is particularly hard to believe. But this doesn't change the fact that this is a stylish movie that grabbed my attention from start to end, made me laugh several times and even surprised me a couple of other times. Overall, I would recommend it to almost anyone who likes thrillers and crime movies. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, violent, and slightly disturbing - masterful low-budget filmmaking","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" 'Shallow Grave' marks now-Oscar-winning director Danny Boyle's directorial début, and also shows Hollywood actors like Ewan McGregor before they found great success. The first thing to note, then, is that those involved in 'Shallow Grave' have been propelled from this humble, independent British film to massive, big-budget blockbusters in just a few years.The second thing to note is that the plot is simple - almost too simple. However, Boyle easily keeps the excitement up, right up to (and especially) the final shot.The film is about three friends. From the first scene (a wonderful montage), it is not hard to deduce that these people are unpleasant. They trick and make fun of potential flat-mates just to fulfil their twisted, sadistic pleasures; we watch with surprising glee as they effortlessly humiliate unsuspecting Scots. However, one applicant catches their attention; an intriguing man named Hugo. When they find him dead in his new room, however, things start to get dark.Hugo came with a suitcase full of money. After deciding to take the said money, things get darker.Paranoia, suspicion and deception run riot between the three; disposing of the body makes a particularly grisly scene, despite no blood being shown; Boyle teases the viewer and creates an almost over-the-top situation. Like so much of 'Shallow Grave', it teeters on the edge of laugh-out-loud humour perfectly.The performances are top-notch; McGregor plays the unnervingly flippant Alex perfectly; Kerry Fox is brilliantly cast as the stuck-up, selfish Juliet and Christopher Eccleston is fantastic as the paranoid, sensible(ish) David. They have great chemistry together and they manage to bring sympathy to what are, in essence, horrible people.The real stars, however, are behind the camera. Boyle creates a quirky, almost surreal world, photographed with just enough satire by Brian Tufano. There are some truly ingeniously shot scenes, perhaps most notably being one involving holes in the ceiling and a frantic David. What Boyle manages to do is tear your feelings - you want them to get horribly mutilated because they are a sick bunch, but at the same time you want them to get away with it because, for reasons unbeknownst to you, you can sympathise with them.Maybe it's because you feel sorry for them being dragged into it. Maybe it's because you like mean people. Or, maybe it's because you're not sure you'd do any better. Whatever it is, you will enjoy it (and will probably argue with someone about the ending). "},{"Title":"Shallow Grave","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shallow GraveDanny Boyles first ever film, Shallow Grave is a solid and enjoyable thriller. The film definitely exhibits some very Boyle characteristics, from Nudity, to realism, and the film using two of Boyles preferred actors, Eccelstone and McGregor.I really enjoy this film, at 89 minutes it is a short film by most standards, yet it fits a lot of action and plot into that time. The 3 lead characters are all great, they are all supposed to be cold hearted and horrible people. The acting of Eccelstone in particular though is amazing. I really enjoy watching him going crazy on screen. I also enjoy the other characters reactions to his increasing Paranoia.Mcgregor is also good, a lot of people criticise his acting in recent years, yet I think a lot of his earlier films show that he is actually a very talented individual. I really enjoy how his two counterparts become more and more worried about what they've done, whilst it really doesn't affect him at all, until his sudden bout of self serving concern towards the end of the film.I really enjoy the setting and the music in the film as well. The music, it could be said is very standard thriller stuff, but to me it adds a lot to the picture and builds up the on screen suspense well. As I say I also think the setting is good, I like the flat, and I think it certainly increases the sense of creeping madness, with the deliberately toned down colour scheme and the long spiralling staircase.I do have some criticisms, there are some obvious gaffes, on occasion there is camera or crew visible. Also the film does seem to steal a lot of it's aspects from many other thrillers, especially Psycho.I do enjoy the ending, it is certainly a surprise. I also like the small amount of ambiguity, we know enough to make assumptions about the film, but beyond the obvious it is unsure what happens. For his first film, Boyle has done a good job and he has clearly laid the foundations for Trainspotting "},{"Title":"Must see drama","Date":"22 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I believe that Shallow Grave is one of the best dramas that most people have never seen. Don't be one of those people! Three friends live in a flat in London. When they decide to find a fourth tenant, the decide on Hugo, a suave and interesting writer. One day they find Hugo dead of an overdose with a suitcase full of money under his bed. They decide to keep the money, and the trouble begins. Eventually they have both the cops and drug dealers on their tail, and begin to turn on each other. Funny at times, but with enough drama and twists and turns to keep you guessing til the end. Great performances by all of the main actors, and kudos to the actor who plays the brilliant police detective. If you like this movie, I also recommend Murder By Design and Four Dogs Playing Poker. "},{"Title":"A Twisted , Stark and Realistic Portrayal of Actual Human Nature","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Laced with a skillfully camouflaged tinge of Dark Humour and austere in Character Development , Danny Boyle dishes out a fine Thriller .Ewan McGregor gives a brilliant performance in one of his first few movies and the First one with Boyle ( to be followed by Trainspotting). Christopher Eccleston comes in with a powerful performance too and quite subtly changes gears required for his character in the movie.With an interesting story and grim variations to the plot the movie stands tall in it's genre.The way Human nature is shown changing colors throughout the movie , exposing contrasting streaks in the characters of men and women is remarkable. Danny Boyle's first work for The silver screen and he truly impresses one and all.Good Movie. "},{"Title":"Flatmates from Hell","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I love this film. Other people have commented on the unsympathetic nature of the characters or the lack of plot. Ignore them because they're missing the point of this film.Ask yourself, what would you do if you had to deal with a dead flatmate who had a large amount of cash in his room? That's what this film is about. Kerry Fox, Christopher Ecclestone and Ewan MacGregor start the movie as 3 shallow, 2-dimensional young professionals and end it penniless, dead and mortally wounded respectively. The time in-between is filled with black comedy, drama and violence.Don't watch this film if you want a typical Hollywood tale with clean-cut characters, a villain you can boo at and a happy ending. Shallow Grave is about what ordinary people do in extraordinary situations. "},{"Title":"Debut to die for","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe Ewan McGregor's performance has begun to grate on me, maybe it seems more and more like the blatant debut feature it was.  Still, what a debut.  Camerawork, editing and dialogue are all spot-on, and the film contains an unexpected psychopath not surpassed until What Lies Beneath (argue if you wish).  See the scenes in the drill-holed attic.  Boyle and co. had arrived.  Do you think he's dead at the end, by the way? "},{"Title":"Kill people, put them in the ground, grow Trainspotting","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film particularly because it was directed by Danny Boyle and starring Ewan McGregor. I thought How did I miss it? and after I have seen it, I know how.It starts with a bag of money and it ends kind of like Trainspotting. But I am not spoiling anything. It is the path from the beginning to the end that you ought to be interested in. Christopher Ecleston makes a grand role as a lowly accountant turned manic by fear, Ewan McGregor plays a rather psychopathic young man with a streak of cowardice and that's about it. There is also a girl involved, but not much of a role.The film is a really good thriller, but other than the pure evil seeping through ones bones while watching perfectly ordinary people turn insane by money, it doesn't have a story. I think that Boyle possibly regretted that and was vindicated by Trainspotting.Bottom line it's an intense thriller, it reminded me of The Postman Always Rings Twice, but I can't say for certain why. However, it is a little too brutal for TV and not shiny enough to be for cinema so maybe that's why I missed it. I recommend it highly, but try to watch it alone or with people that can take psychological pressure. "}{"Title":"Roommates from Hell","Date":"29 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Black humor is a forte of British films and Shallow Grave is no exception. When three self-important room mates, Alex (Ewan McGregor), David (Christopher Eccelston), and Juliet invite a fourth to share their oh-so-chic flat, they have no idea their new found friend is a drug dealer with no-nonsense friends he wants to avoid. Finding the new guy dead after only a week and from a drug overdose, Alex noses about his room only to discover that the man stashed a suitcase filled with money under his bed. Sharing the chores of good flat mates include how to best and quickly dispose of the malodorous corpse. The trio resolve the dilemma by equitably drawing straws with the looser having the honor of cutting up the corpse to avoid detection by the cops. In-between tartan clad fund raisers, home made dinners, and video movies antics that features Ewan in drag, the three friends seem unphased by criminal deeds including their own. This was the first film outing of the successful trio of actor Ewan McGregor, producer Andrew MacDonald, and director Danny Boyle who later scored with Trainspotting and A Life Less Ordinary. A fast comedy of gruesome darkness and amoral materialism, it is a bonus for any collector of British 90s films. With great supporting cast, Kerry Fox (Immorality) and Christopher Eccelston (Elizabeth), Shallow Grave is humorously most irreverent toward all that yuppiedom holds dear a good address, professional job with lots of opportunity for career advancement, and tons of money to blow on AV equipment. How the three resolve the upwardly mobile quest for an ultimate lifestyle is a surprise ending -- to die for. "},{"Title":"More black than comedy","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" An increasingly surreal horror pulp fiction mixing money and madness. Shallow Grave is a notable film for early performances from important British actors, McGregor and Eccleston and an honorary Brit (she's a kiwi), the marvellous Kerry Fox. Danny Boyle moves through the stages of lunacy and increased nastiness always with an eye for comic potential, following through on the cruel hilarity of the early flatmate interview sequence.I felt McGregor to be rather immature in this role but I recognise now that this is the character, distracted, frenetic... Kerry Fox is the control human in a situation which loses its humanity almost the moment the creepy Keith Allen strides in - she's a sort of serious version of the fickle moll played by Jamie Lee Curtis in A Fish Called Wanda. Eccleston is over the top in everything he does and this is no exception but the mad role takes it. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A must see for Trainspotting fans","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've watched this film because it was made by the same director who made Trainspotting (even some actors were the same). And I noticed that this movie is very similar with Trainspotting but not that good. It felt that something was missing in a film (maybe because of a low budged) and some choices of characters didn't make enough sense. Only at ending I realised how clever this movie was made. There were few unexpected twists and some intensive moments. The soundtrack wasn't that rich as in Trainspotting but still OK. What I like about Danny Boyle's films is that he often uses electronic music - it really makes his films different from others. This movie also has some black humor and interesting characters. "},{"Title":"Weird, but interesting","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one weird, weird movie.That, in a nutshell, is exactly what I think about this movie, which stars Ewan (as Alex Law), Kerry Fox (Juliet) and Christopher Eccleston (Insane Accountant--I know that's not the character's name but that's how I think of him). They play roommates in a Scotland flat hunting for another roommate who will fit perfectly into their weird little friendship. Right from the start, though their friendship seems casual, you can tell they're strange. They find someone they think will fit, but he drops dead in his sleep soon after, with gobs of money hidden under his bed. The rest of the movie plays out on their dilemma of what to do with the money and how to deal with their roommates, who suddenly seem very greedy...The acting in this movie is wonderful, yes, but the plotline seems disjointed. It's a black comedy but more of a suspense thriller, really, as you try to figure out what the characters will do next.It's also a very quiet film using a solemn, creepy score. So little action occured in some scenes that I fast-forwarded on my first viewing without losing any of the plot! I at first felt tempted to turn it off after the first couple of minutes, but I stuck with it and I was happy I did--there were some very funny parts as well as some very creepy parts. I shiver at the thought of having an insane roommate living up in my attic (loft?) like that...and of finding out my friends aren't as much friends as I thought they were.In the end, while every character has his or her unlikeable and likeable moments, Alex Law is the one we wind up rooting for. In a very funny and very ironic twist which made me love the ending, Alex gets his revenge...I won't reveal how, but it's quite funny.  "},{"Title":"Fave Neo-Hitchcokian Thriller","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny Boyle.You first think Trainspotting. I prefer this previous film that seems to defy ROGER EBERT's belief that characters should be warm and cuddly and it makes no sense to root for characters who are thoroughly unlikable.The best part of this film is the fact that the characters ARE unlikable and this makes their motives/actions more plausible (and chilling). They could be the neighbors next door.Boyle nails the tone early on and you find yourself really feeling like you are there in that house (as the fifth..er, fourth roommate).Performances are first rate. THANK GOD this wasn't done in the US with Jennifer Love Hewitt, Steve Zahn and sisqo. You really get the sense you are a voyeur in these characters private moments.A triumph. "},{"Title":"Shallow Movie","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this in the bargain bin at the grocery store checkout for $3 with Danny's and Ewan;s name on it so I bought it one cold Saturday night. I was amused by the quip from the director about the film The film was heavily criticized for its seemingly cold characters. When questioned about the criticisms Danny Boyle responded saying that building plausible characters is something that pleases intellectuals, but audiences in general don't invest much as much into the characters in a film. Hmmm, considering that a lot of intellectuals were amused by this film and promoted it, he should show some gratitude rather than the obligatory swipe at them. Supposedly the film is based on the old discredited canard, (excessive love of) money is the root of all evil. Just naming three monsters of our age Stalin, Hitler and Ted Bundy, none of them did what they did for the loot and swag. Three superficial roommates go out of their way to find a suitable fourth, by humiliating less than hip potential roommates until they land one who is a drug addict mobster type, good taste, you hipsters. When the new one dies the next day from a drug overdose and they find the bag of money, the clock starts ticking Meanwhile, there are two ruthless killers torturing and killing to find the lost/stolen suitcase of money. So all this money of course starts making them all paranoid selfish and mean, or were they always that way? Eventually the killers find them, and it looks like it's curtains for these callow yuppies. But the accountant one, Dave, is hidden up in the attic so when the thugs go to get the loot, he kills them both. Now here is where the films edges into hip stupidity. The other two flatmates ALex and Juliet, who were beaten and bound by the thugs prior to their demise, might have done something like thank Dave for saving them from a brutal painful death. Then they might have decided how to divide the money up and all left their own little ways. But Dave retires to the attic to guard the loot, and drills holes in the floor to watch his roommates. There is a police inspector on the loose, looking for the killers of the people below, the same thugs, as well as the dead man too. He knows something is afoot but is hardly some moral counterweight to the dead inside yuppie trio. Basically the movie is a prototype for all those hip, violent but smug films that the 90's spawned like good old Tarantino, an exercise in hollow cleverness. Movies should have some sort of soul and uplift when dealing with such a somber theme and corniness is preferable to hipness "},{"Title":"Solid neo-noir farce","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shallow Grave (1994) is a neo-noir farce or a black comedy. High-quality comic writing predominates at the outset; it's almost too showy and show-offy. Then farce comes in, but the dark neo-noir story gradually takes over the story. This story goes in very unpredictable directions, which is a big, big plus.The character played by Ewan McGregor is an obnoxious young professional. The screenplay is clever enough to balance how annoying he is at the beginning.There are 3 roommates who are clever and witty, all trying to be hip and cool. But they are not. What they do that gets them into a lot of trouble is not clever at all. They soon learn this. "},{"Title":"money always breaks things","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is really interesting movie, and I like this movie very much. I like Ewan McGregor and Danny Boyle's movie.This movie is about three young people. They are friends and live together. A great deal of money always breaks some important things for people. Friendship, reliance, and yourself. Things which is broken by money are never recovered. These three characters are thinking only about oneself pretending to help each other. But I think that is human nature. They betrays each other to the end of the story. The way they go mad is terrible, but interesting. "},{"Title":"Danny Boyle Begins","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Three friends discover their new flatmate dead but loaded with cash.So, Danny Boyle's dad says this is the best Danny Boyle film, even better than Slumdog Millionaire. With all due respect to Mr. Boyle, I have to disagree. This is a good film, but not the major splash such films as Slumdog or 28 Days later were. For many people, Danny Boyle revolutionized the zombie film.It is great to see Ewan McGregor and Chris Eccleston in such early roles. I do not know enough about British films to be sure, but it seems like these two gentlemen and Boyle were on the rise at the same time, and very much because of each other. (Trainspotting had to be the breakout film for Boyle, and was likely for McGregor, too.) "},{"Title":"Shallow Movie","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shallow Grave is a thriller that challenges you based on how you feel about the characters. Since we are aware early on that the characters in this movie &#x96; nee, the heroes &#x96; are unlikable and snobbish, that kind of puts us at a distance. Our concern for their safety is thus pushed away. That pulls the rug out from under the whole film.The story is intriguing. Three twerpy snobs, David Stephens (Christopher Eccleston), an accountant, Juliet (Kerry Fox) and Alex (Ewan McGregor) share a roomy flat in Edinburgh and decide to rent out the spare room. During the (somewhat mean-spirited) application process, they have a blast poking fun at the potential applicants. Finally one suits their fancy, an older man named Keith who not only gets the room but catches Juliets eye.The next day they find Keith dead in his room. Searching the room, they find a suitcase filled with a mountain of cash. What to do with it? No one besides the three roommates knows that Keith has been there so they decide to cut up the body and split the cash among themselves.This easier said then done. First is deciding who will cut him up, where they will take the pieces, whether anyone suspects them and whether or not they trust one another. The situation snowballs out of control as one bad turn becomes another and the three become more and more paranoid.This is not exactly a new idea. The story was told better by the Coen Brothers in Blood Simple and in Fargo with more of a twist of human nature in Sam Raimis A Simple Plan. But those films were done with a sense of the characters. They used a visual style and in the case of Raimis film they used likable people who were suddenly finding themselves doing things that they never thought imaginable.This movie was directed by Danny Boyle who somehow made likable characters out of heroine addicts with his breakthrough film 'Trainspotting. But 'Shallow Grave is a movie that depends on how we feel about people who find themselves doing horrible things to feed their own greed. The closer they get to being caught, the more we have to care about them in order to feel for them. This unwholesome trio is not exactly a group that you would want to spend five minutes with much less care about their fate.** (of four) "}{"Title":"Grave Disorder","Date":"25 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny Boyle's directorial debut remains a satisfying, stylish and twisted little black comedy thriller. It features fledgling wannabes Kerry Fox, Christopher Eccleston and Ewan McGregor as yuppie flatmates taking in a new lodger to share the bills. It isn't long before Hugo the lodger is found dead in bed from an overdose and the three smug and selfish twenty-somethings find themselves in possession of a suitcase full of loot.Naturally, they want the money, but what to do about Hugo? Then there's the little matter of the two gangland killers who are looking for Hugo and the dough.The scene is set for a grisly and wicked ramble through the intricate highways and byways of body disposal, murder and duplicitous double-crossing.Part thriller, part jet black satire on the corrosive dysfunction characterising Thatcher's self-centred and greed-obsessed 90s babies, Boyle has a keen eye for social comment and a scalpel sharp sense of morbid humour.There is much to enjoy, notably Eccleston's mental devolution from straight-laced and OCD accountant to paranoid and murderous loft dweller, Fox's moral dissipation to ruthless femme-fatale using sexual promiscuity to get what she wants, and McGregor's persona downturn from confident, wired and irresponsible journo to nervy and fearful potential victim in line.It's great nasty fun, with pleasingly reverent nods to Hitchcock, and the payoff (if you don't know it) is a wry little cracker.A deliciously cruel gem of a movie. "},{"Title":"Boyle's Fargo","Date":"27 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Years prior to winning the Oscar for Slumdog Millionaire, Danny Boyle directed the dark comedy, Shallow Grave. Ewan McGregor is Alex, a journalist, who along with his friends, David an accountant, and Julia, a doctor, rent a flat in Edinburgh. The fourth person has left and they place an ad for a replacement. After a series of rejections, they rent to a mysterious man named Hugo. He shortly thereafter dies of a drug overdose, and they find a large amount of cash hidden away. Human nature and greed soon take over as the three remaining tenants decide to divide the money up and hide the dearly departed's corpse in a shallow grave. That's when all the fun begins, as they struggle to find Hugo a final resting place. I would compare Boyle's work to the Coen brothers Fargo for it's grave(excuse the pun) view of the nature of man; and woman, in this case. It is both funny and violent, and a real hidden treasure. "},{"Title":"Film review of Shallow Grave","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" SPOILER ALERT The movie Shallow Grave is a 1994 film starring Kerry Fox as Juliet Miller, Ewan McGregor as Alex Law, and Christopher Eccleston as David Stevens. The movie begins with Juliet, Alex, and David searching for a fourth roommate to live with them. After some time they Hugo, who they believe to be a good candidate. A week goes by after Hugo moves in and none of the roommates are yet to see him. Upon kicking open his door they discover that he is dead and that he has a brief case of money. Alex, Juliet, and David then devise a plan to rid themselves of the body so they can keep the money. After ditching the body things begin to go array. The three friends then realize that two others are after the money that Hugo has. While trying to evade the two men after the money and the police, they realize that they are not the only people they have to worry about.The main theme of Shallow Grave was that money is the root of all evil. This can be seen throughout the film as something that was supposed to be simple and easy begins to become a burden while tearing Juliet, David, and Alex apart. The money that they believed to be a positive thing ultimately turns out to the worst thing possible for them.I believe this film is similar to the movie Money For Nothing staring John Cusack. It could also remotely be tied back to the film I know what you did last summer or other films that had a theme where money is the root of all evil.Overall, several techniques were used to show that money is the root of all evil. Some of those techniques were motif, lighting, and dialogue, just to name a few. Motif can be seen rather clearly in this film. It begins when Hugo dies and Juliet, Alex and David are forced to bury his body in order to keep the money he had. After that, more bodies begin to pile up as others search for the money that Juliet, Alex, and David have. As well, the police begin to close in on the suspects leading the three behind the master plan left wondering if the others will turn on them. When it comes to the lighting, you can tell that in the beginning when Juliet, Alex and David the scene is brighter, however, as the story progresses, the scenes containing the money slowly become darker, leading us to believe the money is leading to negative results. Lastly, the dialogue between the three main characters in the film begins to change. In the beginning, the three are best friends, but as the film goes on the characters begin to grow apart, worrying that the others might confess what was done to the police, or that one may run away with the money. Ultimately, I believe that this film does show that money is the root of all evil, and leaves us with an average film. "},{"Title":"Naughty, snotty","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Here we have the classic suspense plot - friends falling out over ill-gotten gains - involving three comfortably affluent roommates in modern-day Scotland. Here's the problem They're all so cruel, self-absorbed and superficial, it's impossible to give a damn what happens to them. In any thriller, regardless of how repellent characters' actions may be, there must be some empathy, some identification with their motives. The classic is Double Indemnity; no matter how evil the murderous couple become, how deceitful and how greedy, we understand them. That makes the suspense sizzle, since we almost hate ourselves for doing so. This movie goes cold real fast. And the scene in which two gunmen, two experienced and armed criminals, are dispatched in the attic is as believable as hollow-earth theories. It's just too... unpleasant... Pass. "},{"Title":"The audacious debut","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This kind of film-making is so rote now (see that ferocious opening sprint through the streets of Edinburgh to a pounding Leftfield soundtrack), it's tricky to recall how new and exciting it all seemed at the time. But when this brilliant black comedy burst out of the traps in 1994, it almost single-handedly became the spearhead for a new kind of British movie-making. Which was ironic, really, because the film that introduced a young Obi-Wan and a future Dr Who to audiences actually owed rather more to the then burgeoning US indie scene the likes of Hal Hartley, Joel and Ethan Coen, and, especially, a certain gabby video store clerk with a hotline to Harvey Keitel.For writer John Hodge, and producer Andrew MacDonald, movies should be tight. Funny. Quirky. With no boring bits. Former TV drama director Danny Boyle was the perfect chap to realise their vision, bringing a much-missed element of pure 'fun' (remember that?) to proceedings, along with a few directorial calling cards that would soon become instantly recognisable hyper-kinetic camera-work and a near-hallucinogenic ambiance, sexy Tarantino-style violence, a hipster soundtrack... and suitcases full of money. Sound familiar? "},{"Title":"an insane pleasure","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" From the film-making team that would deliver Trainspotting comes Shallow Grave, a wonderful darkly comedic thriller from 1994! It tells the story of three flat mates on a quest for a new roomie. Once they decide upon someone, the only problem is they discover the new guy's dead body lying nearby a case full of money. They decide to keep the cash, and discard the body.Director Danny Boyle's heaping helpings of dark comedy and horrific thrills bring this fine flick up to the standards of such classic fair as The Trouble with Harry and The Gazebo. John Hodge's script pops with one sharp piece of dialogue after another, and the sparse but detailed visual work is impressive, especially the frequent usage of blood red. Shallow Grave moves quickly and effortlessly from its frenetic opening sequence through ninety minutes of superbly satisfying popcorn popping entertainment. "},{"Title":"Whats a little murder among friends?","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny Boyle seemed like he was destined for directorial greatness before the surprise success of Trainspotting got to his head. His first two pictures, however, are wonderful. Shallow Grave is one of the best modern thrillers I have seen in a long time.The story centers around three British roommates who are trying to rent the empty room in their flat out to another person. When they finally do find a man to rent the flat out to, he dies in his sleep, leaving behind a briefcase full of a whole lot of money. What to do? Much like Trainspotting of a few years later, Shallow Grave has very dark comical undertones to it. Unlike Trainspotting however, it is a much more serious film. Like Sam Raimi's A Simple Plan of four years later, it explores a moral dilemma between three friends on what to in a situation when you find a lot of money that does not belong to you. Do you compromise your morals for the money or do you do the right thing? One is never quite sure how the story will turn out and as you approach the ending of the film, you are never quite sure which one of the three friends is more sinister than the next, which makes the twists in the last part of the film such a darkly hilarious and chilling delight.Films like Shallow Grave are exactly what independent film-making is all about. It's a smart, sleek and stylish film made on a small budget, driven by a cleaver story and interesting characters. Ewan McGregor and Christopher Eccleston both give great performances in this film. 'Shallow Grave' is miles better than any thriller Hollywood has come up with in the last 10-15 years (if not longer). I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A sharp, brilliant black comedy that paved the way for Trainspotting","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" It's easy to see why this movie was a turn-off for audiences unused to more complex character studies than you find in traditional Hollywood thrillers. The fact that the central characters are not particularly likable (though no less engaging for all that) merely underlines director Danny Boyle's unorthodox approach he effectively dares us to root for them, despite their increasingly mendacious and paranoid behavior. It's a great contemporary play on Lord of the Flies, with sharp, tight performances, including a young Ewan McGregor in his breakout role, and immaculate pacing. It's as much about the moral repercussions of not doing the right thing, as it is about the way in which friendships crumble when you no longer feel you can trust each other. Brilliant. And did I mention the impeccable soundtrack? "},{"Title":"Even with the best of friends, money matters more!","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The low budget, suttleness of the film creates a good mood. These types of movies I love. The acting is great, kudos on the dialogue, and the plot outcomes make you wonder if the characters deserve what they get.  One of the main reasons I like this movie is because of Ewan McGregor, who is starting  to become one of my most favorite actors. To me this is one of his best movies. His portrayal of the wild, live for today, and morally absent roommate makes you wish you knew him. The other two roommates make the movie better with one being the uptight/paranoid man. And the other being the devils advocate, while leaning over to McGregor's side more. And that one happens to be a she, dating the uptight roomate played by Christopher Eccleston. Kerry Fox is the she.Now I'll keep with the style that one reviewer had, by not telling anything. To blow one plot change is to take something out of the movie. The movie has a normal amount of changes, but some are really good, and they need to be seen. I wonder if some of the big directors watched this movie while thinking of casting McGregor, Eccleston, and Fox who did great jobs. The last thing I'll say is that this is a great movie, and the title is cool. "},{"Title":"A good 90 mins' entertainment, but not one to re-visit (NB possible spoilers)","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'd waited a long time to see this movie, and heard a fair bit about it, but to be honest it didn't live up to expectations. I'll start with what I liked best, and work through to what I liked least.The art direction is superb. The composition, lighting and use of complementary and contrasting colours within each shot are a joy throughout. It all looks very expensive.The performances are strong, especially from Ewan McGregor and Christopher Eccleston. At the start of the movie it seems like we're in for a real treat, with the three leads bouncing quips back and forth as they interview prospective flatmates. The sequence has real energy and provides a neat way of hooking into the characters of the three leads quick-witted, arrogant, and, crucially, very close friends. However...It's the screenplay that really lets the whole thing down. Suspension of disbelief becomes tricky at the point when the flatmates quickly decide to keep the stash of cash belonging to the inert newcomer rather than call the cops. Sure, they're all a bit leftfield (no pun on the outfit who provided the titles music intended) but whence this sudden greed that surpasses all common sense? Haven't they all got rather too much to lose? The characterisation doesn't go far enough on these matters, nor does it chart the inevitable breakdown in the trio's friendship in enough depth.The absorbing action and palpable tension make up for these gaps to an extent, but it just felt a little too much like the characters were being driven by the action, rather than vice versa.All in all it's pretty good entertainment for an hour and a half, but not especially memorable. "}{"Title":"Would you take the money?","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw shallow grave at the cinema one bored evening, my friend's and i knew nothing about the film or who was in it. By the time we left the cinema we all knew we had seen something special. This is exactly how i like film's to be, tense, thrilling and it keep's you on the edge of your seat. I loved the way that the police are so ....... english in their hunt for the truth in what happened to Hugo and the way that we don't know anything about him, It let's us imagine as if we were one of the flat mate's. I adore this film and prefer it to Trainspotting as i do Reservoir Dog's to pulp fiction, it's gritty, grainy, bleak and has some outstanding performance's. The only thing i don't like about this film is the fact that it never received the acclaim it so rightly deserved.RottenAddict! "},{"Title":"Would you take the money?","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw shallow grave at the cinema one bored evening, my friend's and i knew nothing about the film or who was in it. By the time we left the cinema we all knew we had seen something special. This is exactly how i like film's to be, tense, thrilling and it keep's you on the edge of your seat. I loved the way that the police are so ....... english in their hunt for the truth in what happened to Hugo and the way that we don't know anything about him, It let's us imagine as if we were one of the flatmate's. I adore this film and prefer it to Trainspotting as i do Resovoir Dog's to pulp fiction, it's gritty, grainy, bleak and has some outstanding performance's. The only thing i don't like about this film is the fact that it never received the acclaim it so rightly deserved.RottenAddict! "},{"Title":"Money, Murder and Ewan! What else could you want from any such film?","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  You want to see what greed can do to three room-mates? Then watch this movie!Ewan is applaudable as the quick whit of the trio.Christopher Eccleston is absolutely great in any film (He always chooses those serious roles and never fails to deliver a fantastic performance). Kerry Fox was alright but didn't impress me much.Watching Shallow Grave creates an insight into what it would be like after finding a dead man in your spare room and then finding an exceptional amount of money. The relationship between the three is put to the test to see how far they are willing to go for money.Overall a meaningful and entertaining 88 minutes.  "},{"Title":"in a word good.  in two very good.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this is a cool movie, and i mean that in every sense of the word. except for the temperature meaning.  this film is chilling and as good of a suspense/thriller as you are going to find.  the banter between the main characters and their prospective future flatmates is great (defined as really really cool and/or funny).  i'm sure that there is a moral choice that is being examined in this movie, but even without a message it is a cold-cocked thriller.  my only question for this movie is why ewan macgregor was living with the other two main characters.  don't get me wrong, ewan was terrific, as usual, but his character did not seem especially liked by the other two.  sure, he was a drunken, callous baffoon with no sense of empathy, but that's what made him sooooo COOL!!!  but the other two flatmates were kind of uptight...how did they endd up in that real world roommate situation?  aside from that, this movie rocks the casbah, as well as the appalacians. "},{"Title":"GOOD FILM...BUT A BIT AMBIGUOUS","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, Shallow Grave was a good film with an interesting premise. Three roommates rent a room out to a man who dies soon after. They find a briefcase full of money and this is where the story starts.(MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD) Whilst the film had an interesting premise and very competent actors, my main problem was that it was too ambiguous. For example, we never found out much about the man that died or why two crooks were after him? We never found out how he originally got hold of the money. When the two crooks did show up at the flat looking for their money they were dealt with too quickly.Another problem was the role of the police in the film. The brilliant Ken Stott played a Detective Inspector in the film but he didn't get enough screen time. I was expecting his character to really interrogate the three roommates but we never saw it.The film did have it's moments. There were some comical scenes between Kerry Fox and Ewan McGregor. And it was good to see Christopher Eccleston as David Stephens and his slow descent into madness.All things considered, this was a good film. Maybe it would have benefited from being a bit longer. It was decent enough film though. And I hope the premise of this film is used in future. "},{"Title":"Starts well, ends well; pity about the middle","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There's a lot to admire here good camerawork, fine acting. But thefilm was for me a disappointment, with an unsatisfying middlebookended between an arresting beginning and a chilling andbloody ending.Here we have 3 young characters, who share an apartment andwho have graduated with honours from the Seinfeld School ofmoral behaviour, who take the opportunity presented to them toenrich themselves with someone else's bounty. The triangularhousehold begins to unravel as the stolen money and what theydo to conceal their theft of it effects each of them and how theyregard each other. Director Danny Boyle is very good at creating an almostclaustrophobic atmosphere between the three leads, very wellplayed by Christopher Eccleston, Kerry Fox and Ewan McGregor.But this middle section of the film, which feels almost like a piecewritten for theatre with its theatrically sized apartment filmedheavily around its centre-stage front door, ultimately lets the filmdown.  Unlike A Simple Plan (mentioned by other reviewers), Inever felt these three to be trapped in their characters, and thatthey were responding to the unfolding events with inevitability.Rather it felt to me as if sufficient screen time had elapsed and itwas time to give the audience a climactic jolt. And a fine jolt it is,too, worthy of the film's beginning, but not sufficiently connected towhat has been happening in-between. A pity. "},{"Title":"British cinema at its best","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Recently in my A-Level Film Studies group we started a section about British film, and what better a movie to start on was Danny Boyle's classic Shallow Grave. Made just before he made it huge with Trainspotting, it tells a story of greed with a dash of black humour. The question we were asked just before watching it (and I think you should do the same) was If Hollywood had made this movie, would have it been as good and why? Well after seeing it I can tell you easily, Hollywood would have glamourised this movie so much that it would have just flopped, thank God Danny Boyle didn't sell out. Undoubtedly they would have cast a beautiful people to play the main roles and would have probably managed to glamourise killing aswell.The story is focused around 3 flatmates, Alex (Ewan McGregor), Juliet (Kerry Fox) and David (Christopher Eccleston). They are looking for the perfect person to let their empty room to. The problem is when the perfect person arrives he ends up dying in his sleep on his first night. But on the good side he has a suitcase of money, what do they do? The good thing, or keep it? It wouldn't be much of a movie if they gave it to the police really would it?The disposing of the poor guys body is quite gruesome, but just like the classics, you don't really see anything, you just think your witnessing it. This is the start of the change that goes on with the flatmates, friendships and trust becomes lost and greed gained.Marks out of 10 - a 10, who said we British can't make a good movie?!  "},{"Title":"A Dark Disturbing Movie You Will Love!","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  First let me say, I am not generally a fan of this type of movie.  I only rented it because Ewan McGregor is in it, and even then I wasn't sure I would like it.  But, surprise, surprise - as disturbing as it was I loved it - and watched 4 times in a couple days!Why?  I'm not sure.  It is a brilliantly done film.  The more you watch it the more you like it - or at least I did.  The story revolves around 3 flatmates, Alex, David & Juliet who discover their new roommate dead with a suitcase full of money.  What to do?  Keep the money and get rid of the body, of course!  Things spiral downward from here bringing up the issues of greed, trust, betrayal and friendship among the 3.As gruesome as some of the subject matter was, it was very well done without being right in your face - except at the end which is difficult for me to watch.  But it definitely makes a point (no pun intended!).I recommend this movie highly, even for the slightly squeamish, especially if you are a fan of Ewan's.   "},{"Title":"Great!!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw the movie last night. I had heard about it and did not know what to expect. It was raining last night in San Francisco, so I thought - lets see what the movie turns out like. It was Good. I had initially thought I would watch a part last night and go and finish the rest - but it was so good, I could not bring myself to stop it. Three friends, a dead room-mate and a bag full of money - it didn't sound much but it was a great thriller. Ewan was good and Kerry Fox was good.  All in all - a movie worth investing. "},{"Title":"Freaky and disturbing...very good.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shallow Grave tells the story of three young adults who live together in a small apartment. They are looking for another person to live with them. And they find one...and one day, they find him dead...they are about to call the police when they discover their friend's little secret...a suitcase full of green bills...You know the rest; they hide the body and they keep the money without saying anything to anyone. Admit it, you would have done the same thing...and you'd probably be in the same grave...but a near ton of money isn't a gift from God...and two criminals are looking for the dead guy and the money, so they finally find the address of the apartment and attack our three friends...but they loose the fight...and there are two more corpses to hide...This film shows how far people can go for money. It's also a lesson about friendship. The atmosphere is freaky and will make you insane. This film is full of surprising twists too (especially at the end). The way people react is just disturbing, and the way the whole film is shot is just scary. Bravo to Danny Boyle...the actors are amazing too; they are all freaky, they all give excellent performances. Some scenes are intense and macabre instead of stupidly violent (like Scream). Is that my favorite Danny Boyle picture? Let me think.....well.....nn.....yes. It is. It's hard to choose between Trainspotting and Shallow Grave, but Shallow Grave is the happy winner. Very good. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Utterly Terrifying","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think Shallow Grave, like A Simple Plan, worked so well because the characters were treated as real people. I know there have been a lot of reviews of how people said the characters were completely nasty, and maybe they were, especially to the people they were interviewing for the Fourth Flatmate. (Although it did give us some really great quotes, such as When was the last time someone said these exact words to you'You are the sunshine of my life'?  and When you wake up in the morning, how do you decide exactly what shade of black to wear? My Point is that these characters seem a bit more three dimensional to me than three completely nice people would.Once they find the money, things begin to spin out of control, and the flatmates begin to become more and more paranoid, leading to a memorable, and proably questionable ending.P.S If you don't quite get the ending, e-mail me, and I'll explain it to you. "},{"Title":"A dark gem of a movie, a real must see.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you like your films dark, witty and twisted this one is a real must see. The three leads are brilliant, the script is hilarious and the direction is so good I can even forgive Danny Boyle for The Beach. 10/10 for the movie that restored my faith in British film and brought the lovely Ewan Mcgregor to my attention. "},{"Title":"this film will make you question your outlook on life...","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shallow Grave is a deeply disturbing psychological thriller that leads the viewer through a story of greed, betrayal and desperation, with the main moral of the story being the evils of money, plus a grisly reminder to everyone that things are not always what they seem. For example, your best friends may turn into completely different and hostile people under certain circumstances, as found out by Ewan MacGregor's Alex, who will become the only character the audience can identify with. The plot is similar to Twin Town (which of course came later) in that a fairly laid-back and comfortable opening soon turns into a fast-moving and totally unpredictable series of darker and darker twists and turns. The final few minutes are breathtaking as two of the central characters completely lose it, leaving the anti-hero Alex to fight not only for his own life, but for those of ordinary straightforward people in general. There are one two many skeletons in one two many cupboards to give any sense of reality to anything which surrounds him, hence why he becomes more central than anything or anyone else to the film. And the very final twist is just class, no other word for it. Watch out for the brief appearance of The Wicker Man, which apart from being Scottish, gives a lot to Shallow Grave in terms of daring unexpectedness. All in all then, this film will suck you in and spit you out feeling numb, empty and shaken - but you will want to go back for more I promise.  "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film, Period!!!!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There are not enough great things I can say about this film. Great cast, awesome music, terrific dialogue, original ending. Ewan Mcgregor is a gem! To make me feel drawn to a character like Alex, the kind of person I would despise in real life. I found myself rooting for him from the beginning. His charisma oozes from the screen. A must-see, even for non-Ewan fans. "},{"Title":"Oh.  Wow.","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the few genuinely disturbing movies I've seen in a *very* long time. I picked 'Shallow Grave' up at the video store on the advice of a friend and gave it a whirl, and I've been having a bit of trouble sleeping since.In a non-spoiler nutshell, three friends from Britain, who have just welcomed a new roommate into their swanky apartment, find said new roommate dead with a suitcase full of cash under the bed.  They're faced with a simple choice; call the cops or keep their mouths shut and thus keep the money.  (Ignore the better alternatives (I count at least three) to what they finally settle on doing.)The characters aren't the most lovable people (a kiss on Ewan McGregor's ring for making such a smarmy guy so, well, smarmy), and their downward spiral is mesmorizing and scary to witness.  Madness awakes and believe me, it's not pretty.  Not a film for the shaky of psyche.  5.8 out of 6. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A fabulous film examining what happens to a group of friends when their morals are put up for re-assessment for the purpose of monetary gain - and just how far some people would go for a little money. Ewan McGregor gives a stunning performance as Alex Law, and is quite the scene stealer with his believable portrayal of the initiator of the situation. Beautifully cast, this film also offers an intriguing plot, excellent direction, and the perfect locale. "},{"Title":"Roommates, greed, paranoia and betrayal.","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The smash hit Trainspotting was the follow-up effort from the makers of this dark little exploration of the human heart that features Ewan MacGregor in a part that you could safely say is on the teetering edge of a small supporting role. But he and his co-stars all shine in this gripping drama/suspense. I only mention Ewan as he has by all accounts emerged as a star, name actor, and may be the only drawing force to the film for many.Having never had an apartment or a roommate that I wasn't married to, I can't vouch for it's authenticity with any degree of conviction. But I can say that the opening sequence which chronicles an interview process for a new roommate is worth the rental price alone. Whether anyone has gone so far as they do, to screen out unsavory prospects for communal living, I can not say. And I take some solace in that.What happens to three mates when they suddenly come in to possession of a large sum of money that belongs to a deceased drug dealer is the crux of the story. The answer is human ugliness in ways that you can probably imagine but don't want to. For this reason, the film can be disturbing for some, and not for the faint of heart. But for those who can stomach it, they'll probably take something from the film that will stay with them forever. A lesson about greed and doing the right thing, and what can happen if you don't.  "},{"Title":"Excellent black comedy that will make you LAUGH!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a great movie - superb performance by the three central players, a tight script, a surprising ending. Miss this at your peril!  "},{"Title":"intrigue","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A real dilemma of a movie.How do you get rid of a body? A heart stopping,rollercoaster ride in and out of three peoples moral conciences.Dark, funny and sometimes disturbing.A must-see film.  "},{"Title":"Dark, gruesome, but very clever","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was not pretty, nor for the faint-hearted (just in case the title didn't give that away). Very intelligent writing and acting illustrates how murder, madness and money always has a way of coming between friends. I would recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good chiller/thriller and who isn't squeamish. Well worth watching. My vote 8/10 "}{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really love this film, not just the brilliantly black comedy, or the great ending, but for the progression of the characters in the film. It's not often that a film can get a genuine emotion out of me, but I loved the way that my initial sympathy for David gradually melted away. I really enjoyed the fact that I genuinely, greatly disliked the character of Juliet, and David's slow descent into complete madness was incredibly gripping. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Why did he put the safe in water? "},{"Title":"Just quite good!","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It's the best circular structured movie I've ever seen. The way the movie takes you along a darker and thicker tunnel to see what it told you first was a bunch of lies!!! "},{"Title":"Chilling, terrifying and beautifully held together.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The central performances in this film are excellent and Danny Boyle shows himself to be an excellent storyteller. To find the subtleties in the plot one has to watch this film more than once. Overall, a terrific and terrifying film. A must for all cineastes.  "},{"Title":"What human nature makes us do...","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Danny Boyle's debut film is breathtaking.  From the start, he lets you know he is in charge of the film.  The mise-en-scene is wonderful, combining the use of moving cameras, color, deep focus shots, and lighting and shadows. With great performances by the three friends, it all evolves into a well thought out wonderful film.  Notable performance by Ewan McGregor, which gave his career a boost.  Pay particular attention to the opening and closing scenes; great bookending.    "},{"Title":"Riveting","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts with 3 young, light-hearted, roommates who slowly descend  into their own self-created hell, all because of some money.The interaction between the three main characters is excellent, and it is  interesting to see what the prospect of a lot of money does to each of them , that, and getting rid of a body.An excellent movie, with several twists and turns to keep you on the edge of  your seat. "},{"Title":"Danny Boyle's brilliant big screen debut","Date":"4 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Juliet Miller (Kerry Fox), David Stephens (Christopher Eccleston), and Alex Law (Ewan McGregor) are three flatmates looking for someone to rent the fourth room. They are all sarcastic, sharp-tongued, and generally mean-spirited. They agree on the charismatic Hugo (Keith Allen) but don't know his criminal activities. When they discover his dead body, they also find a suitcase full of money.Before Danny Boyle's breakthrough movie 'Trainspotting', this is his first big screen debut. The leads are not likable. They are all unlikeable selfish untrustworthy jerks. It's dark. It has three amazing performances. And it has a great Hitchcockian style. It is sharp and brilliant. It has some funny moments especially as they skewer the roommate interviews. It builds up to great tension. It's just good dark fun. "},{"Title":"An impressive first feature for Danny Boyle","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" At his best, Danny Boyle is one of our finest living filmmakers. And if this 1st feature isn't quite up to the level of the best of his work, it still shows one heck of a lot of talent.That said, while enjoyable and full of energy and solid performances, this didn't hold up as well on 2nd viewing as I'd hoped. This caper drama about 3 self obsessed, comically awful 20 somethings who fall into a bag of money and slowly turn on each other has a lot of dark cynical fun in it, but there are just too many logic holes and too many character leaps to be fully satisfying. A lot of the twists are clever (although some are predictable) but rather than characters evolving, they seem to lurch suddenly on their way down the rat hole to beyond forgivable. You accept the sudden transformations because they're there, but it did leave me wondering 'when did THAT suddenly happen to the character'. In turn, that underlines the film's somewhat cartoony nature, which makes sure it's never too disturbing to enjoy no matter how awfully everyone behaves, but that also robs it of the chance of being a deeper film than just a fun, smart genre exercise.With Trainspotting Boyle went on to find that perfect balance of surface fun, and deeper meanings, but this is a good first step. "},{"Title":"strange, odd, scary, and violent","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shallow Grave is a film by Danny Boyle from 1994, starring Kerry Fox, Ewan McGregor, and Christopher Eccleston. The three stars play roommates looking for a fourth, who put applicants through a bizarre series of questions and then laugh themselves sick afterward. They're three crazy, silly kids, McGregor is Alex, a reporter, Eccleston is David, an accountant, and Fox is Juliet, a doctor.Finally, with Fox's encouragement, they choose a fourth roommate, Hugo (Keith Allen), who is found dead in his bed. Underneath the bed is his suitcase, filled with more money than any of them have ever seen. Unbenownst to them, two men are torturing a third asking where Hugo is, and it's clear they'll stop at nothing until they find Hugo and the money.Alex decides it's best if they chop the body up and bury it sans hands, feet, and teeth. David gets the short straw and has to do the chopping, and Juliet brings the hands and feet to the hospital and disposes of them there. They roll the car into the river.At that point, the friendships begin to change, and most of all, David begins to change, and the story takes on much darker elements.Absolutely bizarre film, definitely not my type of thing, so I may not be the best person to comment on it. Boyle does a fabulous job, as do the actors, of depicting a life-changing, friendship-changing moment and the danger and terror that follows, not to mention the lack of trust and strange behavior.Extremely interesting film if you can stand all the violence. It doesn't all make sense but boy, it keeps you engrossed. I saw Danny Boyle's Frankenstein on the stage. He's a master with a fresh point of view. "},{"Title":"Classic British Crime Flick","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Director Danny Boyle who also created other classic flicks, Sunshine 2007, 28 Days Later... 2002 and Trainspotting 1996 has created another gem in Shallow Grave.Starring Ewan McGregor who has also been in other classic flicks, The Island 2005, Black Hawk Down 2001, Blue Juice 1995 and Danny Boyle's classic flick, Trainspotting.Also starring Christopher Eccleston who has also been in other classic flicks, eXistenZ 1999 and Danny Boyle's classic flick, Trainspotting with Ewen McGregor.Also starring Kerry Fox who has also been in another classic flick, The Ferryman 2007.I enjoyed the cinematography and the relationships between the characters.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic British crime flicks, The Business 2005, Dead Man's Shoes 2004, Essex Boys 2000, The Football Factory 2004, Freight 2010, Gangster No. 1 2000, Get Carter 1971, Harry Brown 2009, Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels 1998, Peeping Tom 1960, Quantum of Solace 2008, RocknRolla 2008, Snatch. 2000, Bonded by Blood 2010, Rise of the Footsoldier 2007, Rollin' with the Nines 2006, The Liability 2012, Layer Cake 2004 and Tomorrow Never Dies 1997. "}{"Title":"A tale of 3 sociopaths","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The story begins with 3 English roommates, David, Alex and Juliet interviewing for a fourth roommate.The three are smart-mouthed, sadistic and greatly enjoy flinging out impossible questions at each of the potential roommates. One, a red-haired young man named Cameron, they particularly enjoy harassing and verbally humiliating.So that gives the viewer a good idea of the type of people these three are.However, one day when Juliet, a doctor, is at the apartment by herself a middle-aged man named Hugo comes by, and Juliet by herself isn't nearly as vicious, so he ends up getting the room they have.I got the impression Hugo could have taken them all on anyway.Hugo moves in and remains out of sight in his room until the three get curious and break down his door - to discover he has apparently over-dosed, and is dead.They also make the discovery of a suitcase full of money. Finding the money leads to some brutal decisions and later some equally violent consequences.The ending was quite a surprise. However, one of the biggest surprises to me was the lack of sex in the film. Not complaining - there's plenty to hold one's interest - but I was surprised by that.There is no one to root for, since they are all equally evil people, but the characters and storyline are so compelling it held my attention completely - I couldn't wait to see what would happen next.10 stars "},{"Title":"Danny's Finest.","Date":"18 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Danny Boyle is really an on/off kind of director. When he misses the mark, he doesn't scratch the target (I'm looking at you 'The Beach'), but when he has his game on, he is outstanding. 'Shallow Grave' is a perfect example.3 flatmates decide to begin screening for a new roommate. After horribly (and hilariously) rejecting numerous applicants, they finally meet a gentleman who may just fit the bill. All goes well for a short time, 'till one day when the newbie doesn't come out of his room. Breaking down the door to investigate, they discover his dead, naked body on the bed, an apparent drug overdose. But what really catches their attention is the suitcase full of money. Agreeing to dispose of the body and keep the money, they construct what would seem a good plan to get away with the cash, but as any movie goer knows, nothing ever goes according to plan.As has become the usual form for Boyle, the film is a juxtaposition of broad comedy, sporadic violence and some stressful suspense. It is a formula he has used many times since, but never as perfectly as he has here. Complimenting the action is a great cast of talented actors, led by the always good Ewan McGregor. Rounding out the film is an incredibly tight script that allows all the various elements to exist together.One flaw in this gem is the sudden shift in tone nearer the end that abruptly drops all the dark humor and shifts to dramatic thriller mode, which sucks most of the energy out of the picture. Fortunately the film picks up again just in time for the conclusion, which ranks as my favorite ending in all of cinema.A fine bit of film that has more than enough charm, humor, suspense and violence to keep a viewer riveted from energetic opening to perfect conclusion.9/10 "},{"Title":"A Fresh and Original Thriller","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Juliet (Kerry Fox), Alex (Ewan McGregor) and David (Christopher Eccleston), share a flat and are looking for a flat mate. After interviewing many applicants (This is pretty Funny) they decide on Cameron (Colin McCredie), who quickly passes away in his room.Upon the discovery of his body, they also discover vast sums of money, and their greed drives them to dispose of the body and keep the cash. After Drawing the short straw to remove the hands, feet and Teeth of their poor dead flatmate, David begins a clear decent into madness.Who's money it is remains a mystery, but the owners are coming and, hurting everyone in their path.Clearly made on a low budget, Danny Boyle has to rely on his brilliant cast, great script and his own wonderful direction, and he pulls it off brilliantly.Want a good thriller, that's not high budget Hollywood style, you won't get much better than this.8/10 "},{"Title":"Danny Boyle on the Road to Greatness","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"      Trainspotting was without a doubt Danny Boyle's breakthrough.  It was an international, cultural phenomenon that redefined cinematic style.  Just shy of this biggest success of his career to date was Shallow Grave, made in 1994.  His early career's Kubrickian influence and unmistakable directoral trademarks made Shallow Grave a very good foreshadowing to Trainspotting.   Shallow Grave is a crime story that is more than a little familiar, yet Boyle's clever use of dark humor and excellent attention-getters make it unforgettable and extremely entertaining.  Great acting from all the players (especially McGreggor) helps too, as well as magnificent art direction. "},{"Title":"Whoa!","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very gruesome and violent, but boy is it effective!  Eccleston is amazing. His transition (as David) is so graceful that you never know what he'll do next.  None of the acting is over the top.  Great film, I love it! "},{"Title":"Smashing","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  An indie effort that really delivers the goods. Greed overtakes three flatmates who fall upon a small treasure. This early effort by Danny Boyle plays almost like a horror film before it's over. Ewan M., in an early role, shows why he was destined to become a big star.  "},{"Title":"A Smart and Suspenseful Film","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Money makes the world go round and also makes some friends lose their perspective on life. Shallow Grave, a stylish, entertaining thriller directed by Danny Boyle (Trainspotting), shows what happens to friendship when a trunkload of money is involved. Similar in premise to A Simple Plan and Treasure of Sierra Madre, three very cynical friends, Dave, an accountant (Christopher Eccleston), Alex, a journalist (Ewan McGregor), and Juliet, a doctor (Kerry Fox) rent a part of their flat to a writer, Hugo (Keith Allen). When Hugo turns up naked and dead all in the same day, the suitcase of money is discovered and the fun begins.The three devise a plan to get rid of the body by cutting it into small pieces and burying them in a shallow grave nearby, then splitting the money. There are many twists and turns to the plot all carried out with a touch of the grisly and macabre. Dangerous men come to the flat to get the money, suspicious detectives hover around the trio, and the friendship of the three flatmates disintegrates as each one lusts after the money themselves. Dave, the accountant, suddenly loses his rationality and moves into the attic to protect the money and spy on his friends down below. Ewan McGregor and Christopher Eccleston both give great performances in this film, though none of the characters they portray are particularly likeable. I also found the film a bit too gory and the shift in the characters personalities too abrupt to be believable. For example, I did not find Dave's sudden descent into madness well motivated. Though it sort of fell apart for me at the end, Shallow Grave is a smart and suspenseful film that more than held my interest and appealed to the cynical side of my nature.  "},{"Title":"Very good yuppy crime & horror.","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Based on R1 DVDThough you don't 'see' much, this is one gruesome movie. Almost the entire movie is shot in a top floor four bed roomed apartment something I barely noticed while viewing. The characters are unlikeable, well developed and convincing, the story is only a little far fetched, the horror is conveyed more by sound than sight but very well done; more than can be said for Exorcist3 which tried the same hear-not-see route to much less effect.The ending came as a little surprise but if you watch closely you should be able to see it coming (maybe).7/10 well worth watching. "},{"Title":"unexpected, great movie!","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i didn't really find this movie very intriguing when i read the back of the cover for it. but i ended up seeing a preview a few weeks later and it actually looked pretty good, so i rented it, not expecting much. wow was i shocked!! it was REALLY REALLY entertaining. and i find this more of a comedy than a drama like imdb calls it, alex (ewan mcgregor) really cracked me up.i don't understand people getting all upset about the movie, saying they didn't like it because there were no likeable characters. well, i think that's the point. we aren't really supposed to LIKE these people. anyway, i enjoyed it a lot. and the ending was great!! wonderful acting and wonderful music also. i've watched it about 3 times so far in less than a week and bought it last night!  "},{"Title":"Psycho-comedy/drama noir film fun.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Three roomies, a body, and a bunch of money. Such are the ingredients of this dark comedy/drama out of the UK which looks at the downward spiral of the contended trio when easy money is up for grabs. A well crafted, slick flick with a serpentine plot worth a look.  "}{"Title":"Passafist Reviews Shallow Grave","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SHALLOW GRAVE is the kind of movie you really want to love.  I think I would have if I had never seen FARGO. There is this sub-genre called the revenge film, some of them are really good, like the aforementioned FARGO, or bad, like the long an incredibly slow moving A SIMPLE PLAN.  SHALLOW GRAVE is right in the middle of those two.There are three friends. Alex (Ewan McGregor, Star Wars Episode II Attack of the Clones) the loud funny one, David (Christopher Eccleston, The Others) the serious one, and Juliet (Kerry Fox, Welcome to Sarajevo) the sexy one.  They share a flat, and as the film opens they a looking for a new roommate.  Enter Hugo (Keith Allen, 24-Hour Party People) the charming yet rough guy who needs a room.  They let him move in.The movie then asks the question what if your new roommate died?  What if you found a suitcase full of money?  Would you call the police?  Would you keep the money?  Would it tear you up inside?The films early moments are really good.  Especially as they interview prospective roommates.   But, when the film plunges into the dark stuff, you begin to doubt character motivations. You can suspend disbelief for a few moments, but there is a nagging feeling that something isn't quite working.  I couldn't put my finger on why.Director Danny Boyle (Trainspotting) paces the film just a little on the long side. I spent 90 minutes with these characters but I felt like I needed to know more about them. I wanted to see there descent into darkness a little clearer, unfortunately I didn't. But for what it's worth Ewan steals the show.  He has such a good time with his part.  I felt bad for him especially since he's the only one who's continually being maimed throughout the film.  He's smarter than the other characters, but he hides it so well you begin to doubt if he really is that smart.Kerry Fox's Juliet is too subtle for my taste.  You can see what she's doing. The screenplay knows what's she's going to do and I've seen enough movies to know what she's going to happen to her, still her character on a whole is to subdued, and little unbelievable.   Eccleston's character David seemed more flawed than the other two.  His paranoia is drawn so big, that it fights with David's soft character from the beginning of the film.  The screenplay motivates him to act this way.   By not revealing enough of David character in the beginning, his motivations throughout the film feel like contrivances of the screenplay and not like true characterization. Shallow Grave is not a bad movie.  It's not a great movie.  It's an okay movie with a nice twist ending.  At least this one doesn't come from a mile away.  If you have a few hours, you might just want to dig up a copy of A SHALLOW GRAVE.  "},{"Title":"Three smug unlikeable yuppies screw their lives up.Hooray!","Date":"28 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Last things first - Shallow Grave does not have a great surprise ending.Anyone who's watched more than about a dozen movies should see it coming a mile off.It is not a masterpiece of British Cinema,it is neither shocking nor is it original either in concept or execution. It is what it is - a routine Britcrime movie with adequate (but no more) performances that would have been a hell of a lot funnier if Guy Ritchie had made it and set in in Battersea. An irritatingly arrogant and self - satisfied trio of young middle-class Scots seeking a flatmate humiliate and mock several applicants before settling on irritating,arrogant and self-satisfied Allen who promptly dies on them leaving behind a suitcase full of money. In plot developments of increasing unlikelihood,Miss Fox and Messrs McEwan and Ecclestone do naughtier and naughtier things until I eventually I glanced at my watch surreptitiously and found that,thankfully,there wasn't very long to go. It is beyond my comprehension how Shallow Gravehas gained this reputation for being a modern movie great.Perhaps,like Hugh Grant,J.Lo, Brad Pitt and The Matrix,it's one of those things I just don't get. "},{"Title":"An interesting film.","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Three roommates looking for another to share their apartment. They find a new roommate, who lives with them. The new person suddenly dies with a suitcase full of cash. The three roommates battle over the cash and can't trust each other. What is a lot of money between friends? If you cannot trust your friends with money, then who can you trust? Shallow Grave is the most interesting thrilling film, I ever saw. It is well worth your time to watch. "},{"Title":"A somewhat dated but fun take on an old dilemma","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Stylistically, Shallow Grave provides an excellent glimpse into the energetic, humanistic director that Danny Boyle has become. The movie was always a favorite, but I had not seen it in several years and regret to inform it has dated a bit, especially in the score, which plays like a patchwork from a movie-of-the-week music library. The song selection, however, is classic Boyle. Overall this remains a fun, enjoyable parable about already bad people turned greedy who then turn on one another. It is an updated take, unique to the time and style of the director, so fans of his future work won't be let down. In his hands, it becomes an inspired work following three mean-spirited roommates who are also friends, confronted with a unique opportunity born of tragic circumstances. Boyle seems to have fun in this admittedly rote terrain. Ewan MacGregor stands out among the three leads, though each is solid and appears to be enjoying themselves. Energetic camera-work keeps the film fresh even to date. "},{"Title":"Boyle's potential","Date":"5 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This singular Shallow Grave, first feature for Danny Boyle and the first of his three collaborations with Ewan McGregor, already showed in 1994 all the potential of the English director.The premise, everybody imagined at least once, is relatively simple but the script of this tragedy unfolds in an implacable way from start to finish, in an intriguing and heavy atmosphere that captivates the viewer. The characters composing this trio are complementary and each evolve differently until the ultra cynical final outcome punctuated with an unsuspected mini twist.However, the movie could be blamed for what also makes its strength, which is his absurd aspect maybe a bit too absurd. Moreover, the editing could have deserved a bit more coherence. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it but..","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Immediately they should have hidden the money. Then call the police about the body. Then when all the investigating is over split the money. And each goes their own way. Until they meet again all prosperous. But apart from that it was a tight all suspenseful movie. Never undermine anybody! Thing is my way would not have got that guy all messed up. Love the snappy humor. Could they not have chopped the body up together? Done pieces in turns maybe? Share the responsibility. My favorite part was when under questioning the chick was asked whether she remembers people by their faces or names best. And being a nurse she says diseases. Then the investigator says that just like her he recalls people's behavior by their crimes. I do recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Strange, yet entertaining Scottish thriller.","Date":"11 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Christopher Eccleston, Ewan McGregor and Kerry Fox give solidly disturbing leading performances as three flat mates who attempt to cover up a murder in an attempt to gain a handsome stash of cash from the victim.The plot is simple enough and the characters in the film have well developed personalities and attributes. Eccleston is particularly impressive as he begins to form a paranoid schizophrenic following guilt of the act he played a vital part in.Ewan McGregor adds a delicate essence of dark humour while Fox is a rather complex character who you never fully understand.'Shallow Grave' is a solid thriller which has a great casting line up but many parts of the film are rather peculiar and the climax is frustrating if cleverly accomplished. "},{"Title":"An engrossing and well-played thriller about three people digging themselves a hole a lot deeper than that titular grave.","Date":"11 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The item of money is at the centre of Shallow Grave and its hypothesis; that of how money, particularly large quantities of it, can do nothing but corrupt and deprave; the hapless guinea pigs put through such an exploration here making up what was a functioning group of three disparate people in then-contemporary Britain. Indeed, money is often at the heart of the films of Danny Boyle; the final act of Trainspotting near-enough driven by this blighted urge to nab the cash made from a successful heroin exchange, thus proving once and for all that you cannot, at any point, avoid the hardships that come with drugs, even if it does mean dodging addiction to the damned things byway of moving into dealing them. Much more recently, his 2004 film Millions offered a premise to do with a young boy forced into reacting to an amount of money he happens upon prior to the rendering of a it superfluous. 2009's Slumdog Millionaire saw an additionally agonising tale propel its young lead towards a huge cash prize glorified only by the fact hard graft and moral work throughout the years lead to something big - around which several others of his ilk looking to 'get-rich-quick' turned to more desperate means to get by before falling foul of various things.At the centre of this, Boyle's debut feature, which is a resounding; accomplished and often morbidly comedic turn, are three people locked in an agonising face-off with one another over a large amount of money. Supporting Ewan McGregor's Scottish accountant, Alex, are Christopher Eccleston's David and Kerry Fox's Juliet; together a wily threesome of youngsters possessing a range of characteristics ranging from the tall and prim glasses wearing outcast to the fast, loose young woman not bothered about bathing with the door open right through to the stockier, cockier of the three in Alex - the seemingly constant bearer of a smirk of some description. They occupy a flat in an apartment block and are looking, although making deliberately heavy weather of it, a fourth tenant; the teasing and tormenting in a playfully sadistic manner of those whom apply to fill the role leading them no closer to obtaining that additional someone, although not being particularly bothered by it.It is the informed suaveness of a certain someone whom does eventually arrive which goes on to rock their respective worlds; the man of about middle age carrying with him the required attributes that see our three begin to struggle and squabble with one another, thus differing to when they drove proceedings and dominated those from the outside they invited into their little lair. The catalyst comes about out of the unnatural death of this new arrival, their finding of his body leads to the uncovering of that aforementioned large amount of money it turns out he has stolen from some local gangsters that very much want it back. There is some bickering about the moral implications of the matter over that of the logical thinking's behind such an event; things leading to the trio deciding to keep a hold of what they've got and getting rid of the body. This is an event Boyle has them carry out in the dead of night; their ambling down the block's stairs to some eerie expressionistic lighting capturing the newfound sense of horror in their lives. One character even drops a torch over the side of the railing; leaning over to watch it plummet, there is an uncanny sense that the characters, epitomised through the one that does, are staring into a proverbial abyss.The body of the film possesses a coiled sense of disaster, the money acting as the key into a universe of indulgence and brashness when it brings initial happiness to the crew, no less Alex, whose spending habits do well to widen that grin of his. David, the lean eye-wear sporting point to the the now obtuse triangle that is the trio, begins to act differently &#x96; suddenly, his eloquence in being able to 'set' one of the flatmate applicants knowingly impossible questions on popular music, vanishes and is replaced by a calm and quiet persona which periodically lurches forward into fits of both verbal and physical rage.The film is a more than worthwhile thriller, often bogged down in the mire of their apartment once home to frolics and friendship now rendered the battleground of discontent and disagreement over what ought to be done and what the true nature of the situation actually is. The film, like Boyle's later work in 1996's Trainspotting, brilliantly balances realism with instances of surrealism; this is very much the sort of film in which the camera will remain static on someone from over their shoulder as we observe the opening half a minute or so of a television broadcast, but will find time to veer off into bizarre instances of toy dolls being dropped unnaturally into large stretches of water. The film is wonderfully scored, a morbid and rather bothering series of instrumental pieces impeccably capturing whenever it makes itself known the dynamic of the on-screen situation. The film unfolds with a persistent, refreshing for a thriller, sense of ambiguity as to where it'll head, the results of which make for a wholesome drama we are easily caught up in. "},{"Title":"Shallow Grave Quirky and Entertaining","Date":"12 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The debut of now revered director Danny Boyle, Shallow Grave has been credited as a film which reinvented the British film industry, paving the way for films like Boyle's own Trainspotting.Three apartment residents&#x97;Alex, David, and Juliet&#x97;have an extra room to rent. Deciding eventually to give it to mysterious but cash-laden Hugo, they become concerned that he never emerges from his room. Breaking the door down, they discover him dead with a suitcase full of money, and decide to bury him and keep the cash for themselves, inviting assaults from all angles via the police, a pair of mysterious thugs, and their own interpersonal conflicts.Shallow Grave opens with a few lines emanating from a mysterious narrator on the nature of friendship and the potential mistrusts that come with it. Cue a series of fast paced shots along the suburban streets, their speed and recklessness creating a dizzying effect which adds to the already strange intro. We first meet our characters as they interview a series of candidates vying for the available room. The trio tease, taunt, and play mental games with the applicants, posing strange questions to each to determine their reactions. This early scene does not work quite as well as one might hope, its comedy a little too exaggerated and overbearing, though nonetheless worthy of laughs. It does, however, portray the characters sufficiently well to give us the pictures we need of them before the plot gets rolling. Itself quirky and entertaining, the plot is a solid centrepiece to the film. That said, the characters' relatively quick decision to effectively thieve is perhaps too swift, morality only coming to bear in one of them; morality which eventually takes something of a strange and ineffective turn. Their conflicts with each other are somewhat under-explored; the climax reached before their importance is appropriately highlighted. A small number of questionable characterisation and plot problems aside, Shallow Grave is a consistent comedy thriller bringing all the laughs, twists, and well, thrills necessary to keep the ball rolling. Its ending is rather a strange one stylistically, a factor I quite enjoyed, leaving us with a nicely wrapped up film experience.With something of a rocky start not helped by characters somewhat lacking in realism, Shallow Grave makes the best of what it's left with, managing to deliver a fun hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Unique Thriller","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Two years before he wowed us with the in-your-face Trainspotting, Danny Boyle delivered this unique thriller about three flatmates who come across some unexpected money, and then go a little crazy deciding what to do with it.The best thing about John Hodge's script is its ability to constantly shock while delivering pitch black humour. Shallow Grave is realistically unpredictable in that you never know how the participants will react to any given situation.The clever script is backed up by three strong central performances. Christopher Eccleston is frightening as the first member of the trio to really begin to lose his grip. Kerry Fox, as Julie, is most convincing, being perhaps the hardest to fathom of the three. Finally there is Alex (Ewan McGregor), the brash young guy who seems the least able to cope when things really get serious.A credit to director Boyle is the way he presents the package, raw and ready, yet slick and manipulative too. Some surprise!Saturday, June 6, 1998 - Video "}{"Title":"A Great Psychological Thriller","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film was totally amazing. It is certainly one of the best psychological thrillers I have seen in a long time. What's even better is that it is full of laughs as well. Three flatmates; Juliet, David and Alex; are trying to find a fourth flatmate. After some hilarious interviews, they finally find Hugo. Unfortunately for them, Hugo quickly ends up dead. Alex, played by a pre-Hollywood-ed un-Star Wars-ed Ewan McGregor, finds a suitcase full of cash. Juliet and Alex want to spend the money, but David, played by Christopher Eccleston, decides to hide it in the loft...or attic, for you Americans. Slowly, Eccleston begins to go mad as he moves into the loft and drills holes into the rafters so that he can spy on his flatmates below. This film is totally fantastic. And I suggest that you pick it up at your local video store. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Nice thriller...","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Three friends (two guys and a girl), a corpse, and a suitcase full of doe... Well, that's a good premise to test things such as commitment, loyalty, the power of paranoia and of nerves.I'm not a big fan of Danny Boyle, I think he's one of those overvalued directors (just like Taranatino), but the truth is that Shallow grave is very entertaining, it has strength and a good rhythm, and the three actors that play the main roles do a great work (especially Ewan McGregor). It's not a masterpiece, but its quality is above of modern day cinema average.*My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"What a great film","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I think I've seen.  The acting was great and the story was even better.  The dialogue makes this movie worth the watch.  People should not miss this movie.  This is a movie for anyone who likes suspense thrillers.  After watching all the horror in this movie it still leaves you laughing.  Once again do not miss this wonderful movie.  It is well worth watching and owning. "},{"Title":"Excellent!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Danny Boyle, like always, he is showing to us, one of the best work had he ever done...and I don't say the best because remember Trainspotting. But I love that his leading role actor for almost all his movies is always Ewan MacGregor, with this beautiful scottish accent, and this wonderful sense of humor, remember a life less Ordinary... I also like that Boyle always use too the same elements in every movie of his own, like the baby walking, the Scottish highland dress, the similar ending of every movie, the lack of moral of his characters, their ambition, and money of course, money the most important element that he always use.... Also in The Beach you can notice that..... Wonderful!!!!!!! "},{"Title":" I HATE THRILLERS...but loved this movie","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  y I HATE THRILLERS...but loved this movieI don't know what it is about Danny Boyle. I tell you what, I originally rented this simply because of McGregor's presence. Little did I know it was going to have me on the edge of my seat. I usually don't enjoy scary movies or thrillers, but this one didn't bother me quite as much.Danny Boyle does a nice job of keeping your mind thinking about what's not being shown, but does it tastefully enough so that you don't get too  sickened by it. It's actually quite an interesting situation that theygive in this film, but nonetheless the acting is superb on all accounts and the ending leaves you with sense of question, which is cool because it makes you discuss it with others that watched it with you. Which is intially the whole purpose of a film, to go enjoy it, then discuss it with others. "},{"Title":"I Great Watch!","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie and i absoulutly could not believe it.  It's one of the best i've seen in my life.  Granted i'm only so old but believe me, i've seen enough movies to know.  I like this movie because it has a great plot twist and an exciting story.  I think Ewan is a terrific actor and that he deserves a lot more recognition, but i guess it's also cool to be low key.  "},{"Title":"A cool film about the complexities of greed and friendship","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Danny Boyle not only created a movie that  is sick and dark, it proves to satisfy the twisted  side of friendship. All of the actors were well  portrayed in this film, right down to the  scummy inner need for money and power.  While confined and claustrophobic, the depth  of the film makes you feel like your looking  into the direct world of these fake people. The  raw emotions displayed between the characters  feels real and perverse. This film is more a  case study about making small spaces look  big and exciting, which means kudos for editor  Masahiro Hirabuko. This film also had one of  the more redeeming endings in cinema history. "},{"Title":"Low budget movies,don't have to be bad.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good movie,even though almost all of it took place inside the same room.I have recently found out that this movie was directed by Danny Boyle,the same man who directed Trainspotting and that explains a lot.This movie has great acting at the story is good.I thought it was a little slow at times,but it got better.The ending was great and made the whole movie a lot better. "},{"Title":"British filmmaking at its best","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Wow. . . What can I say about this film. A stylish,superbly executed tragicomic thriller.The atmosphere, the characters, the colours,the music, the direction, everything conspired to produce one of the most unforgettable movies about nastiness and human greed in modern cinema.You won't be able to get it out of your head. This movie left me feeling rather melancholy and i don't know if this was because of the way the three friends in it turned out in the end, or because I liked the movie so much I didn't want it to ever finish.However,you'll also have a happy heart at the end,cause you will have watched a cinematic gem. And Danny Boyle still hadn't said his last wordA masterpiece titled Trainspotting was still to come. .. "},{"Title":"Very cool thriller.","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was excellent. I've seen A Life Less Ordinary several times already and when I saw this movie I thought it was very well made, then I noticed it was made by basically the same people who made A Life Less Ordinary. I have to say though that I found some scenes in this movie to be a little disturbing and depressing, but they were so well-acted and directed that I didn't care so much after I while. Plus the rather amusing twist at the ending, gave me a little cheer-up. Ewan McGregor, as always, was great and I think he gave the best performance. He was the true star of this. I haven't yet seen Trainspotting, but if it's is as good as Shallow Grave, it's gotta be good. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Where are your morals?","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film last night on the recommendations of a friend and I must say I haven't seen such an original film for a long time. Three friends, one corpse, a suitcase full of money and a BIG dilemma. The film then follows the lives and intentions of the three flatmates and the increasingly cruel and mad situations that they have created themselves. A shocking, dark and humourous look at friendship vs greed ie which is stronger which brings us to a very unexpected twist which smacks you in the face. A must see film and well done to all involved. Seven out of ten. "},{"Title":"a nice, wicked movie","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my ten favorite films, and the best of the Danny Boyle, John Hodge collaborations. Kerry Fox, Ewan McGregor and Christopher Eccleston all give wonderful performances. The screenplay is a little abrupt in places, but the dialogue is so excellent and smooth that I'm never thrown out of the piece for a moment, even when motivations seem to be lacking (the big question is, why don't they just report the body in the first place, and not the cash? we still could have had the two bad guys show up looking for Hugo, have them get bumped off and then have David go crazy because of that... i.e. we still could have had a good movie that didn't make such a huge leap of faith right off the bat). The best thing about this wonderful little film is the style- the colors, the camera angles, the music... it all works well to create a constant sense of tension, suspense, and psychological unravel, and Boyle's pacing beautifully moves the story along to its brilliant, deeply satisfying conclusion.   "},{"Title":"fascinating characters","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ones of the things I liked about Shallow Grave was that its mainfocus was on the characters' interaction with one another,rather than simply being about the mystery of the dead body.  Inthe first five minutes we are introduced to Alex, Juliet, andDavid and discover that they are three equally intelligent,successful, and cruel young people.  They are perfect to livewith one another, and have a hard time finding a fourth flatmatewith as callous a personality as theirs.  It's interesting tosee the idiosyncracies of the three flatmates' daily lives, suchas the phone calls that Juliet receives constantly from apathetic admirer.  Juliet never answers the phone, and Alex andDavid know to tell the caller that Juliet is never home.  WhenJuliet is interviewing a prospective roommate, she has himanswer the phone for her to tell the caller that she is nothome.  She then gauges his response as a sort of test to seewhether or not the guy could be let into their 'secret club'. The three flatmates spend a lot of time together, most of whichis spent throwing insults and outwitting each other.  At thispoint you know that when the suitcase full of money comesaround, it won't be a question of WILL they betray one another,but HOW.  It all builds up perfectly to an appropriately fun "},{"Title":"Hitchcock can be proud...","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Shallow Grave is one of the darkest movies I have ever seen. It is a mix between a macabre thriller and a charcoal black comedy. I won't say anything about the plot, since I fear I would ruin an incredible plot so precisely crafted I think the only one who could have done it was a brain-surgeon. Many moments will remind you of Alfred Hitchcock's movies but in a new way. This doesn't feel like a rip-off, it feels like an evolution of Hitchock's style. I am not saying that this is better than Vertigo, but Boyle can really be proud of this movie. His directing is very inventive. The acting is very good and the characters portrayed are fascinating and frightening. I can't think of something negative to say about this movie... Ok, I would have been happy if it had lasted 24 hours... Just kidding, it is just perfect the way it is, not too long, not too short. But it is not for everyone. This movie is dark, very dark. If you want to see a light movie, skip this at all cost.90% "},{"Title":"What's one corpse between friends?","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  EXCELLENT MOVIE!!! Shallow Grave may be hard to digest at first because the story is very dark and disturbing. However, I believe even the most squeamish of people should see it because it is brilliant in so many ways. The director, John Hodge, holds nothing back, and succeeds in making every aspect of the movie seem real and haunting. He knew exactly what to do with each of the three main characters, and truly understood the nature of each one.Some people I know didn't really buy the transformation of David (very wonderfully and intensely played by Christopher Eccleston), but I think it makes perfect sense. David was the calm and serious one of the group. After the death of Hugo and the discovering of the money, he was the only person still with a conscious. So when he was the one forced to cut up the body, it was very understandable how it started his road to madness.John Hodge made this movie very original because he drifted away from everything trendy or common. On the gory scenes, instead of showing the corpses, we just see the bonesaw going back and forth, and we just see David's horrified face as he throws down the hammer repeatedly with the sounds of teeth crunching in the background. This allows us to use our imagination, and that makes the scenes extremely scary because it makes us think of the darkest things imaginable. Saying it's not an uplifting movie would be an understatement, but it's still really exciting to watch.Shallow Grave focuses on the lives of three flatmates, and how they react to the most bizarre occurrences. What's really interesting about the movie is that each character is portrayed as the villain in different parts, so you'll probably root for each of them at one point or another. It's hard to believe we could care for people with such selfish intentions, but each character shows innocence sometimes. It makes the movie so much better and more exciting when we loathe just one of them.The music is totally flawless. I think the most depressing scenes would only be half as effective without that surreal melancholy piano tune in the background. Hearing that score and staring into David's zombified expression is a perfect combination. Just when I thought the movie couldn't get any better, I witnessed one of the most spectacular and bittersweet endings I've ever seen! I don't want to give anything away because I was in perfect awe of everything that happened in the final ten minutes. In the middle of the movie, I knew the ending was going to be extremely unpredictable, and I was just hoping it would be satisfying. I couldn't have asked for anything more. John Hodge made a very wise and creative choice in having the melodic Andy Williams song Happy Heart playing while we see flashbacks of the three flatmates laughing and having a wonderful time together.This movie will definately make you think afterwards, and with everything you realize, you grow to love and appreciate the movie more and more. 10/10...  "},{"Title":"thrilling","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  great actors, great locations, great sphere, great story, great director. it's an honest english movie with a stunning performance of the actors, good camera-work and an interesting story. it will grip you the whole movie through. one of my favourites.  "},{"Title":"Why, oh why?","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If only it were really true that actors would stop in the middle of scenes and ask what's my motivation here?.  A bit more prima donna behaviour from the stars might have turned this into a less silly movie.  The problem for me is that none of the three leads is in a dire enough situation to justify their behaviour--on the contrary they are all successful young professionals and living in a great flat.  I don't know how many ten pound notes you can stuff into a suitcase, but it's not enough, certainly not enough to keep these three in anything more than modest comfort for the rest of their lives.  You'd have thought that a doctor, an accountant and a crime journalist would have been a bit more clued up on the problems associated with dead bodies and large amounts of cash, but no.It's a film that constantly has you asking Why didn't he do that...? Why don't they realise this..? and the answer is always is always, and only, that if anybody did anything remotely plausible, there'd be no film.  The action is 100 per cent driven by the demands of the plot character and motivaion play no part--and that makes it totally uninteresting.  When the inevitable cops and gangsters turn up later on, it's so predictable that the filmmakers can't even be bothered to explain how they got there.  File under Drivel... "},{"Title":"fresh, brilliant, *nasty* piece of work","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time. It's not simply well-done, it's terribly clever and, dare I say - original! A good thriller is hard to find these days, most are just thinly disguised action flicks with somber dialogue and dimly lit sex-scenes.  Shallow Grave is classical and very witty, picking up the Hitchcockian gauntlet by focusing not on the murder or the mystery, but on the aftermath of a death and the suspense created when the audience knows more than the characters. That being said, there are some brilliant surprises in this film, including what is quite simply my favorite ending of any movie, ever. And one of my favorite things about the film is that none of the characters are particularly likable, though they are far more complex than some critics have given them credit for.Who else out there is sick to death of critics, especially professional critics, knocking films because they don't have a hero in a white hat to cheer for? They lambast films with happy hollywood endings but if the featured characters are less than fully admirable (and aren't redeemed or destroyed),  critics complain that they can't identify with them. Moral ambiguity makes things interesting! It boggles the mind that people criticize fiction when they don't like the personality of the characters. So you don't *like* the characters, how does that negate the quality of the work? It's like dismissing Van Goghs Sunflowers because you don't like the color yellow. OK, finished ranting. SEE THE FILM! "},{"Title":"fantastic, best film ever made- in my opinion","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this is a tale, which starts off with three friends, good friends and ends in a brooding, dark fight between them over the one thing that often ruins friendship money.what would you do if you found a dead body and a suitcase full of money?this is the question they have to consider when their brand new flat mate decides to kill himself, and they find the money under the bed. the plot thickens and there are many twists and turns, the scene with the drill is so weird, but magical.i won't say anymore as i'll ruin the film, but it is excellent, all three leads, played by the amazing Ewan McGregor, Kerry Fox and Christopher Eccleston shine in this dark, mysterious tale which covers issues of greed, loyalty, madness and not so much love, as sexual tension.A MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"Slick, Dark and Enthralling","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is another movie I saw solely for his Ewan-ness. Quite a movie. My younger brother hated it, for some reason. Anyway, this is a wicked little story with tons of great dialogue and an interesting study of what happens when normal people (even if they are kind of mean) do something unimaginable. I recommend it to all, although not all are going to like it. I've seen this several times, and of the Trainspotting team's 3 efforts, it's the second best, in my view. It's a rare thriller that can evoke a positive response out of me, but this is one of them, and I already know what happens! The performances are all great, especially Ewan, (of course,) and that's why I think it holds up beyond the initial viewing. These three flatmates are so acerbic, it's truly remarkable, and hilarious. And let me tell you, since seeing Shallow Grave, I haven't been able to listen to Happy Heart without a secret smile to myself. "}{"Title":"I'm sitting here, in shock","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  10 out of 10 is my vote! I just got done watching Shallow Grave, and I can't get up. I guess I'm filling a mix of humor, happiness, and a little confusion.What drew me to this movie was definitely Ewan McGregor, and I'm not disappointed at all.  It was funny, thrilling, dark, and so very different from anything I have ever seen before... but most of the works by the Boyle/Hodge/Macdonald trio are like that.. Remember Trainspotting and A Life Less Ordinary?  They both had their unique qualities.  But that is what makes them, including Shallow Grave so fun and entertaining to watch. Shallow Grave keeps you enjoying it from the beginning as three flatmates search for a fourth...then find one, only for him to die and leave them a ton of cash.. What to do with it??  From here, the path of the plot changes.. to the darker side.  Nothing is wrong with that.  In many ways, this dark comedy reminded me of Very Bad Things.. the whole friends disposing of a body and then going a little crazy idea.  But this one came first and is even better. All three stars put in fabulous, believable performances.  Of course, I'm partial to Ewan McGregor, and it is interesting to see which of the friends you can sympathise with... the woman, the harmless businessman, or the younger, more mischevious man.  In order not to ruin the many twists and turns of the movie, I won't say anymore.. other than to recommend this movie to everyone if you're in the mood for a good, dark comedy. And of course those Scottish accents don't hurt a bit..      "},{"Title":"What's a little reviewing between friends???","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those films that you will either love or hate. And I LOVE it. It is superbly written and is wonderfully directed. The humour and subject matter of this film are as black as you can get. The cast are able to carry it all off with splendour. They are able to show believable ambivalence for the situation that they find themselves in and you find that you are able to identify with the characters even though no one will ever (I hope) find themselves in a predicament like this one. Every time that I watch this film I find myself smirking at the final slow panning shots as the climax of the plot is realised and singing my heart out to the theme tune as the credits roll (How many films can make you do that).An absolute gem of a movie - you must see it!!! "},{"Title":"Shallow People","Date":"3 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" After three unkindly flatmates take in another, they find themselves in a peculiar situation after they find the new renter dead with a suitcase full of cash.This film is set up like a good black comedy. The opening sequence is full of humor and leads us in that direction. But the film quickly falls into a dark, boring pit. There is no character which the audience can relate to, and we don't care what happens to the characters. If we don't care about these characters, we don't care about the movie.After the friends decide to dispose of the body, the laconic flatmate dismembers the body and slowly transforms into a monster. There are problems with the plot; I don't believe, nor would any rational audience member, that after they find the dead roommate, no one would call the police. Neither do I believe that they would dismember a body. These are real people with real emotions. Why on earth would they do this? This script fails to explain this. We are also suppose to believe that the quiet flatmate would continue to kill and be a threat. If someone lived with a killer, I doubt they would find the time to have sex with one another and live freely. The emotions and motivations are confused, the characters shallow and unappealing, and Boyle uncharacteristically composes poor shots. This plays like a ninety minute music video. By the end you beg to be out of this nightmare. "},{"Title":"Just about manages despite its self-imposed shackles","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" The film-making team of Boyle-MacDonald-Hodge more or less came to stand as a metonym for the whole of British cinema in the 1990s &#150; but the film that elevated them to such lofty heights was not this one. Trainspotting was a work of genius, effortlessly blending elements of postmodernism in with its story to create a beautifully crafted piece of cinema. The seeds that would eventually produce that film can be seen in Shallow Grave, but they have yet to develop; the film is inspired, but very rough around the edges.Postmodernism is all about subversion, and to begin with a wildly creative and imaginative core idea is to miss the point. As such Shallow Grave has an extremely simple plot &#150; three flatmates gain a fourth, who dies leaving a suitcase full of money. They decide to dispose of the body and keep the cash, but the stresses of hiding the event, keeping the police at bay, being attacked by the stranger's criminal associates plus their own deteriorating psyches tear them apart. All ripe for modern trickery; unfortunately Danny Boyle and John Hodge seem to have crafted their film directly from The Beginner's Guide To '90s Edginess and as such the film feels garish rather than clever.The film is full of surrealism, and the viewer frequently sees events through the hallucinatory perspectives of the characters. But there seems to be a general lack of imagination about it, and all the spinning cameras, interior monologues and strategic cultural references (one minute Alex watches the football, then the news, then a rubbish game show, then The Wicker Man&#133;they listen to pounding trance, then sophisticated blues, then jazzy Nina Simone&#133;not to mention the casting of Ken Stott, playing Detective Ken Stott) scream out at the viewer. They may be effective in a shallow way (no pun intended), but it's all so brazen that the film feels unsophisticated. While surrealism made up part of a complete world in Trainspotting, in Shallow Grave it has the effect of dragging the viewer out of the narrative.I'm being overly critical as at its heart this is a good film, and its flashiness doesn't make its plot any less dynamic. Indeed on the first few viewings it's thoroughly absorbing, with the violence potent enough to cause a reaction without being so sick that the viewer turns away. It's engaging enough &#150; and nothing with Ewan McGregor and Christopher Eccleston in it can stand up to the accusation of being badly acted, at least when McGregor isn't putting on an accent. The characters aren't in any way likable, which can make it difficult to feel sympathy for them, but it does mean that their breakdown comes from a new angle. The only real flaw in the characterisation is Eccleston, who's increasingly withdrawn David would work better if the character wasn't withdrawn enough already.Shallow Grave is basically a good film, but it isn't as clever as it thinks it is and that takes the edge off it. As a first attempt at film-making it shows an obvious vibrancy and energy, but it took Boyle, MacDonald and Hodge until their second attempt before they actually managed to make a great film instead of merely a good one.7/10 "},{"Title":"one minor problem with film","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a film where if you apply just a hint of common sense the entire premise falls apart like a house of cards. Once our trio finds their roommate dead, with a suitcase of cash, why not just report the death to the police while simply taking the money. Nobody knew about the money so the police would not be looking for it. That is what 99.9% of people would have done. Nobody, but nobody, would have done what they did; certainly not educated professionals. But, then again, if the lead characters used common sense then there would have been no movie.In my opinion, if a film blows away the pretense of common sense it can no longer be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"As good as Trainspotting","Date":"1 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I think this was a brilliant film.It`s a film that mostly concentrates on the story.It does have some gross bits, but they are necesarry to give the film`s atmosphere.The direction(Danny Boyle) and actors are also very good.Boyle`s debut film shows Boyle`s great talent as a director, and this is a film that could`ve brought him the same fame that Trainspotting did.It does also show how the characters change throughout the film, which is really great, because that actually is quite rare nowadays.I must say again great actors, great story, great director, must see. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Nasty Little Shocker","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I showed this film to my girlfriend at the time she asked an interesting question and I quote, Why don't they just tell the cops about the body and hide the money?  My lovely legendary girlfriend had a good point.  But the obvious answer is that if the characters did that there would have been no plot for them to squirm their way out of!Some other parts of this film also don't work.  For example, the body that falls from the attic looks SO fake.  I know they usually use dummies for shots like that but it shouldn't LOOK like a dummy.  Except if yer doing a comedy.  And the scene where the accountant character is flicking off and on a lamp is a bad rip off of the 'Fatal Attraction' scene that shows Glenn Close going crazy.  The screenwriter shoulda thought of something else.But this is still an above average thriller with a nice present day Scottish setting.  And it is the first collaboration of the Macdonald, Boyle, Hodge and McGregor filmmaking team.  Kerry Fox is also quite a fox herself in this.  But kudos to all the actors and filmmakers for making me an Andy Williams fan after the darkly comic way they used his song 'Happy Heart' over the closing credits.  Happy grave digging, kids... "},{"Title":"Zero likable characters .......","Date":"19 January 2010","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Shallow Grave is a vastly over stylized and vastly shallow movie. The entire film is a so what?. Who is supposed to care or become involved with three annoying yuppies that steal a suitcase of drug money, leading to unpleasant results? Paranoia eventually prevails, as things spiral out of control. The entire film is well acted, but allegiances between the young doctor, accountant, and reporter, evolve and change, and the audience receives no enjoyment, because none of these characters deserve an ounce of compassion. The conclusion feels rushed, and is both violent and unsatisfying. I recommend skipping this one and re-watch A Simple Plan, which has a similar theme, and is a far better film. - MERK "},{"Title":"Great plot... Loathsome characters...","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is the first feature film directed by Danny Boyle and I have seen it a few times now. I find it funny that when an artist becomes famous, people always look back at their early work, as if looking for the beginnings of that spark of genius. Me, well I just enjoy a well made film with some good performances and a decent plot. But more about my thoughts later, here's a brief summary first (summary haters please hide in the attic and guard the cash).Three young flatmates, Juliet Miller, a doctor, David Stephens, an accountant and Alex Law, a journalist, have a spare room and are looking for a new tenant. Having interviewed, and callously rejected, several applicants they finally settle on Hugo, a writer. He moves in and locks his door and that's that last the trio see of him&#x85; alive that is. After a couple of days they break into his room to find him lying dead on his bed. Searching the room, Alex comes across a suitcase stuffed full of cash. After much debate it is decided to keep the cash and dispose of the body. At this point I'll have to stop or I will give too much away, but needless to say, things don't go exactly to plan.Unfortunately this film was made in the nineties and the three main characters personify everything I hated about that era. They are greedy, arrogant and just about the most loathsome trio I would wish to meet. However, the story that's played out on the screen is pretty good, so I stuck with it. Great performances all round, particularly from Christopher Eccleston who is brilliant as David, Ewan McGregor is particularly lithesome as Alex and Kerry Fox put in a good effort as Juliet.As we've come to expect from Danny Boyle, this is a very well made film with great attention to detail. The star performance for me came from Christopher Eccleston; he gave us the full range of emotions here which made him stand out. If the three main characters weren't quite so loathsome then maybe I would have given a higher score, but it's definitely worth watching nonetheless&#x85; Recommended.My score 7.4/10 "},{"Title":"Quirky film was a real joy","Date":"22 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" I didn't know what to expect from director Danny Boyle (28 Days later)but, considering the fact that this film of his kept me up past my bedtimes, I got more that I expected.Kerry Fox, Christopher Eccleston (TVs Heroes), and Ewan McGregor (Obi-Wan Kenobi in Star Wars Episode III - Revenge of the Sith)were absolutely riveting in a show about three flatmates who discover a dead tenant and a suitcase full of cash.How this plays out is best described when David (Eccleston) asked after a shopping spree, How much did this cost? Juliet (Fox) answers, 500 pounds. David comes back, That's what you paid for it, but you don't know what the cost will be. That is what this film is all about - the cost of what they did. This is where all the suspense is coming from, and the ending was just marvelous.I am surely going to be looking for more from this director and these stars. "}{"Title":"well done, but not my type of movie","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This actually is a very well made, suspenseful thriller. It started off kind of innocent and funny and the story built until it twisted into something rather startling and horrible. The acting was wonderful.With all that said, I didn't really like this movie. I don't like violent films, especially when they have no hero but just a bunch of rather despicable characters. From the very beginning, it was rather clear that the friends in the movie really didn't care all that much about each other and were rather heartless, so it was kind of hard to care much about their fate anyway.Actually, the only reason I watched this movie is because I'm a huge fan of Ewan McGregor and I liked the other Danny Boyle films he's been in, Trainspotting and A Life Less Ordinary. Ewan's acting was top-notch as usual in this film, but I really didn't need to see THAT. It would spoil the film if I said what THAT is referring to, but you'll know if you see it. "},{"Title":"Not Deep Enough","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Fistly, I should mention that I am very hard to satisfy in regard to movies. With that in mind, I have to report that Shallow Grave buried my interests.The movie is plot-driven rather than character-driven.  In itself, this is always a bad thing; however, in order to be plot-driven, the plot should be utterly plausible.  Shallow Grave was not.  It all hinges on believing in the greed of the main characters, but that greed remains completely unjustified.  The ernstwhile chummy flatmates are all too willing to (literally) stab each other in the back for money.  I really felt that they would have all been completely satisfied with splitting the money.  The transformation of the characters was not vindicated - especially to the degree shown in the movie.  I was reminded of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre where this very same transformation is done in a convincing manner.Here is a question I had about David's paranoia  If he was so paranoid, wouldn't he suggest to move out of the flat?The twist at the end was frankly not enough to win me over.  In fact, it seemed rather silly.  I did not really care who got the money or who outsmarted whom.  It was all arbitrary.  None of it seemed enough to make a movie - or even a short story.  It just comes off as shallow hackneyed story about greed all revolving around a very, very simple plot.Before even seeing other comments here, I thought the title was extremely bad.  It's catchy but has little to do with the core of theme - even in a metaphorical sense. "},{"Title":"Good (not great) stylish and interesting thriller.","Date":"3 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" This low-budget thriller looks good and has an intriguing premise, but is not clever enough to overcome some serious flaws. It's also gruesome and graphic, which may put viewers off. Three roommates find their newest roommate dead shortly after he moves in and, finding a suitcase full of money, decide to hide the body and keep the money. No one seems to have much trouble making that choice, though it seals their fate and takes them on the road to ruin. There are some interesting twists to keep your interest, and the acting of the three main characters is very good. The outcome is somewhat predictable, and the ending includes a bit of Fatal Attraction- type histrionics. Set mainly in their apartment, the stylized wall colors and the aggressive camera-work lend visual interest at all times. Filmed in Edinburgh and Glasgow, I would have liked to see more exterior shots. Overall, Shallow Grave is entertaining but shallow. "},{"Title":"How does the money get below the floorboards?","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler i read the long running debate on The Ending - was Alex dead or alive - and was surprised that the debate wasn't how the money gets below the floorboards.i might have missed something really obvious but this is the one part that always mystifies me when I watch Shallow Grave. i'd never read the ending as Alex dying as well. Quite an eye opener. I'll re-watch and re-think.My initial view is that Alex is alive - the Inspector does acknowledge his greeting and the grin and pan to the cash below the floor is the reveal. "},{"Title":"Terrible Plot; Terrible Movie","Date":"4 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" Spoiler Alert I can tear the entire plot in half with one half-brained thought. If you know the jist of the movie, you know three people have a roommate who dies and leaves a suitcase full of money. So they decide to hack him up and bury his body? You're kidding, right? Why would anybody do that? You would just take the suitcase, put it in your room, and then call the police. BAMMMMM!!!!! End of movie! The body would be legally removed, and you would keep the money.Unfortunately, the movie just gets worse from there. It's the most predictable movie I've ever seen. It's just Halloween type music playing while they show some awful slow scenes. Nothing good. Save your time! Don't buy into the hype of people who give it a high rating because of the director; he might have other good films, but this isn't one of them! "},{"Title":"Cliched Hitchcock-wannabe nonsense","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"11 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Before a commenter from another country or with another taste in film says that anyone who doesn't like this movie just didn't get it or is too absorbed into Hollywood movies with lots of sex and violence, SHALLOW GRAVE is a Hollywood movie with lots of sex and violence. The they just didn't get it allegation is nothing more than a cop-out covering the fact that they just had a positive opinion of the film. That said, let me explain what is wrong with this movie There was absolutely no suspense. Sure, it's a smaller scale film distributed by Hollywood, and it would like you to think of itself as a character-driven plot, but there was absolutely no characters that I could care for, much less any that I found interesting. To me they seemed unbelievable Although they live together, they were always consistently bickering like no one I have seen before. Later on in the film you see that the movie's promotion as them being friends doesn't last that long, but at that point, it depends on your patience as to whether you could care what happens to them. As a black comedy, it didn't work either. This was compared to Blood Simple which also involved double crossing characters without a shrivel of moral shine. But unlike this movie, Blood Simple kept you guessing, even if you didn't like the characters, because you didn't know where it was heading.  If you haven't seen Blood Simple yet, see that, and avoid this silly predictable waste. "},{"Title":"who cares","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"8 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  the plot of this movie is rather simple, it has much potential but never gets close to reaching it. the characters' motivation in this movie made absolutely no sense at all. it seems there would have been no plot though if the characters hadn't acted so unbelievably. i first of all did not think they were the least bit likable or even interesting. if this movie had perhaps been more plot driven (i.e. describe anything at all about the new room mate/why people are after him/where the money is from) i would have found it slightly interesting, or at least give these characters actual motivation besides blind greed. there is nothing deep at all about this movie. these characters were too ridiculous to carry a movie. if characters are not likable they should at least be interesting or vice versa, they were neither. i am honestly baffled when i hear people thought it was brilliant. mediocre at best.  "},{"Title":"Shallow Grave","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":" He started with two episodes of Inspector Morse, and then he reinvented the British film industry with this inventive black comedy horror, this is the great debut film from Danny Boyle (Trainspotting, 28 Days Later). Basically Juliet Miller (Kerry Fox), David Stephens (Christopher Eccleston) and Alex Law (then unknown Ewan McGregor) are the three flatmates looking for a new lodger for the fourth room of the large flat, they interview many applicants. When they find the suitable tenant, Hugo (Keith Allen, singer Lily Allen's Dad) he quickly moves in, and he isn't seen again during his stay, until the three become curious and break into his room to find him dead, and a suitcase with a stash of money. They decide to keep the money for themselves, but the nightmare really sets off when they decide to cut up the body and bury it in the woods. When they draw straws, it is David that gets the short straw, and is responsible for doing all the work, e.g. sawing off legs, removing teeth, basically destroying anything that could identify him. They are obviously undecided about what will happen to the money, and soon enough, David disappears into the loft of the flat, drilling holes in the ceiling to watch and hear all discussions. It is his greed for the money, mixed with the guilt and nightmares of body dismemberment that has turned him into an evil and sadistic geek. They are all greedy for the cash, and it concludes with the death of David (stabbed in the neck), Kerry taking what she thought was the cash in suitcase (which turns out to be mounds of paper), and Alex grinning on the floor, with a knife through his shoulder, and you see under the floor board he is lying on, the blood dripping on the cash. A very clever film with great music, actors, direction and twists. It won the BAFTA for the Alexander Korda Award for Best British Film. Ewan McGregor was number 9 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 2 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, and the film was number 68 on The Scary Moments. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Shallow Movie","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A more proper title would be Shallow production.  This is one of those low budget British movies with uneven storytelling and poor production.  The movie was a little to avant garde for my tastes.  The plot was good but not well presented. "}]