[{"Title":"Makes up for the bad sequels","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"50 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The First Nightmare on Elm Street was scary and original. It had the great idea of a killer killing people in their dreams. All of its sequels (except for part 2, which went in a horrible direction) just built on to that idea, and the idea wasn't scary anymore as the series progressed. Now with New Nightmare, Wes Craven came up with another original idea. It turns out that Freddy is in fact real, some kind of ancient evil that took the form of Freddy Krueger and could only be contained through storytelling, IE the Nightmare On Elm Street movies. But since the series has ended, the genie is out of the bottle, and this ingenious film unravels.I wouldn't say this movie is that scary, it's more creepy than it is scary, but I love its imagination. It plays mind little mind games and you wonder what is real and what is not. Freddy Krueger is even credited as himself. It's a must-see for any Freddy fan and in many ways it stands on its own...but only if you've seen the other movies. If that makes any sense.This is one of the best sequels in the Nightmare series and it's nothing short of brilliant. It's nice to see that Freddy is back in the bottle where he belongs, and hopefully will be for a long time...My Rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"Freddy's back and better than ever","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"50 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Freddy Krueger began as a very scary character who scared the hell out of everyone. As the movies went on, Freddy lost his edge and looked liked a bad stand up comic with horrible one liners.Freddy seemed dead with the sixth film of the series, but Wes Craven brought him back from his rut and made him someone to fear again. This of course helps prove my theory that a good Nightmare on Elm Street movie cannot be made without Craven.Two things make this film so good. One, the story is original. The Nightmare movies just kept repeating themselves, with Freddy coming back and going after the people who stopped him before. This rime around, we see Freddy trying to break into the real world, outside the movies. Very original. Two, the movie is not filled with constant gore. This shows how good the movie because any movie filled with gore obviously has a pathetic story and is not worth watching. This movie is and is one of Freddy's best yet. "},{"Title":"This should have been part 2","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"51 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love horror movies.  I love being scared and I love the fact that a movie (something make believe that I, as an intelligent person,knows is just images projected from a screen ) can manipulate my emotions and make me nervous.  This is one of those movies.  And in the 90's, there have only been two movies that have actually made me nervous in some scenes.  And those two movies are by Craven himself---Scream and this one.When this film first came out, it was ten years and six films after the original.  I have seen all the Freddy movies more out of morbid curiosity than out of interest.  And maybe a part of me was hoping to catch a glimpse of what made the first so damn scary.  And time and time again I was disappointed.  But when I read in Fangoria magazine that this new one was going to be directed by Craven, I got very excited.  Could it possibly be that this film would go back to it's roots?Yes, it did.There is no two ways about it, Craven cares about Freddy.  He cares about how he was supposed to be, not what he has turned into in the last decade. Freddy was not even remotely funny in the first one.  He was a brutal, maniacal, sadistic, bent on revenge murderer.  He wanted to slice Nancy in two and he did that to Tina ( actually sliceher into many pieces ).  But in the mindless sequels to come, he became Eddie Murphy.  And there was nothing frightening about the sequels.  They made money but they weren't true horror films.  But this one, well this one goes back to it's roots and is almost as scary as the first one.This story is about the film character of Freddy becoming real somehow. He has been a part of Lagenkamp, Saxon, Craven and Englund's life for so long that he has somehow become real.  And now what was once a simple film character actually haunts the cast of the original.  We even get to see Rod ( Tina's boyfriend from the original ) at one of the funerals.  And what makes the story scary is that now Freddy has decided to come after Heather's kid.This film goes back to all the techniques that made the first a classic. There is excellent direction to make us fear what is under the bed.  The lighting is classic horror film lighting and the music is perfect.  There is however one complaint that I have and that is when Freddy is chasing the kid across the road.  He has become larger than life.  He is like the Stay Puft marshmallow man from Ghostbusters.  And that it seems is much more like the other Nightmares, not Craven's version.  And that takes away the delight in watching what was otherwise a perfect horror film.I said in one of my reviews of a horror film that there are no films in the 90's that are truly scary.  However this one is as close to an 80's horror flick as you will get now a days.  It is very frightening and it is almost a prequel to Scream.  This is one film that should not be missed.  It is a tribute to what scary films are supposed to be.  If I want to laugh I'll see Chris Rock, but if I want to be scared, Craven is the man! "},{"Title":"Amazingly original and creepy horror film.","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"31 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's New Nightmare features Heather Lengankamp, who played Nancy in the first and third films, living a normal life with her husband and son. Lately, strange things have been happening, and her son isn't acting like himself. She is called in for an interview with New Line Cinemas, where she finds out that Wes Craven is making a new Nightmare film. The events of this film are beginning to unfold in the real world, because Freddy Krueger is angry at being killed off in the last film, so he steps out of fantasy and into reality to go after the makers of the original film. Now Heather Lengankamp must protect her son and defeat Freddy one last time...Only this time, it's real.I love this movie. I personally think it's just as good as the first movie. This is one of the most original and ingenious plots for a horror movie I've ever seen. All of the people involved with the original films appear as themselves, including Heather Lengenkamp, John Saxon, Robert Englund, and Wes Craven. Freddy is amazing in this movie. He appears with his trademark brown hat, but now he's in a much darker red and green sweater along with a brown tattered trench coat, and his burns are more severe. Also, his trademark knives are actually coming from his fingers. The best part about it is that in this film, Freddy isn't a wise cracking killer...He's an all business violent and brutal killer.This movie features the best acting for a slasher movie I've ever seen, but then again, almost every actor in the movie plays themselves, so it would be pretty hard to screw that up.Overall, this movie is on a par with the original, and I'd recommend it to any horror fan.8/10 "},{"Title":"The best of the series","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"41 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare, the seventh and final installment in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. I was lucky enough to get the Nightmare on Elm Street series in the box DVD set and I finished all the sequels. I would say that without a doubt that this was the best sequel in the series. I was amazed at how clever the story was and I think the reason why is because of the fact that Wes Craven is back with this story. I was a little depressed that at least Johnny Depp wasn't really in it, that would've been a cool experience, but that doesn't kill the story. Instead the film has taken on a new and hip twist onto the series. Wes has taken the story and turned it around on the characters, instead of having Heather as Nancy, she's playing herself, just as is the rest of the cast, only now they're in trouble with Freddy.Heather Langenkamp is a huge star in the horror movie world, but she's now a happily married woman with her son, Dillain. But she's receiving death threats from a fan who strangely sounds a lot like Freddy. Soon strange things start happening, her husband is killed tragically in a car accident that seems like the act of Freddy, and her son is now not sleeping. She wonders if it's because of her movies or is it possible that Freddy is real and he wants her? She may have to go back to her roots to save her son.New Nightmare is incredibly clever and was just all in all a great idea. I really enjoyed this sequel, it's a definite keeper and a watch for the Nightmare on Elm Street fans. Freddy is back and he's more mean than ever; it was so cool that the took Heather Langenkamp and put her in the same situation as her character, Nancy. It just shows that Wes hasn't lost his touch with the Nightmare on Elm Street series. If you love horror films in general, I highly recommend New Nightmare, this is an awesome film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Breathing new life into a masterful creation","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I was expecting very little in the way of this sequel. The others grew tired and lifeless, with on again, off again, decent performances turned in by Robert Englund as Freddy, and some decent, not so decent script writing. Frankly, you just never know what TO expect with long-running franchises such as this. But what I got was NOT what I expected. Nothing close.I had to view this three times. At my first viewing, I was so surprised, I immediately said, I need to watch this again. Upon my third viewing, I realized that what I was watching was the resurrection of one of my favorite franchises! I was (if only momentarily) struck speechless. I'm trying not to gush here, or exaggerate, so do not take it lightly when I say that I believe this is possibly the most creative work Craven has ever directed. Don't get me wrong, aside from Last House on the Left, I've enjoyed everything Craven's put out, including those annoyingly clichéd Scream movies. (Just for your info though, I only didn't like Last House on the Left because I do not find entertainment in exploitation, it IS a fine low budget, independent exploitation film, just not my cup of tea.) But New Nightmare is just not a recycling of the same tired old story with a new kick. It's a new take on a long-standing favorite BY the creator. For what more could you ask?It rates an easy 8.5/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"The Princess of Horror Returns for the Definitive Nightmare","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've said it before, and I will say it again Heather Langenkamp is the Princess of Horror, and once again she proves why. Whereas other horror heroines are blonde, sometimes ditsy, and needing frequent help, Langenkamp (either as herself or as Nancy) is resourceful, intelligent and you feel yourself really caring for her.Wes Craven and Heather Langenkamp return alongside Robert Englund's Freddy Krueger in what Craven himself calls The Definitive Nightmare, and indeed, it is. So much goes on in the 7th Nightmare on Elm Street entry that it could be expected one might find it confusing and trivial, but the film is smart, eerie and outstandingly well done by all those involved.New Nightmare essentially takes place in the real world, sometime after the Elm Street films have all ended. While the film only really references parts 1 and 3 (due to Langenkamp and Craven's involvement), it does nothing to contradict or negate what happened in parts 2 and 4-6, which is a very good thing. It just shows how much the people at New Line Cinema and the cast and crew involved in the Nightmare franchise care about and have respect for the films (and fans), and of the three major slasher franchises, would have to be the one that looks after the films the best.Playing herself, Heather Langenkamp is married to Chase (David Newsom) and together they have a son, Dylan (Miko Hughes), yet she is plagued by a strange caller. The film is so complex that I don't want to give away what happens, but Langenkamp ends up finding the evil entity that took the form of Freddy crossing over into reality now that the films are no longer being made. While this may sound complicated, it isn't, and the film within a film concept doesn't really apply here. The evil entity tries to get to Dylan, so Heather has to get to the source of what is going on, and Wes Craven (appearing as himself) explains about the entity to her, and suggests that she may have to play Nancy one last time. In an terrific finale, Heather / Nancy defeats Freddy and is able to rescue her son.New Nightmare somewhat strays from the typical slasher-horror of the earlier films into a stylish new breed of horror that has yet to be matched. (The Scream franchise is another sub genre all together). While the film is incredibly long, it needs to be, as there is a lot to get through, and all the while Langenkamp doesn't miss a beat. It really is a shame she doesn't act much, though there is a reference to this in the film. (Watch out for the part where Englund is signing autographs to adoring fans by Langenkamp keeps her distance). The film also addresses the affects of horror on children, though only briefly, it would have been nice to delve into this further.There are few killings in the film also, another reason why it deviates from the typical slasher sub-genre, although two of the killings seem to pay homage to deaths in the earlier films - (Amanda Wyss in #1 and Danny Hassle in #5). Tracy Middendorf is a great example of what a supporting character should do - support as she plays Dylan's baby sitter. Fran Bennet is very good as Doctor Heffner.John Saxxon appears playing himself (he was Nancy's father in #1), Robert Englund plays both himself and Freddy, and as already mentioned, Wes appears also. Other important people at New Line Cinema also make brief but terrific performances Robert Shaye, Sara Risher and Marianne Maddalena. Tuesday Knight (Kristen in #4) and Nick Corri also make very brief unspeaking cameos at a funeral. Lin Shaye (Robert's wife) appears once more (she has appeared in previous films) in a small role, and Craven's daughter Jessica has a role as a nurse - in fact, all the nurses are terrific.So, set aside some quality time to watch New Nightmare and watch Langenkamp prove why she is worthy of being called The Princess of Horror. This film is unmatched by all the Nightmare films - and that is saying a lot, as the Nightmare on Elm Street films are quality horror with an outstanding group of people overseeing them. Well done to all involved. "},{"Title":"Skip all the sequels, and watch this after the first","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"29 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' was a scary, gory 80s horror movie. Its sequels were awful. Only two of them were watchable, the third and forth. But still, they never even came close to the original. This is when that changes. 'New Nightmare' introduces a new Freddy. One which is darker, scarier and not the joke that the old one was. This is the only sequel that should have been done in the first place. In my opinion, its even better than the original because it's much darker and special effects are way better.It's a bit rare to find good acting in a horror movie, but here's not the case. Acting was amazing. Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund gave an awesome performance. The kid was surprisingly believable and the rest of the cast was great too.Watch this movie straight after watching the first. If you have to watch a sequel, see the third and forth, but this is the one you should immediately go for. I give it a strong 10/10 "},{"Title":"Forget about the 80's Krueger. This one takes the character seriously.","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The best thing about New Nightmare is it's plot because it's a 180ª change in the Nightmare series. Putting Freddy Krueger on the real world was an idea that most Horror fans accepted because the genre seemed to be dead in the mid 90's.Other thing that fans of the genre and especially fans of the series praised was the inclusion of favorite characters. Nancy and her father Lt. Thompson return to put an end to Freddy for once and all. Heather L. delivers a great performance and seemed to really love her character and the series in general. John Saxon is great as always. Both characters add a nostalgic touch to the series. The rest of the cast is okay. Heather's son delivers a good performance and became quickly a favorite.Although Krueger has minimal on-screen time, it's justified by the plot and it surely works. Freddy Krueger used to be scary and menacing and in this final movie he returns to his roots. Great performance by Robert Englund.The ending is decent and is somehow a good way to end Freddy's reign of terror. He goes through the same fatal fate as when he was alive.I recommend this movie if you like to watch something different; the plot is something you haven't seen in any other slasher flick because it's taken seriously. If you give the movie a try you will be pleased. "},{"Title":"New Nightmare (1994)","Date":"1 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's greatest creation, in a way, is A Nightmare on Elm Street. Not because it's his best film. But rather, because it's his most enduring film, and the series of sequels it spawned are a phenomenon unto itself. That hasn't changed today. And in the early 90's, when Freddy Krueger died in New Line's sixth film, it was an even bigger deal because it was still producing new and somewhat thought-provoking material. People were clearly getting tired of it, but it was still a creative and fairly innovative series. The formula had stretched near to its' breaking point, but the films continued delivering watchable and high concept fantasy sequences, mostly skilled and expensive special effects, spacey music, and inventive kills (as they're known online). It went through several permutations. And each new director brought their own unique take on it, visually. It wasn't what Craven had set out to make in his original, nor did it follow the rules he would have laid down had he stayed involved. But in its' own way, it was always fresh. And for people who got tired of the sleaze of Paramount's Friday the 13th, it was REfreshing as well.The problem with the later sequels was always story. The agonized process of writing and filming Part 4, 1988's The Dream Master, had the films' writing staff turn to the John Hughes school of weepy melodrama and the next two sequels would also feature those same unfortunate, put-upon teens. The angst always came first. Wes Craven decided a new sequel should switch the focus onto some adults for once. His finished product, this 1994 film, was not very successful at the box office. But got the critics raving. Some even gave this sequel more praise than the original. Is it worth it? I think- a little Yes, but a little No as well. Switching the focus to an adult main character is risky. Because teenagers are expected to daydream. As an adult myself, I can tell you that- you spend too much time daydreaming, and you're in deep trouble. Not because dreams take over. But because real life is something you don't turn your back on. Craven covers himself a little by making the main character an actress, living in a very nice, quite big house, doing well in her career. And she does struggle with real life problems as well as the nightmares the film needs her to have.The film is also an experiment with using actual real life people in the film business as actors in the story, playing themselves as they would behave were this film's situation happening in reality. That results in some awkward scenes, though it's in the interest of keeping the film feeling real. It's definitely one of the most realistic movies I've ever seen about an actor or actress's life, though I assume most of Heather Langenkamp's private details were kept out of the movie. She's not actually married to the gorgeous, sexy David Newsom. But she really was a mother and had a stalker. Not that any of that is truly important to the film itself, it's just part of what Craven wrote in, knowing that it was relevant to actresses in the movie business. Many TV and film actresses from the 80's and 90's were beginning to attract weird, obsessive fans. None moreso than women who had appeared in successful low budget horror films of the time- including Halloween's Nancy Kyes, Friday the 13th's Adrienne King, and Halloween 4 and 5's Danielle Harris.As a formula, this New Nightmare is nowhere near as visually interesting or cool as the previous films. It trades in that creepy, dark feel of intangibility, and trademark surreal Alice in Wonderland style (especially of Renny Harlin's sequel, The Dream Master), for a sense of complete reality. Where the nightmares look like everyday life. This of course, was better done in 1979's Phantasm, not to mention Dario Argento's extraordinary films. But, it was the 1990's. And things were starting to get gritty and hi-tech. So, New looks slick. But it's not as compelling or dreamlike. Or fun, as the previous films. However, it is an improvement on the formula in a few regards. The acting is much better. And though the film takes quite a while to get the viewer into the story, when it does, it becomes progressively more interesting. The film really begins to cook though once Miko Hughes' Dillon character winds up in a hospital, being tested by a presumptuous pediatrician with a distaste for Hollywood celebrities' choices when raising their kids. It's a devilishly perfect method of slipping in some social commentary on how authority figures impose their views of people who work in the horror genre onto others. As well as the character outright saying she thinks horror movies make children unstable.The film is a very good thriller, but isn't dangerous or dark enough to be a horror film. Another bone of contention is the film's wholly irritating sound design, from the bloated and bulky orchestra music score, to lame and clichéd booming bass crashes. This film already has an issue with choosing dozens of false scares over real ones, I wonder what they were thinking by making so many of the sounds so bass heavy. That doesn't make the film any more exciting. Nor does the film's big, stiff and unimpressive mythologically-set 'colosseum of dreams' finale. I do enjoy the film's references to Hansel & Gretel, and equating Freddy's power with that of a witch. The explanation for where he got that power has never been given but always fascinates me (Freddy's Dead tried and failed, miserably). I'm not sure exactly what sinks this as a horror film, but I truly recommend it as a good thriller which is meant to be pretty awkward. It's not prime Nightmare on Elm Street, but the series had to end somehow. This is as good a place as any. "}{"Title":"Again Freddie Krueger with his hideously scarred face and knives   terrorizing Heather  and family","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Modern rendition about the myth Freddy dealing with young people discover they're having the same terrible nightmares . New version about Freddy Krueger killing people in macabre style and boasts some startling , gruesome special effects . A re-imagining of the classic Freddy Krueger, a serial-killer who wields a glove with four blades embedded in the fingers and murders people in their dreams , resulting in their real death in reality . Nowadays, it's nearing the 10th Anniversary of the picture 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' and one of the protagonists , (Heather Langenkamp) starts to be haunted in their nightmares by scar-faced and dream-hunting Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund now fits likes a glove) , a kind of spectre with awful burns , in stripy jumper and large knives. He enters their dreams at will and again kill them. Heather Langenkamp is being scared by a voice on a telephone , sounding very similar to the movie's nasty, Freddy Krueger . When Heather's husband (David Newsom) is killed in a car crash and is discovered with slash marks on him, Heather starts to wonder somethings . Heathe learns that Freddy has now entered the real world . The unsettling Heather plagued by astonishing dreams helps her son (Miko Hughes) to attempt to stop the nasty and demonic Freddy who kill people in macabre ways . Mother and son are having the same bad dream in which a malicious bogeyman is frightening them with knives attached to his fingers and the dream becomes reality . Heather sets out to discover the truth by attempting to draw the bogeyman out of the dream .This is a diverting reworking upon first film's plot by screenwriter Wes Craven based on his characters and dealing with the imaginative premise about a kind of ghost who can enter their dreams at will and intents on taking over both his body and mind . The twisted script dishes up the requisite helping of one-liners and throwaway black humor . This eerie film packs thrills , chills , creepy events and lots of blood and gore . It's a flimsily plotted but visually enjoyable addition to the Krueger endless saga . There are a few genuinely inspired events , notably Freddy's appearances and the extraordinary body-ripping spotlights in the Hospital room . Although it results to be a franchise that we now know was to follow , there are some originally frightening dream sequences. Special and extravagant visual effects are the climax of the movie and the startling make-up on Freddy face , but both of them don't save the story . Young casting and special appearance by John Saxon , the same Wes Craven and Robert Shaye , film's producer . Creepy and imaginatively made musical score fitting to terror movie by J. Peter Robinson . Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Mark Irwin . The motion picture well produced by the great producer Robert Shaye from New Line Cinema and is professionally directed by Wes Craven , though with no originality and nothing new to show . Wes's sure grasp of the skewed logic of nightmares help to sustain the ambiguity between the dream and real world . Rating  5,5 , passable sequel . It's all acceptable scary fun .The series initiates itself from original entry title ¨A Nightmare on Elm Elm Street¨ directed by Wes Craven with Heather Langenkamp , Johnny Depp , Amanda Wyss and John Saxon . The rest is a series of disjointed but however impressive special effects pieces . As it was followed by a handful of sequels in which horrifying special effects dominate this slasher saga , as ¨Freddy's revenge¨ 1985 by Jack Sholder with Kim Myers , Clu Gulager and Hope Lange ; ¨Dream warrior¨ 1987 by Chuck Russell with Patricia Arquette , Larry Fishburne and Craig Wasson , it's one of the best sequels from successful original film by Craven , as ¨Dream master¨ (1988) by Renny Harlin with Lisa Wilcox , Tuesday Knight and ¨The dream child¨ (1989) by Stephen Hopkins with Lisa Wilcox , Erika Anderson . Besides a Television series ¨The Freddy's nightmares¨ and this last one ¨ A nightmare on Elm Street¨(2010) with Jackie Haley that is a simple copy with little imagination , too many flaws and giving routine treatment . "},{"Title":"The Evil Never Dies","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The actress Heather Langencamp lives in Los Angeles with her husband Chase Porter (David Newsom), who is secretly working in a mechanical hand for the next movie of Freddy Kruger, and their son Dylan (Miko Hughes). During an earthquake, Heather has a dreadful nightmare where Chase's partners die; in the morning she is invited to be the guest of a talk show about the tenth anniversary of A Nightmare on Elm Street with the presence of Robert Englund. Later the executive of New Line Cinema Robert Shaye invites her to perform Nancy Thompson again in the latest project of Wes Craven based on his own nightmares, but she turns the invitation down. Heater is being disturbed by a man that calls her in the telephone and sends creepy letters to her. When Dylan has nightmares with a man with claw and tells that he is protected by his T-Rex toy showing symptoms of schizophrenia, and Chase dies in a car accident, Heather becomes paranoid with Freddy Krueger. The reactions of Robert Englund and Wes Craven indicate to her that something is going wrong. Further she discovers that Freddy is an entity that does exist and is an ancient demon trying to use her weakness as the gateway to the real world. Heater needs to face the evil Freddy Kruger to protect her beloved son.New Nightmare is an original approach to bring Freddy Krueger back after his death in Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare. The story blends reality with fiction and transforms Freddy Krueger in a millenary evil entity that tries to reach the real world through the actress Heather Langencamp, giving a survivorship to this character. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) A Hora do Pesadelo 7 &#x96; O Novo Pesadelo &#x96; O Retorno de Freddy Krueger (The Hour of the Nightmare 7 &#x96; The New Nightmare &#x96; The Return of Freddy Krueger) "},{"Title":"Bored to tears","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I haven't watch a Freddy Krueger film in a longer time (over 10 years) and decided to watch this one. Not only have I never seen it before but on multiple websites it states it is one of the best of the series. If this is the best I don't think I would be able to see the worst this movie was good premise awful. The first ten minutes of the movie were great with a great premise. The actors from the other movies are shown making the movies and it's a movie within a movie. It started off great and then it just gets really boring with the female lead and you barely get to see Freddy throughout the movie and there's not much character to him at all. I guess they wanted to try something different but it was just an awful film. "},{"Title":"Great idea but not without it's flaws","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I thurley enjoyed New Nightmare, although I cant help but fell that Wes Craven (who directed the original NOES) let a fantastic opportunity slip from his grasp in terms of undoing some of the damage parts 3 to 6 inflicted by taking Freddy back to his original, more evil roots. Freddy cracking silly one-liners was what made the previous sequels so cheesy and campy, and although there aren't near as many to speak of here, the ending battle sequence between Nancy and Freddy was what almost killed the film for me given how serious the subject manner obviously was and how corny the scene was delivered. On a much higher note; it was extremely well written, the camera angles were great and the score, acting and story were/was also really well done/told. I also loved Freddy's new look as it made him appear more menacing, and Julie's death was properly the best since Tina's way back in the original. Would've loved to see Robert England some what confront Freddy but oh well.. In closing a great edition to the series and properly the second best right after the original, but at the same time, potentially, Wes Craven's New Nightmare could've been so much more. "},{"Title":"Not totally bad, but not satisfying either","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  New Nightmare tries so hard to be original but fails in the end. There's not enough suspense, not enough gore and the ending is ridiculous. Of course, this one is better than parts 2,4,5 and 6 but still it's not great. Good news is Freddy is not so funny anymore (though I never had a problem with him being an evil joker), bad news is the new look including the new glove sucks. It's somehow too hi-tech! If you are a fan of the series watch New Nightmare, if you're looking for something really scary stop after part one! "},{"Title":"Nice idea... shame about the execution...","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Long before the critics started wetting themselves at post-modern, self-referential (and self-indulgent) shows like Extras and Arrested Development, Wes Craven beat them to it. His New Nightmare stars Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund playing themselves in a movie within a movie written by Wes Craven playing himself writing the script as it unfolds. How Charlie Kaufman is that?It is a terrific idea, and has Heather discovering that she, Englund and Craven have accidentally provided an ancient evil with a portal into the real world in the fictional creation of Freddy Krueger. Now that the series of movies has ended, this entity has started invading her dreams as Freddy - and it thinks if it kills Nancy it will be unleashed for real.So that's the good news. The bad news is that once this premise has been laid out for the viewer, it's all downhill from there. Heather Langenkamp's acting hasn't improved with age, Wes Craven spends his time being mysterious (i.e. vague and annoying) and it's left to Robert Englund to save the day. Sadly, he's not in the movie as either himself or Freddy nearly enough.It gets worse. Real Freddy looks even more fake and rubbery than the 80's version, if that were possible, plus the main focus of the dreamtime incursions this time is Langenkamp's young son. Now I am against child actors at the best of times, but when this bug-eyed little squirt starts screaming and yelling about Freddy, you'll just want to give him a kick.The climax to the movie is pretty similar to every other film in the Nightmare series, which is somewhat disappointing. However, this film is almost worth it - almost - for the creepy sequence where Heather realises she's back in Elm Street for real. Still, New Nightmare is easily the best follow-up of the series, and way more imaginative than any slasher sequel has the right to be. "},{"Title":"Great entry in the series!","Date":"3 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Nightmare on Elmstreet The New Nightmare is actually a movie in a movie. You follow the life of Heather Langenkamp (the actress who played Nancy in Elmstreet I and III) after she's done with playing her role in the movies.Things start to get creepy when she receives mysterious phone calls and letters and her son starts to act bizarre. Soon after, a few mysterious deaths happen around the creation of a new Elmstreet movie. Freddy doesn't seem to stop at the movies, he wants to get into the real world now.It's very interesting to watch this movie right after Elmstreet I (and III). I think Wes Craven (who also plays a role in this movie) did a great job.A very clever and good entry in the Nightmare on Elmstreet series. Definitely a worthy watch for fans of the movies.7 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Very underrated as a horror movie.  A real gem.","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is Wes Craven as his best. He redeems his Nightmare on Elm Street creation by going back to the original Freddy Kruger ... darker, meaner as described by Robert Englund. Apparently, the actors and tech people of the Nightmare on Elm Street series are having Freddy nightmares--even Robert Englund. He's real, and he's trying to get out into our world. This movie will play with your mind and leave you guessing and gasping for breath. The movie does well on several levels. At the basic core is an interesting premise, and a very good script (something lacking in The People Under the Stairs). The idea of a movie concept turning on the people involved is interesting, and it opens up many questions. Pay close attention and see appearances by many of the original cast members of the original Nightmare. Also notice several scenes of the original repeated with new life and terror. Another strength was the outstanding performances. Heather Langenkamp shows depth as a concerned mother. Robert Englund and Wes Craven get to be themselves. John Saxon, usually a B movie actor, even gives credibility to his acting credentials as a concerned friend (or is that himself?). The best performance comes form young Miko Hughes, who plays Heather's seven-year-old son, Dylan. Another strength for the movie is that it is set in the real world. One disturbing strength is the outstanding direction which confuses the audience between nightmares and reality. It seems many people have condemned horror movies as nadir entertainment. Friday the 13th, and the Halloween Sequels really influenced the Nightmare on Elm Street Series in this fashion because it was B horror dealing with sexually active teenagers. Wes Craven's New Nightmare, however, ranks as serious effort that belongs with The Exorcist, Dawn of the Dead, and The Ring. Craven handles childhood fears, the mother-son relationship, and the worship of an anti-hero, Freddy Kruger. In the end, though, he is able to draw more sympathy and compassion for the heroine. He also deftly uses this script as a way to retell the tale of Hansel and Gretel. I'd rank this as one of the top three horror movies of all time. It is definitely underrated. So watch it with the lights off ... but don't ... fall ... asleep. "},{"Title":"The concluding episode to the opening master","Date":"14 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's not enough to bring Freddy Krueger back to life one more time after his official death. But Wes Craven has to come back too with the original characters, Nancy and her stubborn cop of a father. But we cannot really revive characters in a film so many years after their first appearance. So Wes Craven pushes what he calls « only make believe » one iota further and farther. Freddy was only a disguise for a real bad spirit in the world (Anne Rice has done that with her vampires and the Queen of the Damned, or Stephen King has also used this formula with his Dark Man in quite a few novels, like The Stand, and short stories) and this really bad spirit has decided to come back to the real world once and for all and under his own identity if possible, or under that of Freddy Krueger if the minds of people are obsessed by his existence. This evil spirit is of course the devil himself and it will be revealed in the very last scene. So the actors are playing their real parts and Freddy is invading their real world. It is then « make believe power two ». And it is all the more efficacious and effective because the actors are themselves and no fake identities. Wes Craven brings along his particularly caustic mind and spirit and really gets the mickey out of medical authorities, doctors, women and blacks alike, and all the fake myth about the protection of kids first and for all against their own parents. Wes Craven definitely seems to accuse society to be the real culprit, the real cause of all problems with kids, and grown-ups too. This society that classifies everyone in one little box and that can put a six year old boy in the schizophrenia box without realizing that it is going to make him schizophrenic. The classification creates the items that are classified in it. Any taxonomy is our own creation, our own delusion and we must get rid of all these taxonomies to maybe recapture some sanity and balance. But since Wes Craven is back do not be surprised if you recognize some tricks like the crazy phone calls borrowed from Scream and so many other films (it always works anyway). That's part of the game. Wes Craven borrows from everyone, himself included, and just shakes the cocktail differently and changes dressings. The sauce always becomes slightly more piquant when it is served a second time by our waiter Wes Craven. He even visualizes the first destruction of Freddy, the lynching of this child molester who attacks males first to kill them, and women second to enjoy their slow suffering and their yelling. So Freddy Krueger is roasted to death a second time, and it is when his face becomes the horny &#150; ah ah funny ! &#150; head of the devil. Can we hope the saga is really finished now ? Probably not. There must be some forgotten sequel somewhere, though seven is a magical number and the point has been made that it is not movies that make children epileptic but all the Freddy Kruegers, Tommyknockers, Candymen, and other boogy woogy bogeymen overfed on beetle juice instead of milk, kept in the cupboards of our minds.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University of Paris Dauphine & University of Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Good Movie Heather LangenKamp who played Nancy plays herself in this movie and people are dying around her and she has to play Nancy one last time to defeat Freddy","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Heather Langenkamp(Nancy Thompson) is living a normal life she has a son and a Husband. Heather is called to New Line Cinema and Bob Shaye asked if she would love to play in another Freddy Kruger Movie now this is strange if Nancy was killed in part 3 how could she come back and make another movie but she doesn't take the part. She gets home to find her son has had a little episode and it scares her. She calls her husband and she confronts him about what he was doing without telling her he was making a new Freddy Glove. So her husband is on his way home and Falls asleep while Driving and dies. Heather has to make a choice to play Nancy one last time to defeat the Real Freddy Kruger "}{"Title":"How could anyone not worship this movie?!?!","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This movie was brilliant!! I've always been a hardcore fan of the series, but all other movies in this series pale in comparison to the final film. Everyone latched onto the 'Scream' series because of the unique idea of talking about horror movies in the movie (to make it seem more real), but that idea was born with this film, not Scream.Add to that, the orchestral soundtrack and the newer, scarier, Freddy and this is a permanent featured film in my personal library. I bring this movie up with anyone that mentions a horror film as a must see. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Movie that restores Freddy to what he should be *Safety Spoilers*","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The definition of a spoiler can be pretty liberal, so I wrote safety spoilers.OK. Where to start. Well as a die-hard Freddy fan, it pained me to see the series deteriorate in parts 5 and 6. Freddy is a child murderer, not a standup comic. It was just terrible to watch how bad it became. Enter New Nightmare.New Nightmare proves that Nightmare on Elm Street movies can not and must not be made without Wes Craven. The man is truly a horror genius ahead of his time. *Spoiler* The idea that Freddy is not just a movie icon, but a demon bent on entering our world is a brilliant but risky idea. Craven nevertheless delivers the best movie in the series and an amazing way to tie it all together.One of the biggest criticisms is the intellectual aspect of New Nightmare. It is not your typical horror/thriller. If you want gore, go to the Friday the 13th movies. A movie like New Nightmare is truly for those with a brain. While it is by far not the most intellectual movie ever, it is easily the most psychological of the Nightmare movies, which makes it the best. *Spoiler* I enjoyed the Heather/Wes scene where Wes talks about the damage that can be done by changing the story, censoring it, watering it down, or outright banning it, etc.Unlike most of its predecessors, New Nightmare relies on a strong script and acting. As I mentioned before, Craven's script is absolutely beautifully written. Heather Langenkamp was great as herself and Nancy. Seeing her as Nancy was nostalgia-rific for a Nightmare addict like me. She is a beautiful talented woman who really should have been in a lot more films than she was. What can be said about Robert Englund? As himself, he had that air of uncertainty around him because you knew he was Freddy. As much as Wes' writing helped make Freddy evil again, so did Englund bringing him to life on the screen. This was the least amount of screen time Freddy had, but it worked amazingly.Miko Hughes was adequate as Dylan, excelling at times on screen. I was very pleasantly surprised at Tracy Middendorf as Julie, as she was quite good. I was very sad to see her die, though it was awesome how Julie (Freddy's last kill) and *spoiler* Tina (Fredddy's first kill) were killed in the same fashion. John Saxon was good to see back on the screen, but nothing spectacular. He is like a steady pulse in all the Nightmare movies, comforting to see on screen yet nothing spectacular. *spoiler* The Nancy/Donald Thompson scene, which marked Heather's acceptance of Nancy for that one last time, was really cool. The real life people (Wes Craven, Bob Shaye, etc.)were obviously not Oscar nominees, but did very respectably on screen.In short, New Nightmare saved the Nightmare on Elm Street Franchise. It restored Freddy to what he should be, an sick, demented evil essence, not some stand-up comedian. Its psychology will be lost on the lower level gore-freaks, but will surely be appreciated by the large core audience. The best Nightmare film and one of the best horror films of all time. *spoiler* To paraphrase the meaning of what Wes Craven said, Freddy really is back where he belongs. Evil.  "},{"Title":"The real Freddy is back!","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was the first nightmare I saw , I am clad I did is it has Killer in there and it also has Earthquakes in this in movie as I am a fan of both kind movies and to have them in one it's awesome.This movie Heather the girl who played Nancy's Elm Street 1/2 is back in this.Heather is at her home with her son ,someone is making prank phones to heather, while town getting hit by earthquakes, Heather soon find's out that Freddy is trying enter the real world, She has to stop him and save her son from Freddy in the real world.This movie was amazing, Some of scenes was creepy and one scene did make me jump/ Freddy is back, I mean he really is back, not the Freddy we saw Elm Street 4,5 or Freddy dead (how bad was that movie), Freddy look a lot more scary in this movie then looked in Elm street one.Outstanding acting from the cast and Great end to series "},{"Title":"Classic Craven!","Date":"23 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Nightmare on Elm Street series is one of the most lucrative franchises ever to grace the horror genre. Its success helped New Line Cinema through a particularly lean time in its history, and transformed Freddy Krueger into the most popular horror pin-up since Michael Myers.Wes Craven's original film was an absolute classic of the genre. The Elm Street sequels are a whole different kettle of fish. They reduced Krueger to little more than a wise-cracking pop up effect. None of the sequels came with the eerie atmosphere or disturbing distortions of reality Craven infused the original with. By the time of Elm Street 6, Freddy had been killed off and brought back so many times, the character had lost all credibility.When I learned of another new Elm Street film, it didn't exactly raise my hopes. Not even the return of Wes Craven could turn my head. It just seemed a shallow attempt on New Line's part to milk even more money from the audience, hungry for Freddy!But I should have had more faith. Because Wes Craven's New Nightmare is not just another cut and slash job (Freddy and filmmakers included!), but a startling reinvention of the Elm Street series. Its the only one in the entire franchise that matches up to the original. Thanks in no small part to having Wes Craven back in the directors chair.What shocks from the offset is New Nightmare isn't like any of the others that came before it. In spite of the trailers efforts to mislead us, this is a quite different film from your standard Elm Street saga. New Nightmare, quite ingeniously, takes place in the real world. Where the actors play themselves. And the setting isn't teenage bedrooms and shadowy boilers but film sets and studio lots.A theme that runs through much of Wes Craven's work is the blurring line between reality and illusion. A Nightmare on Elm Street was the perfect aesthetic for that conceit. But New Nightmare takes it to even more incredible heights. It was undoubtedly the film that convinced Kevin Williamson that Wes Craven was the right director to bring the like-minded Scream to the screen.New Line Cinema are making a new Freddy Krueger film. Wes Craven is still doctoring the script. And they want Heather Langenkamp to star in it. For those stalwart Krueger fans, Langenkamp played Nancy in the very first film. She's not so sure she wants to, especially since her fictional life has begun to intrude on her personal one. Heather has a stalker, who calls her up in a Freddy voice. Leaving odd one letter notes in the mail. And she's having nightmares.All real world problems. But when her son Dylan becomes obsessed with the Elm Street series, and her husband dies in an horrific accident, Heather becomes convinced Freddy is alive. And wreaking havoc in the real world.I remember a lot of hype around New Nightmare back in 1994. Everyone was eager to see Freddy and his finger-knives again. But the film was a surprise box-office failure. Contemporary critics gave it enthusiastic reviews, but it flopped badly with its target audience. Perhaps because the film's conceit was too much for them to get they're heads around. But I'm in the minority calling for its reappraisal. Because New Nightmare is one of the most conceptually challenging, inherently dazzling horror films of the 1990s.Craven is constantly playing around with our beliefs. We're never sure from one moment to the next what is real and what isn't. Dreams masquerading as reality is hardly a new thing, but its the way Craven puts them across that makes the film so spooky. And the meta-fictional angle makes things even murkier. Nothing is clear.The whole film within a film technique could seem gimmicky to some nitpickers, but I rather enjoyed it. Not only does it give things a whole new spin, but it opens the film up to a world of possibilities. Craven gets in a lot of satirical jabs at New Line Cinema's expense. They want to keep the Elm Street series going, even if Freddy's dead. New Line CEO Robert Shaye blames it on the fans, but it is to make more money. Both Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund engage in self-parody. A limo driver loves driving people like Heather around because it brings him closer to the stars. She reminds him (pointedly) she's not that much of a star. A sad reflection of her sporadic career outside of Elm Street.But best of all is Craven himself. One scene provides a fascinating insight into his character. He explains to Heather when he dreams, he will often write them down. Which may go some way towards explaining why dream logic plays a big part in his work. His theories on the Elm Street series giving rise to and containing Freddy are fascinating to think about. Now that they're over, he's loose in our world. Scary stuff!Craven wittily and cleverly plays around with film conventions. New Nightmare occasionally turns inward. Heather reads the script Wes has written so far, even saying the exact same dialogue. The words on the printed page are exactly where the film itself (its a work in progress) is up to. The scene ends with a Fade Out, and the film itself does just that.The film's flaws are minor. Dylan's possession by Freddy seems more Exorcist than Elm Street. The climax is oddly uninvolving. And I never once believed Robert Englund as himself. He's just too Freddy-like in his inflections. But Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the only Elm Street sequel that feels strikingly original. The way fiction and reality converge at the end is astonishing. And I love the final scene. Heather reads to Dylan Wes's script like it were a bedtime story. And its the script of the film you've just been watching. "},{"Title":"Best of The Nightmare movies","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I will go out on a long, long limb here and say that Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the best of the series. That said you should at least watch the first one before you watch this because it will help a lot to tell you what is going on in this film, but that is why I love this movie more than the other Nightmares and more than I do most horror films because it does not cater to stupid people who are not fans of horror. you really can't get much enjoyment out of this movie unless your a fan of the series and have done background checks on things behind the scenes in this series as this film comments on all that. It is not a date movie unless your a heavy fan of the series. I believe that is why many people do not like this movie. There just too ignorant to go back and see what took place before and understand the comments that this movie has to make about the series as a whole. I also believe that is why critics love this movie even though I hate critics, it is because for the last decade they had been put through the whole saga and did not like it, but when this fresh thing came along they were blown away and saw it for what it is. That's about the only way this film could mean anything to those horror bas hers. I also do know that some people will read this and say but Nightmare 7 does not make any reference to the past and it's like H-2-0 that way. Not true, H-2-O was made to make stupid people who had not followed the series from the 70's feel good about themselves and degrade the fans, thus it's wide appeal and the fact that now we are completely inundated with crap for horror movies these days, minus Saw and Eli Roth with Rob Zombie. New Nightmare however was done as a favor to the fans to show that New LIne cares and knows that Freddy is there bread and butter. That is why this film has only a limited appeal and the reason that this movie almost did not turn a profit.With that all said I will go into why this movie rules, Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon, Wes Craven, and the immortal Robert Englund are the reason this movie is the best it can be. Had a single one of them not returned this movie may have turned to crap, put with them back together again and in good form, especially since Englund had had a couple of years away from the character, thank god, they were able to pull off the best retrospective comeback ever, even better than the long gestated Freddy vs Jason ten years later. Watch this movie and marvel at it's beauty. "},{"Title":"Disappears up its own backside","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" How on earth anybody can find this pile of manure remotely scary is beyond me.When this first came out (in 1994) I noted it was Wes Craven's New Nightmare. Be warned, there's nothing new about it. Craven is back to flogging a dead horse, as he's done many times throughout his misguided career.The sad reality is that Craven is given far too much credit in a genre where he is, at best, an average talent. Compared to the brilliance of Robert Wise (The Haunting), Alfred Hitchcock (Psycho) and Tobe Hooper (The Texas Chainsaw Massacre), Mr Craven stands as a mere footnote in the annals of horror.Sorry if this sounds like a rant against Craven, but frankly I'm fed up with Freddy Krueger. After watching Scream a while back I did think Craven could not possibly get any more self-referential or tedious than he already is. Clearly I was wrong. "},{"Title":"At last, Freddy is back where he belongs.","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Nightmare on Elm Street series certainly had its ups and downs (mostly downs). The first film was a horror classic but only one of the subsequent five sequels was worth a damn. That one, A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors, saw the return of Heather Langenkamp to the series as Nancy Thompson and Elm Street creator Wes Craven contributing the screenplay. So it should come as no surprise that the next Elm Street movie that had any value would also involve Craven and Langenkamp. Craven returns here as both writer and director, bringing to life a unique idea that he had actually pitched for part 3 a decade before. The idea is that Freddy Krueger steps into the real world and torments Heather Langenkamp (playing herself). It's all very meta, blending real-life elements of Langenkamp's life with the fictional Freddy nightmare stuff. It's a clever idea and one New Line was never going to take a chance on until they had already destroyed the franchise with all those crappy sequels that turned Freddy into a cartoon character.For the most part, the cast is good with several of the cast members playing themselves. Heather Langenkamp turns in a solid performance. Robert Englund plays both himself and Freddy, which is fun to watch. In addition to writing and directing, Wes Craven also acts here and does an admirable job, especially when compared to some other directors' embarrassing attempts at acting (John Carpenter and John Landis, for example). The only real negative about the cast is Miko Hughes as Heather's son. Little Miko was pretty cute in movies like Kindergarten Cop and a recurring role on the TV series Full House. But here he's required to do drama and, to be blunt, he sucks.It's an interesting movie but not a straight slasher flick so it will probably disappoint those who were fans of the cheesy Elm Street sequels. I didn't care for them much so I appreciated this movie for being different. Not everything works (Miko Hughes, the earthquake stuff, the redesigned Freddy) but overall it's a very enjoyable movie that takes a fresh approach to a tired concept. Fans of Wes Craven and the original Elm Street film will probably like it more than those expecting a movie full of Freddy eviscerating teenagers while making bad puns. "},{"Title":"A seventh installment in the Nightmare on Elm Street series that gets everything right!","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare was negatively received by fans and critics, but a box office success and it was decided that New Line Cinema would release another Nightmare on Elm Street film, but this time Wes Craven would be directing and writing it and the film would be titled Wes Craven's NEW NIGHTMARE. The film was released in October of 1994.In this film, Freddy is depicted as closer to what Wes Craven originally intended, being more menacing and less comical, with a greatly updated attire and attendance.The film does features various people from the motion picture industry and this film does stars Robert Englund, David Newsom, Miko Hughes, John Saxon, Tracy Middendorf and Heather Langenkamp.The story is just beautiful and I really like it. The CGI and make-up was really cool and I really liked this film. The music by J. Peter Robinson is really cool and the editing, production & costume design is amazing, but can get confusing at times.The direction, writing and dialogue is really cool and it is amazing as hell. Heather Langenkamp plays herself and Nancy Thompson and that is really amazing. Robert Englund plays himself and Freddy Krueger and he does a very good job. Miko Hughes plays Heather Langenkamp's son and he is scary, emotional and dramatic. The other actors are just very good, but one of them is not good, and I won't say who.Overall, Wes Craven's New Nightmare gets a 9 out of 10. While it's totally critically positively received by audiences and fans, it's a little confusing for me, but it still remains as one of my top 174 best movies in that list. "},{"Title":"A two hour nap would be a better use of time","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Having just finished all seven of the Nightmare on Elm Street films, I must say this film is very different from the rest. Different in tone, lacking in the imagination that boosted the series to the height of its fame, and generally being a much more serious film, this epic seventh installation in the Freddy series comes across as a boring movie. The drama was over-emphasized, and over-acted, and save for it being an original way to tell a story, no reason exists to sit through it. Wes Craven attempts to do what was very successfully attempted by Charlie Kaufman in last year's &#145;Adaptation' watch the movie being written by watching the movie play out in real time of when the script is being written. In other words, the viewer gets to watch Wes Craven struggling to finish the script, while he gets to watch the film develop&#133;a type of meta-filmmaking. Anyways, he did not do it very well, and it leaves me wondering why this project ever got the green light. Rating 16/40 "},{"Title":"The best Nightmare Sequel!","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm glad to see the great positive reviews for this exceptionally clever movie. However I am writing this review after reading the negative ones so I can help shine a positive light on the great things about this film.Freddy's back! And scary ths time! After being tortured by countless second-rate sequels there finally comes a movie that lives up to the original. No longer a comedic act, Krueger is once again the terrifying presence portrayed on A Nightmare on Elm Street.Robert Englund and Heather Langenkamp play themselves in Wes Cravens New Nightmare. (Freddy and Nancy in the original). It seems they are having a hard time dealing with the success of the films and when both start to receive mysterious phone calls, experience terrifying dreams, and brutal murders occur they know that Freddy is not just a character in the movies. It turns out that Wes Craven (the writer and director of the first one) created the Elm Street movies to restrain an actual evil entity from being released into the world. But because Freddy was finally killed in the sixth film, that evil was set free and now it's preying on the one person from the movies that took away its power. That's right, Heather Langenkamp who humiliated him as Nancy in A Nightmare on Elm Street.With a plot like that, you can't go wrong!This movie was just as scary, just as creative, and just as intelligent as the original. It stands out as the best sequel and has great horror elements thrown into the mix. There is great acting by Robert Englund and an exceptionally well done performance by Heather Langenkamp. Loads of suspense keep the film moving and a great story line keeps your interest. To top it off, the Freddy is much darker and much more intimidating than the Krueger from the sequels.I won't give away any more but I will tell you that this film is worth your time. If you loved A Nightmare on Elm Street and want to see that evil come back to Krueger, then watch this film.   8/10  "}{"Title":"Worst Of Them All!","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This had to the worst Freddy movie they made. As a Freddy fan I'm insulted by this movie first of all the plot made no sense. Freddy wasn't even dressed the same he had a trenchcoat and what happened to the dream thing. Freddy now can kill you when you're not looking. I would give a 0 from a scale of 1 to 10. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's New Horror Film","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven's New Nightmare, the seventh film in the Elm Street series, is one of the most unique, intelligent, and masterful horror films of all time.  Craven has allowed this film franchise to evolve (primarily into second rate thrills and a cult following), and now that he has taken control of this project, the pointless sequels now seem to have a point. The most engaging and intriguing part of the film is that it actually sets itself up as a film within a film.  The opening scene uses the same music as the original film, and starts in an underground layer reminiscent of Freddy's original boiler room.  This time however, it isn't a dream, but rather a movie set (and of course, movies are nothing more than a few peoples dreams). The premise of this film is that Heather Langenkamp (the star of the original film) and her son are being harassed by a demon who has taken the form of Freddy Krueger.  Most of the people around her think she is crazy, and this has been brought about by a prank caller.  However, as the film digresses, it is explained that the demon is an ancient evil that was bound in the horror film.  Now that Freddy was killed (in the series sixth installment), the demon is free to cross-over from the world of movies to our world. The premise is an amazing metaphor for filmmaking, and it makes for a poignant examination of the consequences a director must accept once he has released a film.  Note the scene in which Heather gives an interview, a very haunting image is placed in this scene showing the drastic and horrifying effect that movies can have on their audience. But, ultimately, Wes Craven's New Nightmare shows that films are worth all of the risks they take.  Especially when they are handled in as intelligent and careful a manner as this one. "},{"Title":"Back to the nightmare!! but ,with closure!!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit, after part 5 and 6 seemed to trudge along the lines of rehash...this film came out and peaked my curiosity..this film was Awesome!!! it had chills,and thrills, and Wes back at the helm! plodding full speed ahead!!! as good as the original!!!!but this time the set seems to be haunted!!!! the film is creepy this time! and gives you some chills at times!!! that and it seemed to be the ending that the series Truly needed, since Freddy's Dead; the final Nightmare didnt quench our thirst for closure....this one Came through at full tilt!!!although 6 was still a Fun movie..this one delved back into the thoughts of the first film...and made it a scarefest..and not just a Gorefest...If this had come out after 4, I think it would have done better... ...As the TRUE End of the series, we as Fans have TRUE Closure now...this series is a fun series...however hokey,and silly..its Fun! and manages to give a few chills here and there...so after finishing this one, go back and watch em all again!!!! "},{"Title":"Even better than the first one","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is by far the best Nightmare movie. The first one was very good, but I've seen many better horror films. The sequels were all interesting in the development and evolution of the story, but they weren't necessarily GOOD (though I did LOVE the third one). This movie, however, has some incredibly eerie moments and one of the best premises I've ever heard of. Having all of the actors play themselves makes the movie even scarier and more realistic. Wes Craven, I do believe, is a genius. From his earliest, low-budget work (check out the amazing Last House On The Left and the decent The Hills Have Eyes) through his latest (this and the Scream trilogy), he has always had me on the edge of my seat.This was not only a good horror movie, but it was a good movie. It was just so interesting and held my interest from beginning to end (and it is slightly longer than most horror films). Still, make sure you've seen at least the first one before you see this to understand a lot of the twists, and the many in-jokes. "},{"Title":"The best reason for a sequel so far&#133;","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" One of my biggest pet peeves (besides that phrase) is when sequels come out and do nothing but plod through the same crappy plots as their predecessors or simply cash in on the success of an earlier film. Wes Craven's New Nightmare is a complete overhaul of the Nightmare on Elm Street formula, transferring it from the fictional Elm Street and into the real world. It would seem like a cheesy premise, Freddy is such a bad guy that he's even coming to life on the movie sets, but the idea makes it work.Wes Craven has been having nightmares again, and since his nightmares tend to be where he gets his best ideas (much like many other horror writers, directors, etc, not the least of which is Stephen King), he decides that this must mean it's time to make another Elm Street movie. Heather Langenkamp, who played the terrorized Nancy Thompson in Nightmares 1 and 3, takes on the role of herself. She's now 30 years old and has a child, but is gradually coming to realize that the strange things that have been happening and nightmares of Freddy that she has been having are way too similar to what happened in her movies, and she gradually comes to realize that it's all real. Some of the best moments are when she goes to talk to Wes Craven about it, to tell her what has been happening, and it is all stuff that he has already written into his new but unfinished script.Craven explains that the evil inside Freddy Kruger is actually an ancient evil that has merely been temporarily trapped inside the character of Freddy and the stories of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies, that as long as the story is kept active, the evil can be contained. Now that the movies have ended, he explains, the evil force within Freddy has been set free. There's a great scene where he tells Heather that the reason the story has died is because that's what happens when people water it down to make it an easier sell. This is a strikingly insightful comment to be made within a horror film, but it strikes me as strange since it's so obvious that he's referring to the load of bad sequels in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, only two of which he directed (the original and this one) but almost all of which he either produced or wrote. So anyway, Freddy has managed to separate himself from both Robert Englund, the actor that played him in the movies, and the Nightmare movies as well, and have entered our world. This is a hell of a lot better than Freddy Takes Manhattan!The movie takes place in an interesting parallel reality, it's not the reality in the movies and it's not the real world, but somewhere in between. All of the actors from the movies all play themselves and there is much talk of 'our world' and 'the real world,' but only the actors from previous movies play themselves, all the other people in the movie are characters played by actors, not the least of which is Heather's son, Dylan, who turns out to be the most powerful person in the movie. Dylan starts having nightmares and reacts as any kid his age would, not wanting to go to sleep and wanting mom to spend the night with him. Why she refuses for most of the movie is never really explains. She of all people must understand what he's going through!Ultimately, Freddy is able to come through and kill people when Dylan sleeps, and it seems that Freddy capitalizes on this, using the kid both as leverage and as a means to get into his world. There is a scene where Dylan runs across a freeway at night during heavy traffic, and Freddy appears in the sky and lifts him up, helping him across the freeway unharmed. This leaves the question of whether Freddy did this to protect his path into this world or just to taunt his mother, Heather, who is following closely behind and ready to run into traffic herself to save her son.(spoilers) There is also an homage scene involving Dylan's surprisingly dedicated babysitter in the hospital, she tries to prevent the nurses from putting him to sleep and ends up in a scene reminiscent of a classic scene from the first film. One of my favorite parts of the movie is how the actors near the end of the film relapse back into their roles, doing things like dressing as their characters and calling Heather Nancy and things like that, further blurring the line between the fiction from the previous films, our reality, and the reality presented in the movie. This is great stuff, but the movie really starts to slip near the end.Needless to say, there is a climactic scene in a horrific dungeon setting, with Heather and Dylan trying to escape and kill Freddy at the same time. Freddy gets his tongue forked, an interesting scene at a time when tongue piercings were simply the cool things to have, but then what? Freddy gets killed by fire? That's it?? Has Wes Craven ever seen a horror movie? Fire never kills the slashers! And to make matters worse, after Heather and Dylan finally 'kill' Freddy, we fast forward a bit and they're at home and Heather gets a copy of the script from Craven, and what does she do? She picks it up and starts reading it to Dylan! Is she MAD??? I think that New Nightmare stands as one of the best of the entire series, along with the original film, and despite these weak shortcomings, it is a tremendously well-made horror movie. It's thought out where most horror films aren't, it has a premise that's fascinating in the same way that things like time travel are fascinating, and it will surely please Nightmare fans eager to get a look at the Nightmare on Elm Street sets as well as the cavernous mansion that Craven has managed to afford from being royalty in the horror movie production world. I definitely recommend this one. "},{"Title":"Death Of Freddy","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I first watched this movie when it came ot on vhs, around the time I was 16. I hated the movie!  But to be fair, I recently re-watced A New Nightmare at the age of 23.  My opinion now.........this movie still sucks! I loved the fact that they made Freddy a darker, more evil character in this movie.  In that sense, in was close to the original Nightmare On Elm Street. (Which in my opinion was the best of the series.)  In the original, Freddy was evil.  His purpose was revenge, murder, and mutilation.  He was a maniac, who when you saw on the screen, made your neck hair stand up and skin crawl......just by thinking of what he was going to do. Unfortunately, later in the series Freddy became a one-liner comedian. So, in a sense, The New Nightmare redeemed his character.HOWEVER, the film also destroyed Freddy's character. This movie made it known that all the other movies were just that.....movies.  This ruined the storyline as far as making more Nightmare movies.  In my opinion, it would have been a great idea to turn Freddy dark again, but keep the original type of story.   IN this poor excuse for a movie, however, they take away the original storyline by admitting that he was a movie creature and not from real life.  Then, they tell us that the spirit of Freddy has become real all of the sudden.  BUT that takes away what I loved about the originals,the fact that they were only volnurable while they were asleep.  It set rules for the movies!!!  But now in this story, he has no rules.  There are no limitations.  He is free to do whatever he wants whether people are asleep or awake.  Which for me, made this a very uninteresting movie.I would recommend watching this only if you are a true fan of the Freddy franchise.  And only so you could say that you have seen them all. "},{"Title":"Unusual,but it works.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago,when I saw it I thought it was weird,but a very good idea making the other movies in the series fiction. This time it is Nancys character playing herself along with the other characters.It becomes clear that Freddy this time is real and is stalking all of them.Then Heather and her child are both in danger of Freddy.Wes Cravens New nightmare is different from the rest of the series but it shows much more originality and is more realistic.It takes a while for it to kick in but when it does it is very effective and works very well with suspense and special effects.I rate 4/5. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"2 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Rated R for Violence/Gore and Language.The Nightmare On Elm Street series is one of my favorite horror film series.The films are fun mixing tons of gore with humor(except this and the first film which were fairly dark).There have been a total of seven films in the series(eight including Freddy Vs Jason).They are all good in my opinion.This sequel does not disappoint.For those who didn't like the comedy route the series was taking, this film goes back to pure horror and no comedy.Its directed by Wes Craven who directed the first film and has most of the original cast from the first film(except Johnny Depp who was by now a big star).This film takes place in the real world,Heather Lagenkamp, the woman who was in Nightmare On Elm STreet 1 or 3 returns and she plays herself.So do most of the cast members.Robert Englund plays both himself and Freddy Kruger.Basically the plot of this film is about there being a demon who represents Freddy Kruger.Angry that they killed of Freddy in the last film, he decides to get revenge on the actress Heather Lagenkamp who has a son named Dylan.Freddy Kruger looks much darker and different than in the previous films.New NIghtmare is a very entertaining film that is most like the original. "},{"Title":"Why???","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm sick and tired of this so-called Hollywood horror movies.Where is the suspense?Where is the originality?Wes Craven should make something new,not a rip-off of his earlier's classic.This is a typical mainstream movie-it relies on expensive special effects,not on atmosphere of dread and fear.It's nice to see Heather Langenkamp in the main role,but this kid is really annoying.Even not enough blood and gore to satisfy gore-freaks.One good sequence when Langenkamp's husband is killed in his car.The rest of the movie sucks.Bring back such movies like Maniac or New York Ripper-a real horror films,not a commercial rubbish from 90's. "},{"Title":"Depressing how bad this is =(","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a die-hard fan of Freddy Krueger, I tend to feel disappointment in these sequels more so I think than an objective viewer. A classic like the original Nightmare on Elm Street is very hard to beat I realize, and so I tend to go a little easier on subsequent installments. The third movie, Dream Warriors, was decent for the most part, if you give it A lot of leeway. Aside from that the franchise has gone steadily downhill; culminating in this crap fest Wes Craven's New Nightmare.Everything that worked in the original is absent in this new film (except for one thing and I'll get to that). There is no real thought given to the characters, I'm assuming since they are all playing themselves that Wes didn't feel the need to do so. The story earns one of it's 3 stars because of this. Wes has created a film about the film. Each of the characters are their real life selves, dealing with the after effects of being part of the Freddy Krueger phenomena. The central conflict explores the notion that the idea and essence of Freddy Krueger has fed on itself and become so big that he can't be contained on film, and once the exorcising effect of filming is ended, his spirit will seek to live eternally in actual life. It's a novel idea, I'll admit, but the execution is horrible. The script is so elementary as to be laughable, and most of the acting leaves MUCH to be desired.With the exception of 2 scenes, there are virtually no scary moments in the film. Or maybe there were and I was too busy trying not to nod off to notice. Most of the plot is idiotic and preposterous; and not even preposterous in a good over-the-top horror movie way. When trying to go for over the top, there's a very fine line between what can be seen as spectacular as what is simply seen as ridiculous. 95% of New Nightmare falls into the latter category.Finally I was thoroughly annoyed by the fact that Wes had changed Freddy so drastically for apparently arbitrary reasons. Even down to the makeup and contacts, Freddy has gotten a makeover. I'm not at all happy about it. He still retains his striped sweater, although it looks as if he went and bought a replacement at Macy's. To go with his snazzy new sweater, there's a long leather trench coat, tight black leather pants, and Doc Martin combats boots (knee length to be exact). The glove is gone and in it's place is what is supposed to be a skinless hand with fake looking tendons and sinewy muscles, from which protrude the customary blades.There are not many redeeming qualities in this film. It started out weak and ended with some unbelievably bad sequences in some hellish netherworld; all I remember are long tongues, even longer arms, and maybe an electric eel. It was so bad that I did laugh a few times during the finale. Not a good laugh, a laugh because I couldn't believe how low the film had gotten.I gave it another star for an awesome death scene involving a character in a hospital room; a direct homage to the original (see parentheses above). Now that was actually worth watching. Too bad the whole film couldn't share this kind of intensity and excitement.The third star was out of sheer pity. "}{"Title":"It's a Dream come True D","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" In Basic Instinct, Sharon Stone's character Catherine Tremell describes how writing teaches you to lie, She says when you make stuff up it has to be believable, a psychological concept in literature referred to as suspension of disbelief according to Tremell. I think this film is an excellent example of this concept. Perfectly woven around Heather... who is by far the hero of the series, and I must say... would have been a great candidate to become the Segourny Weaver of this franchise... Becoming a balls out guardian of the gate of the dream world, repeatedly sending Krueger packing... she is, symbolically, this relentless force that evil has never been able to corrupt or defeat because She refuses to give in to it. The strength of her soul comes through her eyes in the camera. She may not be able to see it in the mirror, but She can't hide it from the camera. Although it is obviously far too late to change the chain of sequels, It was definitely the right choice to bring her back for one... The movies with her are by far the best in my opinion... With the slight exception of the 6th, because I was fond of the actress who played Tracy... and the strength She exhibited. I think New Line should bring some kind of script into development with Heather Langencamp and if possible, I would like to star opposite her, D "},{"Title":"Wes Craven should be ashamed!!!","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is original and the ideas behind it are great. A film in a film. But don't be fooled this is all it has going for it. Wes Craven should be ashamed of this utter garbage! Wes had the gall to bad mouth all the other Nightmare sequels. I'll admit some of them were quite bad but at least they were watchable. Forget using sleeping pills, try watching this film and you'll be asleep half way through it. Thats if your lucky.First off, the Freddy from the original series is not in this one. It is a demon that mimics horror icons. So be forewarned this is not a sequel. More of an attempt at an original film. The story pretty much involves this demon who takes the form of horror villains. When Freddy was supposedly dispatched in Freddys Dead, the demon is set free to haunt the actors that starred in the original Nightmare. Wes attempts to make Freddy once again scary and not the wise cracker that he turned out to be. There are a few scenes that do make him seem scary but by the end of the film Freddy looks more like the one portrayed in Freddys Dead.The reason this film is so horrible is due to the snail like pace. I grew up loving the slower paced horror films that built tension. This film built none. We are shown scenes of Nancy going to interviews and talk shows. You would think Heather Langenkamp was a major player in Hollywood. The only other film I've seen her in since the Nightmare series was the made for T.V. movie of the Tonya Harding scandal. So its almost laughable. Not to mention that she is portrayed as unlikable bitch. It seems that Wes thought people loved the character of Nancy so there was no need to make us care for Heather. In one scene she closes a window on a fan who tries to talk to her. In another scene we see how Robert spends time signing autographs while Heather seems impatient with him. By this time I really could care less if she was slowly tortured and I loved Nancy. I was actually bothered by her demise in Nightmare 3.The new Freddys wardrobe is beyond horrible. Freddy now has tight leather pants, that look like something you would wear to a disco. His new bone type glove is good for another laugh. Maybe if this film wasn't so boring I would of gave it more then 1 star but this film is almost unwatchable. I remember seeing this at the theater and watched 4 people walk out. Trust me after seeing this film once you'll never want to see it again. So be forewarned. "},{"Title":"Not that bad.","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare was made alongside Jason X with both of these movies being released it was meant to keep Freddy and Jason relevant. Yes New Nightmare is the better one and involves a really clever concept now this was made two years before Scream and uses the concept of being super meta.The plot involves Heather yes the actress who played Nancy in the other Nightmare films playing herself in the movie and hell even Wes Craven makes an appearance. Her son is acting weird and Heather starts getting calls from Freddy she brushes it off as a prank caller she then goes to some show where Robert appears as Freddy which puts Heather on edge. They then talk about doing another film in the franchise which Heather has to think about then her husband is killed on set of a Wes Craven film by a fake Freddy hand coming to life.New Nightmare is worth watching and makes up for the last two bad sequels. "},{"Title":"New Nightmare (1994)","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've heard this called the best Nightmare on Elm Street sequel and some have even called it better than the original Nightmare film. I can't say it's any of those things, but New Nightmare is one of the better movie in one of my favorite horror movie franchises and a refreshing entry after the abysmal Freddy's Dead. New Nightmare departs from Springwood, Ohio and instead takes place in the real world. Heather Langenkamp, the actress who played Nancy in the original film, is now a married mother, and she is contacted by Wes Craven to be in the definitive final Nightmare on Elm Street film. However, Heather has been having increasingly terrifying nightmares and phone calls that sound suspiciously like the films' iconic villain, Freddy Krueger. Her son's disturbing behavior also leads her to believe that the script that Wes is writing may not be just another movie. Arguably the best part about New Nightmare is all the nods and winks to the original film sprinkled in there. The phone gag from the first one is in there (which I admit still scared the crap out of me), and a majority of the deaths are reminiscent of other deaths in the series, particularly Tina's infamous death from the first movie and the motorcycle kill from The Dream Child. Wes Craven and Robert Englund also make cameo appearances in the film, although their subplots just sort of fizzle out towards the end. I also wasn't a big fan of Freddy trying to get a hold of Heather's son. The creepy kid scenes didn't really unsettle me and instead came off as hammy. But Wes obviously had a lot of fun with New Nightmare and ended the series with a clever take on the slasher film that would be replicated in the future with flops like Book of Shadows Blair Witch 2. Personally, the criminally underrated The Dream Master will always be my favorite Nightmare sequel, but New Nightmare is a fun and sporadically scary slasher flick. "},{"Title":"Quickie Review Wes Craven's New Nightmare","Date":"26 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" As we got more and more Elm Street moves, the series got more and more tired. It was the exact same formula, aside from maybe part 2, which had really run out of steam long before it ever got off the tracks. Shame really, because the original movie has a really clever and unique premise, and is executed to devastating effect. Returning to the franchise, Wes Craven presents a story where all the actors and crew members (including Heather, Langerkamp, Robert Englund and Crave himself) are involved in a new Elm Street movie production when strange things begin happening and, eventually, old pizza-face pops up for real. It's a pretty brilliant Meta idea, which must have served as some kind of beta for Craven's eventual Scream movies. The way the film is paced, the way the camera focuses on all the right details for all the right amount of time&#x85;you can really tell a man of real talent is behind the movie's production. It's not loud and flashy like all of the Elm Street sequels &#x96; not until the end at least. Instead a more methodical and immersive approach is taken. In fact, a great deal of the film's best parts are amore about post- traumatic stress and dealing with alleged mental illnesses. Other things are touched upon, like the effects of horror movies on children and celebrity life. The 'real' Kruger does not show up properly until the last half hour or so. This works to the film's advantage, as the preceding runtime is used to flesh out the two main characters who ultimately will have to do battle with Kruger in the climax. Even before we see Freddy, the film's atmosphere is creepy and there are a couple of good scares. It's a far cry from the tired formula of 'introduce teens&#x85;kill first teen in dream sequence&#x85;kill second teen in dream sequence' etc etc. I was really digging Freddy's cool new look, with his long overcoat. The face was far more sinister than the previous two films, although at times it was too obvious that it was a mask.The characterization of this new, real Kruger made for refreshing story-telling. Technically, we've never seen this guy before, since he is the real deal who has managed to cross the dream and movie world into reality. Gone are the wise cracks and one lines. Craven does well to ensure that this Freddy is not someone we are supposed to be rooting for by making him sinisterly bump off innocent characters and go after a small child, without winking at the audience every two minutes. Credit to Craven for managing to give the character menace and a real fear factor once again. Most of the murders homage scenes from the original. Saying that, there aren't many deaths in the movie but since each is given a fair do's it's not a problem. Oh and in Elm Street tradition, Freddy himself also snuffs it once again, although this is one of the movie's poorer scenes due to some hokey special effects. Another less than perfect scene was the child being lifted up by Kruger's claws on the highway. That felt more like something out of the Elm Street sequels this film - which otherwise aims to be better, different and respectful of the original, and achieves all three targets. Best Offer Hmm, what to choose? I like the film as a whole but no individual scene really sticks out. I think I'll go for the part where Kruger takes out the babysitter. "},{"Title":"Great Finale!!!","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare is the 7th Elm Street film and after the horrible 6th film that we all thought that Freddy actually died they decided to make another one which is the best since the 3rd film. This film takes Freddy to the real world and we see that the actors who played the characters are now haunt by an evil spirit that takes the form of Kruger who also has a new face in this one and it's even more scarier than the previous one. The acting i think was good and the story was something pretty original for the 90's it's basically a film inside another film and it was directed by Wes Craven (RIP) who also made all the Scream movies and the original Elm Street film. At the end this one saved the series and brought a good finale even if Hollywood didn't stopped there and made a horrible crossover between him and Jason and a god-awful Remake. New Nightmare is definitely a big surprise and a good ending at the story of Freddy and made us forget all the previous crappy films we got they indeed saved the best one for last. "},{"Title":"Horror Genius Wes Craven Returns to the Series.","Date":"3 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven is without a doubt one of the most unique horror writers and directors in the history of film. He makes his return to Elm Street with this seventh installment in the series.Actress Heather Langenkamp is asked by Craven to return and make another Elm Street film. Strange occurrences begin in Heather's life. Earthquakes and the death of her special effects making husband lead Heather to believe that Freddy is not just a villain in a horror film, but perhaps he is real. This is a very unique story and it is different from the other films in that the stars play themselves, and the story is set in real life. This is a highly entertaining and stylish horror film that can be considered a precursor to Scream (also directed by Craven). One of the absolute movies in the series, and a must see. "},{"Title":"Doesn't get enough credit","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" If you're a fan of the series, you either hate New Nightmare or you love it. The idea behind this movie is amazing and everything just works perfectly. Much of the original cast is back and even Wes Craven himself is in it. I think the reason why a lot of people don't get this movie is because it kinda stays away from what the series became (cheesy, funny) and Craven created something a lot darker that many people didn't expect. So New Nightmare doesn't have any memorable Freddy kills. So what? The ideas of the movie are executed with amazing directorial precision and it is wildly entertaining. Also, this movie feels a lot more like a Scream movie than a Nightmare one, it could even be considered a prelude to Scream, one of my favorite horror movies, as both explore the idea of bringing horror movies to life. Also I found the many homages to the original fantastic, good job Wes Craven! You can also tell by many things in the movie and knowing what the director originally intended to do with the character of Freddy Krueger (before the studio made a few terrible cheesy sequels) that this was a passion project and Craven really gave this project his heart, and I respect that. The ending with the beautiful music, for example with Craven's note on the script thanking Heather for being Nancy one last time, nearly brought a tear to my eye. The last 20 minutes get a little out of hand and over the top, in my opinion, but in the end I will say Wes Craven's New Nightmare is an amazing piece of work and if you love the original and horror movies in general, please approach this with an open mind and I know you will enjoy it. I personally think it is the second best in the Nightmare series right after the original. "},{"Title":"A seventh installment in the Nightmare on Elm Street that gets everything right!","Date":"27 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare was negatively received by fans and critics, but a box office success and it was decided that New Line Cinema would release another Nightmare on Elm Street film, but this time Wes Craven would be directing and writing it and the film would be titled Wes Craven's NEW NIGHTMARE. The film was released in October of 1994.In this film, Freddy is depicted as closer to what Wes Craven originally intended, being more menacing and less comical, with a greatly updated attire and attendance.The film does features various people from the motion picture industry and this film does stars Robert Englund, David Newsom, Miko Hughes, John Saxon, Tracy Middendorf and Heather Langenkamp.The story is just beautiful and I really like it. The CGI and make-up was really cool and I really liked this film. The music by J. Peter Robinson is really cool and the editing, production & costume design is amazing, but can get confusing at times.The direction, writing and dialogue is really cool and it is amazing as hell. Heather Langenkamp plays herself and Nancy Thompson and that is really amazing. Robert Englund plays himself and Freddy Krueger and he does a very good job. Miko Hughes plays Heather Langenkamp's son and he is scary, emotional and dramatic. The other actors are just very good, but one of them is not good, and I won't say who.Overall, Wes Craven's New Nightmare gets a 7 out of 10. While it's totally critically positively received by audiences and fans, it's a little confusing for me, but it still remains as one of my top 174 best movies in that list. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's New Nightmare 6/10","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Give kudos to Wes Craven wanting to do a creative idea for a sequel to his Nightmare on Elm Street masterpiece. The last few movies of the franchise were very run of the mill so it was pretty refreshing watching a different take of the series. I'll always give bonus points to a movie for bringing back actors from previous roles, since it shows it takes the story seriously. Heather Langenkamp character was a little rough to begin with but after a bit she played herself fantastically. Wes Craven, John Saxon, and even Robert Englund outside the Freddy costume were really solid too. What's unique from a reviewer's standpoint is seeing the contrast in great ideas and concepts but it followed them with some really disappointing scenes. The story had sky-high potential to be a really special horror movie, unfortunately there were just too many hiccups here and there. To be specific, most of these scenes occurred in the hospital. The ending was a little far-fetched too but I especially enjoyed the interactions with Heather and John, since it gave an actual feeling of nostalgia. New Nightmare is definitely worthy of a look and is one of the better installments to the Elm Street franchise. "}{"Title":"The rare case where changing ways late in the game actually works","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's New Nightmare comes as the sixth sequel to the long-running Nightmare on Elm Street franchise but finds itself more functional and ambitious than many franchises that have made it this long do. Infused with a great deal of meta-writing to the point of intrigue, crafty ideas about the effects horror films have on those who make them, and darker, more terrifying portrayals of the film's beloved dream-haunter, New Nightmare revives the franchise that, according to Craven, was beginning to get too off-task with its practices.By this point, Craven had already expressed frustration over the fact that the character of Freddy Krueger had become far too comical, and the later films were written with far too much silliness, masking the true horror and fright he originally conceived for the series. Freddy had become cartoonish and lost his original abilities to frighten audiences as much as taunt them with silly phrases and ubiquity in pop culture. As a result, Craven created New Nightmare to give that life back to the franchise, and he did so in a way that explored a fascination with the concept of metafilm, or a movie that is referencing beyond the film into the real lives of the actors or to some other, unrelated film universe, as if the characters are wiser beyond their own definitive world.This fascination with metafilm Craven began to toy with would only get further explored in his critically/financially-successful Scream franchise, which was brewed two years after New Nightmare. For now, however, Nightmare concerns itself with Heather Langenkamp, the actress who portrayed Nancy Thompson in the original Nightmare film, as she lives with her husband, who works in special effects, and young son in Los Angeles. Heather has gone onto receive a great deal of recognition for her as Nancy, and learns that Wes Craven is contemplating using her again for his forthcoming Nightmare project, which will further which will, of course, have Robert Englund reprising his role as Freddy Kruger.In the mix of this, Heather begins experiencing lucid nightmares of her or her family being attacked and assaulted by Freddy and taken as his children, completely losing sense of reality. This is only furthered by the abundance of earthquakes Los Angeles is experiencing, as well as the constant stress she's under with managing her child and her other projects.Craven decorates New Nightmare much differently than the previous installments, most notably through the abundance of different costumes Freddy boasts, with one of the most stylish and menacing being a black and blue cloak. In addition, Englund is much less concerned with sloganeering and finding just the right punchline for his character Freddy than returning to the haunting and demonic presence Freddy can truly be. The idea of a figure haunting our dreams and finding ways of sneaking into our reality, distorting it, and leaving it at his mercy is a wickedly frightening idea, and Craven returns to the elements of exploring that idea rather than turning it into black comedy.New Nightmare can be quite eerie at times, but it also has a pleasantly subtle sense of sass to it, especially when Craven comes on-screen, or when one of Heather's costars tries to but in and help her out. This is where the Scream foundation ostensibly came into play, with Craven experimenting with self-referential humor in such a way that makes the film more interesting and not entirely consumed in its own cheeky ways. Combining these elements, especially in a way meant to evoke humor and make fans of a franchise recall moments from films past, could easily destruct in a big way, but Craven is so smooth with the incorporation of the aforementioned elements that we get the idea he had this idea festering in his mind long before he put the pen to the paper.Because evident care and thought went into Wes Craven's New Nightmare is likely why it plays like a unique horror film, quietly proposing ideas about those who work in the film industry, specifically making horror films, and what effect such work has on their psyche and their own personal lives. The tone is much more frightening, and given the seriousness and ambition Craven has for the material, the film feels much more sincere in ways the abundance of Nightmare sequels lacked, leaving this to be one of the most unlikely contenders for one of the strongest sequels to a horror film, especially trying something new this late in the game.Starring Heather Langenkamp, Robert Englund, John Saxon, and Miko Hughes. Directed by Wes Craven. "},{"Title":"The 'post modern' Freddy film","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Believe it or not, I actually enjoyed ALL six of the previous Nightmare on Elm Street films. A lot of people went off them as they progressed, many feeling that Freddy was getting too comical and just not scary any more. Personally, I didn't mind his more 'humorous' persona, but I think I was slowly becoming the minority.Here, in what we might as well call 'Part 7,' the man who originally created Freddy (Wes Craven) returns to the helm one last time. Now Freddy is trying to break out of the movies and into real life to stalk and kill yet more victims. And, despite the formula being similar, i.e. if you fall asleep then Freddy will get you, the major change is that Freddy is now back to his 'evil only' roots. Gone is the humour and the one-liners and, in its place, pure nastiness. Also, Freddy's 'look' has slightly changed. They've redone his make-up which you may or may not appreciate.What you have here is a 'Freddy film' which is more akin to the original Nightmare on Elm Street than its successors. The first half seems to meander a little, but it's worth sticking with it, as the second half picks up the pace.If you're a fan of Freddy, whether you like him pure evil or comic evil, then you should enjoy this one. It may be a little pretentious in places when it tries to mess with your mind as it mixes 'real life' with the original Elm Street mythology, but it's still good fun. My only real gripe was the child actor who is one of the main characters. I know children can be touch and go when it comes to their acting abilities, but this one really doesn't cut it when he needs to. Minor gripe though &#x96; still a lot of fun.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Langenkamp and Englund go uber real.","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The lead actors of the original Nightmare on Elm Street, on it's 10th Anniversary, are terrorized by a Freddy Kruger like entity that wants Heather Langenkamp and her son dead.The seemingly outrageous bloody opening is quickly defused as a fitting dream sequence and new ground is broken as we discover the actors are playing themselves. It appears to break the fourth wall with Wes Craven, John Saxon and Robert Englund to name a few playing themselves. Of course this allows Langenkamp to return as herself after her Nancy character's death in the third. This non-conventional approach with a number of uneasy phone calls would become the precursor film within a film which appears in Craven's own Scream series.While you'd expect most of the actors to be able to play themselves they do at times come across as awkward and uncomfortable. Thankfully the leads pull it off with ease - namely Englund and Langenkamp. Faces from the original also cameo as themselves and a photo of Johnny Depp shows up in the background. Some scenes are a blast for fans with Englund playing himself as Freddy on a talk show. Of course Englund also plays Freddy the embodiment of an evil spirit with an expert indifference. This darker, scarier Freddy is probably what fans of the original wanted to see in the handful of sequels. There's irony on irony with producer Rob Shay inviting Langenkamp to come back and play Nancy one last time in a definitive nightmare. Writer/Director Craven delivers another novel idea with a tantalizing hook. There's a nice touch where reality merges with dreams and John Sax returns as his character Lt. Donald Thompson with Langenkamp calling him John and him unawares in turn calling her Nancy. The kill scenes pay homage to the original and even some of the sequels notably the Chase Porter car crash. With a strong supporting cast (mainly those ones who don't play themselves) including Miko Hughes as Dylan Porter Heather's on screen son gives a solid mixture of Poltergeist/Exorcist-like performance.It may have benefited from a more natural looking production, less film- like to emphasis the realness in contrast to the movie world and Nightmare sequences. It's own high production values and Mark Irwin's great cinematography dilute the edginess. Craven's screenplay also injects a part actress character study there is an interesting subtext about fame and it trappings. A New Nightmare has all the kills one would expect with excellent make up and visual effect on display with Craven trying to out do himself with the accompanying music by J. Peter Robinson. The idea of uber Freddy character harassing the real life cast and crew doesn't tire with the entertaining and fitting premise. It's only a movie...or is it? "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's dream of rebooting Freddy becomes a New Nightmare","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's hardly a perfect film for Wes Craven, but it's eerie and thought-provoking, something that been lacking in the previous movies that made Freddy Kruger into a goofy wise cracker and cheesy death scenes. It is also the last the last time that Freddy showed any real menace. Wes Craven made this to take back control of his creation and it works as a criticism of what the franchise became with Freddy as a comedian, not to mention a rebuff to the tired argument about violence in films always causing it in the real world. Freddy was far more straightforward with his kills and didn't manifest elaborate scenarios for each death. Pure intimidation. That's what Wes was trying to bring back. New Nightmare is almost in it's own league. New Nightmare had a great story and very original, creative ideas in it but it was still a bit confusing with the plot of the movie! It's the movie without a movie. He would work this angle again, in the 'Scream' series with the Stab movies in Scream are movies within a movie! It's work here, it doesn't work there. 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 7 The Ascension' is being film, and Heather Langenkamp playing herself, the actress that play the original heroic star of the original movie is being ask to reprise her role as Nancy Thompson. She notice that her husband Chase, and son Dylan is also being haunted by Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) outside the filming, and confront the actor Robert Englund about it. She then go to Wes Craven himself, who reveals that Freddy is real, and only she can stop him. There is a interesting theory that comes to front with this. It's probably not Wes Craven's intent, but an audience's interpretation is authorial fallacy to see that there might have been a connection to this movie with that of the 3rd movie Dream Warriors. Heather's character Nancy Thompson's dies in the World of the first three films/four films. Her funeral/gravestone proves this (the gravestone was shown in A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master). The character Kristen from Dream Warrior, somehow, created a new world/new reality and placed Nancy's soul into this world in the end of the film like it stated. It's a dream world, yet Nancy's soul can live a full beautiful life in this beautiful dream world. Nancy's physically dead, yet not spiritually dead. I would think that once she ages and dies in this dream world then she would have truly died. Overall, Nancy has been placed in a matrix type reality so, to her, everyone in this reality is real/important to her. Freddy though, once all event's take place in the real world (the world of dream warriors), realizes that Nancy is in this dream world/alternate reality and therefore tries to kill Nancy since he wants to finish her off once and for all. It must take a lot for him to enter this dream world though since earthquakes are occurring constantly. Since Wes Craven wrote 1, 3, and this one... could it be Nancy living as Heather. It's a headache, but it's worth checking out or is the previous films fake and this movie real. Is Heather insane or is Freddy really coming out of the film to kill the actress that kill him in the movie? The movie goes with the realish look to it. Surprising the earthquake footage in the film is real. It was taken from the 1994 Northridge earthquake that happen during filming. The movie seem fresh, and the way in which Freddy talked, walked, and looked really brought a much needed shot of freshness to the character that had seriously been lacking. Freddy has a deeper voice. To correspond with this, the make-up and outfit of the character was different, with one of the most prominent differences being that he now wears a long, black trench coat. In addition, the signature glove was redesigned for a more organic look, with the fingers resembling bones and having muscle textures in between. It really adds to his darker vibe. The problem with the movie was that Freddy was way too soft. He looked better than ever and he was darker than ever, but all he did to the kid and his mom was chase them around, wrestle them, and scare them. Also Freddie's screen time is almost non existent, he rarely in the film, but when he is, he's scary! Heather Langenkamp takes most of the movie time, sadly not great in leading the film anywhere, as she unable to act her way through wet tissue. Even with fails, Wes Craven's New Nightmare was probably created solely for the purpose of Wes wanting to erase 2, 4, 5, and 6, and I believe even 3 because he said in the special documentary for the box set that he essentially believes that only the first film and A New Nightmare are cannon. Essentially Wes Craven threw a bratty fit over the fact there were so many sequels and wanted to basically bury the series with A New Nightmare. The meta-fictional methodology of 'New Nightmare' really gave a unique and terrifying storyline and, in my opinion, one of the best films of the franchise. So while the theory is still interesting and I can see how it would work, I think it takes away from how good 'New Nightmare' is. I'd rather watch this one than a complete hideous garbage 2010 one with Haley is, God I dislike that version. "},{"Title":"Christina Aguilera once spoke for him.","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Freddy is back... well, he's not actually back. Instead, an heinous and satanic Freddy takes over our screens as a his existence forges into reality while his films continue to dwindle in the publics conscious.(With the majority of the films being awful, i can't say that's a bad thing.) I really liked New nightmare Original, showcasing the same mixture of intelligence with the first NMOES and most importantly, great acting. I was sceptical at first when knowing that a child actor stars - with them mostly being obnoxious and unwittingly annoying in majority of films - but thankfully the character of Dylan paid off.The thought of Freddy becoming closer to reality when the longer he's forgotten is fantastic. With the actors playing themselves, you follow the hysteria that follows Heather while he struggles to cope with a stalker. Freddy's appearance Long, drab trench coat and feroda hat, is spot on. Despite a change in Freddy, it seems he can't resist on pulling out a one-liner from under his sleeves. Made his enigmatic aura suffer a little.Overall, I'm glad Craven decided to make another NMOES - even if it was just for the money. You sense his input being commanded with every shot. The final act gave lovers of the original NMOES an flash back on their initial experience with Freddy. With both script and camera, Craven didn't do much wrong. "},{"Title":"Immensely enjoyable and entertaining","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After a series of nightmares and her son's strange behavior, an actress becomes convinced a famous serial killer from her movie history has come into the real world and targeting her and her family, forcing her to stop him using the tricks from the movies.This here turned out to be a decent if slightly flawed entry. Among the many things that work here is the fact that, by tying into the film series as a whole separate entity away from the reality presented here, it manages to be a lot smarter than it usually would be for this type of film, and that's something to commend by having the actors playing themselves instead of the film roles. That makes the typically-clichéd is-it-all-a-dream-or-not set-up far more effective than it has any right to be, given even more credence with Freddy's return to being scary again. Dropping any semblance of wise-cracks, puns and lame jokes, reduced screen time and really only appearing to do damage make him a credible, scary force again, and that helps this out tremendously. With some great action in here, a lot of great special effects and a fantastic finale, this has a lot going for it but there's still a few problems here, mainly in the film's continued usage of the annoying child who does nothing but scream and does nothing to the film overall. The low kill count means there's little variety to be found as well, but overall this isn't all too bad.Rated R Violence, Language, and children in jeopardy "},{"Title":"Good Nightmare Re-invention!","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, Wes Craven, John Saxon and Miko Hughes star in Wes Craven's 1994 horror sequel. This entry takes place 10 years after A Nightmare on Elm Street in L.A. focusing on actress, Heather Langenkamp who plays herself and her young son, Dylan (Hughes). After mysterious earthquakes occur, Heather notices Dylan is acting strange and learns he's being terrorized by Freddy Krueger (Englund). Heather also begins having nightmares and soon, she visits Wes who tells her that Freddy is a demonic force from the films that wants to come into reality. He convinces her that the only way to stop him is to make another film where she must play her character, Nancy Thompson one last time. Englund & Saxon also play themselves. This is a good sequel, I like Freddy's new look and J. Peter Robinson's score is great. Wes re-invented the series with this by making Freddy scary again and bringing back the original stars. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"Nine, ten...he's back again.","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Writer / director Wes Craven's rather ambitious sequel in the Nightmare on Elm Street franchise finds an interesting way to work around the death of Freddy in the previous sequel, Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare. Blending fiction and reality, he has various people associated with the franchise - including himself, producer / New Line CEO Robert Shaye, Sara Risher, and Marianne Maddalena, and actors Heather Langenkamp, Robert Englund, and John Saxon - making appearances, as Langenkamp, now married and a mom, is being plagued by a mysterious stalker and going through all sorts of trouble with her similarly terrorized son (Miko Hughes), while people around her start dying. Eventually she learns from Craven things he's gleaned from his own nightmares a demon has made its home inside the Elm Street films and taken on the persona of Freddy, and is now free to enter into reality with no new films being made. He reasons that one of the only ways to keep the demon at bay is to make another film. While ultimately the film does go on a little long, and its climax a little underwhelming after so much build-up, New Nightmare does benefit from Craven's return, bringing an intelligence and self awareness (without resorting to jokes) that is refreshing for this sort of thing. Langenkamp - looking quite sexy - Englund, and Saxon deliver savvy performances in a film that does, at the very least, bring a sense of genuine menace and foreboding back to this series. Freddy is once again a formidable bogeyman instead of a sadistic comedian - for the most part. There are still some silly lines here and there. A better child actor could have been chosen to play Dylan, however, as Hughes has an unfortunate tendency to overact badly. Craven's nods to his original 1984 film - the tongue in the phone receiver gag, the Screw your pass! moment, the gooey staircase - are all appreciated. All gore effects are well done. J. Peter Robinson's score is another element that could have used a little toning down, as it's awfully thunderous at times. In small roles, it's nice to see the likes of the ever welcome Lin Shaye, Matt Winston (son of the late, great effects expert Stan Winston), Rob LaBelle, and W. Earl Brown (Kenny in the first Scream). The last Elm Street entry until Freddy vs. Jason was finally realized almost a decade later, this is definitely an above average entry for the series. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ever Play Skin The Cat?","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Belated Day 18 Of My 31 Days Of Horror.Director Wes Craven Returns with the 7th Installment in the Infamous Freddy Films with Wes Cravens New Nightmare. The film is about Heather Langenkamp Playing Herself who is discovering that someone wants to take over as the new Freddy Kruger played once again by Robert Englund. This film is very well done with a great cast and excellent story. Although the movie is a little long by about 20 minutes and Freddy is only in the movie for about 10 to 15 minutes which is disappointing. Other than that I still Recommend it.Rated R For Explicit Horror Violence And Gore, And Language.1hr 52min/112min.3 uses of the F-word.***/**** "},{"Title":"Despite disliking the 'Nightmare' franchise, this was thoroughly enjoying","Date":"30 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am a huge fan of Wes Craven, i think he is one of the best in the directing business, however, i was never a fan of the Nightmare franchise. However on a dull winter night i was flicking through the TV listings and stumbled across this on ITV 4. I turned it on just as the film was beginning, slightly expecting to turn over in the next 5 minutes. However i'm pleased to say this fresh take on Freddy Kruger kept my eyes glued to the screen for the full film, without discovering too many negatives on the film.Where to start? Its tough cos there were many highlights to this film, especially the acting within. The actors put on a stunning show during the film, with much praise going to Miko Hughes for his fantastic portrayal of Dylan Porter. Heather Langenkamp also performed well, which is to be expecting from the main protagonist in the series.As for the film itself, i appreciated the original plot, and the clever twist on the films, and happy to see the back of that awful 'humor'. In addition, the films ending i found entertaining, yet slightly disturbing in a good way. One downside to the film i think is that it takes far too long for some proper action, and teeters closely to becoming cliché at times.I think, while watching this, you have to let some of the far-fetched scenes slide to enjoy it more.In summary, if your a fan of horrors, not necessarily The Nightmare Series, give this a go, i doubt you will be disappointed "}{"Title":"Wes Craven's New Nightmare","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare was an all new creative re-imagining of the series from the view point of the actors and writers from the original films. In this 7th installment, the idea was to have the story evolve around the Heather Langenkamp as the actress dealing with the lifestyle of being a legendary horror icon in a lot of ways. We first see Heather being tormented by a stalker of some sorts who is sending her strange mail and calling her house sounding like Freddy. It's very interesting to watch scenes like that because it is a reality in Hollywood. Actors and actresses have stalkers. So this film is sort of like a film inside of a film. Eventually her husband Chase gets clawed by Freddy while driving home one night, and the minute he dies we see Heather waking up. It gives us the idea that she dreamed it, which is the story of the original films. Whatever you dream of turns into a reality.The whole film makes us question what is real and what isn't. Eventually we begin to see that Freddy has been sort of born into the real world by the making of the Nightmare films. In this one, Wes Craven plays himself and is writing a new sequel. It is through his script that Freddy Krueger becomes a real being. There are many scenes in New Nightmare that pay homage to the first film. There is the girl that gets killed on the ceiling like Tina in the first. Freddy's tongue comes out of the phone, Nancy while going up the stairs steps into some sort of a goo, etc.Heather Langenkamp looks great, the ten years in between this and the 1984 film have been very good to her. It's great to see Robert Englund without the make up on, being himself. I like all of the realism towards Freddy Mania and the Nightmare franchise in general, there's a scene with screaming kids dressed as Freddy yelling for Robert Englund's autograph. This movie does move a little slow. I think it picks up during the hospital scenes when Dillon is admitted to the psych ward basically. Freddy's make up looks better in this than parts 5 and 6. I think in Dream Child, his make up started to look really rubbery and fake. It's done better in this one.New Nightmare is almost like a whole different film then the Nightmare on Elm Street movies. If you judge it based on being a Freddy film, you probably won't like it. This isn't an Elm Street sequel, in a lot of ways it's an all new movie with much more thought and creativity put into it than Rachel Talalay's dismal Nightmare 6. Check this one out, I think it's very underrated. Wes Craven has become a horror legend over the years, and he created a great concept in this New Nightmare.7/10 "},{"Title":"The best ending to a never ending story.","Date":"20 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" We have seen a funny Freddy Krueger in the last 3 movies (The Dream Master, The Dream Child, The final Nightmare) which for me are a big mistake in this kind of movies and should have never existed.But this movie my friends, is the the perfect tribute to this saga of movies, it brings us a Darker Freddy how we see him in the first movie. It also brings us back an old friend well know Nancy Thompson or in this case Heather Langenkamp portraying herself like the fighter of Freddy Krueger.In Recap this movie has everything high shocks of terror with this new Freddy, a little bit of Gore in some deaths and a little Miko Hughes like a schizophrenic child being tormented. If you are new to the Nightmare on Elm Street saga i would recommend you to see the Original, the Dream Warriors and This movie. "},{"Title":"Freddy wants to be in the real world but can Nancy stop him before it's too late?","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" He's back and more evil than ever, this time a demon force has taken over the form of Freddy and loves it but wants Heather to play the character Nancy one last time for a play that has her character in it. The idea of the film reflects the original film and shows that Freddy is truly evil and will do whatever it takes to get into our world. Heather's character Nancy had defeated him in the first film but in the third film she was killed but he could not get into our world due to her holding him at bay in the dream world. But when Freddy had kidnapped her son Dylan, she had no choice but to play Nancy and defeat him once and for all. But Dylan had to help her when Freddy had her tongue-tied and was enjoying it(Freddy had his tongue tied around Heather all over her body and was enjoying it) until Dylan had stabbed his tongue with a kitchen knife Heather had brought with her. I had really enjoyed this film so much that I had watched it over and over and over again, that is how much I love Freddy and how he really can kill someone in a fun way but this film had not much humor in it. "},{"Title":"It surely is watchable and It brought back the original Fred Krueger","Date":"14 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" At first I had to get used to the movie because the film is going at a different angle. However in my humble opinion the movie went back to the original an brought back the original Fred Krueger of the first movie.From the third movie out of the series, Fred Krueger became more and more an parody on himself and I really hated that. He wasn't scary at all anymore and sprung out at very VERY lame humor. But hey we probably shouldn't forget Wes Craven comes from a country were they also produce America's funniest home video's with the lamest humor there is to be found in the whole world. The sequels (from the third movie) are going the same way. The images are good, the story that is told is also good, but it all gets ruined by the very lame humor.Not in this movie anymore, Fred (not Freddy) is back and gave back the eery suspense that was also found in the first movie.(spoiler) On the other hand, the movie isn't very original. You get back the same effects and deaths as in the first movie and the storyline is about the same only at a different angle. But for me the film was entertaining enough to watch it till the end and I liked the idea of the angle the movie went. therefore 7/10 "},{"Title":"Lets do lunch....","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It's nearing the 10th Anniversary of the film 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' and one of the stars, Heather Langenkamp is being scared by a voice on a phone, sounding very similar to the film's villain, Freddy Krueger. When Heather's husband is killed in a car accident and is discovered with slash marks on him, Heather starts to wonder something. Especially when she discovers that Wes Craven is writing another 'Nightmare' film. Soon, she realises that Freddy has now entered the real world, and the only way to defeat him is to become Nancy Thompson once again....An excellent premise and story, was largely ignored on initial release, thanks to the ever decreasing quality of the sequels to the original.This isn't really a sequel to the Nightmare series, it really is a stand alone film, and it it seems that this was a starting point for Cravens excellent 'Scream' movie.It's surprisingly not very scary, but can be very tense at times, and the most disturbing thing about this film is Miko Hughes' character and the obvious connotations to him, Freddy, and the origins of his character (he abused young children after all).The novelty of actors playing themselves was quite a novelty 15 years ago, with Last action Hero, only really being a big profile film to feature actors playing themselves (yes there are others, but none so prolific as a summer blockbuster, and a very famous horror franchise).All the actors can 'play' themselves really god, which must have been hard to an extent.The ending is a little disappointing, but it resurrects Freddy into a an evil entity once more, rather than the comic book anti-hero he became in the turgid sequels. "},{"Title":"The Comeback!","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Many fans of the series claim this one to the be one of the best if not the best in the series. I don't consider it to be the best, but it's a great recovery from the last entry (Freddy's Dead = Ugh). One thing that I don't like about this movie, is that it turns the movies in to just that...movies. I know they're all just movies, but I feel it's kind of a ripoff for the fans of the others to those who have followed them since the beginning. Sure, they continue the story but I wish they could have done it without knocking the others in the series. But it is a different approach, a more realistic one at that (No more Super Freddy or Nintendo deaths).The cast is great, some familiar faces return. Thankfully one of those faces is Heather Langenkamp, how is this possible, well like already mentioned, the other entries in the series were just movies in this movie so it was her character that died, she's back playing herself. I'm making this much more confusing then it really is, I think you get what I'm saying though. Robert Englund returns, as himself and as a re-imagined Freddy (I prefer the movie inside the movie Freddy more though). We also get cameo's from the man himself Wes Craven, Tuesday Knight and John Saxon (awesome!). Also, there's the addition of Dylan Porter (Miko Hughes playing Heather's son, this kid use to be everywhere).Reality begins to blur as the movie goes on and Heather must save her son as both mother and character Nancy. These elements come off as really effective. It's also a nice nod to the original's fans as we see similar situations and scenes reintroduced.The death scenes are fairly tame, even for a Nightmare movie. Sure we get the girl dragged around the walls and ceiling in the hospital, similar to one of Freddy's most famous kills from the original, but it just isn't enough. There's also Heather's 'husbands' death which I found to be fairly weak, death by motorized glove.One thing that meshes well with the story is the fairy tale aspect, the Hansel & Gretel bit definitely works. It's also a nice bit of foreshadowing when Heather reads the story to Dylan, as there's a similar conclusions to both movie and book.The build up to Freddy is nice. He really doesn't make many appearances until about the last 45 minutes. When we do get him, he's definitely not the same Freddy, he seems more clean cut to be honest. Not the best take on Freddy but definitely not the worst.One of my favorite scenes happens near the end. The chase scene on the highway turned out great. Both Heather and Dylan dodging traffic, looked great and it made for a really intense scene, nicely done.The final showdown is pretty solid. Heather must take pills and journey under the covers to reach the dream world, nice bit of fantasy added there. Freddy chases around Heather and Dylan for awhile in a dungeon like setting until they lock him in an oven (remember that bit of foreshadowing).All in all, this is definitely a solid entry in the series, took Freddy from being a complete joke to a respectable character and horror icon once again. Really gotta appreciate what Wes Craven did for the fans, not only bringing back Freddy, but bringing him in a way that's never been done before.8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Freddy's back in a nightmare-within-a-nightmare","Date":"15 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" By the end of 1991's Freddy's Dead, the NOES series had run its course. At first, Freddy was a scary, mysterious killer who attacked his victims in the one place they couldn't escape their dreams. As the sequels accumulated, and Freddy became more popular, the tone of the films became more comedic. Freddy turned into a wisecracking killer who would dispose of his victims with plenty of imagination and one-liners. Sure it was funny, but it was hard to be scared of him, and the Freddy-kills-kids-in-their-dreams premise eventually wore thin.Wes Craven's New Nightmare takes the series back its roots with a film-within-a-film structure (or in this case, a nightmare-within-a-nightmare). The plot basically involves Freddy, freed from the trap of the movies, looking to invade the real world through Heather Langenkamp and her son, Dylan. With Wes writing a new script, the lines between fiction and reality become blurred as Wes' script directly correlates with Heather's 'real' life as she aims to stop Freddy. All the real life actors play themselves, while Robert Englund appears as himself and Freddy.The problem with the self-aware film-within-a-film genre is, if done badly, it can look self-indulgent and too in-jokey. Fortunatley, Wes manages to balance the numerous references to the old movies (and explains why the series eventually grew stale) while moving the plot forward, though he still pays homage to Freddy the pop culture icon at the start of the movie Heather does a TV interview to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the first NOES, Englund comes on stage dressed as Freddy, where he poses for the adoring studio audience. Also, when Heather visits the New Line Cinema Offices to discuss the movie, there is Freddy paraphernalia everywhere, including a Freddy version of the Warhol Marilyn Monroe 'pop art' painting.The best thing about this movie is the characterisation of Freddy. As opposed to the jokey, almost Looney Tunes-style villain from the sequels, in New Nightmare Freddy is taken back to the creepy, menacing bad guy from the original NOES (though there are a few one-liners to keep fans of 'funny Freddy' happy) with a bonier face and razor glove. Consequently, this film is a lot creepier, and is up there with NOES 1 and 3 as the best of the franchise. While it lacks the inventive killings which made the series so watchable (especially some of the poorer sequels) that's not such a big drawback for this film.In summary, New Nightmare breathes life into a much-loved series. It does so by taking a fresh film-within-a-film approach and bringing Freddy back to his original characterisation, without losing the humour of previous sequels. "},{"Title":"Nice new twist on an old theme","Date":"5 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well, forget about the fun Freddy from parts 4-6, he's back to being an evil, sadistic, humourless grump again, and the world is better for it.Wes Craven came up with a good idea here deciding to have Freddy Krueger stalk the cast of the original film. But there is something primeval at work. Freddy Krueger was the most recent incarnation of an ancient evil, contained for centuries in various stories and fairy tales and he's been dormant long enough He wants to make another movie with the same cast but this time in the real world.And Craven makes good on the promising premise, frequently referencing the original film with kills and plot points and eventually using the fairytale of Hansel and Gretyl as the device to kill Freddy once and for all. All of this while creating a surreal atmosphere and some great chilling moments.The performances in this are fine, Heather Leagankamp, Wes Craven and Robert Englund are all on form and the brief appearances of John Saxon and other series regulars help add to the desired effect of a greatest hits show with a twist.This is a good film. Good atmosphere, terrific premise with some nice kills. Exactly what you want from a horror film and then some. "},{"Title":"Oh well.....","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This will be short... I just want to say how nice it was to see Wes Craven return and pull these series out of the crap.....Decent movie all in all, compared to the 6th. one(which I think was as important to these series as Season of the Witch was for the Halloween series) Craven also seemed to give a certain element of fear back to Freddy which was lost after the 3rd. movie..... I think it's mostly because he has dropped all those lame one-liners that seemed to make Freddy more silly than scary, and therefore, making this movie like a C-Class family-horror-comedy-thriller-something. Oh well, I don't know.....I recommend it though if you are in the mood for a well written and an original thriller. "},{"Title":"The Franchise bounces back","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After the embarrassing mess Nightmare On Elm Street 6 was, it took Wes Craven to bring back Freddy in a fresh new way. You can't accuse this film of not being original. It's shot documentary style almost the whole way and interprets reality&#133;well&#133;in a real way. We get to see the New Line offices, Robert Englund playing himself, Wes Craven at home (great pad man) and John Saxon being a nice guy. I bought it. The film starts fast putting its audience in a shaky environment from the get go earthquakes, creepy phone call, TV's that run themselves and spooky dream sequences. The film also has many nods to the original Elm Street. Anybody that remembers the first one will double his/her pleasure upon viewing this film. From the opening sequence to the girl on the ceiling bit, to the screw your pass line to the Freddy phone, this flick is a perfect companion piece to the first. We even get to see Rod (Nick Corri) at a funeral&#133;fun stuff&#133;.I was really glad to see Heather Langenkamp back she rocked in parts 1 and 3 I rooted for her again the whole way John Saxon also plays himself and damn he must be a great man. Miko Hughes (Dylan) does well truly believable and has great chemistry with Heather Tracy Middendorf (Julie) is very likable and cute too, I really felt for her when she died and Robert England (himself/Freddy) is back on form.All in all this franchise did something that I though wasn't possible and that is make Freddy scary again and it was also nice to see some old faces again. "}{"Title":"Lights, camera, FREDDY","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I thought this was a decent entry to Freddy's reign of terror. Heather Langenkamp returns as herself AND Nancy. Robert Englung is very good at playing two very contrasting characters, himself and the REAL Freddy Krueger. John Saxon wasn't half bad either. This movie is the opposite of part 5 I think. Part 5 was big on kills, horrible on story. This movie is good with the story, but if you're looking for mass killing...sorry, this isn't quite the movie for you then. I'd compare this movie to the first one in a lot of ways, but that was intended it seems. Only grievance here is that Heather seems to have TOO much bad luck at times and it gets a little annoying. No one seems to be on her side. But don't let that stop you from enjoying this movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The series goes out with a bang... or does it?","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's stylish slasher New Nightmare is no doubt the strongest follow-up in the Nightmare on Elm Street series. The series had started strong with the original but had started dying off, until it was lame and unoriginal by the sixth. But Wes Craven, the original director, returns to direct this horror extravaganza and saves the series satisfyingly.Heather Langenkamp plays herself here, now with a little boy (Miko Hughes from Pet Sematary) and a loving husband. The whole film is cleverly set in real life, with all of the actors playing themselves, including Wes Craven, who is directing a movie within the movie. It's a bit confusing determining what is real and what is not but the movie is smart and original in its approach.Freddy Krueger was killed off in the last movie, and now an ancient evil that was living through the films is finally free. Angry that Freddy is dead, it returns in his form and starts terrorizing Heather and her child. Imaginative and scary, this isn't as creepy as the original but it's not bad for a Nightmare film, certainly better than some of the abysmal previous installments. This isn't really the end of Freddy though, don't worry. He's right back to his old roots in the fantastic Freddy Vs. Jason after this. "},{"Title":"I hate horror films!","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'm not a fan of horror films, but I love this film. The idea of this monster coming back to haunt the actors is ingenious! The acting leaves something to be desired (even when Heather Langenkamp plays herself she isn't believable...but she is fun to watch) but the direction is great and the script rocks. Any fan of movies in general should see this picture, whether they've seen another one in the series or not. I have a problem, though, with some of the special effects. Watching it on the television, the scene where Heather chases her son across the freeway looks staged and fake...you can imagine Heather standing in front of a blue screen and pretending to dodge cars...the lighting is all wrong. And, some of the action scenes (like the first scene where the special effects hand attacks the techies)are rushed and hard to follow. Still, the cameos by Bob Shay and others are fun to watch. One of my favorite movies of all time, just for the plot (and Heather's close-ups). "},{"Title":"The Only Good Sequel","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After watching the Original Nightmare On Elm Street, I was very satisfied. Satisfied in seeing a movie that actually had some thought put into it, and the result was something unique. However, after the original NOES there was nothing but crappy generic sequels that followed. Sequels in which Freddy turned into a stand up comedian, rather than the frightening figure he was in the original. The Sequels also used the same plot over and over again, which of-course after awhile became ridiculously tedious. The biggest problem though, IMO, is the sequels weren't both Written/Directed by Wes Craven. Craven, IMO, is the only one capable of producing a good NOES movie - And he proved it again with New Nightmare. New Nightmare, IMO, is every bit as good as the Original. It was unique, witty, and Freddy was darker than ever. It was good to see Wes bring some credibility back to the series after five God-Awful Sequels. "},{"Title":"not needed","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" well...i thought the nightmare on elm street series were brilliant but there was no need for new nightmare.yes, it was a good film but it was not needed for one the image of Freddy Kruger has been changed and it was so un life like yes i no nightmare on elm street was also unlife like but still the vibe and the way it was un life like was clever.Freddy getting to his prey through dreams was a good idea but however in the new nightmare i was unhappy to see that the vibe and way the past films have been made are changed.also in 1993's Jason goes to hell-the final Friday, the last scene shows Freddy Kruger's arm pulling Jason's mask down under the surface (to hell) witch shows that 2003's Freddy vs Jason was going to be made and then before it hit the big screen to films were made new nightmare and Jason x in both of these films Jason's and Freddy's images are changed but atlessed in Jason x it was set in the future but new nightmare was not so when Freddy vs Jason came out Freddy Kruger's imaged was changed and then brought back to the original look of the nightmare on elm street character.i am not saying that new nightmare is a bad film far from it but it was not needed and confused me while watching Freddy vs Jason for Freddy's image was changed back. "},{"Title":"An Wonderful Return by Freddy Krueger","Date":"7 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare (1994, Dir. Wes Craven) It's nearing the 10th Anniversary of the film 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' and one of the stars, Heather Langenkamp is being scared by a voice on a phone, sounding very similar to the film's villain, Freddy Krueger. When Heather's husband is killed in a car accident and is discovered with slash marks on him, Heather starts to wonder something. Especially when she discovers that Wes Craven is writing another 'Nightmare' film. Soon, she realises that Freddy has now entered the real world, and the only way to defeat him is to become Nancy Thompson once again.When you first see the trailer for this movie, it looks very interesting and is an unusual concept for a film. A character from a film enters the real world. Could it work? Well it does and it's an amazing horror film which is easily the best since the original. If you are unfamiliar with the franchise, then you would love the suspense, and if you are a fan of everything behind the scenes, then you would love the references to the film world. This is a modern horror film which definitely works.Are you ready to become Nancy once again. - Wes Craven (Wes Craven) "},{"Title":"Less Freddy is horrible, not horror.","Date":"22 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have avoided this for many years because I was a big fan of the the original and even the first couple of sequels, but as the series went downhill, I stayed away. Finally, feeling a need for some Freddy, I broke down and watched A Nightmare on Elm Street 7 The New Nightmare. This film introduces yet another twist into the Freddy franchise, this time Freddy comes to the real world, no, the real, real world. Freddy is angry about being killed off and terrorizes the cast of the original NOES. Except we have terror and very little Freddy. Freddy has always been the true star of the Elm St. series and Wes Craven attempts to create new horror with a monster we don't see. Unfortunately, we've already seen the monster and we want more, not less, of Freddy. To make matters worse, Heather Langenkamp lacks the acting chops to portray a horrified mother and can't sell the story. To top it off, Freddy's makeup, when he finally appears, is terrible. Freddy looks like a $90 Halloween mask. It's not all bad, especially for non-fans of the originals, there is some true horror here fear of losing a child, fear of what your child may become, fear of losing of a parent, fear of the establishment/government. Ultimately it's a mediocre horror movie but not a good Freddy movie. "},{"Title":"Thanks to this film, Freddy's Dead feels like a bad dream (No pun intended)","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" With 'Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare' it seemed the once very profitable series was finally over. The concept of a killer haunting the dreams of teenagers was getting old and nothing much new could be done with it. After 1-3 the antagonist went from feared monster to beloved anti-hero thanks to the merchandising and one-liners spouted by him. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy every Nightmare film to varying degrees and have a lot of the merchandise, but this icon and series had been run into the ground...until 1994. Wes Craven, creator of the original film and also co-writer and executive producer of 3, had come up with a really novel idea for a movie that would not only bring back everyone's favorite Boogey Man, but also returns the series to it's roots.Pros Great writing and directing by director Craven, who gives the movie a kind of documentary feel. Solid performances from the cast. A good and powerful score. The pace does start slow, but once it picks up it goes along nicely. Thanks to Wes Craven and Robert Englund Freddy is scary again. Good special and visual effects. A unique, for the time, premise that breathes new life into the franchise. Suspenseful and unpredictable. Some great nods and homages to the original.Cons More Freddy would've been nice. Fans may also be disappointed by the low body count. The finale, though well done, is too big and over-the-top compared to the rest of the film.Final thoughts Kudos to Wes Craven and his cast and crew for bringing some much needed class and dignity to the series. It may not be as good as the original, but it's a great companion piece to it. Now only if John Carpenter would do the same thing for the 'Halloween' series.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"how good can nightmare get?","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" OK, for everyone who has seen the way nightmare went downhill after the first movie, and think this is gonna continue, watch the movie, you will be surprised. first, it was written and directed by Wes craven, so already you know its got to be good, secondly, the plot is so good, possibly better than the first in the series. Basically Wes Craven, the creator of nightmare on elm street is having nightmares, and thinks he could use them in a new nightmare movie, meanwhile, Nancy, (heather langenkamp) from the first and 3rd movies, is also having the nightmares. soon, its revealed that Freddy, angry at being killed in the last nightmare, is real, and is hunting down the crew that killed him off, and the cast from the previous movies... "},{"Title":"Freddy's big breakthrough.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" An interesting, and sadly overlooked, entry in the franchise, this is of importance to genre fans who want to see the ideas in Scream before they became Scream. Craven uses this movie to explore the boundaries between reality and fiction and to subvert many of the horror clichés while at the same time using them to get classic scares. He also manages, impressively, to get Freddy back to being a genuinely scary figure. This is helped by Freddy receiving a makeover that makes him look even more evil than he ever did before (in fact, this and the devil Freddy look from FvJ are probably his scariest incarnations).Langenkamp does slightly better here, playing a version of herself, but I still wish she'd never burdened the entire series with her presence. She's a great gal and does well to revisit a character she could have ditched a long time ago but there are many better actresses out there. It has to be said that everyone (Langenkamp, Englund, Saxon and even Craven, although he's the least of them,) does well as they bravely portray versions of themselves. And Lin Shaye is back in a minor role, although she may be the only one returning from the first movie NOT to be playing themselves.This movie, more than any other in the entire series, has intelligence, a great storyline and moments that offer something to really disturb most viewers (parents may feel especially unnerved with some scenes). It also has a number of great callbacks to the first movie and some nice references to classic horror stories, Handsel And Gretel being the most noticeable. The second best entry in the series and well worth giving another chance to if you disliked it the first time because it was too different. "}{"Title":"Freddy gets existential","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Nightmare on Elm Street phenomenon is something that has always eluded me; sure, the original film had some moments that scared me when I was in the under 10 age bracket, but now seem rather tame. I never bothered watching the sequels, save for random moments I'd catch on cable, so I went into Wes Craven's New Nightmare with few expectations, and even fewer reservations. And I was quite pleasantly surprised by the end result. Like Halloween H20, this is a film that all but ignores the sequels sandwiched between the original and itself, opting to bring the series to a respectable end. At the time of its release in 1994, New Nightmare's concept of reality overlapping with fantasy, and a self-referential attitude (the fictional Freddy has become such a pop-culture icon that he begins to manifest in the real world) was rather radical, and would be revisited by Craven in the Scream trilogy. Where New Nightmare diverges from those films is in its cleverly existential sub-layer; Craven, a former college professor, brings a refreshing intelligence to his dream-logic, instead of using it as a cheap plot device. By Saw and Hostel standards, the film is restrained in its bloodshed, instead looking to inspire chills through a sustained unpredictability that works extremely well. Craven represents his maternal side in Heather Langenkamp's concerned mother, and gets some good, cheeky performances from John Saxon and Robert Englund (as himself and Freddy). "},{"Title":"Heather Langenkamp returns one last time to defeat the terrifying Freddy Kruegar","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven returns to the series that he created in 1984 with his exquisite take on nightmares and how they can cross into reality to affect the sufferer. Here he brings back his original cast of Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon and Robert Englund as they all play themselves fighting against an evil entity that has been ensnared as Freddy for the past ten years since the creation of the Elm Street phenomenon. Now that the character and films have ended, he is trying to cross over into reality to affect the reality of the movie stars. Wes Craven explains to Heather, only making another film and defeating the character can ensnare him back in his rightful place and save humanity from the horrors that he threatens. Heather Langenkamp is perfect in the part she was born to play and as the film draws to its terrifying conclusion, each of the stars find themselves unwittingly playing their alter-ego's from the movie. Its a clever film that turns the Elm Street series on its head, and crafts a beautiful yet terrifying story of survival against unspeakable horrors. "},{"Title":"Second best in the series","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" While calling it the second best in the series isn't saying much, it was a marked improvement on all the other NOES's bar the original. This incarnation's twist is truly delectable. If you hadn't read the synopsis of the film or had any idea, you may have set yourself up for another dodgy instalment of the franchise. Couldn't be further away from how good the film actually was. Not at any point was I expecting the twist that occurs where Fred Kruger's able to come out of film and into the real world. Also food for though as to the inspiration behind the Wishmaster.My only real gripe of the film was the kid. Did he give me the arsehole! Every time the kid screamed I found myself putting the box on mute.Still, it's not a patch on the original Nightmare, which is one of my all time favourite films and I'm not a horror fan. "},{"Title":"A clever way to end the series!","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Taking place exactly ten years after the first nightmare film, New Nightmare brings Freddy into the real world, where he targets both Heather Lagenkamp and her son... making the young boy have frightening nightmares about the guy with knifes for fingers. When I first heard of the plot, I thought it would be HIGHLY stupid, but was pleasantly surprised by how well-written and acted it is. In the seventh and final nightmare film, Freddy is back, and more frightening than ever with scarier knifes for his fingers... This film is very good because fact clashes with fiction, and Robert Englund, Heather Lagencamp, and Wes Craven star as themselves as well. It's very well-written (Wes Craven did the screenplay,) and it isn't trying to be funny like Nightmares 2-6. After the HUGE letdown of Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare, New Nightmare proves to be scary and real; the deaths aren't gross like in the fifth film... The deaths are bloody and well-done like in the first film. I truly believe that this is so great because Heather and Wes are back. But watch out for that annoying kid of hers! Though not as good as the first, it nearly is. "},{"Title":"One Two, Freds back","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Heather Langenkamp(Nancy Thompson)has problems. Her son Dylan Porter(Miko Hughes)is having bad dreams. He blames them all on Freddy Krueger(Robert Englund)whom has returned to reek his vengeance on Nancy and the Elm Street producers. But this isn't Nancy Suddenly there are killings of Nightmare On Elm Street producers. One of them is Chase Porter(David Newsom). Heather now must act fast to protect her son. Will she succeed? Will she save the world from a killer that dream kills his victim?Watch for the fun, scares and excitement. Heck, even Wes Craven is in it. A movie inside of a movie. Don't watch this at night. I recommend all the Nightmare On Elm Street, Friday The 13th and Freddy vs Jason. "},{"Title":"Art-imitates-Life in the final showdown between Freddy Krueger and his creators.","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When Freddy Krueger was done with and on the shelf of New Line Cinema, after The Final Nightmare, Wes Craven came back to grab his concept and deliver a proper ending to the saga. He already had tried to grab the lead of the saga in Nightmare 3, but was put aside for his ambition. But this time he knew he had to write material that would not only bring people back into the basic story, but also, create a new atmosphere that wouldn't break the notion that Freddy Krueger really died in The Final Nightmare.Therefore, he doesn't start where the previous sequel ended - has happened with the other installments. He transposes the barrier, to create a new environment, like only a storyteller could. This story begins in a supposed real life. Heather Langenkamp plays her own real life character, in a curious art-imitates-life new background.I don't want to reveal too much of the plot, but Both Heather Langenkamp, his husband and son are having recurring nightmares dealing with the making of the Nightmare movies. Though they don't really have Freddy Krueger in it, they surely bring up the idea that he is behind all of it. But being Freddy a character, why is Heather having nightmares? Who is in her dreams and why? The mystery doesn't bother Heather too much until her husband suffers a little accident...The previous sequels spent too much time with non-important character's deaths, but this one delivers depth to the characters so that you really fear for them when the tension comes to play. For instance, the original movie was about Nancy, the misunderstood teenager fighting alone for survival, but now, Heather Langenkamp is haunted by the legacy of her acting and has to fight alone not only for her life, but for the life of her son who is the chosen victim of the nightmare monster.There's only a flaw in the movie, and it is a pretty basic one and it has to do with logic *SPOILER HERE* If the ancient monster haunting Wes Craven's dreams wants to come to life why choose - as a doorway - an actress who only was in two movies? Yes, we all know Nancy was the first character to kill Freddy Krueger in a movie, but so what? Is she more important than Lisa Wilcox (Alice), who killed him twice in the saga, or Liza Zane (Maggie) who killed him definitely in the last one? I guess that the storyline would be better understood and more challenging if the story was about Robert Englund fighting for the life of his son and haunted by the ghost of his cinema character. Wouldn't it be more comprehensible if the ancient monster wanted to come to life through the person who gave him life for so many years? Well, I guess Wes Craven has a thing for damsels in distress, so he had to go for the female star even if she isn't that relevant on the franchise of Nightmare on Elm Street. As the movie goes forward and the monster starts growing with powers, Heather's life starts blending with the one of her character, Nancy, one of the things that puts us back in the dreamy world that was created for A Nightmare on Elm Street Though it's considered as a sequel, I can't see this movie as one, but as a reinvention of Freddy Krueger, who regains his scary side, erasing in a blink of an eye all the sequels that followed the 1984 debut.Watch out for great action sequences, like the highway crash and the final confrontation between Heather-turned-Nancy and her nemesis Freddy Krueger. Prepare yourself, the last 20 minutes are a roller-coaster.This is the ultimate Nightmare movie, a chance for people to get back to the original monster created in 1984 and that has been destroyed ever since and turned into a comic relief. And in fact, the concept of the movie was so interesting that Wes Craven tried to go there again in Scream 3, where the art-imitates-life idea comes again to life. But it certainly doesn't have the mind-blowing effect as this particular one did. "},{"Title":"Craven's Masterpiece ***** out of 5","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare, is Craven's Masterpiece. It is not just a movie, but an experience.It is not a sequel to any of the previous films, and takes place outside of the series and into the 'real' world. The character 'Freddy' was killed off once and for all in 'Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare' (aka Nightmare on Elm Street 6). 'New Nightmare' doesn't follow the rules of the original movies because they were fiction, not real. What you are watching when viewing 'New Nightmare' is REAL. Somehow this imaginary character has come to life, and is killing the cast and crew who made the 'Elm Street' films. It's much more than a horror film. In fact, it's pretty dramatic. The 'Nightmare' series have always been good fun, with the original film being the only one in the series that's worthy of being called a masterpiece. But 'New Nightmare' is not to be taken lightly. It's dead serious. No pun intended. In fact, I prefer this film over the first Elm Street film.The score is mostly full orchestra with some choir injected in. Something never done in a movie with, 'Freddy' as the star. It's very well done. Many actors, actresses, and producers play themselves. Even a portion of the film takes place at New Line Studios!I highly recommend this film to horror and non-horror movie buffs alike.It's not to be missed. "},{"Title":"I love New Nightmare!","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Unlike the previous films to Wes Craven's original 1984 shocker, NEW NIGHTMARE is not a sequel that picks up after FREDDY'S DEAD, but rather a wicked spin-off on the franchise. What I really enjoyed about this film was seeing all of those who have participated in the series, both in front & behind the camera playing themselves (oddly though, RACHEL TALALY in nowhere to be seen). I really had a hoot watching them play themselves & how the NIGHTMARE series has effected their lives. I loved how Freddy was portrayed here, he's darker, leaner, meaner & far more terrifying Freddy Kruger, like the original film & Part 2, Freddy is once again played as a straight forward & deadly menace, not a wise cracking dream demon he later became in the series, which I felt cheapened the character. Freddy is also graced with a brand new look, with a long black trench coat, black leather pants & boots, a mechanical razor glove & a demonic look. ROBERT ENGLUND really segues into the role here & is devilish perfection as the character. Despite the positive changes & a return to form of the first two films, darker edged character & story lines, NEW NIGHTMARE unfortunately earns the rather ominous distinction of being the series lowest earning entry at the box office. No doubt fans were a little hesitant about seeing another NIGHTMARE film after being burned by several mediocre entries to the franchise. In a way the whole film pre-dates SCREAM & it's many sequels, no doubt had the film been made about a year or two after SCREAM's release, the film would have done fantastic box office & much better reviews than it got when it was first released. It just missed the curve a bit & no doubt a lot of fans didn't really get it, or what it was trying to do. Plus the state of the horror genre was probably the perfect statement on why it performed poorly. Horror was dead then. It managed to break the fourth wall, by showing the real people who played these characters & it was fun watching them play themselves, rather than some made up characters. Freddy himself is wisely kept off screen for most of the film & only used sparingly & I felt this made him even creepier, rather than over exposing him like the sequels did. In fact, it's about an hour in, or close to it before you even see him on screen, but yet his presence is definitely felt throughout the film & the story so fascinating, you hardly notice, since Wes cleverly allows the audience to get drawn in to his characters, diolg & situations. Thankfully the seeds of success that were planted by the original 1984 film & it's earlier sequels, that brought Freddy into our pop culture are back, embodied in the spirit of NEW NIGHTMARE, everything that was old & stale is now fresh & alive again! More importantly, the series slide from shocking brilliance to mediocrity, with the latter sequels was now mercifully over, the spirit was more alive than ever. The concept was very original & just what was needed to get the series back on track. This one easily has to be in the top three best sequels! the scares here are much more effective & elaborate than any of the scares the sequels conjured up. There's several effective twists & new idea's. There are several knowing nods to the first, the opening scene where Freddy is building his glove, ELMER BERNSTIEN's score is used frequently, (there's even a nod to Part 5, with a fake Freddy head attacked to someone's face as it's pulling away) Heather in her pyjama's, seeing the original film play on the TV screen, her hair has a streak of white in it & she occasionally utters a line or two from the first film. Freddy emerging from the sheets, snakes & eels attack Heather when she is in Freddy's dungeon, Heather getting her feet caught in glop as she mounts a set of steps to try & save her son & Freddy sticking his tongue out of the mouth piece of the telephone, after talking to Heather, the scratches Freddy gives her on her arm is similar to those she experienced in the first & even a victim is killed the way her friend Tina was in the first movie. And the film also pokes it's salty finger in they eyes of not only the MPAA, but those who think horror films do damage to young children. Interestingly, the film also appears to be a modern day take on HANSEL & GRETEL, Heather reads her son the story & the climax sees Freddy pushed into his own oven after he tries to eat her son, Heather swallowing several sleeping pills left by her son, so she can find him & take him home. On the downside MIKO HUGHES who plays Heather's son really got on my nerves, I just didn't care for this character to much & I could have done without that cheesy EXORCIST like scene, where he vomits pea soup all over Heather. NICK CORRI has a cameo here but where's RONEE BLAKELY, AMANDA WYSS & JOHNNY DEPP? All in all I highly recommend you see NEW NIGHTMARE, it's fun, it's witty & it's just as scary & clever now as it was back then. One of Craven's best films! Followed by a reel sequel - FREDDY VS. JASON**** stars "},{"Title":"Not just a good horror, a good movie - the best in the series.","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Don't get me wrong - I'm a big Freddy'fan and I like horror, but in general, I think that it is not a great genre - more like guilty pleasure. But in the case of this movie, it is not true. Because New Nightmare is not just a good horror - it is a great, almost poetic film about the thin line between fantasy and reality. The story is extremely original and interesting (minor spoilers lie ahead) Ancient demon is trapped in the character of Freddy Krueger in the Elm Street series. But after The Final Nightmare the demon, who is a darker version of Freddy Krueger is free and attacks the real world. His aim is to kill the actress who played Nancy in the first part - Heather. To achieve this, Freddy tries to madden her small, 8-years old son. Heather must accept the unthinkable truth and to confront the vile creature. The movie is very good, with beautiful new vision, better special effects and a very good plot. Actors play very well, which is uncommon in horror movies and Freddy Krueger is much cooler in this film, than in the previous six parts. The final battle with him is really magnificent.Overall, a great movie and not only in its genre. "},{"Title":"One, two; the poltergeist of Freddy's coming for you!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  IMDb mark 7Horror movies made in the '90s are terrible. Sure, you got 'Bram Stoker's Dracula', which is itself hardly a typical horror movie, but, other than that, it was a horrible era as far as gore goes. In 1994, Wes Craven tried to make another great horror film, reminiscent of the spectacular '80s, and to make way for Freddy to retire in a glorious manner. And he nearly succeeded. I say nearly, first because it's not really a great horror film, since most of the film looks like a thriller basically, and only the ending seems like part of a horror; secondly, because he didn't succeed in retiring Freddy Krueger, seeing as how he just made his comeback in 'Freddy Vs. Jason'.-Gore Although the last twenty minutes sure are nice, there isn't a whole lot of gore in this movie. Especially if you've gotten used to Freddy's face. And a lot of the ideas that lead to the gory scenes are taken from the previous films, so they don't really take you by surprise. However, the scene with Chase's eyes has some redeeming qualities. 21/30-Suspense Wes Craven is the master of suspense, really. This is not as scary as the first movie, but it comes close. I really don't think anyone else could have made this film as suspenseful as Mr. Craven did. 15/15-Ending I liked the ending, very much. Of course, taste varies. 15/15-Death Scenes These are not great at all. Although there are more deaths here than in the parts 5 and 6, they are worse. It's hard to pick one, just because they seem so far apart and unoriginal and gratuitous, but I think I have to go with Julie's. Tinaaaa!... I mean, ever play skin the cat? 4/11-Atmosphere After one sees the first 30-40 minutes, one will probably wonder, how the hell are they going to make this into a horror movie? But it does turn into a nice, scary movie, eventually, and another good thing is that it doesn't get over-emotional, either, even though it could have. 9/10-Nudity There is no nudity in this film. 0/10-Cast Besides Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon, the guy who played Rod Lane in the original -- Nick Corri -- and the actress who played Nancy's English teacher -- Lin Shaye, in a new role here --, it is nice to finally see Wes Craven and Robert Shaye acting in a Nightmare on Elm Street movie. The credits also indicate that Tuesday Knight, Kristen from part 4, was in 'New Nightmare', but I didn't recognize her. And last, but not least, there's Miko Hughes, who was quite famous before he appeared in this. 4/5-Genre This is a horror film, just barely. 4/4-->Overall 72/100In conclusion, 'Wes Craven's New Nightmare' has a very interesting premise, but one perhaps not too well-suited for a really scary horror film. Nevertheless, the movie fares quite well, and it doesn't disappoint at all. Too bad Wes Craven didn't get involved in all 7 movies! From Swordlord, 2 swords up! "}{"Title":"Very original take on the series by the creator himself...","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, where do I begin?How about...? Give this movie a try before you write to off as just another lame attempt at a 'Nightmare' movie. Remember, this was written and directed by Wes Craven, the man who created Freddy Krueger waaaay back in 1984.Disgusted at how the sequels portray and (in my opinion) destroyed the Freddy from his original film, Wes takes his character back to his roots, back to that evil, sadistic and extremely terrifying persona of the original. You hired this movie to see Freddy do some stand-up comedy you will be sorely disappointed. You've never seen Freddy like this before...different charred face, black flowing trench-coat and a completely different glove (which was actually inspired by the original art work on Nightmare #1).Why is Freddy so different you ask? Let me explain in a short abbreviated way what is to come, hopefully without giving too much away.The seemingly endless stream of Nightmare On Elm Street sequels has given Freddy the power to transcend into OUR world. And who's on his kill-list? Why...his enemies from the movies ofcourse. That is...the people that played them anyway. Heather Langankamp (Nancy from the original Nightmare) returns playing herself, as well as Robert Englund (the actor behind the make up and with a hand full of razors) and Wes Craven.Definatly gets a 10/10 for originality and its good to see Freddy actually scary again...not like the more recent disappointment of Freddy vs Jason.9/10 "},{"Title":"Curious, a bit scary, and even funny.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have been a huge fan of the nightmares for years now. First time I ever heard of them was from a friend back in Russia who told me I'd get scared out of my mind. I could not watch it, however, since we didn't have a VCR or cable back then. That was about 10 years ago; I've been in this country for over 9 years, and seen all of the series. I didn't get as scared as the kid said I would. But this set of movies made a better impression on me than any other horror movie I've ever seen. I thought that they had an abundance of imagination and creativity, as opposed to Scream where people kill each other because of stupidity. Ironic that both are made by the same director. This last one, however, wasn't quite what I expected. The problem wasn't that it shows all the previous victims as themselves, but that it doesn't leave one off wondering. I just don't believe in watching a movie where everything is spelled out for you. And that was what the series have excelled in so greatly. This last one seems to be afraid to let us think that Freddy can really hunt us out on the street, that if we happen to visit the studio someday, we're still not safe from his sharp finger knives and rubber skin.  I think this was Craven's way of letting us laugh at the movies for once instead of just sitting back waiting to see what the next confusing horrifying thing is to be brought on the screen. He may be trying to say that it's time to start thinking constructively and as a whole instead of just sitting at home and worshiping him for drawing us pretty pictures of unreal monsters. That's just an idea. No one truly knows what was his intention of making a movie that purposely kills the very mystery he created. Anyways, I'd give it 2 stars out of 5. Also because I believe a movie should be either a supernatural one or not. Here it jumps back and forth. That messed with my feelings and hurt my image of the series in general. "},{"Title":"Goes to prove","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  That only Wes Craven can make a good Nightmare movie. Craven has always been my favorite director and this movie shows why. I loved the first one and the third one was great but the others are just like all the other teen horror films, not really exciting.I watched this when if first came out and it scared me to death, I was only a kid, now im older and I watch it everytime i see it on a movie channel. It still gives me chills. This is the only horror movie that can scare me.Almost every one playes themselves, and according to the credits even Freddy Cruger plays himself.We learn that Wes is writing a script for the new Nigtmare movie, and its about Heather. Freddy is breaking out of the world of movies and into reality. He terrorizes Heather and her son Dylan. Quickly killing off her husband. With terrific hospital scenes, one which includes the death of Dylans babysitter. Dylan escapes the hospital which leads us to a fantastic highway scene which eventually takes us to a fantastic ending. As it turns out Wes was having dreams and they are what we just saw. I loved you I think you will too "},{"Title":"Postmodern joy","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So many 80s horror films leave me totally unmoved.  I sat through the debuts of Michael Myers, Jason Vorhees and Fred Krueger fairly dispassionately.  But when, in 1994, Craven returned to his franchise and dissected it on a postmodern autopsy table, I was hooked.  In a confusing twist, it is now Heather Langenkamp, the genuine actress who appeared in A Nightmare On Elm Street, who is being stalked by Freddy Krueger - and his sights are also set on Robert Englund and Wes Craven!  Way ahead of its time, this paved the way for the nowhere-near-as-clever postmodern movies we sigh through today. "},{"Title":"A tie with the first","Date":"25 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"      3 years has past and FREDDY is dead.Wes Craven decides that FREDDY should have a better burial.Thus,Wes Craven's New Nightmare was born.Proving that some sequels are better or just as good as the original.    In this film,none of the FREDDY KRUGER films are real,just hollywood stuff.And real life actors from the original are having a great life.Until Heather Langenkamp(best known for Nancy)is having scary nightmares in real life by FREDDY.But not the FREDDY we know,a more evil and darker FREDDY,who's mad that the films of him has ended.So now FREDDY is killing real life people and one more battle Heather,who he thinks is still Nancy.    Wes Craven is back at writing and directing this last film in the series.And this is the best nightmare since the first one.Wes has made sure this film is more for the people who were 18,now in there 30's,that grow up with FREDDY. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven returns to deliver his most original and most artistic film in recent years!!","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Usually after 4 or 5 sequals to 80's horror movies, no one has hope left in each series, for example Friday the 13th, that series has stoked up 10 films to date (11 including Freddy Vs Jason), no one had faith left in that series, until they saw Jason X, yes people argue it's not a good movie, but i disagree, it breathed new life into a sadly dying franchise, made it cool again.  This is indeed what happened to the Nightmare on Elm Street series....Wes Craven delivers his most original and most artistic film in recent years...this is the text that should appear if this film was re-released to todays audiences.  This movie not only has a great storyline, great cast, great writer and director, but it also has what everyone doubted - truely scary and suspensfull scenes.  I love these movies but i have to agree Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare took the biscuit so to speak, made Freddy even more of a joke.  Who would have thought after that dredfull installment to the series that a film like this could be brought out starring this character who has been made a joke out of by past filmmakers. The plot is tight - when before has a filmmaker dared to bend the folk between fictional characters and the real life actors that played them. This movie does this brilliantly, the actors are top notch at playing themselves as well as there characters in the series.  Heather Langenkamp is especially brilliant in this installment, this woman is one of the best actors who were around in hollywood at the time, why she didnt get as much work ill never know, i mean she's talented, she's beautiful and she doesnt get any work while at around the same time Pamela Anderson Lee was making a movie called Barbwire (Beautiful but bad actress in my opinion).This movie is light on gore and blood which gives it a more suspensful and atmospheric theme - we enjoy this suspense and atmosphere more than we enjoy the blood and gore in this movie.  Freddy is also very scary again which i though before this movie was released would never happen.  I mean im only 16 now so you can probably work out how long ive been watching these movies, Friday the 13th, Halloween and Child's play movies.  Id rather sit and watch a Freddy, Jason, Michael or Chucky movie instead of some of todays stuff that gets released.  I praise Wes Craven for bringing us this movie, i just love it, my favourite in the Nightmare series so far.  If you want a truely scary film, great acting, great storyline and great filmmaking then this is a great movie to sit in and watch with your girlfriend.  The music is top notch as well, Wes Cravens score in this movie is one of the best he has done.  Anyone who disliked the previous movies has to see this one, it will change your whole outlook on these movies and how they can be brought back from the brink of destruction.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Freddy movies.","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  NOTE CONTAINS ONE MINOR SPOILER.This is one great movie. Deep thinking, originality. Everything. I like the idea of how Freddy stepped out of the films... into reality.I havent seen all of the Freddy series, only the First one, the fifth one, this one, and Freddy vs Jason. Which was unique as well.And im glad Robert Englund never stops playing Freddy. "},{"Title":"Very original story and great acting are the highlights to this mediocre horror sequel","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Now, don't get me wrong, I did like New Nightmare and especially so when compared to most of the crappy sequels to NOES.  It has a very original, inteligent and fresh story (kind of a story within a story), and excellent acting from the cast.  I wish Heather Langencamp would star in more films because from her effort in this film, she really pulls off what could have been a truly embarassing effort for the sixth sequel in a dying franchise.All of the leads do good, except, and I know I'm in the minority here, the little boy who plays her tormented son.  This annoying kid was in practically every movie during the early 1990's that Macauley Culkin was not in that required a child actor to ham it up big time...and that he does in this film.  Now, there are moments where the kids looks genuinely freaked out, by overall, in my opinion, the boy's horrible acting and unbelievably unrealistic stoic representation of a five year old kid really puts a damper on an overall really good story.  Seriously, every time I saw that kid on screen I really had to fight back guilty desires of Freddy going to town on him...but at any rate, the other actors work well, especially Wes Craven's cameo as himself.The script within a script idea along with having many of the original actors return was an excellent idea for this movie, and really makes it enjoyable to watch.  However, as a horror movie, it fails miserably.  I'm not saying it's not in the least bit scary, but few of the scares work because they are either lame, or retreading practically the same territory and setups we've seen in the other 6 Nightmare films.  At least that was my impression, I know others thought this movie was truly terrifying, and to each their own...but what could (and SHOULD have been) a truly terrifying movie with a 'real life' Freddy Kruger truly fails when it comes to horror. And it especially sucks considering that the story is so damn good.  It's basically like watching a drama more than a horror film which may be fine for most, but if you're expecting a horror movie, you may be in for a real disapointment.  With such a damn good script and great atmosphere, you would imagine Freddy would be twice as terrifying as before...unfortunately it is not so in this case.  Freddy is portrayed now as a bumbling, goofy, obviously SYNTHETIC (yes, his makeup here is the worst I've seen in the whole series, and that's saying a lot considering some of the sequels) and very weak being who really poses as no huge threat during any of the 'Freddy vs. Heather' scenes.  The scenes of Freddy's lair are impressive, but the 'special effects' used on him in these scenes are almost embarassing to watch.  Trust me, you'll know it when you see it.Overall though, not a bad movie.  As a horror film, it has a wonderful plot and for the most part, outstanding acting (which in itself, is a rarity), but for being a horror film, it fails miserably.  This is the confliction with 'New Nightmare'...it actually focuses on the story unlike most other horror films...yet, fails most of the time to deliver with the scares.  To further testimony this, I watched this with a few people who literally jump at any scary movie moment, and only jumped maybe twice the whole time.  At any rate, it is a pretty good movie and a nice attempt of Craven's to inject life into a dying series.  However, if you're looking to be scared out of your wits, you may need to go ahead and rerent the original.  7/10 stars overall. "},{"Title":"This Time The Terror Doesn't Stop At The Movies.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just recently I have wanted to experience what it is like to watch some of the &#145;Freddy Kruger' movies. So I decided to watch &#145;A Nightmare on Elm Street' (1984) and &#145;Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare' (1991). The first Nightmare movie was a pass, being well directed and a very original, scary movie. However, &#145;The Final Nightmare' goes down as one of the worst films I have ever seen, with Freddy being a character more a joke, then scary. So I wanted to finish this Freddy fetish, with a film I have seen many times in the trailer, that being &#145;Wes Craven's NEW NIGHTMARE'. It has looked very interesting to me, and sure enough it did not disappoint.  Are our movies no longer safe? Following the sixth and final instalment in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, the evil entity that took the shape of Freddy Krueger is released into the physical world, prompting actress Heather Langenkamp, director Wes Craven and New Line Cinema founder Bob Shaye to perform the heroics necessary to keep Freddy from becoming real in this self-referential thriller. Firstly, Wes Craven needs a big pat on the back for the effort he put into making this movie. The script that he wrote for this movie was not only fresh, but scary and exciting as well. I like the way that he makes this a &#145;horror movie within a horror movie', but also a very thrilling movie as well. This script is also very funny for all the right reasons, because when you get the jokes they are very humorous indeed. I do not want to give much away about the story, just to say that I like the way we see the movie play out, especially how Craven blends in various sequence from the original &#145;ANOES' movie, and how the plot of this movie seems to be going around itself in circles. Finally on the script, I loved how certain people played themselves. These two aspects were very satisfying for me.Then look at how Wes Craven directed the film. He placed many scary elements in the film, at just the right moment. This man put a lot of time and effort into how he wanted the film to look and feel, because when there was a scary moment, it was truly scary. Another aspect I liked about Craven's direction was the way he got great performances from his cast. If he did not get the cast right, the whole picture would have been a big failure. Lucky, Craven got the right people and directed them very well.The cast of the film is lead by actress Heather Langenkamp, who you will remember played Nancy in the first Freddy film. In this movie we see her as a happily married actress, to movie special effects man, Chase Porter (David Newsom). His demise is very interesting to see, which of course totally freaks our much older, but even sexier, hero. Heather in the film has a young son, Dylan (Miko Hughes), who at first seems like a threat to his mother. But you learn quite quickly that what is controlling Dylan is the very movie character that haunted his mother in a fictional sense, ten years ago. I like what Miko brings to the film, as it is a very fine performance from such a young kid. Then there are sections in this film where more former co-stars from &#145;ANOES' start to appear. For some of the movie we see John Saxon play himself, a friend to Heather. Then in another moment we get him back reprising the role of &#145;Nancy's dad', which was fascinating to see. Langenkamp plays this scene out with true class. Back as Freddy (and himself), is acting veteran Robert Englund. At no stage was I ever comfortable with Englund, because you just know that he would pop up again as Freddy. Freddy in this film, is back as this horrible, scary looking character, one that you would not like to meet. Add the small little cameo role from Wes Craven himself, and you have yourself a fine cast. There are some truly great moments in this film. The early scenes where we see Freddy strutting his stuff is very much like old times, with the film giving him his evil nature back. Then there are the scenes like when Heather's friend is confronted by Freddy, reminiscent of &#145;ANOES', while the sequence where we see little Dylan wondering across an 8 lane freeway is exhilarating, with Freddy being very powerful. That scene and Freddy's lair were very impressive special effects led by William Mesa and the team from &#145;The Fugitive'.I would have said I was not the biggest fan of &#145;Freddy Kruger', but after experiencing a film such as this, I must admit I am warming to the man with sword fingers. I just hope the latest Freddy film (Freddy Vs Jason X) is ok because I do wanna see it. Considering this film is ten years after Langenkamp's role in &#145;ANOES', it is a wonderful role, that she does with charm, wit and an edge, that only adds to the movie. The only thing is that I am a little jealous of Freddy, as he was under Heather's bed sheets, a place I would not mind to be. What a genius Wes Craven really is, for giving us a very refreshing film, which showed the disturbing aspects of what goes into making a horror film, which for me is totally fascinating. This film will make you ask many questions, because I know I certainly was, with some unanswerable. Our dreams were shown not to be safe many years ago, now it seems our movies are in the same predicament. Thankfully I am still game to flick on any movie. Are you? CMRS gives &#145;Wes Craven's NEW NIGHTMARE' 4 (Very Good Film)   "},{"Title":"Disturbing Film","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Freddy is scary again,maybe perhaps too scary. He is cruel,and very evil more evil than many horror characters. I would have liked a joking Freddy compared to this. He is cruel to little Dylan. I know,but I don't like little kids being in horror movies. Cause they will have to exiperance great terror,I just can't watch that. Though I did like the premise,and the acting was great. P.S Send me a Private Message if you know if Wes Craven,and Robert Englund were behind this.  "}{"Title":"Better than most, but not nearly as good as the first","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Everyone who posts reviews on The Nightmare series will say the same thing about Freddy he was scary in the first movie, but became a lame one-liner as the series progressed.  The New Nightmare, however, let Freddy be as frightening as he had ever been.  In fact, he was probably a darker figure than he had been even in the first installment.  The frightening villain coupled with a rather outstanding plot made this movie very watchable.  Sadly, however, the script was weak in too many areas to mention and the directing made it feel more like a USA Special than a big time horror movie.  Also, Wes seemed to be a sort of omniscent observer, especially towards the end of the movie, and that just didn't work.  It was too hokey to work into a movie that suposedly took place in the real world.  But if you loved the first Nightmare and rue the day the others were made, see watch this movie and enjoy.  Just don't expect too much and you'll be sufficiantly spooked at bed time. -Joshua White "},{"Title":"Excellent comeback from Freddy","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  New Nightmare is a very good movie, because of Wes Craven's directing. He wanted to end the series his way, which was good for him to do that. Craven felt that Freddy was getting too corny in some sequels before this one. So, he decided to put back the seriousness back in Freddy.I respected him on that, but I liked the others with the cornyness. Now, back to this. Freddy Krueger comes out of films into really, by killing his creators who made him famous to this date. Wes thinks that the only way to stop Freddy is to make another movie. That's if Ms.Heather Langenkamp would play Nancy Thompson one last time. Ms.Langenkamp performed very well in this, being concern of her son, Dylan, having unusual experiences before and after Chase's death, Heather's husband and Dylan's father. Robert Englund played a role as himself and Freddy Krueger. Also, I liked the new Freddy look, new claw, the coat, and some new tricks, too. If you wasn't happy with Freddy's Dead, well, this one is worth watching. I give this one 10 out of 10 stars. NOW, bring on Freddy VS Jason.  "},{"Title":"Another Wes Craven masterpiece!","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  New Nightmare is Freddy's second best movie. Sometimes I think it's his first best because he's more darker. New Nightmare launched a new Fred Krueger that no one had expected. He was not funny and didn't give cheesy lines. His trenchcoat was very cool along with his prototype glove. This was Heather's chance to kill Freddy one last time with the help of her eight year old son, Dylan. Heather discovers that Wes is writing a new script for another Nightmare on Elm Street sequel. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves horror. I can't wait to see Freddy's next film, Freddy vs Jason! "},{"Title":"Freddy gets all post-modern!","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The seventh entry in the NOES series, directed by Freddy's creator Wes Craven, decides to take a completely different approach to the previous episodes - which had become incoherent and often embarassing horror films. 'New Nightmare' takes place as though all previous NOES films are works of fiction, with the original stars of the films - Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon and Robert Englund, playing themselves on the Hollywood film sets, themselves menaced by Freddy as they were in the films they acted in. Although an intriuging and intellegent concept, which would influence the new wave of post-modern teen slashers such as 'Scream', 'New Nightmare' still fails to reach the level of primative terror induced by the original NOES. Perhaps the reason for this is that nothing really much happens in the film. Bogged down in its own sense of knowing and intellect, it forgets that its primary concern is to scare the audience. The film takes far too long to get going, making sure the audience had grasped the concept of Freddy entering the 'real world' from the world of films, with many tedious scenes simply depicting conversations with the cast members, taking place in offices. Such scenes are made worse by producers' or directors' inability to act. Heather Langenkamp also seems to have a slight problem - her constant frown and whispering voice soon begin to grate, as it is realised that her nor any other member of the cast appear even remotely scared. Many of the scares evolve around menacing phonecalls or simply a shot of Heather's son Dyllan pulling a face and attempting to growl in a Freddy-esque voice. Freddy himself takes too long to make an appearance, and when he finally does, his presence is more than underwhelming, despite the attempt to give him a new look. The earthquake scenes are repetitive and false looking and serve no real purpose or relevance to the narrative. The special effects are often dire - making the original NOES's far more basic (as well as inexpensive) effects seem far superior and effective. At times the sound effects seem to have been taken from a single sound effects CD - with the same sound being used in different situations. A petty argument, but noticeable nontheless. The set used for Freddy's lair at the end of the film is visually interesting and differs from the boiler room used in the other films, however it is underexplored and underused.However, a number of these arguments could be explained by the film's unique style. Although it is never overtly stated, the shaky camera work suggests a documentary feel to the film - an aspect which complements the 'real life' concept of the film. Also, by the end of the film (if you have been paying enough attention) the meaning of the story and Freddy's existense will be explained in a rewarding and intelligent way. However, a clever concept does not excuse its lack of engagement with the audience. Craven made the same mistake with 'Scream' - concerning himself too much with the witticisms of the script instead of the ability to scare the audience. Here it is the same - too much time is spent indulging in his own desire to exorsise the conventions of the genre. It is this which contributes to the film's dragging pace and a sense of their being no real direction within the narrative.Despite these arguments, for die hard fans, 'New Nightmare' still proves entertaining and a satisfying conclusion to the series (although Freddy Vs Jason will be here shortly). The film is full of visual and quotable references to the previous films - perhaps the most effective is one of the final sequences when, dressed in Nancy's clothes and sporting her famous grey streak, Heather realises she must take on the role of Nancy to defeat Fred Kruegar.  "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's Best!","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw Wes Craven's New Nightmare before I even saw the original Nightmare on Elm Street. This movie was the reason why I went back and watched the original. The original is good, but overall, I feel that New Nightmare is the best movie Wes Craven has made (I will say it's probably better to watch the original one before this), and one of the best horror films I've seen. In this movie, Freddy has had a make over, he's dressed differently (which seems to have bothered some people) and much more menacing than he was in the previous films. The idea of the real Freddy coming out and trying to kill the actors from the original is so original and great, it makes the movie a rare recent horror gem. My rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"A great way to end (?) the series.","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, just as it seems Freddy Krueger had finally gone to sleep in 'Freddy's Dead,' he returns to wreak havoc on the real world. Only this time, it's not REALLY Freddy doing the dirty deeds, but the manifestation of all evil, taking the form of a popular horror icon. Confused? Don't be. The movie manages to explain it very well. 'New Nightmare' is the real world (or about as real as the movie world will allow it to be). Heather Langenkamp returns, but not as Nancy. No, this time she plays herself and she is constantly receiving prank phone calls from a Freddy soundalike. Stress is further mounted when odd dreams and earthquakes keep occurring. Her son, Dylan, spurts out odd lines (and foamy white stuff), watches the 'Nightmare' films and starts to act like Freddy Krueger. The whole film centers around this and the eventual deterioration of Heather's sanity until she is forced to once again play Nancy in a real world version of the movies. The movie is a little complicated and it took me at least 3 viewings to take it all in. Virtually everyone in here plays themselves, from New Line execs Sarah Risher & Bob Shaye, to John Saxon and even Wes Craven himself. The movie enters some pretty weird paradoxes and is basically one of those movies that, like the original, is meant to mess with your head. And it does. This film succeeds because it is completely original. The whole reality thing has been done to death by now, but this movie was ahead of it's time. Thoroughly clever, constantly entertaining, this is indeed a perfect ending to the franchise (well, let's just hope it is the ending, because, you know...'Freddy Vs. Jason'...). It offers plenty of winks and nostalgia to NOES fans and is a true gift to us all. If you were ever a fan of the series, you'll appreciate this.10/10 "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this is an amazing film, saves the nightmare series, truly original and pays homage to the original, realistically scary and fantasy wonderfully woven together, no wonder it won awards.  saw this in the theater and jumped, freddy, or the evil that has taken the persona of freddy, is freaky, i mean freaky... great plot, wonderfully acted, returning cast members - such an amazing idea, an evil took a liking to freddy, and when the films stop the evil tries to escape through his embodiment, without doubt the best sequel, if you can even call it that, and on par with the original... i really cannot not say enough good about this film.like the exoricist III it comes in to wipe away the shame of the middle by the original creator... only thing keeping it from being a 10 is that it is based on another idea, but dang is it good...series rating 9.5/10fantasy/horror rating 9/10SEE THIS FILM (and the original) "},{"Title":"This movie scared me a lot!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw this movie when i was 12 years old. It scared the hell out of me then, from that 1 guy getting slashed in his car to the very end! I am now 22 and this movie scares me still. But I thought it was amazing that the movie was a script being wrote. Mr. Craven did a great job on this film and i can't wait 'till Jason versus Freddy! It's got to be a bloodbath! This movie gets a ***** out of *****. "},{"Title":"What a horror movie should be","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is it. NO director has done such a good mix of story and slashing before. The movie, with the exception of 2 or 3 scenes, shouldn't have been R rated... or should it?Perfect. No nudity, for once! This is something you don't get anymore- and this was, after all, the only really good 90's horror movie.Freddy is mysterious. With the exception of Skin the Cat he wasn't really a jokester. His one joke was really good, and Freddy was the best one we've seen since the original.10 out of 10. Must See. Must Buy. Must DVD. "},{"Title":"Uneccessary to make this","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  When I rented this, I didn't know it would be a Freddy Crouger movie. It's kind of lame that they made another one of these movies. They just couldn't find anything else to make, and they just had to make another one of these movies. I just think that that is just so lame. Plus, to make matters worse, the movie was just too weird. It was so confusing. (a possible spoiler) As Wes Craven is writing the script, the things that he writes are actually happening. So the movie is writing itself. I just think that that is just so totally weird. I would give this a 5/10 for the weirdness, although there were very few parts which actually made me want to continue watching this. Overall, not a very good movie to watch, but it's not a movie that when you watch you'll die of bordum.  "}{"Title":"One of the best of the series!","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie really buried the 6th part of the series. Wes Craven made the series back into what it was supposed to be in the first place HORROR.SPOILERSI loved the whole freddy reality based and everything. What better way to revive a dead series. Still not quite as many deaths as I wanted, but you take what you can get in a situation like this. The death that the movie did produce was still creative. I couldn't quite get used to the Freddy as a demon thing.SPOILERS STOPPEDPretty much one of the best in the series besides the first. Craven out did himself with this movie. All of the actors performed excellent. My rating 9/10   "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I thought nightmare 7 was the best in the series after the first, there is some great acting from Heather Langenkamp and some great directing from Wes Craven.  The story of this film is great and it keep you guessing from start to finish.  The story is well thought out and structured.  Heather Langenkamp and Wes Craven should give thereselves a pat on the back for this piece of work.  Also Robert Englund is still as convincing as Krueger as he ever was - well done Robert! "},{"Title":"Okay, So I Was Wrong!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        Wes Craven is directing the latest installment to the Nightmare on Elm Street series. It opens with Freddy constructing a metallic claw hand. He then grabbed a blade and chopped his right hand off. Then Wes called cut. Heather Lagenkamp was there watching along with her husband Chase Porter, who was working on the film. Their son Dylan was there too. Then all of a sudden, the metallic claw came to life and killed two of the crewmen. It was just about to go after Chase when suddenly Heather woke up in bed screaming in the middle of an earthquake. They've been having alot of them lately. Chase had to take off to shoot a commercial and Heather was to be on a televised interview. Heather was a little on edge these days because she kept getting obscene phone calls and has nightmares about Freddy Krueger. In the interview, Heather was asked if there was to be another Nightmare film but Heather assured everyone that Freddy was dead. Then in came Robert Englund dressed as Freddy. Heather was then called to Robert Shaye's office at New Line Cinema. Shaye informs her that they were in fact planning to do a seventh Nightmare film. Wes Craven had a nightmare one night and began on the script. Heather was asked to come back and be Nancy and she declined. That night, Dylan began experiencing odd behavior so Heather called Chase and asked him to come home. On the drive home, Chase began to fall asleep. Suddenly, a pair of familiar claws burst up from the seat and slashed Chase's gut. The truck then crashed into a wall. Heather went to the morgue to see the grotesque body of her husband.         Heather talked with John Saxon in the park while Dylan played. He climbed to the top of a rocket ship slide and jumped off. Thankfully, Heather caught him in time. Heather experienced more Freddy-like nightmares and called Robert Englund who seemed to know exactly what she was talking about. It seemed the Freddy they were dealing with wasn't like the one from the films but rather a darker, more evil one; that night, Dylan threw a violent fit and was admitted to the hospital. Heather left Dylan's babysitter, Julie, to stay and watch him while she went to visit Wes Craven who seemed to know what was up. He said that because the Nightmare films have ceased, Freddy had found a way to cross over into the real world. Craven vowed to work hard on the script while Heather raced to the hospital to check on Dylan. The doctor did everything she could to make things complicated. She sedated Dylan against Heather and Julie's wishes then threatened Heather that she could put Dylan in foster care. Suddenly, back in Dylan's room, Freddy appeared behind Julie and dragged her across the room and finally slashed her to death. Dylan then sleep-walked home...Across the freeway! The two were nearly killed. Freddy lifted Dylan over passing cars. Once home, John Saxon was there but he seemed to be living that scene in Nightmare on Elm Street Part 1 where Donald doesn't believe Nancy. He even talks like Donald and calls Heather Nancy. He then drives away in his squad car. Heather gulps down some sleeping pills and goes into the dream realm to rescue Dylan.          Freddy was terrorizing Dylan. Heather managed to stab Freddy several times with a dagger. Suddenly, Heather found a screenplay laying on the floor. It was the one Wes Craven was writing for Nightmare 7. Heather leafed through it and all the events that have been happening to them were in the script! Freddy chases Dylan into the furnace. He finds a way to crawl out while Freddy wraps his tongue around Heather. Dylan plunged a dagger into it then the two pushed Freddy into the furnace, ala Hansel and Gretel. Freddy catches fire then vaporizes. The whole place began to blow up. Heather and Dylan returned to the real world in triumph. Once back, they found the completed screenplay by Wes Craven. Freddy Krueger was at last gone for good.       Pretty good edition to the Nightmare on Elm Street series! Cast Heather Lagenkamp portrays the role of Heather Lagenkamp, a role she was born to play. Robert Englund plays Robert Englund and Freddy Krueger. Wes Craven is Wes Craven as well as the director. He also directed the original. Bob Shaye is Bob Shaye, Miko Hughes is Dylan, John Saxon is John Saxon. This was the last movie to be made in the Nightmare saga, but don't despair, Nightmare fans, Freddy will be back this summer where he goes head to head with Friday the 13th's Jason Voorhees! I can't wait. Until then, you must check out Wes Craven's New Nightmare! But don't worry, it's just a movie...Or is it?- "},{"Title":"Don't Fall Asleep During This One.","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Don't Fall asleep during this one. Trust me, this is a great horror film. It's a little long so you need some time on your hands. Uh, this story  is about Freddy coming out of the dream world to kill people. But these people are the stars of the films! Craven, Lagenkamp, Englund, and Saxon play as themselves. If you see a scary, witty, and a drama filled movie this week, see Wes Craven's New Nightmare. "},{"Title":"One of the finest thrillers of all time...","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  New Nightmare, is Craven's Masterpiece. It is not just a movie, but an experience. It is not a sequel to any of the previous films, and takes place outside of the series into the 'real' world. The character 'Freddy' was killed off once and for all in 'Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare' (aka Nightmare on Elm Street 7). 'New Nightmare' doesn't follow the rules of the original movies because they were fiction, not real. What you are watching when viewing 'New Nightmare' is REAL. Somehow this imaginary character has life, and is killing the cast and crew who made the 'Nightmare' films. The film is made on such a beautiful and professional level, it's quite amazing. Don't get me wrong, it is overall, a horror film, but it's much much more.The 'Nightmare' series are good cheap fun. But 'New Nightmare' is not to be taken lightly. It's dead serious. No pun intended. The score is mostly full orchestra with some choir injected in. Something never done in a movie with, 'Freddy' as the star. Many actors, actresses, and producers play themselves. Even a portion of the film takes place at New Line Studios! I highly recommend this film to horror and non-horror movie buffs alike.It's not to be missed. **** out of **** stars!  "},{"Title":"They really did save the best for last!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Far better than the other sequels, NEW NIGHTMARE goes in a completely different direction than the rest of the movies. New Nightmare pioneers the 'on the set of the horror movie' plot, that has become such a cliche, and deserves mad props for that once original idea.Further this one doesn't rely on that cheap comedy element that Freddy uses make the movie interesting--this one actually scares you. "},{"Title":"A Worthy Film","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is an interesting movie.  I like the idea that the Freddy movies were like a cover-up for an evil entity like Freddy.  It is cool that they brought back tons of actors from the other movies to play themselves.  This movie has good special effects and it was a fun movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Good Review","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed all the Nightmare movies, but this one is the best since the first. The fact that Wes tried to rationalize his own movie by bringing Freddy into reality so speak makes this film great. Freddy's change in appearance in this film is fantastic, and even more frightening than his original incarnation. "},{"Title":"Wes' return","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If Wes Craven had known that A Nightmare on Elm Street would have done so well, he might have put off selling the sequel rights and saved himself a lot of trouble. Alas, as it is, New Line milked its cash cow for all it was worth, giving the public more and more of the same, till the series descended into self-parody. The films hit a new low with the sixth film, Freddy's Dead, which completed the villain's transformation into a wisecracking cartoon character. In fact, there were moments when I wonder if they intentionally set out to make a comedy. In either case, it was a far cry from the semiserious original, which was genuinely scary at times. At that point, the decision was finally made to retire the series and kill off Freddy Krueger for good. And so it was done, but such a weak sendoff for a horror icon did not do the character justice. Something had to be done to take care of this nagging issue, but what? Wes Craven had the answer he'd direct the seventh film, only this time, the actors would play themselves, and the villain would not be a resurrected Freddy, but a demon assuming his form, merely one of many it has taken over the centuries. This is indeed a successor to the original, but in a different continuity altogether.It's a clever conceit, one that only Wes could have pulled off. In a way, it's a warm-up for Scream, which took the self-referential approach a step further. Given that this is the sixth follow-up to a popular horror movie, it has turned out reasonably well, despite a somewhat uneven script. During the first third, I was a bit worried about how it was going to turn out. It does take a while to get going, but once it hits its stride, the thrills just keep on coming. Once assured that the film would deliver, I relaxed and enjoyed the ride. Wes hasn't lost his handle on suspense, it just keeps coming in spades. The blending of dreams, fantasy, and reality hasn't been handled this successfully since the original. Langenkamp is a better actress than many have given her credit for. Here, she's even better than she was in the original Nightmare. It's hard to play yourself, but she does so quite well; never for a moment does it seem forced or awkward. Robert Englund plays himself as well as Freddy, proving that he doesn't need a ton of makeup to act. It's a shame that he's been typecast in the horror genre. Of course, Wes plays himself as well, though his acting isn't exactly inspired, so it was a wise move to stay on the other side of the camera for most of the game. Some of the producers of the Nightmare series appear as themselves as well. Milo Hughes and Fran Bennet offer solid supporting performances and Dyan and a concerned doctor, respectively. John Saxon also puts up an appearance.New Nightmare is one of the few films that directly address the potential impact of horror movies on viewers, especially children. I certainly am not a censorship advocate, but nor do I believe that little kids should be exposed to explicit violence. Related scenes involving Heather Langenkamp's son Dylan could easily have been exploitive, but the filmmakers successfully avoid this pitfall, though they are still uncomfortable to watch (One is reminded of The Exorcist and Pet Sematary) I thought of a statement made by a character in Scream horror movies don't make psychos, they just make psychos more creative. I certainly hope that these cases are few and far in-between. *** (out of ****)Released by New Line Cinema "},{"Title":"Horrifying for a while, then it gets kinda stupid...","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a VERY clever movie with a clever plot - for the first half or so. Then it basically devolves into a stupid chase. The ending, though, is just about right. There is the extremely hot Heather Langenkamp (why don't people obsess about her more often? Look at the rabid following for Natalie Portman, for example), and everyone else involved with the series returns, including a rather amusing Robert Englund as himself.***SPOILERS***Freddy taking over Heather's son? Check. Freddy prop turned into an instrument of death? Double-check. Heather and Robert on a talk show with a crowd of Nightmare fans? Very cool. Heather turning into Nancy? Perfect. Freddy turning into a gigantic version of himself...that doesn't work very well.On a side note, it would have been scarier if the pages of the script turned and Freddy laughed at the very end. "}{"Title":"Unforgettable!","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It really is a great movie!! I'm a scary movies fan And this one surely scared the cr*p out of me! What more proof do you need than raving comments 8 years after the release? Rent or buy, your pick, but it's a Must See!!!!!! "},{"Title":"a great film - the greatest horror film ever","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven transcends the horror genre in this film. It is horrible, it is frightening, but it works on many levels besides horror at the same time. The self-referential technique blurring the border between film, film-maker, and real-world works perfectly. It takes the monster freddy, who we thought lived only in the dreamworld of cinema, and pulls him off the screen, into your brain, and maybe even into your living room. The horror of this filmserves only to heighten the immediacy of the storyline, and that storyline is brilliant.This film provides an answer to a question that mankind has pondered forever why does evil exist? Craven has a very operational approach to what often seems an impenetrable enigma. Evil exists whenever we, that is, us, all of us, lack the courage to prevent it. Wherever love is lacking. Heather relies on her love and her courage to defeat Freddy, just as all of us must.This means that Freddy is not a creature, or a force, that lives out there somewhere, trying to get in to our world. Freddy lives in your dreams. He lives inside of every human being. When we give in to fear, or lock love out of our heart, then Freddy can enter.I give this movie a 10/10, whether seen as a genre film or a universal comment on human existence.  "},{"Title":"The best of the Nightmare series!","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen all of the Nightmare On Elm Street movies (part 2 being the least).  I liked them all too, but the only Nightmare movie that shocked me was Wes Craven's New Nightmare. 10 years after the success of his Nightmare On Elm Street (rated #4 in the top 5 scariest movies of all times), writer-director Wes Craven decided to bring the Nightmare back to life by making Freddy Krueger more darker and more eviler.  It's a nightmare to die for!  All of the main stars of the 1st Nightmare on Elm Street (Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon, and Robert Freddy Krueger Englund) and the crew (Robert Shaye-producer of all the Nightmare films and Wes Craven) portray themselves in the movie.  If you're definitely in need of a scream, then Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the movie for you.  Go Wes Craven!!****** (out of ****** stars) 13/13 A+ "},{"Title":"freddy...the way he should be.","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  finally...a sequal that gets it right! wes craven did a wonderful job with this movie.blurring the lines between reality and the movies was a great idea and can be very easily written about.in this world today people seem to take too many things seriously. and when you do...sometimes bad things can come from it. Mr. craven was a genius the way he portrayed that thought out in this movie.very rich in social commentary,this is the smartest of all the elm street films. "},{"Title":"The best Freddy sequel yet","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Now, this is one great movie, with an original idea. Some of the actors from the movies series play themselves in the movie, such as John Saxon, Robert Englund, & Heather Langencamp. Wes Craven also plays himself in the movie. The plot Wes Craven has written a script for the new Freddy movie, but there's a problem...the script has come to life. A very interesting turn in the last installment of the series...or is it? There's still the Jason vs. Freddy movie coming out...but if you are a fan of the Freddy movies, check 'The New Nightmare' out. It's great.  "},{"Title":"Everything is good but the ending","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Almost the best of Nightmare series, but its ridiculous ending made me upset. On the other hand, I found a mistake at the final sequence which was unexpected from Wes Craves. We see Heather is reading middle pages of the book but from the other angle of the camera we see her reading the first page.  "},{"Title":"Great Story, Wes! Thanks!","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Imaginative!  A great break, and a new breath into the series.  If you don't like this movie, then you probably hate imagination and reinvention, not to mention just plain old storytelling.It's a different Freddy, and that's what makes it good.  The previous movies needed help, with a couple of exceptions (namely 1,3, and 4, in my opinion). Slasher movies with numberous sequels seem to beat a dead dog a lot, but this Freddy broke his own mold.  He was scarier and more evil than the old Freddy.  I liked the description that Wes Craven gave in the movie about how it's an old evil that can only be captured by storytellers.  And that evil likes being Freddy.  Imagination!If you don't agree, let me point out that a lot of remake movies, which are plugged as reimagined aren't that much different.  Look at Planet of the Apes....just a newer twist, a re-look at the original.  New Nightmare is the same thing, except it twists the story, and actually pulls it from the context that it was written for, namely movies.  Wes Craven was obviously using a form of screenwriting that borrows from a form of playwrighting, in which the story itself involves the theater, actors and or characters.  I forget the technical term for this, but an example would include the play Noises Off, in which the play is about actors performing a play.  A movie example could include Shakespeare in Love as well.  Craven is doing the same thing by having the actors from earlier films play themselves, while talking about the characters that they portrayed.  The whole story revolves around Wes' script, the question being will Heather return as Nancy.  Not to mention, the story loops itself, beginning where it ended.  Folks, that's NOT a cop-out, nor are we being jipped.  It's storytelling, pure and simple.As far as the movie itself, there are some issues concerning make-up and the glove.  Just keep in mind, that it's a different Freddy, not the movie Freddy.Overall, one of the best of the series, and one of the most chilling.  To really enjoy it though, you must be able to suspend your disbelief,and don't look for the older Freddy.  Treat this as it's own movie. "},{"Title":"Craven saves the Nightmare series once again.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  So what do you do when you've utterly ended a series and yet want to bring it back one more time and yet not have to deal with all the other sequels? Well, there are two ways to do this.  The first is called Halloween H20 (i.e. the WRONG way) and the second is called Wes Craven's New Nightmare (i.e. the RIGHT way).  Once again, like Dream Warriors, this flick brought back Heather Langenkamp and John Saxon (this time playing themselves) and Wes Craven as writer/director (and he played himself, too).This was actually the first out of the whole Nightmare series that I ever saw.  It was on TNT's Monster Vision back when good old Joe Bob Briggs hosted it.  I remember really enjoying it then and upon subsequent viewings, and also after watching the rest of the series, this is still one of my favorites.  The story went back to the more simple way that Craven had in the first film and it helps a lot.  Also, if you watch, there are tons of similarities and reoccurrences that happened in previous Nightmare films. To take a line from Joe Bob, It's sometimes hard to tell where reality ends and the movie begins.  Or something to that extent.It was cool to see people playing themselves, like Wes Craven, Bob Shaye, and Robert Englund (Man, I want a pair of those purple tinted glasses he had.  Can you say, cool?).  They all did pretty good considering they're not really actors (except Englund).  There was also Miko Hughes (you know, that creepy kid from Pete Semetary) who did an excellent performance. He's probably one of the best child actors around (take that, Haley Joel Osment).Surprisingly enough, the special effects in this one were the only real let down for me.  They changed Freddy's make-up and glove and I didn't think they looked as good.  His face burns just seemed so dry, unlike the previous flicks where he was still gooey.  Also, the new glove doesn't hold up to the old one.  How could it?  The old glove is a classic, it was an actual glove. This new glove had the blades growing out of his fingertips, with bones on the outside and it looks very fake.  An old case of, `if it ain't broke, don't fix it.  But since it's technically not the same Freddy, I guess they almost had to change it.  I just wish it had looked better.A good breakaway from the rest of the Nightmare series.  Good as a bookend of to the series and also as a stand-alone film.  Check it out.  "},{"Title":"You really have to be a fan of the original","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is the perfect way to end such a popular franchise! The  10 year anniversary of the classic film was celebrated by reuniting Robert England, Heather Lagenkamp and (most importantly) Wes Craven. This rekindles the magic the original film had and it gets rid of the stupid 8th grade humor all the sequels carried. It goes back to making Freddy scary instead of making him some loveable comedian. I reccomend you view the original film A Nightmare on Elm street as this will read like pig latin to anyone who hasn't seen it.  "},{"Title":"I'm a Freddy and Nancy fan so...need I say more?","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My opinion on this movie is probably very biased because I grew up watching Freddy movies and adoring Nancy, consequently the actress herself, for her character. I love the series, except for the sixth installment even though I learned to forgive them for it, and so I don't really pay close attention to any quality standards like editing/scipt or whatever else. I just sit back and enjoy it and have myself a great time!!  "}{"Title":"The Greatest Horror Film of All Time!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie totally blew me away. At the time the concept of this movie was very original and new. This is Wes Craven's best movie and I think it's better than A Nightmare on Elm Street. Heather Lagenkamp does an excellent job with her role, and she's comes across as a very loving, concerned, and sincere mother in this movie. John Saxon did a such a good job that sometimes it's creepy. Of course, Robert Englund does an awesome job of taking up the role of Freddy Krueger once again. He truly has showed me that no one else could play that part. The story behind this movie is that Heather Lagenkamp and her co-stars from the first Nightmare on Elm street film start being haunted in Real Life by the character from the film, Freddy Krueger. It's an interesting movie that I could, and do watch Several times every year. It's an unforgettable experience that you won't regret!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Better than the first one...","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Firstly number one had a not very good direction, that's a fact. The script was mmm..., ok.Freddy himself was scary in the first 20 minutes, the whole thing started to collapse when freddy cut himself and said flashed his tongue! The sequel though has a very smart idea, freddy is not in your dreams, it is an obsession. An obsession that comes to the reality.So he attacks, most of the times in darkness, using his ''finger-knives'' only, so he becomes really scary!(I don't remember the whole picture so forgive me if i am wrong.) The sequel also involves the personality of Craven, which is nutty and dark, the personality of Robert ''freddy'' Englund, also... strange! And Nancy's because Heather Langengamp is acting like Nancy, she is not herself, at all! About Dylan, cute, that's all. Just cute. This film needed the sequels, they were like food to Craven, an insipiration(that's a fact, see that many times the sequels are refered...). I wrote that because someone said this should be number 2... The direction, this time isn't poor, the scipt is better written, not best though. This movie diserves a better score than 6.2/10, i believe that 7 is just right, not big or low. If anyone disagrees with this review i 'd be pleased if he could e-mail me. Also i 'd like to say that this is the first movie to be movie-within-a-movie style. Well done wes! And it doesn't takes itself too serious like Numero Uno!(Number One) "},{"Title":"Flawed but surprisingly good","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm amazed at what Wes Craven manages to pull off in this movie.  By setting the movie in the real world, Craven manages to acknowledge the validity of all the awful Elm Street sequels, while at the same time freeing himself from their constraints.  He brings back a character who was supposedly dead, without making it feel cheesy or contrived (cough cough Superman cough).  And underneath all of that, he gives us an atmospheric and riveting horror film.There are two main problems with the movie.  The most damaging is its length and pacing.  It goes on for a very long time without much action, and while it's great that the filmmakers try to establish a believable reality and give the characters some depth, they should have cut some of those unnecessary dialogue scenes.  The other problem is that the screenplay deals with some of its ideas very clumsily--Craven has to actually write himself into the story so that he can explain everything that's going on. But Wes Craven's New Nightmare is much better than the other sequels, and deserves a place in any horror fan's collection.  There should be more horror movies like this. "},{"Title":"Craven ignores sequels and makes intersting movie.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This isn't really a sequel at all, its like The Player for horror movies.  Once again Craven takes the horror genre and turns it entirely on its head as he did with the first Nightmare ten years before.  Here he sets up the Scream franchise and in doing so the entire teen-slasher renessaince of the late 20th century.  In short, Craven has made a lot of people a lot of money.   More importantly thought, this is a compelling piece, that doen't match the first one, but is so far superior to the sequels that it practically ignores their existence.  Langenkamp bravely plays herself and the connection between her and her on-screen son is phenominal and believable.  From a sort of Omen point of view, this film is quite chilling and from a strictly entertainment point of view, it is quite cool to see Freddy return to his dark roots.  In fact Freddy is pretty terrifying in this one, standing about a foot taller and built like an ox in a long, full length jacket.   A great effort from the current master of horror, who has made one too many bad choices in his life.  Riveting and one of the few, truly scary movies of the 90's. "},{"Title":"This is what Wes Craven is all about!!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The final Freddy film, which makes everyone think that 'Nightmare 1 to 6' were just in fact movies. In this film, Heather Langenkamp who played Nancy in Nightmare on Elm Street parts 1 and 3, now has a husband who is working in the production of a New Freddy movie, and she hasa son played by Miko Hughes known for his roles in Mercury Rising beside Bruce Willis, but this was Miko's first big film. The son is dreaming of Freddy, and Heather also is as well but what Heather dreams comes true and her son tends to sleep walk whenever he dreams of Freddy. Wes Craven also starrs in the movie, and he plays himself, he is dreaming of Freddy and whatever he dreams of he writes on paper and wants to make a movie of what his dreaming of, his dreaming of Heather and her son along with a new Freddy. It's a okay film, the first maybe 70 mins or so was pretty good, real scary and made me chill, but near the end of the movie is where it just didn't seem to scare me but other than that it was a all around scary movie. The original Freddy will always be the scariest, but this film would come pretty close to take out the crown. "},{"Title":"This is a perfect dramatic horror","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had a great plot,it scared the c*** out of me,i loved the ending scene,it is a great way to end the series. I like the acting and the stars such as Robert Englund,Heather Langenkamp,John Saxon and Wes Craven,who all play them selves.Wes Craven says This is not a sequel,It is real life and what happens to the actors behind the scenes.And also Englund plays the darkest version of Freddy in the series!Wes Craven made many masterpieces like Scream,A Nightmare on Elm Street,Dracula 2000,and this is the best!I would say thank you to Craven for making a horror flick that does not centre on gore! "},{"Title":"Even better than the original.","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I would vote for this film (along with the much-maligned The Blair Witch Project)as the best horror film of the 1990s. There is an amazing tension that exists in each and every scene. It's horrible and indescribable, like something bad is about to happen, but the characters can't stop it. The post-modern aspect of the film is fascinating in itself, but more importantly, the horror scenes are actually SCARY, and Freddy has been given a new, tougher look (and biomechanical hand) which is really effective. Even the scene where Dylan climbs to the top of the jungle gym, reaching toward the sky, makes me jittery just thinking about it. The earthquakes and Hansel & Gretel references also were an interesting part of the movie for me. The first time I saw the film I had some qualms about the last 15 minutes, but upon further viewings, the last sequence fits the themes of the movie well, and it really does feel like a nightmare world. I would recommend this movie to fans of the series as well as serious students of film who haven't seen this, Wes Craven's best movie. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the orginal","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Few horror movies can pass the greatness of movies like Halloween, Friday the 13th, and Nightmare on Elm Street, let alone become equal to them. Only a few times in the 90's did this happen. Wes Cravens New Nightmare is definitly on of them.         Freddy's back, but his time, staying awake won't save you. The Heather Lampkin (who played Nacy Thompson in the original Nightmare and the same role in pasrt 3), Wes Craven, and even Robert Eungland are being terrorized by their dreams in this seventh sequal. Wes Craven has begun production for the Ultimate Nightmare, and is using his dreams to guide him to write the script. But, as things happen in the script, they happen in real life.        Excellant plot and an awesome cast make this the perfect horror movie. Don't take the cheap Wes Craven way and go with something like Scream. Go the creative Wes Craven way, and rent New Nightmare.  "},{"Title":"Not to bad.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A better sequel to Wes Craven's original work then the previous 5 Nightmare on Elm Street movies.  This one takes the original rules about Freddy and horror and twists them around a bit - interesting to watch at least.  This and the original are the only worthy Nightmare on Elm Street movies (perhaps the third and Freddy's Dead if you're willing to stomach them).  Not a great movie in the least, but if you like to watch Freddy Krueger, and don't mind some repetition from older aNoES movies, then this should be a good way to widdle some hours away. "},{"Title":"Tries to add new life to a tired series with some success","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The 7th installment in the Nightmare series takes an original twist by bringing Freddy into the real world and having him haunt Heather Langenkamp (Nancy from Parts 1 and 3) and her son.  Of course Heather soon realizes what is happening, and of course no one believes her except Wes Craven who is writing a script that seems to echo everything that is happening to Heather.  Movie runs long and slow in some areas, but it is  a new approach to the series so the producers deserve some credit.   "}{"Title":"The best movie of the series","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"   Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the best movie of the Freddy Krueger series. This amazing movie has a very very inteligent and interesting script. It's much more better than the others. It's one of the best movies of Wes Craven; he usually make cool movies but this is special. The actors play pretty good and the action of the movie has suspece and surprizes. It's a great movie and I reccomand you all to see it ! "},{"Title":"wes craven at his best","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  other then the original all the nightmare movies suck. but not Wes Craven's New Nightmare. this should have been the only sequel. the story was original, all the actors are playing themselves. its like a movie in a movie. something like the Scream movies. some people found New Nightmare to be a bit slow, which in a way it was, but i found it interesting, the movie builds up and up and i found it to be very suspenseful, the only down part is when they finally build up to the show down between Heather Langenkamp and Freddy Kruger it's not as good as it should have been, but all in all a classic, the Nightmare series is nothing without the great Wes Craven, i give New Nightmare 8/10 "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's best film to date !","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is much better than the first Nightmare On Elm Street.Wes Craven (the creator of Freddy Kruger) does a scary movie (but very good), using the real actors, even Wes stars in this movie as Wes Craven , Robert Englund as Robert Englund. Is a very interesting idea from Wes Craven, it is a movie in a movie. Of course is Wes Craven's best work to date ! "},{"Title":"Good 90 minutes, crappy ending","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is probably the best Nightmare movie, but why does it have so bad ending. One of the worst which I have seen. Heather is good and sexy, Robert Englund is very good as Always and Wes Craven hmmmmmmmmm, Shouldn't play again.  "},{"Title":"A psychologically horrifying dramatic thriller","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I always thought the first wasn't as scary as it could be. Freddy's Dead was awful. Over the years, Freddy became a joker. But in New Nightmare, Freddy is a menacing horrible evil creature that you feel like a bug about to be squashed. I have one word for New Nightmare Terrifying. Absolutely shocking. Best horror movie besides the Exorcist. I will rank this as one of the scariest, eeriest, and most chilling horror movies ever. "},{"Title":"Great sequel","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I had my doubts when I first put this movie in my VCR. There had been only two Nightmare movies that were actually good and those were 1, and 3. Than I saw this one and I have to say it was great. I have also come to the conculsion that it takes Wes Craven and Heather Langenkamp are what it takes to make a good Nightmare On Elm Street movie. Oh and lets not forget Robert Englund who is the king of horror. If you like a good scary movie that is creative, watch this one. "},{"Title":"An OK horror flick, but poor ending.","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie's not bad, but it still leaves me desiring a really good horror flick that has the potential of giving goosebumps to someone past the age of 5.  I suppose I'm comparing this and other horror films to how I viewed them when I was a kid, but I guess I just wish they were actually scary once in a while.  If anyone has any recommendations, please e-mail me.Anyhow, this movie's not bad and compares pretty well compared to the other Nightmare films.  In fact, there are actually a few interesting shots in the first half of the film.  The problem is that the last 30-40 minutes are REALLY bad.  Once Heather/Nancy enters the Nigthmare World, things go downhill fast.  Freddy just sort of runs around taunting Heather and her child and the entire seen looks more like a comedy than horror.  My advice is to watch this all the way through and then leave right after Nancy gets back to her house from the hospital. "},{"Title":"SECOND ONLY TO THE ORIGINAL!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Apart from the original this movie is the best in the series. Wes Craven has brought back the freddy from the first and brought him back to the big screen. in all the sequels freddy reid to be funny to much, in the original and New Nightmare Freddy is evil, he wants to kill which it should have been the whole way through. The story is Heather is an actress happily married, she has a little child Dylan She is worried about a maniac who is ringing frequently at her house. She think the maniac is Freddy the killer of her previous film Meanwhile Wes Craven is having some nightmares and inspired by that events he is writing the script for a new Nightmare series film. Heather is scared by some murders and by the schizophrenia of her son. The only way left to save her son is to act for the last time the part of Nancy to defeat Freddy forever. I don't really like Freddy or the series but if you want to see him at his best check out part 1 and New Nightmare.  "},{"Title":"Almost as good as the original","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, this is without a doubt the best sequel to ANOES. In this chapter of the Freddy saga, we come to realize that all the previous movies we have seen, are just that, movies. Freddy was never real, and no one ever really died. But, there's just one probably, Freddy BECOMES real. How does he do this? He's PURE EVIL. This is a problem for anyone and everyone, asleep or awake.Good acting (hey, that's always a plus for horror flicks) and great lighting and directing (thanks Wes) make this a must see for any horror fan. "},{"Title":"A Great Horror Film","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  While I'm tempted to call this the best of the Nightmare movies, technically it's not part of the series.  But without the Elm Street movies, this movie wouldn't exist.  So is it part of the series?  Who cares, my head hurts, and this is a great horror movie.The concept of this movie is fresh and original.  A demon that is usually trapped in the folk tales of humanity has been freed and is trying to break into our world.  The demon thinks he's Freddy, so he's terrorizing the principal players from the original movie.  Wes Craven mixes this story with real-world mythology and fairy tales to paint a convincing picture that draws the viewer into the film.  He also successfully reworks a lot of the scenes and ideas of the original Nightmare (melting stairs, tongue phone, Tina's death).  It's also interesting to see how the people involved in the first film have evolved over the years.  Heather Langenkamp has obviously grown as an actress, and Wes Craven has grown as a writer and a director.I guess you could call this the definitive Nightmare movie.  It contains a lot of in-jokes and references to the franchise, so fans and new viewers alike should like Wes Craven's New Nightmare. "}{"Title":"Wes is Baaaack..","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Not much deaths in this one. In fact Freddy doesn't pop up until halfway through. But Wes's vision of Freddy in the real world on the other side of the screen is clever and slightly creepy. And Krueger is so much scarier in this one ( I'm still trying to get over THOSE EYES!!). Even Robert Englund, who plays himself in this one along with Heather Lagenkamp, John Saxon, and Wes Craven, fears the scarier Freddy in his nightmares. Craven, who made Scream shortly after, has a gift for poking fun at the craft he specializes in. Not too many horror movies have the guts, or the brains, to go on such intellectual levels.  "},{"Title":"not that bad......","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I though this movie was kinda cool, and allot better thenthen the last couple of nightmare's before it.  The onlynightmare on elm streets that are better are 1 and 4. So being the third best in a series of 7 is good.  I Love the way they film it, there making a new nightmare movie and freddy comes out from film land into the  real world. I thought that was a cool way of twisting things around.  Good movie 7/10. Now bring me Jason vs Freddy in 2000 like your supposed to! click on my name,for tons more horror reviews.  "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"19 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This takes place 10 years after the first nightmare movie and wes is planning on making a new one. Heather Langenkamp, the actress who played Nancy Thompson in Nightmare on elm Street 1 and 3 is having nightmares about Freddy coming after her. Her son Dylan is also having bad dreams. Her husband, Chase believes its because of a mysterious caller harrassing his wife but its more then that, Freddy is out and he is taking over the real world killing the film makers of the freddy movies. He is using Dylan as his way into the real world and no one will believe Heather and when he finally does come out it turns the real world into the movie world all the actors and actresses begin thinking thier the character they used to play. Heather and Dylan have to fight Freddy in the end. Its a good movie worth the money and worth the time plus the freeway scene is great special effects. "},{"Title":"Freddy Escapes From Filmland","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great installment in the Freddy Krueger films. Freddy is loose in the real world, haunting Dillon, the son of Elm Street 1's heroine. This movie has a very unique plot. Very unique. Very scary too. It seems the legion of Freddy Krueger fans, seem almost more alike Freddy worshippers. After Heather's husband is killed off by Freddy's new glove, Drama takes it's toll in the film, while the Horror in the movie takes no break. This is a landmark in Freddy cinema. Then again, they all are. They've tried killing Freddy in hundreds of different ways. Including bringing Freddy outta dream land and blowing him up. And now they've tried killing him, outta film land. Is Freddy really dead, once and for all? Is a dolphin a carnivor?  "},{"Title":"Wes Craven + Freddy Krueger = A great movie!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven's return to Elm Street to save the series resulted in what I feel is the best horror movie of the 90's. The movie-within a-movie concept is orginal to say the least; not to mention fantastic. Let's hope some Craven wannabe doesnt try to cash in on this and make another horrible sequel. By the way; it was nice to see that Freddy gave up his career as a stand-up comedian "},{"Title":"Impressive, but too late","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven returns and proves why he's the top director/writer in the horror genre, too bad he waited until part seven to save Freddy from himself. This isn't the greatest horror movie ever made (only one part made me jump) but the premise behind the script is nothing short of brilliant.  For the most part the actors are good and the visual look of the movie is good, the only problem is some of the dialog is stilted.  The whole exchange between Craven and Lagenkamp seemed too bombastic for it's own good (but I have to admire Craven for keeping a straight face.  The guy is so damn serious in that scene!) and they got rid of Robert Englund too soon.  It would have helped if maybe he was in on the final battle with the creature he helped to create.  Think of the possibilities.  Still, a twisted and disturbing movie, with each viewing revealing more and more layers. "},{"Title":"Back on track, baby!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  How cool? Craven's back and Freddy is scary again! The movie will spook you and delight you. You can really believe you're watching the creators of the first Elm Street movies as they're playing themselves. Once again Craven is coming with a scary original concept and it's pure fun. It's ties-in with the first movie and you better watch the first Elm Street movie before this one. 2 and 3 are optional and quite good, but 4-6 are simply bad. "},{"Title":"Fred Krueger looks great","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not so impressed by this film. It's impossible to say that this film omits the Nightmare on Elmstreet sequels, this film needs the countless sequels, it couldn't be part 2. In New Nightmare Fred Krueger isn't the villain, but Evil is. And Evil has personified itself as Fred Krueger. I have to admit, Freddy never looked better (I believe I said the same thing about Jason in his latest film).Here and there the movie is a bit confusing, but what I really disliked about it was the predictable end. And besides the cliche end, it has some other cliches and that's why the movie didn't impress me as much. "},{"Title":"A Genuinely Great Movie","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It would've taken some push, but if Wes Craven's New Nightmare had gotten the word-of-mouth credit it deserved, it would've been a horror movie sensation. It's a good horror film and a good film; with those two combined, I personally thought New Nightmare was a genuinely great movie.Topically, it's a movie within a movie about a movie, and it's also pretty necessary that you've seen a few (or at least the first) Nightmare on Elm Street movie. It turns out, Freddy Krueger was sort of a created film entity that was protecting the world from a great demonic force. Now this force has taken on the person of a real-life Freddy, who haunts the dreams of former cast members, mainly Heather Langenkamp (who plays herself), who played Nancy in the first Elm Street movie. Writer-director Wes Craven ALSO plays himself, as he tries frantically to write a new script for the supposedly dead movie series, and Robert Englund plays himself AS WELL as Freddy Krueger.Sounds confusing? Like I said earlier, you have to at least have some knowledge of the Nightmare on Elm Street movie to really comprehend this one. Still, as it gets more and more complicated, Wes Craven's New Nightmare gets more and more interesting, and it's always highly entertaining. I'm not a big horror movie fan, but, frankly, I loved this one. Rated R. 112 minutes. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"My First 'Freddie' Movie","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  No...I never really caught up with the Nightmare On Elm Street series (as well as the Friday The 13th and Halloween series), but as a result to this being my first Nightmare series movies, I thought it was pretty cute, even though not much of it really made sense to me.  I mean, Heather's playing herself this time.  I thought that was a unique and interesting idea.Not bad. "}{"Title":"Finally, a worthy sequel!","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Finally Wes Craven steps in yet again and delivers an excellent sequel.  It's really great to see some people from the original return, and it's great to see the story go more for the original than any of the comedy-soaked sequels.  Heather Lagenkamp, John Saxon, Wes Craven, and Robert Englund play themselves in the seventh part about the Nightmare movies.  In actuality, A Nightmare on Elm Street were just movies that Heather Lagenkamp starred in.  She now is happily married with a son, played very well by Miko Hughes.  But then some unusual deaths on a movie set, and the death of her husband, leads Heather and her son into a saddened state.  Her son, Dylan, is expressing some unusual behavior, saying that his stuffed doll, Rex, protects him from Freddy.  But Freddy is only a movie character, or is he?  Heahter soon finds out by Wes Craven that since Freddy had died in the latest movie, his soul wants to come out to the real world.  Eventually Freddy does succeed in coming to the real world, sending Heather and Dylan on an adventure.  But the only thing that I really didn't agree with was that Freddy literally became larger than life.  I mean, this isn't a dream anymore, he is in the real world.  But the rest of the movie really made up for that.  I really recommend this!  **** out of *****. "},{"Title":"well, i'm impressed...","Date":"21 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie scared even me, and i'm not kidding. the idea to let actors play themselves is bold. my hat off to wes. he really can do it when he has to. (unlike sream-scream2) "},{"Title":"I`m sure there will be others that follow!!","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Cravens New Nightmare is the best sequel of them all, and should of been the one to follow the original. Well here is what I thought made this movie a pile of crap..... the other films do not exist because of this film, Heather Langenkamp plays herself! and Wes Craven and Robert Englund appear as themselves !!, So the past 5 Nightmare on Elm Street movies were really just Movies, it was a movie of a movie!!Confused yet??!! well I was, but under all this pile of rubbish it is quite a good movie.Well I recommend it and I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Most Underrated Horror Movie Of The Decade?","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  One Line Summary says all, really. Craven begins to play with our heads. After years of producing slickly-made slashers, he decides to add depth, characterisation and real scares in this, one of the most uncomfortable and disturbing movies I've seen for ages. Turning all our preconceptions on end, Freddy is darker, nastier and more powerful than we've ever seen him, and crouches at the heart of this movie like a burned puppeteer, pulling the strings that warp our reality. Genuinely upsetting and hard-to-grasp, 'New Nightmare' is full of the little touches that separate the class from the tat.Film critics will claim that Craven was just warming up for 'Scream', but genre-fans will recognise the kind of raw energy here that his later film lacked. Before he 'redefined the genre' with a Kevin Williamson script, he signposted the end with the (to date) final Freddy movie. Great direction, great performances, great effects and a great script. Great.  "},{"Title":"Good but not my favorite","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie did skip Nightmares 4, 5, and 6 but did have some spice to it like bringing Wes Craven back to write yet another Nightmare,and Heather Langenkamp playing herself.  Robert Englund (without and with the make-up) playing himself and Freddy Krueger added a little more spice to it which was pretty cool.  But, I liked Nightmares 3, and 4 better. The second Nightmare was not as good just like the 5th and 6th. But, overall this movie was pretty good.  "},{"Title":"Freddy's back, but this time he's serious.","Date":"2 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The first time since the original, Wes Craven has taken over and made Freddy the way he was originally - a grim, morbid murderer (although he only offs very few people in this one) in this smart seventh entry in the successful franchise, Heather Langenkamp plays herself as the actress of the first film who is terrorized by Krueger who has made a mysterious jump from the big screen to real-life. Quite an interesting idea and a great movie. Just wait until we see what Freddy Vs. Jason's gonna be like. John Saxon, Wes Craven, Robert Englund, producer Marianne Maddalena appear as themselves too.   "},{"Title":"Same Craven/Freddy Kreuger rehash, with a twist.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've always said that a few horror films stand out on plot alone (Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Psycho, etc.) Nightmare on Elm Street also can be added to this prestigious list. However, I find this series is always a let-down because, almost always during the end, the plot always goes terribly wrong. I still can't keep from voicing my disgust at the first film in the series for ending so sloppily. Wes Craven's New Nightmare reunites cast members of the original scarefest (Langenkamp, Englund, Saxon) and other production members (even Craven himself) playing themselves making a new film in the series. It seems that they (especially Langenkamp) are being haunted by Freddy Kreuger outside the set, and even more terrifyingly, has been terrorizing her young boy. This is an interesting way to set a horror flick, especially one that is being recycled even as we speak, but like the many other parts of the series, does not go far enough. The plot is inspired, the acting is better than average, the heroes are certainly not stupid, but the ending of this film (which I wouldn't dare reveal) looks much the same as the others. I know that Wes Craven has thought long and hard about this retread into his favorite nightmare, but I think more could be given to Freddy than just razor-fingers and an stretchable jaw and tongue. This is a nice try for most of the way, but a disappointment in its resolution. Goodnight, Freddy! Rating Two stars and a half.  "},{"Title":"The best of the sequels","Date":"4 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The only real problem with Wes Craven's New Nightmare is that it is not very scary. However as a drama it works well and it is certainly the best Nightmare on Elm Street film since the first.The thing that saves the film's lack of scares is the fact that the actors work well to create a really creepy tone that goes right through the film. Wes has worked out that the films where better when Freddy was a supporting character and that the main focus should be on the people who are affected by the actions of the killer.Heather Langenkamp is good though Robert Englund tends to overact, the child playing Heather's kid gives a better performance than he does.The film within a film angle pulls the series out of the mess created by Freddy's Dead a film that if there was any justice would have gone straight to video as it did not deserve a cinema release.Overall this is a really good film that was way better than any Part 7 could have expected to be. I just hope that it is not ruined by Freddy Vs Jason. "},{"Title":"Craven at his best.","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Just when you think Freddy has gotten as boring and predictable as he could possibly be, Wes Craven throws a curve ball that rejuvenates the series. This was perhaps the first original idea to find its way into a slasher flick in some time. And although I must remain loyal to the original, this was definitely the scariest of all the nightmare movies. The previous sequels resorted to cheap gore tactics, where as this one is more frightening psychologically than anything else. And kudos to Miko Hughes, who definitely wins the prize for best child actor in a mentally questionable role- could the casting be any better?    "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's Creativeness Is Shown Once Again!!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This part was exceptionally well, even though it had nothing to do with the other six.  The part that I liked was that Wes Craven wrote it, so that it was combined with a taste of reality and the movie.  It could become confusing at the end and even useless.  It only told of a Heather, a few years later, who is doing appearances with Robert Englund and doesn't really like the Freddy thing.  It seems that she is haunted by her own fears for a while, but pay close attention to when Wes Craven calls her in to do another Krueger movie.  Does she say yes or no!!! The reality factor has to be separated from the movie.  See it if you are in for a challenge.  "}{"Title":"Craven at his Finest","Date":"12 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  'Scream' was the best horror movie of the 90's, no doubt about it. But let's all be honest Kevin Williamson is the real mastermind behind that movie. Without a doubt.Wes did this himself. The way he does this movie and crafts it is perfect. The psychology in this movie just plain rocks. I mean Wes is without a doubt the Hitchock of the 90's.The original 'Nightmare on Elm Street' was good, but just this whole concept, plus throwing in the drama is wonderful.11/10 (yep!) "},{"Title":"not original, but good","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie was indeed quite good, but it was in no ways original. The entire idea of a director playing himself started with Lucio fulci's The Cat's Brain, where he plays himself as a director of horror movies who begins to go mad. I'm not saying Lucio Fulci thought the idea up, but his attempts were much better. "},{"Title":"Craven's back...","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" ...to show the amateurs how it's done.After watching the mess of Freddy's Dead it's interesting to note that both Mike DeLuca and Rachel Talalay (who was on board from part 3) are missing. Wonder why...?This only serves to show up just how bad their movie was compared to this. Wes Craven pre-empts his own movie 'Scream' by 2 years and does a 'post-modernising' of the whole Nightmare on Elm Street series.Reworking the whole Nightmare concept and having the main actors and crew from the original 3 movies play themselves being terrorised by the demon manifestation of Freddy is inspired. As well as incorporating it into a dark and twisted version of an already dark and twisted fairytale.Ranks 3rd in the Nightmare top 7, just because it shows that despite Freddy's Dead, Freddy is still very much alive in the 90's; if handled right. "},{"Title":"NEW NIGHTMARE","Date":"6 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the breath of life this failing series needed to jolt it back to the top.  Wes Craven has made a film that is post-modernly breath-taking.Heather Langenkamp is a sight for sore eyes as she returns to play HERSELF! Robert Englund is dazzling as both himself and as the new, more frightening-looking  Freddy Krueger.  Miko Hughes is notably great as Heather's son.  Hey, even John Saxon is back!  It's enough to make a fan of the first three films in this series scream with joy!Sure, this movie has its flaws but they are NOTHING compared to ones in the previous two sequels.  Yes, sir!  This is what the Nightmare series was meant to be!   "},{"Title":"Freddy at his most evil","Date":"1 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Although I enjoyed the entire series, I thought this was the best sequel. Bringing Freddy into the real world has created a whole new monster where he is more evil and less comedic. Robert Englund is creepy even when he plays himself. The acting is a bit sub-par but the storyline more than makes up for it. It's also great seeing Heather Langenkamp again. If you are a fan of the series but haven't seen this one yet - see it! "},{"Title":"A new type of nightmare.","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have watched this movie a few few times and love it.  I was finally glad for them making a new Freddy movie.  Except this wasn't the same Freddy we came to know.  Wes made a good deal of takeing the real world and mixing it with the fantasy world of Freddy's.  A totally different from all the rest of the 1-6, but still was good.  Can't wait til Freddy vs. Jason. "},{"Title":"well,a weird plot and kind of scary and original","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was freaky but the ending sucked. Bad acting but with Wes the confusing story plot about the movie within the movie I'll say at least was alright. "},{"Title":"It didn't make me laugh!","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  For once, a modern slasher movie didn't make me laugh my ass off.  This is not a funny movie.  So that could only mean that the acting was good, most of the dialogue was great (keep in mind, I did say 'most'), and that some parts are actually scary. Unlike 'Urban Legend', this movie is worth watching.  I liked the idea of it taking place in real life, with the actors on the run, not the characters they play.The special effects were pretty good too.  The blood looked like blood, and corpses looked like corpses.  Unlike the earlier Freddie movies, except the original of course, this one is worth watching.  I've said it before, and I'll say it again  Sequels suck!  This one however is an exception.  If you want, you can see the original, but do not see the sequels leading up to this one.  They all suck.  'New Nightmare' is by the the same guy that did 'Scream' and 'Scream 2'.  I think personally, 'New Nightmare' is better than both of them.  Well, at least better than 'Scream 2'... sorry Neve. "},{"Title":"Great movie. C'est ca.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  It really was cool. A great return to Wes' original work on the series. True, a lot of the other sequels were way unneeded, but sequels are rarely crucial. At least this was well done. And Miko Hughes...that kid just scares me. Anyone that's seen Pet Semetary and can hear that kid laughing to Dale Midkiff (Trax!) on the phone will agree with me!! "},{"Title":"It takes a master to re-birth a tired franchise","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" None of the Nightmare On Elm Street sequels were straight-up 'bad' per se. But the series has definitely hit an all time lull with Freddy's Dead. Could anyone breath new life into it? Probably not, other than the creator and horror master himself. Wes Craven comes up with one of the coolest, most unique ideas in a horror franchise. He breaks down the fourth wall and lets Freddy Kreuger into the real real world and brings back some of the iconic original characters.Heather Langenkamp returns as herself who is contemplating returning the Nightmare series as Nancy. Its great to have her back and she brings a certain memorable class to the film. The very talented youngster Miko Hughes (he was stunning in Mercury Rising) plays Heather's young son Dylan. He does a great job! John Saxon also returns playing himself this time around and its good to see him back as he does a great job too. Even Wes Craven plays double duty as himself and it was really cool to have him on the cast. David Newsom is decent as Langenkamp's husband although his role is quite small they have good chemistry. Robert Englund is the star of this movie. That might seem like an obvious statement but he is absolutely phenomenal in New Nightmare playing himself but also the return to the dark twisted killer that is Freddy Kreuger. Englund is a talented actor who has been type casted into horror flicks but this proved he can be versatile and really work with a great script. Its also proof that it was the lack of really depthy scripts that changed Kreuger into a comedic character because he slips back into the dark version of Kreuger flawlessly. It was so much fun to see Englund and Langenkamp together out of character and playing themselves.Ultimately you could watch the first Nightmare On Elm Street movie and then watch this one and not miss anything. This is a direct follow up to Wes Craven's original film and it is a brilliant addition to the series and the perfect way to usher in the tenth anniversary at the time. Generally this is considered by fans to be a great re-birth in the series and rightfully so. This one proves why horror fans like me keep coming back for more because sometimes even upper instalments can surprise you!! 8/10 "}{"Title":"Why does this have such a high rating???","Date":"22 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Okay, first of all, let me say that I am not one of those people who doesn't get movies if they aren't edge of your seat. For example, 2001 A Space Odyssey could have been good, but it just was too boring and had no explanation for the monolith and not enough focus on HAL 9000, the freaky antagonist supercomputer. Basically, most of the movie was shots of space with classical music. And everyone tells me that I didn't get it. No, I can't get it because there is no explanation, and it's too boring! BUT, I did love Hellraiser Inferno, and In the Mouth of Madness. So, what's the problem with New Nightmare??? Okay, first of all is the fact of Freddy. I actually love his new look, the jacket and hand, although the sweater and hat looked kind of funny and I didn't understand why they put the greenish-red rings around his eyes. They went to so much work designing this new, evil looking Freddy and he can't have more than 20 minutes of screen time. Yep, just a little bit more than Freddy's Revenge. And yes, I know that Pinhead had just about as much screen time in Hellraiser Inferno, but they didn't redesign Pinhead in that one. Okay, I do love psychological thrillers, but this was just BORING! It starts off with an all metal, robotic glove coming to life on the film set of a new Nightmare on Elm Street movie. The glove kills several special effects crew members and is about to kill Heather Langenkamp (Nancy)'s husband. And then she wakes up. Okay, that was awesome! Good, frightening, and all a dream. And the next forty five minutes or so have NOTHING going on for the movie! I will admit, the interview scene and the limousine scene were somewhat interesting, but the rest of it was just boring fluff. And also, we get a few decent shots of Robert Englund in this movie, but we don't see near enough! The entire movie revolves around two characters, that just can't carry the film. The kid is just annoying. He isn't creepy, he's just annoying. Some of the dream sequences are pretty freaky, but other than that, he's just a normal kid talking in a stupid voice. Also, the vomit scene was pretty much stolen from The Exorcist. So, by the end of the movie, all of the characters are referring to Heather as Nancy, but this is never explained. And then there is a showdown at the boiler room, which looks more like an ancient Greek temple than a power plant mechanical room. Okay, this scene was too tacky. And Freddy actually extends his arm to get the kid, tries to eat him, and wraps his tongue around Heather before burning to death and turning into, get this, the devil.???I will admit that I liked how it came to the real world, and we do get some pretty decent shots of Wes Craven and Robert Englund, and even a few other stars, but, like Freddy, they just don't have enough screen time. And some of the dream sequences are pretty creepy. But, I have two HUGE problems with this movie. First off, the fact that Heather has to wait until, like an hour and a half (around three days in the movie) after her kid tries to commit suicide, has seizures, nightmares, and tries to kill her before taking him to the hospital. Also, her kid is terrified of nightmares and she shuts the door so he is in the dark! ??? Worst mother ever! And it also isn't about Freddy on a film set, it's about him stalking Heather and her kid for two hours. This movie was so slow paced that it seemed like Titanic. Not to mention a hilariously low body count, with Freddy having a brand new glove, but breaking someone's neck! ??? Judge for yourself, but I thought it was boring. The kid was annoying, there wasn't enough Freddy, and Heather Langenkamp is just not an interesting character, unlike Nancy Thompson. Overall, this film is just TOO slow. I mean, Wes Craven had a really good idea here. Very original, just like the first Nightmare movie. But he didn't execute it very well. The kid was annoying, Heather Langenkamp looks bored and worried throughout the movie. And some of the dialogue is just ridiculous. Like how Wes all of a sudden knows what the new Freddy is is kind of ridiculous, because he couldn't possibly know that. Not to mention that in Never Sleep Again, he showed drawings for a Freddy mobile that he was going to put in the movie. "},{"Title":"Meta Movie Magic","Date":"29 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After the dismal Freddy's Dead, Freddy seemed to be dead and buried for at least a few years. It, however, was in 1994 that Wes Craven came up with the radical idea of bringing Freddy back for another nightmare a New Nightmare. Gone was funny Freddy and the fresh looking 80′s MTV teenagers and in was a concept so unique and groundbreaking that it just couldn't work? Or could it But..let us start back at the beginning. In 1984, horror director Wes Craven created A Nightmare on Elm Street. It was acclaimed as one of the scariest movies ever made and made unknowns like Robert Englund, Johnny Depp, and Heather Langenkamp huge stars. Ten years later, Heather is living happily with her husband, Chase, and her son, Dylan. But her life has now been turned upside down because she is being stalked by a person who sounds like Nightmare villain Freddy Krueger. Chase has just been killed in a car accident after he accidentally fell asleep behind the wheel. Dylan refuses to sleep any more, and New Line Cinema has just offered her a part in the ultimate Nightmare. But some other strange things have been happening, including earthquakes and Craven being tight-lipped about the script. The ultimate truth is that Freddy Krueger is actually an ancient demon breaking out into our world, but in order to do that, he must go through Heather. And he knows he can get out by harming those near her.Sound convoluted? Pretentious? Overly meta? Shockingly, no. New Nightmare is that rare horror film in which everything works. The performances are pitch perfect, lead by a tour-de-force performance by the amazing Langenkamp. The script is full of twists and turns and the movie is quite possibly the best looking of the entire series. What starts out as a maze of mirrors becomes something much more than your typical nightmare. The film examines the role film plays on those who watch it. Something that Wes Craven's Scream would play out to great effect two years later. I really can't say enough about this film and homages to the original are expertly placed. It is one of my all time favorite horror films and a modern classic. "},{"Title":"Freddy Invades  Reality!!!","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare, Wes Craven is having nightmares again, so he decides to write a new script. Because the Nightmare films have ended, the 'real' Freddy Krueger decides to come to our world. Wes Craven, Heather Langenkamp, Robert Englund, John Saxon are some of Freddy's targets he tries to kill. He tries to get Heather's son, Dylan too. The real Freddy is a lot scarier and more evil than Robert Englund could ever portray! Heather decides to play Nancy one last time and kill Freddy...for good! If you love the Nightmare series, and a movie within a movie, you might like NEW NIGHTMARE!!! "},{"Title":"Freddy's back again","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Freddy's back again but this time with a brand new look.several years have passed since the god awful self parody Freddy dead so Wes craven decided to save the franchise one more time.And taking the helm for the first time since the original to try and bring back the scary Freddy.This new Freddy is what Wes craven had originally intended for the first noes movie.There are several scenes in the movie that pay homage to the first noes.All of the cast from the original are back playing themselves.A true sequel to the first and no Freddy jokes in this one either.There aren't many death scenes but plenty of scares so all in all i give Wes cravens new nightmare 10/10 "},{"Title":"New, Fresh and Great Nightmare","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Though the nightmares continue (SEE 2003's Freddy Vs. Jason, 2010's A Nightmare on Elm Street), Wes Craven's New Nightmare was the perfect conclusion to the older series, much like Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country.Wildly original &#x96; before this movie was released, I had never seen such an original idea as this, especially in a horror series seven deep. In fact, though #4 remains my favorite of the series, this is certainly the most original since #1. You have to give Craven some kudos here; he's hit & miss, though mostly hit. And for him to return to his groundbreaking and innovative horror series for a part SEVEN, it takes balls.How's this for an idea for a movie Let's acknowledge that there is, in fact, a horror movie called A Nightmare on Elm Street starring Heather Langenkamp, Robert Englund and John Saxon, and that script idea was based on the director/creator Wes Craven's own real nightmares. Let's put these people in a film about that film and have them play themselves. Then, let's fast forward through 5 sequels and when the series is pretty much dead (no pun on the title of #6 Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare as it wasn't just the title that did it in, it was the extremely poor quality) until...Craven begins to have nightmares once again.Apparently he needs Heather's help in finishing off the story, once again. Heather Langenkamp's comfortable in her life she loves her husband, son and hates violence. She's shy when it comes to the fame caused by Nightmare's #1 and #3 (which is the exact opposite for actor Robert Englund, apparently.) But, things have been a little shaky lately, beyond the obvious reasons recent earthquakes.She's been having nightmares and her child, too. Make that everyone involved in the films have. But, things are coming true, like in the films she was in. And she's getting crank Freddy calls, annoying letters and her TV will not shut off, even with the power cord unplugged. In short, she's practically falling apart. It doesn't help that her boy likes to scream his head off every 4-5 shots of the film. (Actually, that can make any viewer, like me, crazy.) Heather must attempt to solve this mystery, and quickly as not only does the body count stack up, but people start to think she's crazy for thinking Freddy is really behind all the killings.Though the movie has its flaws (already mentioned one &#x96; that kid WAS ANNOYING and there were some implausible and inconsistencies in the plot) and it wasn't perfect by any means, but I really, really liked and admired this film, even beyond being a self-described Freddy Fan.I love the people playing themselves, especially Langenkamp, Englund, Saxon, Craven and Shaye. Heather Langenkamp finally acts &#x96; as much as I liked her in #1 and #3, her acting was kind of, well, weak. Here, despite her playing herself, she's natural on screen, believable, credible and someone to root for. As was Robert Englund &#x96; it was nice seeing how friendly he is, and a real person beyond the makeup. I've always been a fan of John Saxon, and again, it's great seeing him normal and keeping up a friendship with his on-screen daughter played by Langenkamp. And though Craven and Shaye are barely in it, I still liked their performances as well. (Honorable mentions, and as a said-Freddy Fan, including looking through the funeral crowd to find some of my favorite former stars of the series, including Tuesday Knight. Yes, I'm aware Depp wasn't there, but he did want to be, so that counts.) Also, keeping up with the New Nightmare plot line, Freddy (or the entity now known as Freddy &#x96; watch the movie to find out why) finally gets evil. (I'm sure the 2010 remake/reboot will contain the ultimate evil Freddy, but, to date, we haven't gotten that far.) He looks darker, acts more wicked and is more restrained in his comments &#x96; and you can tell, when he does say something, it's for his own amusement, not for the audience's for once. This is good writing here. Actually, I felt the entire movie was great writing and contained great homage to Craven's original &#x96; SEE her hair and the gory scene between the babysitter and Heather's son.I don't judge a movie based on box office receipts, but I was saddened to see this one fail so miserably. Perhaps people just gave up on Freddy after #6 was so horrible. (#5 didn't do well either at the box office, so I guess it was inevitable.) But this movie sincerely made up for #5-6, much like what Halloween H20 (part 7) did for the terrible string of sequels leading up to the worst Halloween sequel, #6.And finally, (spoiler, as if a lot of this hasn't been so far) since it's not really Freddy, I love the fact New Line kept to their word &#x96; Freddy Krueger really did die in #6 Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare (hence the title) and Paramount did the same thing (Friday the 13th The Final Chapter was the final as part 5 of the Jason Voorhees series was a different killer.) Of course, that argument's out the window with both Freddy Vs. Jason and Friday the 13th part VI Jason Lives. Granted, in reality, I am only talking about Wes Craven's New Nightmare in 1994. It would be years until Freddy returned for Freddy Vs. Jason. (Wow, that was a mouthful, but hopefully I got my point across.) 1984's A Nightmare on Elm Street had a great premise and an original story. Wes Craven's New Nightmare took that five steps ahead. And that's a rarity in any genre. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"this was better then all the sequels including part 3","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" this film is better then what people say it is. The basic plot of the film is heather whatever her last name is living a normal live with her son and husband who works in the movie business and basically the husband gets killed and she finds out Freddy is attacking her cause she played Nancy. Right what really sets this film a part is the fact that it's set in the real world and not in the movie world and it uses most of the cast members from the nightmare franchise and the film also makes reference to the first film including such lines as don't fall asleep etc etc and also for the first time ether Wes craven not only writes and directs it but he also appears in it as him self "},{"Title":"One of Craven's best work as a filmmaker.","Date":"31 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" When the star of the original A Nightmare on Elm Street film, Heather Langenkamp is happily married to a special make-up effects man (David Newson) and their eight year old son (Miko Hughes). Actress Langenkamp gets a chance of a life-time to appear in a role that make her famous for horror fans everywhere to make a more realistic, intelligent, adult and scary different sequel to the Elm Street saga that made Freddy Krueger (Which is been always played by Robert Englund). Which is a household name for the then-independent studio New Line Cinema. Which filmmakerWes Craven is actually writing the new script but in someways Freddy has become real in the dream world. Now Freddy is stalking his victims through their dreams, for those who are involved in this new production before Craven finish his script.Written and Directed by Wes Craven (The People Under the Stairs, The Serpent and the Rainbow, Shocker) made an excellent one of a kind sequel for those, who grown up watching the original. Langenkamp is actually very good in this film and Hughes as her son almost steals the film. This could have been great also, if this was about Robert Englund's dark side to Freddy. Still, Craven did some of his best work as a filmmaker (Which he received some of the best reviews of his career of this film).DVD has an sharp anamorphic widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an fascinating audio commentary by the director, original theatrical trailer, cast & crew information and jump to a nightmare opinion. On the Elm Street box set on the eighth disc. DVD has an interview with the filmmaker. Some of the amusing highlights of the film is people were involved with the series-including Co-Ceo & Co-ChairmanRobert Shaye and actorJohn Saxon played themselves in cameos. Englund gives an different kind of performance as the new and improve Freddy Krueger. The film didn't have much success at the box office. But the film went on to have an cult success on video. This film is unique and doesn't really follow the Elm Street sequels. Some will find this confusing (Since in this film Elm Street movies were only a movie to this film) but this is a complex, well made thriller. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After 10 years, Wes Craven returned to the series and characters which brought him his greatest success in an attempt to inject some life into the franchise and again try to re-define the horror genre. A New Nightmare is a success on both counts, even if it was only an experiment and stepping stone between projects. A New Nightmare brings attention to themes such as Art imitating life and vice-versa, love of horror movies, the life of a cult figure, and how we perceive violence, censorship, and of course the relationship between parent and child.Wes Craven has been having nightmares and is using them to write a seventh installment in the Elm Street series. He contacts the star of Parts 1 and 3, Heather Langenkamp, who played Nancy, and asks if she would be interested in returning to the role one last time. She turns down the role as she is a happily married mother who has tried to put the films and Freddy behind her. However, the fans are ravenous for more. Recently Heather has been getting strange phone calls, probably from another stalker or obsessive fan who claims to be Freddy, calls which upset her and her son Dylan. She has also started to have nightmares, some involving Freddy but puts it down to stress etc.Her husband Chase is out of town working on a film. On his return home he falls asleep at the wheel, crashes and dies. Heather insists on checking the body, and finds claw marks over his chest. She now believes that Freddy, or someone pretending to be him is stalking her family. Freddy is not happy that he has been forgotten and wants out into the real world. He attacks Heather in her dreams, and she is drawn into a final battle to save her son and herself from the demon, who now seems to be scarier, stronger and more violent. She realises she must act as Nancy to take on Freddy in her dreams.The film returns to the scares, imagery, themes and gore which made the original so popular. Bringing back several members of the original cast Craven manages to create a perfect, dreamlike blend between the real world and the dream world. Heather is an actress but must remember that it was the spirited youth of her character which saved Nancy's life. However, the fact she has grown up, and that it was just a job means that it is difficult to believe such things. She is in danger of becoming like her character's mother which will end in her own and her son's deaths. Freddy is now presented as pure evil, with a few catchphrases but now more scary than funny like he once was, a creature completely intent on becoming real.Langenkamp takes the difficult role in her stride and is just as good as she was in the original, now a caring mother rather than a paranoid teen. Englund revels once more in his role and seems to enjoy himself more here than in some of the previous films. Saxon and Craven are good in small roles, Hughes is annoying at times as Hughes but is still good, and the rest of the cast are adequate. The gore is back to basics, not overblown like in the last few films, and certain scenes are shocking- the 'skin the cat' scene is probably the most memorable. Craven again knows how our minds and fears work, the fact that Dylan thinks his toy dinosaur can protect him is a good example of this, that we create a blanket or defender for ourselves when there is no-one else to help us. This is overall a good idea well worked, and a precursor to the Scream series, and a respectable ending (so far) to the Elm Street series.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A little different","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Set in the real world, this movie brings back Nancy (Heather Langencamp) as herself. Now having dreams of Freddy in her actual life, she is terrified for her life, the life of her partner and of course the life of her son.It transpires, that these new encounters are coin-sidle with Wes Craven's own dreams; he has started writing again, and his imagination is bringing Freddy to life and this time it's for real! More sinister than before, it brings back some of the terror, we witnessed so long ago, the terror that has been missing in every single one of the series that didn't involve Wes Craven.A Nice idea, that works well.7/10 "},{"Title":"Oh No!","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I still cant believe how great idea this was! But how unbelievable result was - they ruined it totally! It looked like TV movie. It looked like they made it inbetween other jobs. There was no effort invested. Such a great idea was spent on pretty lame movie! And then there was some harm done to the series! Because they started with killed Freddy. But Freddy cannot die! That was the basic premise for II,III, IV, V, VI movie - so how could he be dead now?! Series can exist only if you have good old enemy that make some sense. Not some sort of spirit...Same thing proved wrong in Jason goes to Hell!This is great idea - lousy spent! I still cant believe! They could earn great cash if they done this right...  "}{"Title":"Intriguing Idea Which Worked Well In Practice","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Back in 1993, I heard that there was going to be a seventh Nightmare on Elm Street movie. This was before we had movie websites giving us all the plot details for a movie; so I thought, 'Oh no, Freddy was killed in Part VI conclusively and now they're gonna bring him back to terrorize more teens. How unoriginal.'When I saw this movie at the cinema in 1994 I knew nothing about the plot beforehand so this was quite a surprise to me. The plot of the movie was a good idea and worked very well.Heather Langenkamp is back playing, erm, herself. Robert Englund is also back playing Freddy Krueger and, erm, himself. Yes, that's right. This is a film within a film. This is a film featuring the actors from the original playing themselves. However, the real Freddy is back (boy, I bet this sounds confusing).The story is simple-it turns out that Wes Craven (also playing himself) had to continue to make Nightmare on Elm Street movies because Freddy Krueger is actually a real demon and his power can only be contained if the films are made. Remember, this is the plot. The REAL Freddy movies are just fiction.Anyway, Heather is being plagued by nightmares and her young boy is seemingly being drawn into it. The 'real' Freddy is one mean son of a gun and he wants to cause as much evil as he can.The film is initially slow but it soon picks up pace and there are a few frightening scenes. Every one of the performers does a good job with their characters and Englund does well as Freddy again.I feel the movie could have made more use of John Saxon and Robert Englund's human role. However, this is a presentable and respectable film. The idea is original and I feel the producers must be commended for doing something different rather than choosing the easy option and just making a rehash of the other films. A good movie is this. "},{"Title":"I DON'T CARE, I DON'T CARE, I DON'T CARE!!!!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was the best in the Nightmare series.  This was the only one that was actually scary.  I like the plot of the movie.  This movie takes  a different turn from the last six films.  Robert Englund gives a good performance in this last entry. A keeper! "},{"Title":"What was Wes thinking?","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven is a master of the suspense craft from the original Nightmare on Elm Street, to the greatest horror/thriller series every created, The Scream Trilogy, to popcorn thrillers like Red Eye. He knows what he's doing, but what was he doing here? He wrote, directed, and acted in New Nightmare and he only nailed one of those three. The story is unclear in its switches from dreams to reality all the time and never stops and explains to us, why? On top of that, it's not scary. The entire first half of this movie it was laughably bad. I mean, what Heather is going through makes absolutely zero sense. It works in Scream 3, because Sidney actually went through the events and has to relive them with the Stab films. Here she acted in the actual films, so why should it haunt her.The second half improves, but is still mediorce at best. It's hardly scary, at all. You don't care about the characters. The acting is horrible except for Wes Craven's awesome cameo and some Englund scenes. He slips back into the role of Freddy that should've stayed with the original film back in '82. Langenkamp is so bad, she made me laugh out loud. Without Wes's cameo, none of the characters would've been well-done.This is so disappointing because I love the man so much, but, I'm sorry Wes. Your film is un-salvageable; 3.5 - 4. "},{"Title":"Better than the Original","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the only movie, other than the original, to make Freddy actually scary, and in just about every single case, is better than the original.**SPOILERS**Heather Langenkamp, (Heather Langenkamp), her husband, Chase Porter, (David Newsom) and her son Dylan (Miko Hughes) are trying to life their lives when it's interrupted by an earthquake, and parts of the house is damaged. Heather gets ready for a TV appearance to promote the new Freddy movie, and a special appearance by Robert Englund in Freddy make-up reawakens her fear of Freddy. That same day, her husband dies in a strange accident. At the funeral, she meets up with co-star John Saxon, (John Saxon), and experiences another weird vision. Starting to convince herself she is going crazy, she calls on Englund for advice, and it settles her down. The next day, Dylan nearly kills himself. He is taken to a hospital for tests, and needs to stay overnight. Heather pays a visit to Wes Craven, as himself, to talk about the script for the new Freddy movie, and learns that Wes has known all along of Dylan. During the night, there is another earthquake, and examining the wreckage finds Freddy back from the dead. After a small battle, an aftershock sends Freddy into hiding and Heather back to the hospital to check on Dylan. The search brings Heather back home, where she and Dylan have one last showdown with Freddy.The Good News This film finally brings back respect and fear back for Freddy. After five sequels, this one goes back to the original idea of Freddy as a menacing killer. He has very little screen time, and even drops his whole wise-cracking act from the sequels. It was greatly appreciated to see, as it makes Freddy that much more vicious and scarier than the previous films. Most of the movie has the cast from the original playing themselves, and we get to see their lives off camera. All of the stars are real good friends, and it was nice to see the actors show up one last time. The shocks in this film is mostly Heather's dreams and day-mares of Freddy. The main one was the funeral hallucination. I won't reveal it, but it was very creepy and very well-thought-out. Most of them are just that very well thought-out, creepy and certainly very creative. The gore is toned down from the others, but there is still some great blood-letting when it happens. The rare slash-marks that are there do let the blood fly, and the deaths are pretty graphic when they occur. It has a high watch-ability factor, and makes you want to watch it over and over again, something very few horror movies do, as you become emotionally attached to the characters. The ending is perhaps the best of the series, with such a large amount of special effects involved and a dark, twisted atmosphere. It's action-packed, doesn't get interesting, and instead of being just there for a special effects showcase, is that way on the story's design. The direction allows a really big scene at the end and it ends the film on such a high note that it makes the film that much stronger. One of the best jump sequences is Freddy's first appearance. It's quite a shock and comes as a great surprise.The Bad News Get rid of that annoying kid! He did nothing in the film other than scream uncontrollably. I couldn't stand him. He had a few motherly moments with Heather, but he was simply on my nerves. Also, this may seem like a stupid gripe, but I don't like Freddy's claws in this one. I don't really like the way that his claws are curved. I liked his claws better when they were straight. Also, there is such a low body count in this movie that hardly anybody gets offed, and those that do are killed in the same way as those from other Freddy movies. He had no originality in his death scenes as his is so famous for. Freddy kills people in creative ways, but he had almost no originality to his kills here. Also, I thought that they should have brought back the whole cast from part one, not just Heather, John, and Robert. Johnny Depp and the person who played Tina should have been in the movie too, at least in the funeral scene. Oh well.The Final Verdict With several small grips to complain about, this is one of the few horror movies that I would recommend to every one. There is nothing seriously wrong with this movie.Rated R Violence, some language, and children in jeopardy "},{"Title":"Big Time Disappointment","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  There were maybe 3 decent scares in this movie, It is definitely not a horror masterpiece or anything remotely close to the praise this film has received.  What starts off as a seemingly intelligent and promising movie gradually deteriorates into typical formulaic Nightmare on Elm Street sequelesque garbage.  Heather Langenkamp definitely goes out on a limb for this one and comes out a winner.  A victim of too many good ideas in notes and screenplays, New Nighmare just can't find itself in a 2 hour time slot.  Craven's nods to various films such as Blue Velvet, The Exorcist, and Beetlejuice only add a confusing air to the melodrama and latent terror.  Avoid unless you are a loyal Nightmare fan. "},{"Title":"Skip 4-5-6, Go Right to 7","Date":"1 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The initial trilogy of Nightmare movies could have stood on its own, but 4 -5-6 basically hauled the franchise off in a different, inferior direction.  The New Nightmare still doesn't quite match up to the original, but at least Craven (returning to the helm) tries to do something different.  I'm not overwhelmed by the conceit of the actors playing themselves, but at least the movie-within-a-movie idea is somewhat original.   And it's always a pleasure to see Heather Langenkamp back, as well as robert Englund outside of make-up, without doing the weird cameos he's been in some of the previous movies.  the boy in this one, and the threat to him, is much more suspenseful without the tastelessness of the previous efforts.  Overall, probably the best Nightmare since the original. "},{"Title":"The best Nightmare of them all, but you have to be more into suspense than horror...","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the best out of all the Nightmare movies, although a part of me feels that it shouldn't be classified as being part of the Nightmare instalments, because the film has nothing to do with the premise of the other six instalments for the most part, and it's also much more of a suspense film than a horror movie.For this movie, Wes Craven decided to have his plot go in an entirely new direction.Wes Craven's New Nightmare revolves around the fictional life of Heather Langenkamp who portrayed Nancy in two of the Nightmare films. Heather Langenkamp has been having nightmares of her fictional character's nemesis Freddy Krueger, and has also been receiving phone calls and mail from an unknown assailant. Later on in the plot it is discovered that Wes Craven has been working on a New Nightmare script that has already been put into production by the producers over at New Line. But what was thought to have only been a script has now turned into something even darker. An evil spirit has taken the character of Freddy, and is trying to get into the real world. Although to successfully do this, the spirit or Freddy must defeat and overcome the one who first gave him all of his power ten years ago, Heather Langenkamp or Nancy. But the big question is, is she willing to play Nancy one last time, and is she ready for what lies ahead? The premise of the story is well explained for the most part with only minor details that are left ambiguous to the viewers. However it's best not to over think the story too much, especially when it comes to movies of this genre, and simply go with it.Fans of Robert Englund might be disappointed that he has very little to do with the plot of this film, even though he plays himself and Freddy it is technically NOT him, but an evil entity of some sort who also only makes a full appearance towards the final half of the movie. Wes Craven made a clever decision to only have Freddy truly appear towards the end of the movie, because the whole time you're sitting there waiting for him to make an appearance, and because you know it's going to happen but not when it will happen creates a build up of suspense for the viewer. This also gives for a greater climax moment. That being said, Robert Englund delivers his best and scariest performance as the man with the claws, and his appearance is sure to scare you in this one.As for Heather Langenkamp, she delivers a top-notch performance as both herself and Nancy, and is also a thrill to watch in this film.Miko Hughes who plays Langenkamp's fictional son Dylan Porter does a great job at acting creepy and is very believable in his role.John Saxon who plays both himself and Nancy's father Lt. Donald Thompson also delivers a great performance.Overall for acting all of the characters, primary and secondary, held their own and gave solid performances.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Wes Craven has to be one of the most creative and talented directors/screenwriters of the horror and thriller/suspense genre.Wes Craven's New Nightmare cleverly incorporates elements from the first film that were retained in everyone's memory, such as the tongue in the phone and Tina's death scene, to name a few of the more apparent ones. Fans of the original A Nightmare On Elm Street are in for some scares as well as some big time shivers as the clock counts down for Nancy and Freddy's face-off that is unravelling rapidly to one last climatic showdown.A buy for most, and simply a rent for the rest pending on their preference of film.***** Stars Out Of ***** "},{"Title":"A nice try","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" By the mid-1990s, the horror segment of the film industry had run bone dry, thanks in no small part to crappy sequels. What makes this ironic is that New Nightmare is the seventh installment in the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise, and in spite of being far more creative than the five sequels preceding it, the market just hadn't recovered enough for it. Not that this is totally to blame for its relatively weak performance at the box office. In spite of being written and directed by the creator of the original, New Nightmare brings very little that could be considered new to the table. In fact, one could say that Wes Craven has been out of ideas since about 1990 or thereabouts.The conceit of New Nightmare is based in part on the manner in which Wes Craven gets ideas. The original Nightmare On Elm Street was based upon reports he'd read about Asian migrants dying in their sleep after complaining about nightmares that followed specific patterns. The idea in this sequel being that the idea is for real, and the source for that idea is interfering in the real world. It is, on the surface, a ludicrous idea, and it is a real credit to the cast that they can play it with such a straight face. Robert Englund in particular has a trying task in this film. Not only does he have to play a character that has been turned into a joke by three of the five preceding sequels, he has to portray himself taking that character seriously. It is a supreme irony that he is remembered for this role rather than the one he had in V.To its credit, New Nightmare assembles a lot of the cast and crew from the original in order to bolster this conceit. Even John Saxon, whose career had thoroughly tanked by this point, makes an appearance. Sadly, Johnny Depp, the most successful alumni from the original, is nowhere to be seen. Granted, he had a cameo in Freddy's Dead, but given how pitiful that film was, it would have been nice to see Depp playing himself in this one. Jsu Garcia and Amanda Wyss are also nowhere to be seen, although I suppose it is good that they did not try to stick every actor from the original into this new one. After all, you have to allow the story to flow a bit. But that is where the biggest of New Nightmare's problems come from. Much of the 112 minutes that New Nightmare runs for feels redundant, and entire sequences go by with nothing seeming to happen. It is not a measured pace, but rather a pace that leaves the viewer waiting for something to happen.Another problem, and this is one faced by all of the Nightmare On Elm Street sequels, is that the dialogue is incredibly stilted. Even Wes himself speaks in a fashion that I cannot really imagine him using elsewhere. I guess part of the problem lies in the unreal subject matter. No matter how hard one tries, one cannot really explain the mechanics of a demonic presence borne of one's imagination and keep a completely straight face. One cannot help but wonder at times if we could have been shown, rather than told, some of the mechanics of the story. A lot of films in this genre spend too much time explaining why we're meant to be scared, or how a particular antagonist works, paying no attention to the economy of time. Still, it is better than most of the previous Nightmare sequels, in which the writers relied upon the knowledge the viewer might have had about the previous stories.In all, I gave New Nightmare a 5 out of ten. It is worth spending a couple of hours watching while doing other things, such as writing this dreadful review, but as a form of entertainment, it is pretty ordinary. "},{"Title":"Nightmare part 3","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I love Nightmare on Elm street. I really liked part three and this one. Robert is awesome as Freddy. Heather is great in this movie. Forget part 2, 4, 5 ect. There not any good. This one had some good moments. The music was cool. The acting was great. I love nightmare on elm street and I have to say is that the three I mentioned first are the best. But anyways, this one is a nice final chapter of Freddy. I recommend this movie to anyone who loves Nightmare on Elm street, or a good scary movie.  "},{"Title":"Slick & Scary But lacked Something (Humor?)","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was an interesting concept with real-life actors from the Nightmare On Elm Street horror series playing themselves (Robert England, Heather Langenkamp, John Saxon, etc.) but then caught up in another Freddy story. It wound up being a commentary on the question Does watching horror movies affect people?Being this movie was made about a decade after most of the other Nightmares, this film had a slicker took to it, the picture and sound being sharper. It's scary, too, but not as much fun to watch as the others. It didn't have Freddy's sense of humor, mainly, and that was missed. This story took itself too seriously.It kept my attention the whole way, and was better on the profanity but it just lacked something. "}{"Title":"Wes Craven's Underrated Classic one of the best Elm Street movies!!!","Date":"1 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's New Nightmare (1994) is one of the best horror films of the 90's. Possibly the second best Elms Street entry. But in my opinion A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors (1987) is much better than this. I just love this film to death! I love this film because it is Wes Craven direction debut. Wes Craven did write and directed this film. In this film, Freddy is depicted as closer to what Craven originally intended, being more menacing and less comical, with a greatly updated attire and appearance. The film is very scary and it does involve Freddy coming in to a real world. Nancy Thompson (Heather Langenkamp) returns this time Heather plays her self and she defeats the third time Freddy but this time it is different than it was in the first film. I can always watch A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 Dream Warriors and New Nightmare and those three films just kick ass and they are my favorite horror slasher films in the genre! I love this movie so much mostly for the real world setting and the return of the characters from the first movie. Heather Langenkamp is the essential leading lady for a horror franchise. One aspect of this film I really liked was how Robert Englund just played himself and Freddy was more of a demonic killer from Hell. If you're looking for the scariest impersonation of Freddy, this is the one to watch. The story is about the original cast members of the first Freddy film being haunted by a reel Freddy. This movie is so good it stands on its own! New Nightmare is a 10.year anniversary of Wes Craven's A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) which that also counts in this film and it is mentioned in here!I like what they did hear what it would be like if Freddy was in the real world Freddy had a makeover he looked bad ass to me I thought this was some sort of re imaging Wes Craven try to do something different with Freddy but that's my opinion. The whole tone of it was great to me and like you said the actors playing themselves was great)! The story it is a very clever concept for this series which it has a potential. I prefer this film over the Elm Street sequels except part 3 which I love the third entry to death! The same way I love the seventh entry in to series. Some people don't prefer this film into the series I do. The movie is very realistic and very scary. heather Langenkamp did the best job portraying her self and getting back to the roots of Nancy Thompson!I always have enjoyed this film, Wes did a solid job directing this horror slasher movie , I really feel terrible for his family and I can't believe a tragedy strike him and his family! It is the worst loss of my beloved Director ever! Very different entry into a Last Action Hero idea of a horror movie becoming reality. My favorite moment in the movie is the freeway sequence. Heather/Nancy takes sleeping pills to join in on a lucid dream, final showdown with Freddy to save an already captured Dylan. It occurs in a hot, steamy and water-logged dream scape ruin, apparently Freddy's home turf. The final showdown between Nancy and Freddy was outstanding, the bets sequence ever. Nancy with her help of her son defeat the demon Freddy they both lock him in a lit furnace where upon catching on fire and killing him. His true visage is shown amidst a fiery blast that was awesome!!! Nancy and Dylan escaping back to reality which was phenomenal. I love the actress Tracy Middendorf playing babysitter Julie. Gosh in the hospital scene Julie ends up punching a nurse and threatening another with a needle (cameo appearance by Wes Craven's daughter), and locks the door.) was awesome I love that scene! Seriously I thought the actress who played Julie was actually Jennie Garth because they both look alike, they were great. I love actress Tracy Middendorf playing Julie, I thought she made wonderful performance in this film. Fighting for Heather's son.The most two actors that blazed in this film were Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund who played them self's and their famous roles Nancy and Freddy. I am also pleased that John Saxon did return in this film as a support cast and a close friend of Heather, he even played Donald Thompson again in this film. This time staying awake won't save you.. Ten years after writer and director Wes Craven (Scream, The Hills Have Eyes) brought his personal nightmares to the movie screen as Freddy Krueger in A Nightmare on Elm Street, the horrifying child killer returns, stepping out of his celluloid world to haunt the life of the actress who first defeated him on film. This seventh film in the Nightmare on Elm Street series has the cast starring as themselves in a wicked spin as key players from earlier installments are terrorized by Freddy Kreuger and his razor-fingered glove. That is the basic plot. Anyway I love this film and I am giving a 10 because this film deserves it and it is my second best favorite Elm Street horror slasher film!Wes Craven's New Nightmare is a 1994 American slasher meta film written and directed by original Nightmare on Elm Street creator Wes Craven.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio New Line Cinema Starring Robert Englund, Heather Langenkamp, Miko Hughes, John Saxon, Sam Ruben Director/Writer Wes Craven Producers Wes Craven, Robert Shaye Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 42 Mins. Budget $8.000.000 Box Office $17,400,601 "},{"Title":"Part 7 is scarier then the first 6","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Don't get me wrong this first six A nightmare on elm street movies are very scary. But the seventh one is scarier. This is one of the scariest movies ever. This movie has a great story line. This movie also has great acting. This movie also has special effects. Freddy is a ghost so I consider this horror fantasy. This is one of the best horror movies ever made. This is a great movie. See this movie. This movie is a must sees. This movie is very intense. I need more lines and I am running out of things to say. This movie Freddy is trying to get into a parallel dimension were is world is a work of fiction. Great movie great movie. See it. "},{"Title":"Really bad....","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing this one as a kid and hating it. I just saw it again and hated it even more. I was surprised to see so many positive reviews. I loved Freddy's Dead. I loved funny Freddy. Robert Englund didn't play Freddy in this one fyi. New Nightmare is long and boring. The people who gave this positive reviews are the same ones who watched Breaking Bad and spent the time gushing over Anna Gunn's performance. Walt's wife was an obnoxious nag. Ooooo, ooooo, why is Marie always wearing purple? What does it symbolize? Walter White is evil...... They never explained what happen to that Spanish kid.... Where was Jesse going? These people should be tied to a chair and forced to watch and find the symbolism in Micheal Bay's movies. What am I talking about? I'm not making any sense? This isn't a review, its just a rant? I was done after four lines but I have to write ten. My review, like this movie, is long and full of hot air and ultimately makes no sense and is boring. The poor grammar is for symbolism. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"29 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's New Nightmare is my favorite film i have ever seen. It has been on my top films list since i saw it in theaters in 94 (twice). Honestly it beats out the original ANOES film but ANOES is also on my list (very high as well) and a masterpiece(a 10). WCNN is Wes Craven's best script and film. The movie steps outside the box with an original concept... That sounds like it may be a disaster but ends up being the greatest horror film ever made. This isn't A Nightmare on Elm Street... This is about MAKING A Nightmare on Elm Street and Freddy wants a new movie.. but its not the jokester Freddy we have come to know. Its an ancient demon who appears as Freddy and kills/threatens so a script is written and a film is made. Brilliant movie. Must see. Happy 20th anniversary, New Nightmare! 10/10. "},{"Title":"Play Nancy one last time....","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Summary for this review shown above was just one of many chilling lines in this film; for the most part, the cast did a wonderful job. Wes Craven's New Nightmare is a meta-film and the premise revolves around the idea that an ancient evil has been captured within The story of Freddy Krueger and now that the story has died, the evil has been unleashed; the main characters in the film are Heather langenkamp and her son Dylan(the child is played by Miko Hughes.) Heather is getting harassing phone calls from a strange deep voiced man, her son is acting strange, and her friends are dying. I won't give away to much about the film, but I will tell you that it has an incredible sense of dread and a lot of tense moments, and also the characters are likable so you feel sorry for them. So I would highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Fabulous Motion Picture","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" After a series of ugly/grotesque disappointing sequels that don't hold a torch in comparison to Wes Carvens Masterpiece A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) - Wes Craven and an even more worthless disappointing death finale Wes Craven and Robert Englund thought they'd try something completely new with the franchise, where Freddy Krueger exists in Reality, this project became a full feature length motion picture Wes Craven A New Nightmare, its an undoubtedly Fabulous Movie, but General Audiences, Critics, and long-time fans of the franchise said differently calling it Boring, Unexciting, Taking Away charm from the first 6, and violating the rules of Freddy Krueger, I sincerely disagree with the reviews to the fullest extent of my heart and I will counter most of those arguments in my review.1st This movie is visually Terrifying/Exciting/Beautiful putting the fear back on Elm Street with an unexpected unpredictable opening sequence.2nd Keeping the Movie in Reality is pure Goddamn genius3rd My only gripes against the film are THERE'S TWO KILLS! "},{"Title":"The Best of the Bunch","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The movie starts out with a hand making the glove, much as the original did. Heather is playing herself, a successful movie star from the Nightmare... series. She begins having nightmares that members of her crew are being killed by Freddy, and her son begins exhibiting strange behavior too. She seeks help from fellow cast members Wes Craven and Robert Englund while trying to protect her child, Dylan, from child services and his dreams. She soon realizes that her dreams are real and is sucked into a nightmare with a newly designed Freddy who is more a demon of literature than a resurrected child killer. She's able to save her son and herself, but not her husband.I liked this because it was so dark. I normally find Wes Craven goes too far and is too dark, but perhaps he had too large of a staff to not kill and brutally rape people like in Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes. I liked the I felt frightened by Freddy and how dark and uncompassionate he was.I also really like the whole meta thing. This is a horror movie about a horror movie and that seems very clever to me. Though it's not really a sequel for this reason, it seems like the only sequel that makes sense. It's my favorite for this reason - it's very tight.A recommend to any horror fans; bring the whole family. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven's New Nightmare","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" It looked like for some time Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare was the final time scary movie fans would see the iconic razor handed Son of 100 Maniacs, but then original film writer and director Wes Craven (The Hills Have Eyes, Scream) came up with this clever comeback. Basically the tenth anniversary of the movie A Nightmare on Elm Street is coming up, and original star Heather Langenkamp is part of the special events celebrating, along with its director Wes Craven, and of course the man behind killer Freddy Krueger, actor Robert Englund. She has a happy life with husband Chase Porter (David Newsom) and son Dylan (Miko Hughes), but she is being stalked by a nasty voice on the phone, and creepy goings on in her house, and things get worse when her husband is killed in a car crash, and his body has slash marks on it. Dylan is refusing to sleep anymore, because he is scared, like the movie, that Freddy will come in his dream and try to kill him, and dealing with this Heather is also being offered a part in the next Nightmare film Wes is working on, but the script needs work. Heather is finding the behaviour of her son uncontrollable, and she does believe Freddy is haunting her, Wes comes up with the theory that now the Elm Street films are over an ancient spirit must have helped him come out of the fictional world to enter dreams in real life, and his script may be part of this way out. It comes to the point when Dylan may be taken away from Heather due to his psychologically disturbed behaviour, but she is also incarcerated by doctors who believe she is going mad, of course Freddy continues his kills while this is going on. Eventually Heather, like her character, enters a dream to confront Freddy and stop the terror, and she manages to lock him in a furnace to burn to death, and returning to the real world she and her son read the new finished sample script sent by Wes. I like films where actors play a version of themselves, you could see this as semi-documentary considering the concept of how to bring back a character supposedly dead for good, the story has its moments of irritation, especially with the doctors breaking up the mother and son, but the script has clever references and ideas, and there is just enough Freddy and gore for the fans, a not bad horror film. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Perhaps not all it could have been, but still the best other than the original","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is not for everyone. Those who like the series(and the fact that it is one) won't be satisfied by this, and it wasn't made with them in mind. Craven returns, and he has a high concept. Does he completely pull it off? Not without a scrape here and there along the way, and the execution of the smart, meta concept isn't entirely spot-on. The plot is engaging After all the sequels(that this rightfully pokes a little fun at without losing its seriousness), the man who gave us the '84 classic returns. He's had a new idea. At the same time, Langenkamp is experiencing strange phenomena. Has Krueger crossed into the real world? This does what these badly needed; it makes him scary again. Scratch that. It makes him freaking terrifying! How does it go about this? After five flicks that fleshed him out, this drops all of that, giving him back his mystery(and building him up). This is not the one we've gotten used to. He's darker(no, I mean that... and no, I didn't think it could happen, either), pure evil(he does still use a few one-liners). This is a fairly deep, reflective piece, and it comments on censorship(fitting that it be one of Wes' only films that he got final cut on) and the nature of the genre and why it is important. There are callbacks to the first one, worked in well and not making it campy. This is genuinely funny, never trying too hard. It is filmed and edited really well, and plays on primal fears once again. This is suspenseful, creepy and astonishingly intense(the latter especially in the memorable and grand finale). The effective and eerie score helps a lot. Acting varies a tad, though the leads do well and no one is *awful*. The kid is pretty good, if at times annoying. I found myself liking, relating to and caring about the characters. There is a lot of blood, a little gore, disturbing and disgusting content and occasional strong language in this. The Ultimate Collector's Edition 7-Disc DVD set comes with an excellent, informational and interesting director's commentary, 32 and a half minutes of informative interviews, the Jump To A Nightmare feature and a great trailer. I recommend this to anyone that it sounds appealing to. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An ingenious sequel!","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Heather Langenkamp (As herself) is now a married woman with a husband and son named Dylan (Miko Huges). She has been offered to star in a 10th anniversary reunion movie of the popular Nightmare on Elm Street movie franchise from New Line Cinema and CEO Robert Shaye (Also playing himself), however there has been bizarre occurrences such as a few minor Earthquakes, strange Freddy-esquire phone calls with some weird deaths especially her husband. It seems that a demon posing as Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) decided to make the Elm Street films for real as Freddy begins to threaten Heather and her son for now she decides to read a screenplay by Wes Craven (As himself) so she can reprise her role as Nancy again in order to stop the boogeyman.An usual but terrific installment of the popular franchise that started brilliantly in 1984. This one doesn't really have the continuity of parts 1 to 6 but it's a different film of the franchise for it sets itself into reality and the idea of what if Freddy Krueger actually killed people in real life. This blend of horror, fantasy and psychological supernatural thriller that works like a charm thanks to an original idea by writer-director-creator Wes Craven. This film does co-star John Saxton, Linda Shaye, Nick Corri, and Tuesday Knight (From Elm Street 4) including Robert Englund as himself. This has a great concept in the vein of Last Action Hero about a movie-within-a-movie about a movie theme, there is some gory violence and dark themes that fans of the original liked more then the comical sequels that followed.Now this sequel is a winner! followed by Freddy Vs. Jason. "}{"Title":"Very interesting.  It ALMOST works.","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" **PLOT SPOILERS** Heather Langenkamp plays herself in this. She has a (fictional) husband and child. She starts having nightmares about Freddy Krueger (Langenkamp starred in the first Nightmare on Elm Street movie) at the same time that Wes Craven is writing a new Nightmare script. Krueger was killed in 1991 but Craven decided to try it one last time. Krueger does NOT exist but it seems a demonic force is using his persona to come into the real world...and kill Langenkamp because she was the first one to kill him. I applaud Wes Craven for this idea (he wrote the script and directed this). It's very inventive and a good way to bring back a classic horror character without insulting the audience. It's very well done with excellent special effects and it's fun to see Robert Englund, Wes Craven, John Saxon etc etc appearing as themselves. But, sadly, it just doesn't work. Certain key ingredients are lacking.First is Langenkamp--she's just awful. She tries (you can tell she is) but she basically is just going through the motions. I never believed her for one second. Her young son (well played by Miko Hughes) is constantly being put in danger or is seeing people slashed to death. I don't like seeing children used that way in any picture. The movie is also too long and the script sometimes gets repetitive--at least SEVEN earthquakes hit L.A. in the course of one week. Is that really factual? Also Freddy is sorely missed in this one until the last 20 minutes or so.This was not a big hit at the box office--I heard it made less than any other Nightmare film ever. I don't think fans enjoyed having Krueger explained away. Critics however loved it--that's very unusual for any horror movie. If you're a horror fan you should try to take a look at this. If not--use your own judgment. "},{"Title":"Wes Craven returns to try and salvage the series.","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Two years before doing the same with his hugely successful movie Scream, Wes Craven applied a post-modernistic approach to New Nightmare, the seventh film to feature Freddy Krueger, the dead child murderer who enters his victim's dreams in order to kill them.Keen to distance his film from the last few sequels, in which Freddy had slowly morphed from frightening bogeyman into a trashy comedy/horror pop icon, Craven cleverly takes his creation out of the movies and into 'real-life'. New Nightmare sees actress Heather Langenkamp (Nancy from Pts 1 & 3) playing herself, and becoming convinced that the monster from her films is somehow escaping his fictional realm to kill in the real world.This imaginative and, at times, admittedly rather silly concept is a refreshing change from the formula of the preceding few Nightmare movies, which had grown stale and distinctly unscary, and allows the makers of New Nightmare to start afresh, since they are not bound by anything that went before.It also provides a great excuse to gather together the cast and crew of the earlier films and show them having fun playing themselves Robert Shaye (New Line producer), John Saxon (who plays Nancy's father in Pts 1 & 3), Robert Englund (Freddy, of course) and even Wes Craven (who takes an amusing swipe at those responsible for trashing his original creation) all appear, with even the 'non-actors' giving surprisingly good performances.As the story progresses, it transpires that the creature that has been causing poor Heather so much trouble is in fact a demon that has been trapped within the Freddy persona. But with the gradual watering down of the character and Freddy's eventual death in Part 6 (Freddy's Dead), the evil being is now free to break out of his cinematic prison and cause some real damage.The only trouble with such an interesting concept is that it soon becomes too complicated for its own good, with lapses in logic, some boring moments required to explain what the hell is happening, and an inevitably confusing finale.Ultimately, this is a nice, but not altogether successful attempt by Craven at salvaging a character that had well and truly been stomped into the dirt by other film-makers.6.5 out of 10 (rounded up to 7 for IMDb). "},{"Title":"3/4 great but with a bad ending","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare boasts a great idea for the final (until Freddy vs Jason anyway) Nightmare on Elm Street flick.Actress Heather Langenkamp, star of the original Nightmare on Elm Street film, keeps getting obscene phone calls from a Freddy impersonator. Strange things seem to happening left and right, her son seems to possessed by Freddy, Wes Craven himself is having Freddy nightmares etc. Maybe Freddy is crossing over from the big screen and into reality.Great idea. Can't compliment Craven enough for a really fresh idea to end the series on a high note after 2 very disappointing sequels. The film goes for atmosphere, eerie mood and solid old fashioned suspense for most of it's running time and succeeds brilliantly. Some real seat jumpers along the way and it's gradual buildup to Freddy's appearance is among Craven's best work as a director. But sadly the film takes a silly turn for it's conclusion, once Freddy has entered the picture the film takes a turn to the worse. The ultimate showdown (in Hell, apparently) seems an uninspired way to end a film that looked so promising. It seems that Craven didn't have a clue how to end the film properly.But still, top grades for the first 85 minutes or so, you're totally glued to the screen. Acting is splendid all around (even Craven plays himself to a tee) and overall the film is very good. Just could have used a better ending. "},{"Title":"My goodness, this wasn't as good as I expected.","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Heather Langenkamp, Miko Hughes, Robert Englund, Wes Craven, John Saxon, Nick Corri, Tracey Middendorf and Robert Shaye.This movie is a movie in a movie. Actress Heather Langenkamp, who played Nanci in the first and third film is having a reccurring dream that Freddy might become real. She plays herself, and knows Robert Englund, but is still thinking Fred might come to life. It gets really stupid when Fred's prop glove actually comes to life and the glove kills people. I expected better.my review-2/4 stars.98 minutes. "},{"Title":"The Best NIGHTMARE Of All!!!!","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Now I was and still am a strong fan/supporter of the NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET franchise. I've stayed with it even as FREDDY(Robert Englund) became a wisecracker. When I heard Wes Craven was going to make the new and last one of series, I was fabler-casted. This is a way I think all horror series should be put to the end if needed. The Best NIGHTMARE of all!!!!FREDDY KRUGER has terrorized almost everybody in the world.... with his movies and fame shooting around throughout the world. In the real world, real life actress Heather Langenkamp and actor Robert England are somewhat sick of their know roles; well Heather mainly. Wes is writing a new script to end the series for good. But something strange is happening, something un-natural, unexplainable. The reel FREDDY is trying to get to the real world. This FREDDY is more evil, darker, twisted, scarier, and above all else, serious. He is also terrorizing Heather's son Dylan(Miko Hughes).This is a truly scary movie that knows how to reach a nerve. The absolute best NIGHTMARE in the NIGHTMARE series. Robert still shines as FREDDY, giving him a new attitude, but also as himself. Heather is still beautiful and you can tell she really grow up. Miko's role is creepy and brilliant, the best child actor in a horror film since Linda Blair in the EXCORIST. Which reminds me, this is an adult horror film, not like those teenage slasher films. This centers on real adults and how they handle these problems. They should make more films like this. If enjoyed this I recommend these other grown up horror movies THE EXCORIST, SESSION 9, WEINDEGO, CANDYMAN, a all M. Night Shyamalan's movies. "},{"Title":"A certain implausibility factors into this.","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers Now, the basic premise of this story being that all the people who watch the Friday movies believing in Freddy in their subconscious caused him to come into being in reality.  The idea is flawed as you will see.  If this were possible, we'd have a real King Kong, a real Godzilla, Frankenstein, Jaws, Darth Vader, ALIEN etc. walking around because numerous people were thinking of them.  Now, while this might be cool, it is completely inconceivable and shows the Freddy writers were running out of good stories. "},{"Title":"Never sleep again.","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  ~Spoiler~ Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the most brilliant idea for a sequel ever.  Love him or hate him, Wes Craven is a damn genius.  It's such a groundbreaking theme.  To say that the movies (one through six) are just that and set the film in reality couldn't be more perfect.  Heather Langenkamp is not playing Nancy, she's playing Heather Langenkamp.  Much of the cast plays themselves.  Wes Craven, Bob Shaye, Robert Englund, and John Saxon all star as themselves.  Nick Cori (Rod Lane) and Tuesday Knight (Part 4's Kristen) even cameo at the funeral scene.  Not only does Robert Englund play himself, but he plays both the screen Freddy and the real Freddy.  Let me 'splain This is not the hammy, wisecracking Freddy that we're used to.  This is a much darker madman and I love him.  This Fred Krueger is the embodiment of evil and gives us nothing to laugh at, thankfully.  The body count is lower than usual because it's not a by-the-numbers slasher.  New Nightmare is a true horror picture. "},{"Title":"The real life","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven't New Nightmare takes you on a killing adventure. Heather Langenkemp who played the teenage Nancy get's her nightmare in a real life way. Her son is getting the chilling nightmares of Freddy Kruger played by Robert Englund. Heather and her son get into a nightmare together and they kill Freddy Kruger together. "},{"Title":"A flawed classic.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I watch this movie whenever I have the chance to catch it on cable. And I've found that, the more I see it, the more I like it. What I find most interesting is that SCREAM was praised for twisting fantasy and reality. (Teens find themselves trapped in a real life horror movie, and try to use the cliches they've seen in those movies to survive.) But NEW NIGHTMARE did it first, and in a much more challenging way.While the other sequels relied too heavily on comedy (because a lot of things that were meant to be funny actually weren't), I was impressed by how much drama there is in NEW NIGHTMARE. And it is all pretty effective. The young actor who plays the son is particularly good.I'll admit that, when I first saw this movie, I thought the beginning was a little slow. I think that's because I'd been conditioned by the other sequels to expect quick (and often cheap) thrills. Now, I appreciate the way NEW NIGHTMARE builds up to those thrills in a way that makes viewers feel emotionally invested in the action on screen.As for the ending, I have always liked it. I saw it as an homage to the earlier films, like this Freddy was playing at being the Freddy from the first 6 movies, but still maintained a menacing quality. I keep hearing some viewers say they would have preferred a different ending. Since I can't begin to imagine what that might be, I'm content with the one we got.NEW NIGHTMARE is a horror movie that wants you to think. It asks you to look at something that had gotten old and stale and see it in a new, fresh way. And I think that it largely succeeds. I give it an A-.  "},{"Title":"Interesting reinvention of the Nightmare series","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit, this one surprised me quite a bit. Moving the setting of the film from... well, a film to the real world really adds a new layer of suspense and novelty to a genre that is admittedly pretty stale at times. The reality-bending effect the move conjures up is very similar to the sensation conjured up by Satoshi Koh's animated thriller Perfect Blue, which also blurs the line between the real world and the film world. Still, the plot moves a bit too quickly, and the scares are a bit too frequent. Regardless, New Nightmare is one of the freshest horror flicks I've seen in a while. "}{"Title":"This movie was the best of the series","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so awesome! I loved the idea about how they made Freddy Krueger as a real killer who escaped from his films for being killed off in Freddy's Dead Final Nightmare. I think it is so cool how they did this movie. The first time i saw this movie was when i was like 10 or 11 and i was like ok that's pretty cool. I love what they did in the ending credits Freddy Krueger as himself that was awesome. I loved this movie so much i think Wes Craven is the best damn director out there! Well that's all i have to say except 1,2 Freddy's coming for you hopefully in a sequel to Freddy vs Jason! Freddy Rocks! "},{"Title":"The best since the first A Nightmare on Elm Street","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I decided to spend a week and watch the whole Nightmare series, minus the first movie which I have seen twice.I agree with comments from others that Freddy becomes a comedian rather than an evil man to be feared as the sequels progress. There is a shift in Freddy's persona at the 4th movie.This movie attempts to make Freddy scary again. For myself, I wouldn't say the movie succeeded, but compared to the sequels (2..6), this movie is brilliant. I quite enjoyed the movie until near the end, at which point I felt Freddy's behaviour was disappointingly clownish.I would recommend this movie, especially if you are a fan of the Elm Street series. Bottom line 6/10  "},{"Title":"Very original Sequel","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven make a good job in this sequel and last Freddy film (Now in the crossover with Jason).New Nightmare is a good Final for the series because there is a story in Heather's real life.Now Nancy does not fight for fiction,Heather fight for save her son Dylan (Good role by the young Miko Hughes) and herself.the series was reinventing in this film because its originality and fresh screen do a new good chapter in the series.NIGHTMARE 7Original. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Wes' Nightmare!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  After the disappointment of the previous two elm's, Wes Craven returns to the series as writer and director and hits the mark.  Original and frightening, this one you have to see.  Freddy is evil, not funny evil but EVIL.  That's just the way we like him.Pros  EVIL Freddy, Original Concept -- Cons  Once again, NOT enough Freddy -- Bottom line a high 7/10. "},{"Title":"An original entry in a time worn series.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Personally, I think horror movies went downhill the moment Freddy Krueger opened his mouth, although he remained mostly silent in the original which remains the scariest because of that. Humor and horror have become an unlikely pairing with recent slashers like the Scream series, bordering on spoofery. So it was a welcome sight to see Wes Craven (never my favorite director) making a multilayered horror film about horror, not Freddy one-liners. The series always asked the question is this real or are they dreaming? but this entry adds an extra question is this a movie or really happening? The movie within a movie idea is so well thought out here that Spike Jonze's decade later Adaptation seems like a rip off, or at least not very original. A post-modern horror film which people who dislike Freddy may like more than those horror buffs who have come to rely on the same old Freddy routine. "},{"Title":"Best of the series","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is by far the best in the series its the most original picture I've ever seen really . But it does lack on gore in witch nowadays is the most important thing in a horror movie. But the idea of putting the creators in the movie really benefit the movie. The only real complaint I have is the final showdown freddy was less than scary trying to eat Miko hughes it just wasn't scary it was almost funny maybe rethink the final showdown put lots more blood in it and you got the ideal horror film. For someone who doesn't really like the nightmare on elm street series there is still plenty of entertainment in this one. 8/10 Still very good best of the series "},{"Title":"Best of all six sequels","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  In this case the fact that Freddy Krueger's back is really most irrelevant but the fact that Wes Craven is back on the job isn't. This is the first time Elm Street flick makes me say wow after the original. By far, New nightmare is the best of the six sequels made. Not that I think New nightmare is a frightening film but it's clever and funny and it differs so much from other sequels. The whole idea is just so stupid yet refreshingly amusing and smart because Freddy died in part 6 of the series he's no longer trapped inside movies and wakes up in real life. If you've seen the first Elm Street movie and are planing to watch only one sequel out of six make sure it's this one. Excellent stuff. "},{"Title":"The Second Best Freddy sequel","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  New Nightmare really is a good movie. It is Well directed and tells a great, original story. Pick this one up instead of Freddy's Dead, which is horrible. I would recommend this to all horror fans, and most especially Freddy fans.10 out of 10Fans of horror movies like this should Check out Puppet Master, Skinned Alive, Sleep Away Camp, Slumber Party Massacre, and other Full Moon Pictures flicks. For other recommendations, check out the other comments I have sent in by clicking on my name above this comment section. "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Highly original, witty, and intense film takes the Nightmare on Elm Street series in a totally new direction with most sucessful results. This entry finds the cast and crew of the original Nightmare reuniting to work on a new sequel, but then the events in the script begin to mirror their real lives. Seems Freddy was a real life demon and the only way to contain him was through the making of the Nightmare films. Expertly and intelligently crafted film with good performances and its fair share of surprises.Rated R; Graphic Violence and Profanity.   "},{"Title":"Great horror film but weak ending","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven made a welcome return to horror with his best creation in this film. The horror scenes are great and the script is very fast paced , just the way I like it. Freddy Kruger is Wes Craven's brainchild and he's the only one who can make him scary. **** out **** "}{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Yawn, Yawn, Yawn...is this a movie or a way to cure insomnia?  OK, we get Wes back trying to save a long dead series.  We get the original main victim.  We get an attempt at rehashing a classic.   The end result is a pointless bore that wouldnt make you scared if Freddy was sitting next to you.  After watching the original again ive come up with something...Heather cant act!!! Her words come off as unemotional as Clinton trying to explain what the word IS means.  The ending is brutaly stupid....you wait and hour and a half just to see NOTHING!!!!  ZzzzzzzzzzzzWhile thinking about this series as a whole, im left with a final conclusion...a great idea that never matured into anything worth seeing. Go back and watch part one again..its almost embarassing how slow and pointless ALL the Freddy movies are.  Once again a GREAT idea but horrid execution.Zero stars out of 10Zzzzzzzzzzzzz "},{"Title":"Good, but far from the best","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  A marked improvement over the dreadful FREDDY'S DEAD, but still not great. The plot is very imaginative, I mean Freddy in our world...cool! Unfortunately we don't see as much of Freddy like in the other films and the film is slow at times because of that, but like I said the plot is very stylish and well written. It was good to see Heather, and John from 1 and 3 back and little Miko Hughes did a great job. Good story, and effects, but slow at times and not enough Freddy. *** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"a welcome return to form for a dwindling series.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  this movie is almost a precursor to Scream in structure, with the exception being that everyone who made the first film are actually playing themselves in this movie.wes craven wisely returns Freddy to his roots and makes him the dark and menacing character that he was originally intended to be. this film actually is structured more like a thriller than a traditional horror film and that helps serve the great screenplay even more.actually, you could watch the first film and this one and skip all the other movies in between and not miss a single thing. while i love the third movie, it's mostly a bigger budgeted remake of the first film. this movie is also unlike any other elm street movie in that freddy is existing in reality and not just in dreams.different and an all around well done film.rating8 "},{"Title":"Moderate on its own, worse as part of a series.","Date":"24 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Simply put, this movie disappointed me. Credit for some cool visuals, but those few moments aside, this movie was terribly boring. Having only seen New Nightmare once, it felt as though it were made for a younger audience (significantly younger than that of the rest of the franchise). I was very excited to see this movie due to its interesting premise and promise of creativity... Apparently the premise is more interesting than the movie itself. Having the movie centre around a little boy wasn't a bad idea (despite the cliché effect it has had on many other horror films), but was executed poorly. The violence was dissatisfying, and occurred rarely for a movie featuring Freddy Krueger. New Nightmare is not bad, but for the film that should have rebooted the Elm Street franchise, it includes little to nothing frightening, funny, or particularly interesting. At least, not enough to make it worth the run time. This one wouldn't have been a loss if skipped.-Old Review "},{"Title":"coming for you...","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" We all should have guessed that Freddy Krueger wasn't dead at the (supposed) end of the series, and New Nightmare proves it. This time, the claw-handed killer comes back for one final showdown. The only thing is, it's happening to the real Heather Langenkamp, who played Nancy in the original movie. And no longer is Freddy spouting out silly one-liners; he's now a lot more evil, and determined to get Heather's son Dylan.I always expect something neat from Wes Craven, and he doesn't disappoint here. I really liked how Craven builds everything up so that we don't quite know what's going on, and then he hits us with it. It was a most unique concept having Langenkamp, Robert Englund and John Saxon all play themselves (Craven also plays himself in one scene), plus the original characters. There are some gory parts, natch (the scene in the car was really something), but Craven knows how to do it right.All in all, this is one movie that you'll probably enjoy. Especially the last line in the movie. Also starring Miko Hughes and Robert Shaye. "},{"Title":"The Absolute Worst of Series","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  First I thought that part 5 (The Dream Child) was the worst of the series, but I must apologize. At least that movie was only an hour and a half. This sh*t movie is 2 hours long! Only few movies can pull off a 90+ minute duration and be good. The Shining (NOT THE TV VERSION!) is one for example. But Wes Craven must have been high when he made this. This whole movie is supposed to scare you because it's supposed to be real. It could have been better if it had been more realistic, but Heather Langdenkamp's (or whatever the hell her name is) overdramatization of things made this movie a joke that I was not laughing at. The little boy, wasn't scary either. Instead, he made me reconsider my views against abortion. Plus, Freddy is a total wimp in this movie. He also doesn't look scary anymore and the whole twist this movie is centered around is as bad as they come. Do not see this movie. Use your 2 hours for something productive! "},{"Title":"Great premise, but in the end it disappoints.","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The story, a demon takes the form of Freddy Krueger and starts haunting the dreams of the actual cast of the Elm Street series.  This Freddy doesn't joke around and looks far more threatening than in the previous installments.  Everything about this movie should have been cool, but I just found it to be disappointing.  It definitely has its moments though; it is just too bad that for the most part it is rather slow.  At one point in the movie I began to wonder if Freddy was even in the movie, and there are not a lot of deaths in this one either.  All in all it is not the worst movie you will ever see and it has some good scenes, but in the end it just needed more. "},{"Title":"A laugh a minute!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  They always find a way to bring them back don't they? Freddy died for good in the last one, so those geniuses of modern film making make a film from `our perspective', looking back as if the Nightmare On Elm Street films were fictional. If you think that sounds stupid, wait until you hear the next part. Through some incredible coincidence, there is a being identical to Freddy, and he has the same habits as Freddy in the (now) fictional films! Well, fancy that! What WAS Wes Craven taking when he thought of this?Craven must have lost a huge bet to release this, the ultimate way to destroy a series. The New Nightmare could well be the worst sequel I have ever seen, to any movie. The acting is so bad it makes Nancy Allen's appearance in Robocop 2 seem legendary. The film is about as scary as a trip to the sweet shop. As if a film portraying Freddy as real could ever be frightening makes me wonder if Craven was cashing up for his drugs.The film has a lot of boring talk in it, and very little action. The question is, what purpose does this film have? It has a new setting, which is the real world (apparently), but then treads the same path as the other 57 in the series. Dumb characters + dreams + hideous sex scene = lots of blood + bad special effects. When viewing previous instalments I said that Freddys one-liners were unnecessary. Here I don't believe he cracks one. I take it all back, this film is so boring with such a dull atmosphere, even the `don't lose your head!' gag would have saved the audience from slumber land. Avoid.   "},{"Title":"One of Craven's best","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Wes Craven's New Nightmare is a trip that he hasn't taken us since 1984. The movie is scary as hell, the characters are well thought out, and it is entertaining throughout.  True, some might think the 7th installment in this classic horror saga isn't worth a second look, let alone viewing.  But I think Craven has not lost his touch yet, and is still able to make us afraid to go to sleep at night.  And this film proves it.  Robert Englund, Wes Craven, and everybody else who acted and worked on this film did a good job, and didn't go for cheap-ness.  A+ "},{"Title":"Okay film, wasn't much point to it, the story didn't suit the series","Date":"11 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Well I would have to say that this is one of the better sequels.After the appalling trash that Freddy's Dead the Final Nightmare turned out to be, as well as four and five, I would have to say that this is a small improvement. Sadly, that's all I can say that's positive about it.Being as the series has had several sequels, 4, 5 and 6 being the worst, I don't really get why Wes Craven suddenly decided that he would do another film on this, when he originally wanted no other films to be made! The story itself, that Freddy has come back to reality to get the actors, is kind'a predictable and really does not suit the franchise.The acting was quite good, but the whole story was just flat, especially the ending. As other IMDb members have said, the ending was the most disappointing thing about this film. The ending was a bit of a downer, they could have thought of a better way of getting rid of Freddy.Summary This isn't really that much of a good film. Not a total downer, just that it was a bit pointless in making. The story doesn't suit the series and the series didn't need another one. "}{"Title":"Destroys the mythology previously created in the series.","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"     I am shocked at the number of positive comments posted for this movie.  The original is my favourite horror movie ever.  The rest (apart from possibly 3) suck big time.  Still, despite increasingly deteriorating execution they all contain the kernels of some good ideas.  Having the cast play themselves is not one of them.  I struggled to watch this because of the constant reminder that 'the rest were just a movie'.  Yes, I know any person with a modicum of intelligence will have  realised this, but the whole point of watching a movie where the villain is a hideously scarred dead psychopath who stalks kids through their dreams is the willing suspension of disbelief, where you forget how preposterous the scenario is and just allow yourself to be scared.  You can't do that if you're constantly being told that 'the rest were just a movie', because if that's true then what does that make this?  Are we supposed to find the idea of said psychopath stalking 'actors' rather than 'characters' more palatable?  You can't just bend the rules.  Either you want a film to be taken seriously or you don't, and if you do, then that means affording EVERY installment the same amount of artistic integrity, no matter how awful they were...  I have as much respect for the way Wes Craven revitalised the horror genre with 'Scream' as the next person, but a note to audiences in general 'POSTMODERN' DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY MEAN 'GOOD'.  In my opinion, this is an instance where an attempt at that style fell flat on its face.  Why?   Well, the magic show's never as much fun when you know how all the tricks work... "},{"Title":"An interesting idea but not a great film.","Date":"8 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" New Nightmare is set in Los Angeles as actress Heather Langenkamp (herself) has been having disturbing nightmares about Freddy Krueger, the burnt killer character featured in her film A Nightmare on Elm Street. Along with sinister telephone calls from someone sounding like Freddy & Heather's young son Dylon (Miko Hughes) has also been suffering from nightmares featuring the razor fingered killer Freddy. Heather is called to New Line Cinema where film producer Robert Shaye (himself) say's director Wes Craven has been working on a new Elm Street script & that her character Nancy is the star. Heather ask's how long Wes has been working on the script & discovers he started at the same time her nightmares & the phone calls began, talking to Wes he believes that Freddy was the incarnation of some ancient evil that was trapped inside the Elm Street films but since Freddy was killed in the final Elm Street film this evil wants to continue it's killing spree in the real world in the guise of Freddy...Written, executive produced & directed by Wes Craven who also has a small role in the film as himself New Nightmare was the seventh entry in the popular Elm Street franchise & the first to be directed by Craven since the original A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984), Craven takes the series in a totally new direction & New Nightmare has a really intriguing & original concept behind it but ultimately I didn't think it was that good a film overall. New Nightmare is more of a thriller than a horror film to be honest, the idea of Langenkamp being haunted & menaced by the villain of one of her films is strange to see unfold, if you have watched the other Elm Street films then watching New Nightmare is odd as the previous films are just films & Freddy is a fictional character before the weak horror elements kick in & Freddy becomes a reality. It takes a while even for Freddy to show up, it's over an hour before he does actually & the body count is low. The dream sequences aren't that memorable & I don't understand what the significance of the earthquakes were all about either. The character's mostly play themselves although Dylan the small kid is annoying & feels unneeded at times especially the climax where I really wanted to see Heather & Freddy have a real go at each other but Dylan just gets in the way.The film looks OK but there's lots of dull melodramatics about Heather's worries for her Dylan & the doctor's who treat him, it just gets boring & waiting for Freddy to turn up doesn't help. Even though the Elm Street sequels largely have a bad reputation I quite liked them & audiences liked them for Freddy, his one-liners & the inventive death's & New Nightmare in a way is the complete opposite, there's no real emphasis on the kills, Freddy gets little screen time & the film takes itself extremely seriously so whereas maybe New Nightmare is more original & daring than the six previous Elm Street films it's nowhere near as fun or entertaining. There's little gore to speak of, Freddy stabs a couple of people with his razor fingers but basically nothing else, even the new make-up job on Freddy looks bad although his new bio-mechanical glove looks cool. There's a pretty good scene as Dylan & Heather dodge cars on a freeway but otherwise the whole film feels quite empty.The least successful of the Elm Street films it's odd to see the HQ of New Line Cinema since now they don't exist anymore as they went belly up after one flop too many. The acting is alright, Langenkamp is OK but lets face it outside the Elm Street films she hasn't done anything, Robert Englund is back as himself & Freddy while John Saxon also returns from the original.New Nightmare is a film with a great premise & takes the Elm Street franchise in a completely different direction but it's just not that great a film, it's not much fun to watch, at almost two hours it's overlong & the lack of any real horror means this gets dumped in the wasted potential drawer never to be seen again. "},{"Title":"Excellent horror movie","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great horror sequel, original and imaginative at the same time. It's set in Hollywood, where Heather Langenkamp and her son are being terrorised by Freddy. This one has lots of twists and is very creepy in its first half, but towards the end it ventures of into routine Freddy fare. Still, a great movie, far superior to all the other Elm Street sequels. 7.5/10.                                            "},{"Title":"Mark Hamill and Robert Englund are best friends, this movie would be great if mark appear in this movie","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the seventh and final installment of the nightmare series. this is the most creative story telling in the series, it takes place in the real world were it has the people responsible for the nightmare series. there is hardly any kind of movie that is just like this. i wish there was a movie like this were it is completely meta. I've always been a fan of the series because, for it's creativity and Robert Englund portrayal of Freddy Kruger.most of the acting is pretty good. there is cool nod to the original film. The only problems i have with it is the kid actor Miko Hughes really wasn't good and i kind of wish all the people who worked on the series came back to do this movie and sometimes the effects are dated but, these are just nit picks that don't take away the movie for me. This is one of the best nightmare films to date along with the first and third one. if you haven't seen this movie yet check it out. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Horror Films of the 90s","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Before Wes Craven scored big with Scream, he tested his post modern take on the slasher genre with New Nightmare, the sixth sequel to his own smash hit; A Nightmare on Elm Street. New Nightmare finds the stars of the original film haunted by terrifying dreams and portents signaling the evil entity known as Freddy Krueger is about to cross over from the world of film to real life and only his greatest adversary; Nancy can stop him. This is a powerful film which hinges on the relationship between Heather langenkamp's character and the child actor who plays her son. And it works because their bond is as palpable and real as the bond between Reagan McNeil and her mother in The Exorcist. The danger and terror they face is all the more involving because you care for them. New Nightmare under performed at the box office. It alienated slasher fans because it was smart and scary and ducked the conventions of that disreputable genre. Nor did it connect with serious horror fans who may have felt burned by the awful Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare film which proceeded it or who are more dismissive of the slasher genre in general. One of the best horror films of the 90s. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Best Freddy Krueger Movie Ever Made","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not only is this the best of all the Elm Street sequels, I would even go on to say that Wes Craven's New Nightmare is the best Freddy Krueger movie ever made. Period.Perhaps it's because this is the way Wes Craven truly wanted a Freddy Krueger movie to be treated. Perhaps it's because of the heightened characterizations the audience is treated to. Perhaps it's even because of the way the direction was handled in comparison to the other films. In any event, I even enjoyed New Nightmare over the first Nightmare On Elm Street movie.I'll start with the man himself, Freddy Krueger. As Robert Englund (the character) even says in the film, this is a darker, eviler Freddy than audiences have seen. His look is profoundly different and, in my opinion, he looks better than ever. This was the first time since the first movie I was able to take Krueger seriously. Oh, I enjoyed Englund's performance through nearly all the Elm Street movies, but here he adds a little bit of something that I haven't seen before.First of all, I want to point out to every horror writer and director out there that *this* is the way puns are to be used, if you choose to use them as a precursor to something dark and sinister. Remember in the third film when Krueger asks Feeling tongue-tied? and wraps a boy in his (Freddy's) tongue? Not like that. Or in the last film when he says Nice hearing from you, Carlos after blowing up a kids head with sound waves? Not like that either. No, when Freddy asks the boy Do you want to see how to skin a cat? while gripping his babysitter's skin in his claw, that's how to do a pun. Perhaps it doesn't even count as a pun, I don't know (I wasn't sure if I got it anyway), but when Krueger said that, I got a very faint chill down my spine. That was pretty chilling.The way they treated Freddy here goes back to the good ol' days when Freddy had a bit of dignity and credibility in him. Throughout the film, Craven makes the incredibly wise decision of never showing Freddy's full body or even letting the audience in on what he's up to. Instead, we get a lot of shots of his claw piercing through materials and heading sinisterly toward a victim.This is indeed the most effective Freddy movie, hands down. And it's also the Freddy movie with the lowest body-count, I would like to point out. And I believe that's because every single death is given a very deep meaning and depth to it. At no point does a character die and not mentioned again. No, in New Nightmare, when a character dies, the audience has that death on their mind for the rest of the picture.And the music! The musical score in New Nightmare is better than even the first movie, and that is definitely saying something. I loved the soundtrack to this movie. Wes Craven, for the most part, did away with the rock songs that had been a large part of the soundtracks since the second or third movie.I also want to praise all of the performers in this film, especially Englund, as both himself and Krueger. And Heather Langenkamp as well. Always one of the best Final Girl performances of all time, she gives 100% in this new film, making her performance, above all else, believable. There is also a child actor who plays Langenkamp's son and he is one of the better child actors I have seen in a *long* time.There is also a very interesting side character in this film. I have already praised this film for its characterizations and I don't think anything shows that better than the nurse in this film. Her character is very interesting. Even though she acts like an antagonist or obstacle for Langenkamp for a majority of the picture, this is not a bad person. She is looking out for the best for both Langenkamp and her son. It is very difficult for the audience to side against this character when her desires are so sincere to see the characters come out of their ordeal alright, and I think that's what makes her a great character. This film is full of stuff like that.Wes Craven delivers the ultimate Nightmare movie in a way that only he could with Wes Craven's New Nightmare. It blends dreams with reality in a way audiences haven't seen since the first film and he treats all the characters in the story with the love and care that they have been lacking since nearly the start of the series. This was my favorite Nightmare of them all, and I don't think its greatness will be duplicated.9/10 "},{"Title":"The best Nightmare movie - funny, scary, clever and fresh","Date":"29 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven was most popular for creating the self-referential subgenre of horror movies with Scream in 1996, but it was actually two years prior - with New Nightmare - that he first played around with the concept. This semi-sequel to the popular Nightmare on Elm Street series (begun in 1984) takes place in the real world, and revolves around actress Heather Langenkamp and her fame after the success of the films.However, ten years after the original, a stalker has started to leave her menacing phone calls mimicking the voice of Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund), the infamous character who - in the film series itself - is the dead pedophile who lives in children's dreams and kills them in their sleep.Freddy was killed off in the last Nightmare movie and now he's crossing over into the real world to seek revenge. He kills Heather's husband and begins to go after her son, Dylan (Miko Hughes), who is plagued by terrifying nightmares.Meanwhile, Robert Englund suffers similar scares and begins to have odd visions involving his character Freddy.New Nightmare is a very clever film, but it's not perfect. In terms of scares, it is far more polished than the original - a larger budget, better makeup, and generally just more professional. The scary moments are more tense and frightening.But there are some lapses in logic. Heather's husband dies and she doesn't seem to care very much (this may have to do with the fact that she's simply a bad actress to begin with, but it also just might be a bad script). She visits the morgue and leaves her son at home in the middle of the morning - presumably without a babysitter. A bit of an odd thing to do after having obsessed about making sure he wasn't alone at any given time due to his Freddy visions.Similar inconsistencies occur throughout the film, but in my opinion, it's about on par with the original Nightmare on Elm Street and probably - at least from a technical perspective - the best of the bunch. I generally enjoy clever, self-referential films and that's just an added bonus here - I'd call this the most original and witty entry in the series, by far. "},{"Title":"A valiant effort, but too late to salvage Freddy","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The last true Nightmare on Elm Street film has Wes Craven directing a new Nightmare film wherein he kills Krueger for good. Freddy doesn't like this and decides to stalk the cast and crew. Departing from the out and out humor that the series was hopelessly embedded in, while a good idea, at this point the franchise was way too mired in sub-mediorocity to ever be completely salvaged again. Freddy was seen as a clown for too long to hope that could change with just one film, no matter how noble the intentions might have been. The films nicely acted and pretty tightly plotted, it just seemed to be too little too late.My Grade C+ DVD Extras Commentary by Wes Craven; Cast and Crew Bios; and Jump to a Nightmare option (more extras for the film can be found on the seventh disc of The Nightmare Collection DVD set) DVD-Rom content Trivia game; Screenplay; and web link "},{"Title":"Circumstantial Success","Date":"17 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think part of the credit to this sequel should go to its five predecessors.  I don't consider the plot to be anything fantastic, and really it's so silly that it's ridiculous.  As a standalone film, I wouldn't be too impressed with it.  Were it the only Nightmare sequel, I probably wouldn't like it.  The fact that it comes after five crappy sequels . . . well, that's part of the film's charm.All things being relative after some of the sheer stupidity of some previous Elm Street concepts, Wes Craven's New Nightmare has a pretty awesome plot, and I admire how Wes Craven recognizes the poor quality of the previous films and dismisses their relevance.  The craft of the film, however, is undeniable, and that stands very well on its own and towers above the previous efforts to make an Elm Street sequel.  In terms of style, it's quite obvious Freddy's creator is back with a vengeance.What I love most about this movie?  The lack of an on-screen Freddy Krueger and the lack of exploration regarding Freddy's character.  Most of the time is given to the characters we're supposed to give a damn about and for the first time since Elm Street 1 we can actually give a damn about someone besides Freddy Krueger.Craven creatively finds other ways to imply Krueger's presence and influence - through pictures, paintings, merchandise, clawmarks, and seeing glimpses of him on the TV in exerts from the first Elm Street film (my personal favorite).  We know this is a Nightmare film, and Wes knows we don't need to be reminded every 30 seconds by seeing Krueger in full makeup killing. Less is more, and here it pays off as Craven builds up the anticipation of seeing the gloved demon finally unveil himself.And since Elm Streets 2 - 6 effectively ruined any and all intimidation Krueger might have had by toning him down and explaining to death every conceivable question one could ask, Wes scraps that backstory and starts anew.  Then he delivers it himself in a very brief bit of dialogue midway through the film.  From then on, we hear no more of the backstory.  Once again, less is more.  We really didn't need to know who was Freddy's daddy.The re-invention of who/what Freddy Krueger gives Wes the chance to introduce us to Freddy all over again and recreate that original feel that the first nightmare film had.  Now we, along with the cast, are meeting the *real* Freddy Krueger.  With previous Elm Street films, we already knew who Freddy was and typically so did the characters--say goodbye to intrigue, and hello to formulas/gimmicks.And the return of Heather Langenkamp is a welcomed one.  Finally a heroine capable of stealing the spotlight away from the villain.  This is attributed to the fact that Nancy was perhaps the most developed character of all the Elm Street films, and though Langenkamp plays herself (and not Nancy), Wes masterfully introduces parallels so we could build on our familiarity with seeing her in two previous films.  The jump from Nancy to Heather is so much easier to swallow than a complete cast changeover.  Not to mention there's something special about seeing Langenkamp go head to head with Krueger once again, something funny about seeing her hold a casual chat with Robert Englund sans makeup, something honest about her in California talking to Bob Shaye and Wes Craven at New Line Cinema . . . something human about how Wes Craven has handled the story telling and character development of this film.As much as I like New Nightmare, the film is far from perfect.  When Freddy is first unleashed at the hospital, he lives up to the expectation and I found it well worth the wait; he kills mercilessly, coldly toys and taunts with his the story's heroes and all the while appears to hold all the cards leaving the good guys essentially powerless.  However, the final confrontation left much to be desired.  It appeared like missed opportunity after missed opportunity for Krueger to make the kill, he didn't appear to be in a place to taunt, too many times I wanted to say, `Why didn't he just kill her there?  Why try to swallow the kid when he could have slashed him already?' as a result, it lacked intensity.  Heck, it even showcased a hint of the hideous Freddy's Dead misplaced humor.And it didn't set well with me when the nurses administered a shot to Dylan against Heather's wishes.  It would take either an extreme circumstance or a seriously demented RN to administer treatment after a patient refused.  I wasn't convinced that these circumstances were worth the risk of a malpractice suit and possible ruined career(s).And there's a few dozen other minute gripes such as Freddy's new makeup that just didn't sit well with me, but it's not really worth it going into too much detail there.  The pros outweighed the cons for me.  Through all its faults, I find Wes Craven's New Nightmare arguably the best Nightmare film simply for its genius way of handling what it was dealt.  Without a doubt, though, it is by far the best sequel. "},{"Title":"Hopefully the End of a Hopelessly Sorry Series","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The New Nightmare is the seventh and hopefully the last of the Nightmare series.  This time the key players in the series star as themselves and begin to be haunted by a real Freddy Krueger.  Wes Craven's direction and screenplay keep up a strange sort of suspense throughout most of the film.  However, the last 30 minutes or so make the entire film collapse into accustomed obscurity.  It seemed that for the first time since the original we would have a truly good film, but ultimately we are left with a could-have-been movie that is almost as disappointing as the other sequels.  2.5 out of 5 stars.        "}{"Title":"Different from any of the other A Nightmare on Elm Street movies, in a positive way.","Date":"10 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is a very original entry in the A Nightmare on Elm Street movie series, that unlike as any of its other sequels is a real stand alone movie, that picks its own approach and features a greatly written story.It's truly due to its unusual but great story that this movie is being so original. It's a movie within a movie, that focuses around some of the cast and crew from the original A Nightmare on Elm Street who are being haunted by the 'real' Freddy Krueger this time. It was fun seeing Heather Langenkamp, Robert Englund and Wes Craven all playing themselves and talking about the Elm Street movies.It's a real refreshing movie that picks a totally different approach and story this time but also a different Freddy. This Freddy is more dark and killer like. The Robert Englund Krueger from the previous was more playful with his victims. The Freddy Krueger in this movie is still being played by Robert Englund though by the way.It's funny that all of the A Nightmare on Elm Street movies which Wes Craven had been directly involved with as a director or writer, or both, are also among the best out of the series. Craven returned for this movie as a director and it's also easily one of the better directed movies, when compared to the other sequels. The movie is greatly horror like with its approach and overall execution of things. It shows that Craven is a real expert, who's best years are perhaps long behind him but he still more than capable of directing a decent horror film, with also plenty of originality and passion for the genre to it.As an horror movie this is simply being a good one. It also easily can be watched aside from any of the previous A Nightmare on Elm Street movies, so those who aren't familiar with any of the previous movies and are curious about this film should watch it, though it's still recommendable that you've at least seen the first 1984 movie to understand its characters and premise, as well as some of its insight information and jokes given within this movie.An original and also great entry into the A Nightmare on Elm Street movie franchise.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Not Craven's best work.","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Perhaps Wes didn't find any other good way of closing Krueger theme than killing out of genre, in real life so that no one could even try to bring him back to life. Heather Langenkamp (herself) faces real problems when it turns out her son Dylan suffers with the same night terrors she had in nightmare on Elm Street movies. The point is Freddy came out of the movie to punish the shot crew for they didn't want to shoot another Elm Street movie. Perhaps the movie had more quality than Nightmares 2 and 6, but the story is wrong. It is nice to see your idol (Wes Craven) in a movie, but the explanation he gives Heather about how Freddy stuck in our world, is too childish. There are some good plot turns, but the plot in general is average. There are not many characters. That's already bad. Besides, the ending is weak when Dylan falls into Krueger's kingdom. I didn't like the designer work. 4 out of 10 (for Craven's appearance). "},{"Title":"Not sure what the big deal was...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen and heard this film get praised and praised but really I found it to be a disappointment. Wasn't it better than the sequels??..well yes it may be better than most of them(which the exception of 3 & 4) but it's hardly anything truly great.Things I disliked about this filmPredictable oh how utterly predictable this has all become by this point and this film which does start off promising ends up back into the same old familiar territory at the end.The kid he is so dang annoying. Too often they go overboard with having him either trying to be overly sweet or overly menacing.The best thing I liked about the filmHeather Langenkamp who despite being put through the physical and emotional ringer with this movie looks absolutely smoking throughout it. Her effort alone rises it above most of the Nightmare films and I continue to prefer those in which she appeared. "},{"Title":" I thought Wes stopped making horror movies","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Heather Langenkamp is boring as Heather in this passive horror film. The following cast is calm. The costumes are trashy. One of the poor flicks in the genre, Wes Craven's New Nightmare serves hollow horrors. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This doesn't do justice to the series.","Date":"16 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I don't think I've seen every movie in the Nightmare on Elm Street series, but I've seen most.  Wes Craven's New Nightmare just doesn't do justice to the series.  For the most part IT'S NOT SCARY.  The script has Freddie coming to real life and chasing the real life people who are close to the real life actress (Heather Langenkamp) who was in some of the movies.Heather Langenkamp, Wes Craven, Robert Englund, John Saxon and others all play themselves.  The real actress Heather, sits down and discusses the script with Wes Craven.  It just comes across as poorly conceived.  And it's NOT scary.  As I said, New Nightmare (1994) doesn't do justice to the real series. "},{"Title":"Not worth the price of a rental..even for Nightmare on Elm Street fans","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Don't even know where to begin on this one...maybe it because I rented this on video and had seen better Freddy like Freddy Vs. Jason that have been released since then, but this has to be the worst attempt to ride a sequel that could possibly exist.Film uses Nancy from the original movie portraying herself, Heather Langenkamp being the actress in Nightmare on Elm Street 1 & 3 where Freddy turns out to be real...and Wes Craven's dreams have been from this evil demon and what has kept him captive is the scripts/story that Wes Craven has done to keep him alive (after killing Freddy off in the last movie.The other Freddy movies are good for a Halloweenfest, but this one is not worthy of the itinerary. "},{"Title":"one of the worst horror movies I've seen","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is the least frightening in a series of films that, to put it kindly, wasn't world-class cinema to start with. Wes Craven, a hack scare-film director if there ever was one, returns to the sinister icon that made him famous, Freddy Krueger, in this weird in-joke featuring Heather Langenkamp, the heroine of the original NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET, as herself. She's now a wife and mother, living somewhere in Hollywood and keeping house. She's approached to make another Freddy film, but can't shake the feeling that it's a bad idea. Long story short, Freddy has decided to cross over from movie reality to our reality, so he can unleash his evil on the world in a much more direct way. Of course, this means that a lot of people have to die, and somewhere along the way her son becomes possessed by the evil man's spirit (or some such nonsense). Craven has always had a hard time scaring me, and while I can acknowledge the power (if not the greatness) of a LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT, or the originality of SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW, I have to say that I think his is one of the most undistinguished careers in Hollywood. I so disliked this movie that I couldn't believe it had actually been released... to be fair, the concept isn't at all bad; the execution is my problem. IT SIMPLY ISN'T SCARY!!!!!!!! In any case, NEW NIGHTMARE is in the end nothing less than a rationalization for cashing in a little more on the Freddy franchise (remember all that crap when the film was released about Craven admonishing those who referred to it as a sequel to the other NIGHTMARE films? Talk about pretentious!) This is most definitely a sequel, and a bad one at that, and I'd gladly take any other NIGHTMARE film, including the spectacularly abysmal part 5, over this trash. That's it, I just wanted to voice my negative opinion of this claptrap and do my part to balance all the favorable criticism this film has garnered here at the IMDb. For a good horror movie, watch anything by Cronenberg or some of Carpenter's stuff (though he's been running into some major-league suckage on his past few films)... or for that matter, the original NIGHTMARE. .005/10 "},{"Title":"A parody of Horror","Date":"19 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I haven't seen any other Terror on Elmstreet movie but I don't understand why these movies are so famous or what's so good about them. They are just over-hyped. It should also be said that I don't enjoy any of the movies Scream 1-44 or Friday the 13th. It's just American trash for stupid Americans. Wes Craven's New Nightmare is supposed to be a horror movie but it's not scary and the character Freddy has no motive to anything he is doing. Even evil has motives. The things he does and the faces he makes are just plain silly. I didn't know if I should laugh or cry most of the time. The result was a feeling of plain indifference.I guess these kind of movies are for people who like to laugh at the cheap CGI, on the level of Tales from the Crypt. On the other hand it's more than fifteen years since this movie was made and a lot has happened since then. "},{"Title":"Worst nightmare come true!","Date":"19 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" These movies , are horrific and terrifying to the very core! They are awful , Freddy Krueger made Jason and Mike Myers look like dark angels! He can definitely give someone nightmares, he is grotesque. What he did to his victims , would make any squeamish person want to vomit! That is why I will never get this obsession , anyone who likes these are seriously disturbed! I would hardly call these good, blood and gore doesn't make a movie good! Being terrified to the very core, with it's graphic nightmarish scenes. To the point you want to scream, walk out. Cover your face the whole time , faint or hurl. That is all of the signs that a movie is not worth watching! "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I bought this movie in a discount sale about 3 years ago, and when i bought it i thought it was a fantastic film. However, i watched it again last night and realised just how bad this movie is. The acting (especially from Lagenkamp) is terrible. Her reaction to her Husband dying is just not believable, she is devoid of emotion.Now on to the subject of Freddy, they've tried to make Freddy darker and scarier like the original freddy was, but, it seems as if Robert Englund has forgotten how to portray him as such, and he is now a hybrid of old freddy and later jokey freddy. The ending is also terrible. The special effects are some of the worst seen, and Englund turns into a panto dame with lines such as I've got some gingerbread for you! and an incredible extending tongue. My advice is if you saw this ages ago and thought it was a clever satirical way of bringing Freddy back, then go back to it and just see how cheap and terrible it looks and is. What a waste of £4.99!!! "}{"Title":"Still Hasn't Gotten the Respect it Deserves","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" Wes Craven's New Nightmare (1994) *** 1/2 (out of 4) Intense, smart and still underrated seventh film in the series delivers exactly what the title says and that's something new. This time out the people involved with the making of the original A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET are starting to experience strange dreams. Wes Craven appears ready to join the series again and has started writing a script but star Heather Langenkamp begins to fear that some type of Freddy is actually after all of them. This isn't the first film to deal with a horror director being haunted by his creation as Lucio Fulci did this type of thing with CAT IN THE BRAIN but there's world of difference between the two films. This one here is an incredibly smart and extremely intense venture into ones fears and how like can sometimes imitate art. It's sad to think that this film will soon be twenty years old and yet it's still never gotten the credit that it deserves. As a behind-the-scenes look at Hollywood the film works extremely well but it also works as a straight horror film. I think Craven's screenplay is so well written that we never have trouble believing what's going on. It's a pretty interesting idea to have those making movies become haunting by the fake thing they created. Not only do we get Craven and Langenkamp but we also have New Line head-man Robert Shaye and Freddy himself Robert Englund being haunted by the fake monster. Everyone acts themselves very well with Langenkamp turning in her third venture in the series and without question her best performance. She handles everything extremely well and comes off very good as the concerned mother who must eventually take on Freddy to protect her son. Englund has a lot of fun in the parts of himself but he really goes all out when it's time to play Freddy. A few other cast members from the first film make brief appearances here but John Saxon gets a very good role and does a great job with it. It's always great seeing him in anything. I think the greatest thing the movie does is get Freddy away from the one-liners and jokes and returns him to the scares of the original film. The entire look of Freddy's face, glove and clothes were changed here and I think they were all done for the better. The bulked up creation is a lot creepier here and he's able to be that menace of terror once again. Craven's direction is top-notch from start to finish with some of his best work appearing in some very disturbing scenes. One involves a freeway sequence and another is a re-enactment of one of the death scenes from the original movie. The film depends a lot on real life emotions and these work extremely well and add to the drama of what the characters are going through. It's a real shame that this film isn't given more credit as it did come before SCREAM and really was the first of the decade to go for that smart horror film. "},{"Title":"The series should have stopped at Freddy's dead.","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have finished watching all of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies and they were a pretty good series. I wish it had finished on Freddys Dead. The last installment is the worse one. This film was completely useless. The only reason it gets 2/10 is because it creeped me out a few times and i loved seeing appearances from people from the other installments.I hated the death scenes. There was only a few. The acting as always was OK except for Robert Englund who is always great. I hated this more then Freddys revenge. Here's the final order 1. A Nightmare on Elm Street. (8/10) 2. Freddy's Dead The Final Nightmare. (7/10) 3. A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master. (7/10) 4. A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 The Dream Warriors. (7/10) 5. A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 The Dream Child. (6/10) 6. A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 Freddy's Revenge. (3/10) 7. Wes Craven's New Nightmare. (2/10)I don't recommend. There is no reason for anyone to watch this. Stop at Freddy's Dead. 2/10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst films in history","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What a pity ! What a waste of talent ! What a shame ! Too bad because the premise was really intriguing and could have made a mind blowing film ( like Scream which followed ) . It is revealed that Freddy Krueger is a real ancient being which wants to come to real life so he starts stalking Heather Langencamb the actress who played Nancy in the first film and her son Dylan . The endless cameos from actors playing themselves and Robert Shaye and Wes Craven personally convince you that these things happen in the real world . So what went wrong you will ask.The script is basically a rehash from the first Nightmare , some scenes are directly stolen from there . On the top of that the kid that plays Dylan ( Miko Hudges ) is a lousy performer . He is SO irritating. I will have to admit that Heather plays very well and the direction isadequate ( especially in the earthquake scene ) . But that cannot make up for what has to be the worst script in history . This way too long dream - in a dream - in a dream scene in the hospital is unoriginalnot to mention the older than mud (!) line  Julie , behind you !  .They simply don 't work if Craven thought so . We have seen them in other Nightmares and the deja vu feeling is inevitable . The film is very long , boring , has NOTHING new to offer ( except for some good lines ) and manytimes it is inpairable . The finale was good but it cannot prevent the movie from total sinking .  The best nightmare  ? PLLLAAAEASE !!! An effective medicine for insomnia I would say . I am going to be very leniant and give this tragedy a 2 /10 for the Heather Langencamb performance ONLY . Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Disgustingly pretentious crap!","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" The 1984 Nightmare on Elm Street was a reasonably good and original horror movie and not one of the five direct sequels ever lived up to the quality of Wes Craven's original. That's pretty much a fact and I don't think anyone in his or her right state of mind would dispute this, right? So why did Wes Craven think it was absolutely necessary to make another sequel only to state this obvious fact? I've never been Craven's biggest fan and, maybe I'm very biased, but what nerve does this man have for making this movie revolve entirely on himself!! Who made him king of the horror genre? Who permitted him to glorify his own work and to belittle the efforts of other horror directors? Wes Craven's New Nightmare (very few directors deserve to have their names as a prefix to the title, by the way, and Craven is certainly not one of them) simply is the most pretentious movie I ever saw and it's disgusting to see how conceited Craven walks around in front of his own camera. In this final Elm Street-movie, he has the guts to present his Freddy-'creation' as a phenomenon his original film as a genuine milestone. New Nightmare implements the film-within-film structure and those movies always suck! Actors look stupid when they play themselves and they in fact look extra fake when attempting to look natural. There's very few suspense, even though Craven desperately tries to create some, and the special effects are truly weak. The whole climax (set in some sort of supposedly nightmarish mausoleum) is absolutely pathetic and even worse than some of the 'embarrassing' non-Craven sequels. "},{"Title":"Annoying and Pretentious Ode to Wes Craven... by Wes Craven","Date":"9 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":" I'll be the last one to deny that Wes Craven is a highly influential filmmaker to whom the World of Horror owes several highly important films. Craven's only true masterpiece, in my opinion, is his disturbing 1972 debut The Last House On The Left, but some of his other films, such as The Hills Have Eyes (1977) or the original Nightmare On Elm Street (1984) are undeniable classics that no Horror fan should miss. After the success of his Freddy Krueger formula, however, Craven obviously fell into some state of megalomania, apparently thinking of himself as the greatest Horror director ever, which he certainly isn't. The Nightmare series was long dead before this unbearable turkey named New Nightmare was released. The only decent films in the series were the original, and the third part, Dream Warriors. The fifth film in the series, The Dream Child was already an impertinence and the sixth film, Freddy's Dead was awful beyond comparison. Well actually, there is a film comparable to the awfulness of Freddy's Dead - it is called New Nightmare, or Wes Craven's New Nightmare, as the egomaniac aka title reads. Oh, how I wish Freddy had just stayed dead! I cannot believe that most of the other reviews on this are actually positive, and even more so, many people seem to think of this piece of crap as the best film in the series. Freddy's Dead was terrible, but at least it was not taking itself as seriously as this film. New Nightmare, is doubtlessly Craven's worst film - and that is quite something, regarding unbelievably stupid crap like Shocker, and the terribly overrated Scream series, the later parts of which just seemed to state as how essential a masterpiece Craven regarded the first. New Nightmare is nothing but an utterly narcissistic ode to Wes Craven... by Wes Craven. This thing only seems to exist in order to praise Nightmare On Elm Street as the greatest, scariest masterpiece in history, and Wes Craven as a sort of Film-making-deity, whose cinematic effusions are so essential and ingenious that they magically come true. Not even the appearance of the great John Saxon can change anything about the fact that this film is utterly pretentious and narcissistic garbage. The many expensively produced CGI effects and sceneries are ridiculous and only make this film worse. As if this was not enough, they had to throw in a shameless Exorcist rip-off and other atrocities, as well as loads of idiotic drivel about motherly love, god and heaven. The way Craven depicts himself as a Horror-genius and the greatest director ever is incredibly annoying, and this entire film is a manifestation of how great he finds himself. Do yourself a favor and avoid it! "},{"Title":"Another mainstream crap.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Mystery","Review":"  What I would like to say is that New Nightmare has to be one of the most overrated horror movies ever made.Everyone who thinks that this film is scary is possibly 15 years old or even younger.Sure,there are some good special effects in the film,but there's not enough gore for my liking.The acting is solid,the script is okay,unfortunately New Nightmare becomes quickly boring.Someone has to say itCraven's horror movies are mostly stupid(Deadly Friend,The Hills Have Eyes Part 2,Shocker),laughable and goreless.Why this guy is considered as the horror master is beyond me.If you want to see a good Craven's horror movie-check out Last House on the Left(1972),The Hills Have Eyes(1977)or even Deadly Blessing(1981).Avoid New Nightmare like the plague! "}]