[{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"33 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One science-fiction film that turns out to be less disappointing than expected is this loose adaptation of Robert A. Heinlein's novel.Donald (give me another part in an alien pod movie) Sutherland interprets the role of Adam The Old Man Nivens, head of a secret government protection agency that has its hands full trying to stop an alien invasion by slug-like mental parasites which tap into people's brains, controlling them toward their own ends. Eric Thal (of A STRANGER AMONG US) draws a blank where a strong character should be in the role of Sam, son of the Old Man, and fellow agent. Julie Warner (from DOC HOLLYWOOD) fares a little better as Mary, a NASA xenobiologist along for the roller coaster ride. The opening scenes do justice to the setting and atmosphere of the book, and the skeleton of the original plot is unpredictable and thrilling, but eventually, the compromises in adaptation give rise to Hollywood-style sci-fi conventions such as alien hives.Several realistic, key elements are thrown out, along with almost all of the sharp dialogue which made the book a hit. However, the special effects are convincing, and the cinematography and editing are streamlined and tight. Far from being definitive, this version of the tale is nonetheless sufficiently satisfying and worth a look. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's NOT for purists","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  However, being that Heinlein was one of the few sci-fi authors I +didn't+ read (I'm more of an Asimov and Bradbury fan myself) as a kid growing up, and I haven't seen the original film, I didn't have any problems with this movie when it came out in theaters.  In fact, I found the premise genuinely creepy, the effects highly believable, and the presence of Donald Sutherland to be a masterful touch.  It may not go down in the all-time pantheon of greatest sci-horror films ever, but if it was playing on HBO I wouldn't change the channel.  Sometimes I think people get too caught up in whether a story is true to the original, and forget that it's JUST a movie and they should try to enjoy it on that basis. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of a great book!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I strongly disagree with many of the other reviews of this film. It is a very faithful adaptation (given Hollywood's history of adapting for the screen), and one of my favorite movies. It is not entirely faithful, i.e. Operation Bareback (which I would have enjoyed) was forgone, probably due to the mass nudity that it would entail. The love interest, the storyline and the characters were very close to the novel. Some criticize it as a ripoff of the Invasion of the Body Snatchers, but the novel actually pre-dates that work, so who copied from whom? The scope of the movie was scaled back and little mention was made of landings and conflicts in other countries, but this may be due to editing exigencies. The aliens are suitably creepy as my wife will agree, as she still refuses to watch it again, and it manages without the gore of many similar movies, although it is rather violent.Compared to another recent Heinlein adaptation, Starship Troopers, this film was much truer to the author's original work and is a thrilling and thoughtful treat. Sadly, it looks like no sequel will be forthcoming to carry the battle to the moons of Saturn. "},{"Title":"This just ain't Heinlein...","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How the producers got away with calling this Robert A. Heinlein's Puppet Masters amazes me - because the only resemblance to Heinlein's genuinely chilling short story about Titan 'slugs' are the character names. That's it. None of the wonderfully satirical espionage group shenanigans, none of the gripping suspense, none of the character development, and none of the setting. Puppet Masters is not supposed to be set in 1994, it's supposed to be set in 1957 - but a different 1957 to the one we know. I mean, this film didn't even attempt the flying cars or the hand-held lasers. Like so many new sci-fi films made from older literature classics, the fiction has been cut out like some sort of hideous tumor and the science has been exaggerated to make sure the audience knows it's SCIENCE fiction. The fact that the science is largely irrelevant is lost on most modern screen writers - and this movie is no exception.Another example of a perfectly good story that has been shredded to make it 'fit' Hollywood's version of science-fiction, which is largely made up of clanking robots, flashing lights and explosions.The Faculty was a good SF movie. And it was right - Body Snatchers is a rip-off from this story, but it never pretended to be anything but. Faculty had some enjoyable sequences. It wasn't perfect, and elements were laughable, but despite this, it was true to itself..._this_ film was just the massacre of a perfectly good story.I only hope anyone else who ever tries to make a movie of a Heinlein classic will stick to the book and make a decent movie, not rehash the story until it sounds good - because they sounded good before. "},{"Title":"Muppet Pastors","Date":"29 October 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Unfortunate enough to share a name with a brand of dirt-cheap Charles Band movies (but completely disconnected from them) I always figured that The Puppet Masters would be just as schlocky. It ain't art, but it is decent, low-brow, brainless entertainment.A bunch of alien manta-rays land in Iowa in a confusing opening sequence. The authorities arrive and discover that the locals are slowly being turned into mindless slaves to their alien hosts. Sound like the X-Files? It very much does play out like a 3-part episode with virtually the exact same character dynamic and interaction. The tagline for the movie is even 'Trust no one'.It also feels like a John Carpenter movie in some respects (the presence of Keith David, who really ought to be in every movie, only adds to this). And while it's a fairly non-epic movie it does feature some nice anamorphic Panavision photography and a bunch of character actors to keep you entertained in-between the silly plot developments.As well as feeling the X-Files it also comes across as an Invasion of the Body Snatchers rip-off, odd since co-star Donald Sutherland was in one of those movies. Four years later another very similar film called The Faculty also featured mind-controlling alien parasites, as well as the Brain Slugs from Futurama. But apparently it's taken from a novel of the same name by Robert A. Heinlein but with little in common, perhaps thanks to a zillion re-writes.These kinds of movies often have some kind of political subtext, but Puppet Masters embraces its low-brow but clever silliness and ends up a guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Poor Directing, Weak Script & Dialogue Spoil Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It really makes no sense how this film could not have worked. Working off a script based on a Robert A. Heinlein novel, with the venerable Donald Sutherland in one of the lead roles, and with alien invasion the subject matter, this should have been at least a seven star Science Fiction film. As Sci-Fi goes, the superior ones focus more on futuristic and/or scientific concepts, with action and/or special effects adding to the spectacle. That is why films like the Star Wars saga really aren't Sci-Fi, but action/adventure first (and in the case of Star Wars, fantasy) and science fiction second at best. This film does delve into the biology and culture of the aliens, but just barely. Mostly it focuses on hokey special effects and a few watered-down action scenes to fill up screen time. The aliens themselves are quite realistic and original, a plus for the film. The chemistry between Donald Sutherland as the leader of a secret government agency and his son, played by Eric Thal (an unknown at the time) is actually quite good. In addition, Julie Warner actually does well as the scientist working for Sutherland and of course plays the romantic interest for Sutherland's son. While not a superior actress, she performs adequately, although her talents are more suited to television, as it appears this movie was. While most will think, as I did, while reading the plot synopsis of the film that it is a rip-off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers (Sutherland starred in the remake of this film in 1978), the actual book was published in 1951, prior to the original film as well as the novel written by Jack Finney. Bottom line not a bad movie to watch when you know you will be distracted as it requires very little of your attention and there are enough action scenes to move the pace along, but science fiction and Heinlein fans will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Disappointing version of a fantastic book","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a decent film. The book was far better.If the book had been made into a three-hour film, it would have been excellent. They would have had time to do things right. As it is, they compact a wide-ranging tale set in the future into a dodgy action flick in the present day.Do yourself a favour - read the book.Donald Sutherland is too cool, though.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing...","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Like Stephen King, Robert Heinlein is an author whose work is frequently adapted into Hollywood screenplays. Also like Stpehen King, the results of adapting Heinlein's work into the format of film rarely live up to the potential set by the material. The major difference between the two authors is that an adaptation of Heinlein usually gets better the further it strays from the source, so long as it sticks to the spirit. Ironically, the Verhoeven/Neumeier adaptation of StarShip Troopers remains the best that Hollywood has come up with so far.The problem with The Puppet Masters as a film is that after a well-constructed setup in which the aliens are made entirely plausible, even somehow real, it descends rapidly into yet another action/sci-fi hybrid in the vein of Predator or Aliens. This in itself wouldn't be so bad, except for two things. One, Heinlein's stories were always intended as the exact opposite kind of science-fiction. Two, the mixture of the two elements leaves the film unbalanced. The second half feels very disjoined from the first.The scientific concepts shown in the film are not perfect, but they give it an atmosphere that many horror films of the era lack. However, the science of the film is not the only key to making a great story. Where it falls down is in the Transition. The Transition from one moment to the next leaves gaps of logic that disconnects the audience from the story. The questions of how on Earth one thing got here or there are never adequately answered. Telling us that something escaped never works as well as showing us, and unfortunately, this production of The Puppet Masters never does enough of the latter.The acting doesn't help matters a lot. Donald Sutherland is very competent as usual, but the script gives him little to distinguish his character from the other several dozen that he's played in an almost identical manner. Julie Warner stands out as the character who grabs the viewer's attention, by fair means and foul. Eric Thal, on the other hand, is like Keanu Reeves. You could replace him with a wooden plank that has a mean face painted on it, and nobody would know the difference. Richard Belzer stands out in an almost-wordless cameo. Anyone else in the film never gets the chance to distinguish themselves.The second half and inadequate characterisation of the film would have been easy to overcome if only one of them were present. The only problem is that third, fourth, even fifth problems are added. One major problem is the sheer volume of exposition that is delivered through dialogue. It is one thing to tell us how character X felt sensation Y at moment Z. To do this without flashbacks or recapping footage from new angles is a difficult ask at best, and with a cast of this calibre, it simply shouldn't be done.Ironically, the concept of The Puppet Masters was done slightly better in a direct-to-video sequel to StarShip Troopers. The concept of an alien parasite using a host for a sinister purpose was also done better in The Thing. If you've already seen those films, then The Puppet Masters is worth checking out. If not, I'd recommend checking them out first. A 5 out of 10 from me. "},{"Title":"They've Got Your Back!","Date":"29 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It looks like a UFO has landed in a small Iowa farm town. A top-secret US government investigative team from the Office of Scientific Central Intelligence goes out to investigate. The three stars are limping leader Donald Sutherland (as Andrew Nivens), his handsome son and partner Eric Thal (as Sam Nivens) and sexy alien biologist Julie Warner (as Mary Sefton). They are about to conclude the whole thing was a teenagers' hoax, but Ms. Warner realizes aliens have landed. The reason, according to Warner, is that no males on the scene have noticed her arousing figure or tried to look down her unbuttoned blouse. You can almost hear her say, Don't look at that alien spaceship, dammit, look down my shirt!...Now, these aliens attach themselves to your back (your spinal column, specifically) and they multiply quickly. The way to see if someone has been infected is to order the person to, Take off your shirt! Since this trick works, we're left wondering why most people in the cast are allowed to keep their backs covered. Most viewers would not protest Warner and Mr. Thal acting without their shirts (Thal goes without pants, too). If you don't mind wondering about plot confusions and contrivances like that, you could do worse than Stuart Orme's vision of Robert A. Heinlein's science-fiction novel. Thal and Warner are an attractive couple and Mr. Sutherland is a classic performer who can improve movies by simply being there.****** The Puppet Masters (10/21/94) Stuart Orme ~ Eric Thal, Julie Warner, Donald Sutherland, Keith David "},{"Title":"Drawing from Heinlein's Weak Side","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My problem with this movie is (1) Robert Heinlein is my favourite science fiction writer, bar none; (2) The book on which this movie is based is one of his more forgettable works; and (3) The film is a decent effort, but it's a low-budget project and pretty uninspired. I've waited a lifetime for Heinlein's better writing to make it to the screen, and unfortunately, it hasn't happened. There is nothing wrong with this movie, but almost any other Heinlein novel or story would have been better starting material. Better choices for source material might have included Stranger in a Strange Land (best known work, but not best novel), and any of the so-called Boy Scout series from the 50s Have Spacesuit Will Travel, Farmer in the Sky, Between Planets, Red Planet, and many, many more. "}{"Title":"forget the movie, READ THE BOOK!!!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As movies based on books go, it was decent, but as with any other movie that is based on a book, it's hardly worth wasting your time on if you've read the book because you will only be disappointed.  On the other hand, if you've never read the book, the movie may interest you enough to read it. I PROMISE YOU, you WON'T regret it.  On it's own, the movie does a commendable job of presenting itself (although I wouldn't recommend buying the DVD for anything more than pocket-change as there are NO extras) and is rather suspenseful, but again, the book is FAR superior.  For starters, the book goes much more into detail, and as a result, the movie comes off as being a watered-down version that leaves alot out and changes much of what is left to avoid explanation.  So, if you are the reading type, I STRONGLY urge you to read one of the greatest works of the premier Sci-fi author in history and leave this movie on the shelf. "},{"Title":"Slightly underrated aliens-vs-government 50s throwback movie","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Probably produced following the smash success of The X Files, The Puppet Masters is a pretty solid slice of alien invasion pulp fiction. The casting is good, with Eric Thal and Julie Warner proving to be charming enough stand-ins for Mulder and Scully. Elsewhere, sci-fi genre fans may appreciate the appearances of Yaphet Kotto (Alien), Keith David (The Thing) and of course the great Donald Sutherland (Invasion Of The Body Snatchers).Behind the camera, it's an unusually British affair with director Stuart Orme, cinematographer Clive Tickner, and composer Colin Towns all heralding from the UK. They do nice work - Orme provides a tense and pacey first half, Tickner's very fine work lends a stylish visual sheen, and Towns' music is lushly complex.However, although it starts out well, the flick loses some energy and traction around the middle and doesn't get it back. Its potential begins to slip away and I'm not quite sure why. Maybe budget/script cuts. The last third in particular, with its under-powered action set-pieces and somewhat perfunctory ending, suggests that the film had hit the glass ceiling of its production resources... or perhaps even its creators' full interest.Nevertheless, it's an enjoyable sci-fi thriller for a good part of its running time. Might make a nice viewing companion with The Hidden (1987) or certainly any number of old X Files episodes! "},{"Title":"B-movie balls","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" 'The Puppet Masters' is terrible, but I'll preface this review by saying that you should read screenwriter Terry Rossio's piece 'Building the Bomb' on his Wordplayer site, which details how a well-intentioned adaptation of Robert Heinlein's book went completely wrong and we ended up with this thing.It's a rip-off of 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers', basically, with a bit of 'Aliens' thrown in at the end. It's dumb and it's predictable, with Julie Warner sussing out who's possessed and who isn't by seeing whether or not they look down her top, and then the plot leaps forward with scant explanation for how the scientists know what they know in order to defeat the creatures. Wooden performances, a dull pace and iffy effects, particularly in the blue screen department in the not-very-exciting finale, make this a bit of a chore to watch. "},{"Title":"Adequate sci-fi / action picture.","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While The Puppet Masters is generally an entertaining movie with a good pace going for it, the simple fact is that it's much too belated an official adaptation of the Robert A. Heinlein novel. We've seen other, similar stories since, including of course Invasion of the Body Snatchers (although the Heinlein novel actually preceded the Jack Finney book of Body Snatchers). The presentation is definitely competent if not inspired. The creatures themselves are fairly cool, and visuals (specifically, the hive interior) are solid, and the script (credited to Ted Elliott, Terry Rossio, and David S. Goyer) is fairly intelligent, but the direction (by Stuart Orme) is nondescript. The music is generic stuff, as well.It's an alien invasion tale of starfish shaped slugs that land on Earth, attach themselves to the backs of humans, and control their actions. It doesn't take long for an infection (which starts in rural Iowa) to spread and spread. The man in charge of handling the crisis is Andrew Nivens (an amusing Donald Sutherland, who performs with wit and style), who heads up a covert agency that is an offshoot of the C.I.A. and which deals with scientific intelligence. Also involved is Andrews' special agent son Sam (Eric Thal) and a scientist (the irresistibly cute Julie Warner) who specializes in theorizing about alien anatomy, believe it or not!The story isn't a bad one but just isn't that meaty; I'm told that, as is so often the case, that the book is a superior work of fiction. The filmmakers do their best to keep us interested in the characters, putting each of them in peril. The stars do good work (this wouldn't work as well were it not for Sutherland), and are well supported by a rich variety of top character actors and familiar faces Keith David, Will Patton, Richard Belzer, Tom Mason, Yaphet Kotto, Gerry Bamman, Sam Anderson, Marshall Bell, Benjamin Mouton, Andrew Robinson, and Dale Dye (some of them, however, get no more than a few lines).Never boring but never that exciting, either, this does fall victim to the more than one ending cliché but does have its good moments too. Best recommended to undemanding fans of the genre.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"Raising Sancho","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Puppet Masters is a film that in it's first minutes promises to be an interesting and entertaining alien film that will scare you. After 30 minutes, you may change your mind.The beginning is smart, we have action in the first five minutes of running. It's difficult to watch a movie when there are 35345839465 characters, names and names of organizations; I felt very confused and got lost in the mystery many times. Directing is a strong thing, it doesn't seem to be an independent picture. Along with good directing, we have a smart background sound, building a suspenseful atmosphere. Also, this film is very different from most out there, and I can't explain why. It just feels very original and clever-- which, even thought, disappoints. Maybe if they put more story, less action and less screen time, it wouldn't have become this boring. See this only if you like action pictures with lack of story and you will probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Sci-Fi...please do this movie","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What we are looking for in Sci-fi is a good story that enables us to join in. We want to be thrilled and have our wonderment, our inquisitiveness fed in large does where we can get it. Enter the Puppet Masters. I would have preferred a better title for this movie, but this one is very accurate and will do. This movie will allow you to see a lesser form of life but equally intelligent in its own way and try to dominate our species playing by our rules and on our playing field. What you will see is how well they go about it methodically making advancements and that is what successful war or invading your enemy is all about. These Alien play to win and we play to lose until we figure out this isn't a play over game if you lose. The acting brings it all close to home and the plot is easy to follow. The story is targeted to any age group and intriguing. To observe Aliens who use their brains instead of their weaponry leaves one frightened. It mentally and emotionally assaults mankind because we know we are the superior being on this planet. For something less in appearance to invade us and succeed is truly frightening not to mention a wake-up call. This was worthy of being a full blown move with a sequel and a prequel potential. I watch it with captions on because I like to hear every word spoken when the Aliens and the humans have a face to to face. Waste no more time reading this review...go watch the movie right now "},{"Title":"Are you saying these slugs are using us like puppets?","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ~Spoiler~ Robert A. Heinlein's The Puppet Masters is a good alien invasion tale that plays itself out entirely by the numbers. It had every opportunity to be a classic, but comes up short due to numerous flaws. The first half of the movie is set up quite well. It's a plausible alien takeover story in the vein of Invasion of the Body Snatchers or Invaders From Mars. This time the aliens take the form of manta rays that jump onto a host's back and plug themselves in at the base of the neck. The initial invasion plays out nicely as government soldiers are sent in to quarantine a small town in Iowa. However, the second part of the film feels completely different and kills any suspense that may have been built. It's like they stopped trying and the film suffers by turning into a predictable mess. The cast is mostly good. Notice I said mostly. The Puppet Masters is full of great character actors like Andrew Robinson, Marshall Bell, and Richard Belzer, but the leads feel terribly out of place. Eric Thal and Julie Warner seem miscast to me; stronger actors were needed here. Other than those two, Puppet Masters features a who's who of terrific alien menace movies. It features Donald Sutherland from Invasion of the Body Snatchers, Keith David from John Carpenter's The Thing, and Yaphet Kotto from Alien. Maybe the producers wanted the viewer to be reminded of those films while watching this. If that's the case, the plan backfired. There is just something missing from this that keeps it out of the pantheon of great science-fiction with the other classics that I've mentioned. In this case it's the latter 30 minutes of the movie. It was way too easy to beat these things and it was stupid that the heroes just stumbled on the answer in the alien hideout no less. The ending where Sutherland is possessed seemed very tacked on to me. It was pointless; it added nothing but an unspectacular helicopter chase. I wouldn't say avoid this one altogether. If you want some mindless alien fun, The Puppet Masters should do the trick. "},{"Title":"Aliens Are Here","Date":"9 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Stuart Orme directed this adaptation of the Robert A. Heinlein novel that stars Donald Sutherland as Andrew Nivens, and Eric Thal as his son Sam, along with Julie Warner as Mary Sefton, who are government scientists investigating a alien spaceship that has landed in the Midwest, and they soon discover that the alien inhabitants have somehow taken over the minds and bodies of residents in a plot to take over the Earth governments. The aliens are slug-like creatures that attach to the back of the host, and our three heroes must do all they can to stop this insidious invasion. Well cast and made, but utterly uninspired, with inconsistent characterizations and plot developments. It's all been done before, and better. "},{"Title":"Poor Directing, Weak Script & Dialogue Spoil Sci-Fi Thriller","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It really makes no sense how this film could not have worked. Working off a script based on a Robert A. Heinlein novel, with the venerable Donald Sutherland in one of the lead roles, and with alien invasion the subject matter, this should have been at least a seven star Science Fiction film. As Sci-Fi goes, the superior ones focus more on futuristic and/or scientific concepts, with action and/or special effects adding to the spectacle. That is why films like the Star Wars saga really aren't Sci-Fi, but action/adventure first (and in the case of Star Wars, fantasy) and science fiction second at best. This film does delve into the biology and culture of the aliens, but just barely. Mostly it focuses on hokey special effects and a few watered-down action scenes to fill up screen time. The aliens themselves are quite realistic and original, a plus for the film. The chemistry between Donald Sutherland as the leader of a secret government agency and his son, played by Eric Thal (an unknown at the time) is actually quite good. In addition, Julie Warner actually does well as the scientist working for Sutherland and of course plays the romantic interest for Sutherland's son. While not a superior actress, she performs adequately, although her talents are more suited to television, as it appears this movie was. While most will think, as I did, while reading the plot synopsis of the film that it is a rip-off of Invasion of the Body Snatchers (Sutherland starred in the remake of this film in 1978), the actual book was published in 1951, prior to the original film as well as the novel written by Jack Finney. Bottom line not a bad movie to watch when you know you will be distracted as it requires very little of your attention and there are enough action scenes to move the pace along, but science fiction and Heinlein fans will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great little Invasion redux!","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a unknown very satisfying alien film. This film moves along at a nice pace. The aliens are creepy and the action is almost non stop. They throw a lot of great turns in the story and the acting is pretty solid. The film even has a cameo from the talentless Richard Belzer who actually does a decent job. I would have liked some nudity in this story but you can't have it all. This film is pre CGI so it has an awesome selection of effects done on set. It's hard to believe they could make such a good movie from a Hienlin book. Whatever, just see it. "}{"Title":"Not what it could have been, but worth a viewing","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Not having read any of the highly acclaimed writer Robert A. Heinlein's work, including the original novel Puppet Masters, I can't really comment on whether or not this piece does him or his work any justice, but from a point of view that hasn't in any way been influenced by his work or others' opinions(...maybe scratch that last one), I must admit that it's not half bad. The plot is pretty good, and it keeps developing at an adequate rate, while keeping a fair pace, but it seems to drop a tad once this entered its last half or so. The acting is decent enough, with Donald Sutherland being the one to stand out and deliver a marvelous performance. The characters are well-written, well-casted, credible and believable. This is strangely similar to TV features, in the way it's shot and edited. The special effects are great, but short of spectacular. The creature design was reasonably interesting, and well thought out, and the related effects are actually relatively nicely done. The science fiction aspects of this, with the aliens and their actions are well-done. I liked the way the film utilizes mood and atmosphere rather than excessive gore to scare and thrill the audience. The atmosphere and mood are decent enough, just not as well-done as they could have been. The movie also fails to inspire the same paranoia and fear that, for example, John Carpenter's The Thing does. Finally, the climax was a bit overly Hollywood-like, but hey, this does provide about 110 minutes worth of sufficiently entertaining science fiction-horror about the always dreaded extra-terrestrial invasion. I recommend it to fans of the genre and/or Donald Sutherland(it should also be noted that Keith David rocks, as he has something of a tendency to do). 6/10 "},{"Title":"Great Flick, When will it be released on DVD?","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a great flick. I love the Donald Sutherland character. Kind of reminds you of his role in Invasion of the Body Snatchers. I saw this movie when it was released and have been looking for a copy of it on DVD since then! Right now it is only available on VHS. "},{"Title":"Great movie and another good heinlein movie","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To those other people that think this is a butchering of his work... learn to have fun.. sheesh, it is a great movie, it doesnt go far from the book, and it still gets his point... if you hated it... don't ruin it for those of us that like it... and don't poison the rest of those people that havent seen it  for those of you out there that like sci fi, it is great, for those of you that like heinlien it is great, for those of you that like story it is great.. overall it is great rent it, buy it, whichever it is good.. "},{"Title":"Hollywood and Heinlein don't mix well.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Puppet Masters continues to show why Hollywood and Heinlein just don't mix well.  Every time Hollywood gets it's claws in to a wonderfully written book they just go off in to their own Strange Land with it.  I've seldom seen a SCI-FI movie, before reading the book.  Why????  The book never let's you down, the movie just show you where the book took you that it never could.It doesn't matter how great the Cast, when the movie just can keep up with the book, it still fails.  Puppet Masters the Movie.. Just didn't meet the score!!  I would have enjoyed it much more had they stuck closer to the book.  Heinlein fans all know that his books were at least PG-13 perhaps even NC-17, so let's face facts, the movie should have been at least a strong R.  Was there any reason not to follow the book?  For Hollywood, yes!  Money, they need a movie that came in near the break-even line.  So cutting a few corners was fine with them.  Who cares what the Fans wanted. Who cares about the heart of the Story!!  Hollywood sure didn't!Hollywood didn't manage to pull the strings on this Puppet.  Before they try to fit a great sci-fi story in to a Hollywood Budget plan, they should look at the bigger picture, and see if they can make more money by sticking with what the Fans want.  "},{"Title":"The weak directing doesn't make this movie exactly a classic but still it's an enjoyable science-fiction thriller.","Date":"2 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's pretty obvious that director is mostly active in the TV-series and TV movie genre. The Puppet Maser has at times an awfully TV-movie looking visual style and the characters and story are mostly wasted. Still the movie is entertaining enough to find it watchable and perhaps even also recommendable.Still it's a shame, because the movie had all the potential to become a science-fiction classic in the style of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. The story is very good and also original. The execution of it is just plain bad at times. All of the characters are wasted and the movie is filled with some plot holes and illogical moments. Seriously, I'm convinced of it that with a different director at the helm, this movie really could and would had grown in to be a classic science-fiction masterpiece.However as entertainment this movie is good enough. Science-fiction fans will certainly enjoy this movie which is mainly due to the original alien invasion story and the above average special effects.Don't expect great things from the cast though. The dialog and acting is at times B-movie like. Eric Thal is a failed movie-hero and Donald Sutherland is wasted. Also Will Patton and especially Yaphet Kotto are criminally underused.The movie is certainly watchable but to most this movie will probably seem like a silly science-fiction movie. The movie is perhaps best and possibly only watchable and recommendable to the fans of the science-fiction genre.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"'Trust no one' - OK Sci-Fi horror.","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The Puppet Masters starts in 'Ambrose, Iowa - population 10,079' where three boys playing Frisbee witness some sort of strange electrical disturbance in the sky not too far away, they run to investigate. A special Government agent named Sam Nivens (Eric Thal) meets his Father Andrew (Donald Sutherland), a biologist named Dr. Mary Sefton (Julie Warner) & a bodyguard Jarvis (Richard Belzer) at an airport. Andrew informs Sam that there has been a report of a UFO landing in Iwoa & has satellite photo's to back this claim up, they are all on their way to investigate. Once they reach the landing site they find the three boys have made a UFO of their own out of tin & dustbin lids & are telling everyone it was a publicity stunt. Our four Government agents come to the conclusion that they are lying because some of the ground is burnt which for some reason definitely means a UFO landed there & the boys didn't look at Mary's breasts like every 'normal' male would have. They decide to interview TV station reporter Mr. Barnes (Bruce Charchow) since he was one of the first on the scene. Again he doesn't look at Mary's breast so he must be an alien, Barnes takes a gun out of his desk but is shot by Sam before he can use it, while lying injured on the floor an alien parasite of some sort jumps from his back & attacks our agents but is electrocuted. Back at their labs top scientist Dr. Graves (Will Patton) & Mary examine the alien, they come to the conclusion that it has the ability to control the mind of it's host & that anyone could be a carrier. Soon the aliens make an attempt to take President Douglas (Tom Mason) but fail, it quickly becomes apparent that the aliens are hostile & want to wipe out the entire human race. As they reproduce & take control of us at an astounding rate someone very good at maths calculates that within days there will be as many as 250 billion of them. The time to defeat this enemy is now, but how exactly...?Directed by Stuart Orme I thought The Puppet Masters was average at best but isn't too bad as far as mindless entertainment goes. The script by Ted Elliott, Terry Rossio & David S. Goyer based on the novel by Robert A. Heinlein is not the best, if these aliens need to be on people's backs why not just have everyone important walk around topless? It sounds silly I know but it would be totally impossible for any alien to go undetected wouldn't it? Problem solved. Anyway, wouldn't anyone with one of these things on their backs have a big bulge in their clothing? Why does Sam conveniently survive an alien being on his back with no ill effects when Jarvis didn't? Why do these aliens need to go to a central hive? How can an alien telepathically transmit a disease which luckily for us will kill them all within about 30 odd minutes but not us, their hosts? Why do the aliens make themselves so visible? Why do they want to take over Earth anyway? The Puppet Masters reminded me of The X Files (1993 - 2002) with it's shadowy mysterious Government agency, it's male & female leads who don't look dissimilar to Mulder (David Duchovny) & Scully (Gillian Anderson). Many of the ideas brought up in The Puppet Masters are not fully explored or developed & as a whole the film feels very small scale & low budget. This is infinitely inferior to Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978) in the similar themes, issues & ideas they both set out to explore & achieve. The aliens themselves look like stingrays with a tentacle that impales itself on the back of it's intended victims necks, the special effects are OK if a little rubbery & a scene when one of these aliens is being spun around on a ceiling fan is actually quite funny & stupid looking. There is no gore & very little action as it's mostly dialogue driven, unfortunately the script tends to make who is infected & who isn't painfully obvious which means it loses a lot of the potential paranoia which worked so well in the Body Snatcher films. Technically The Puppet Masters is well made but extremely bland & forgettable, it has the feel of a cheap TV film written all over it. The acting is so-so & no one embarrasses themselves too much. On a positive note it moves along at a nice pace & is never boring, the idea is very good & quite creepy when you think about it & generally speaking it entertains for an hour & a half if you don't have too high an expectation. Worth a watch if you can catch it on TV for free or find a copy going very cheap somewhere, mine cost about 30 pence at which I can't really complain at! "},{"Title":"OK and something of an overlooked camp classic","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Donald Sutherland plays his stiff-assed character slightly tongue in cheek. Eric Thal (whatever happened to this guy?) is pretty creepy for a leading man, as befits the character he inhabits. Julie Warner is sexy; too bad we didn't get to see her goodies. The cool-headed thinking of the main characters up against a seemingly invincible enemy is reminsicent of 1951's THE THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD. Some suspense, even though we know what's going on from scene 1. I have watched this odd little film at least 20 times and enjoyed it everytime. It can be seen as a precursor to THE X-FILES, with Thal and Warner as the prototypes for Mulder and Scully. Some interesting bits, like the newly possessed Warner mock-biting at a red-hot poker in Thal's hand, and Thal crying, nude, in the shower with Warner holding him tightly, as he recalls his recent possession. Only Keith David seems out of place, especially in his big showdown with Thal near the end, when he is literally covered by dozens of the creepy aliens and has been transformed into a M-O-N-S-T-E-R. Definitely worth a look, but do not read the book beforehand. The movie bears scant resemblance to the book. "},{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I`ve never read the source novel but I`m led to believe that it influenced classics like INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS  and QAUTERMASS 2. On it`s own this film falls down big time , I don`t think I have ever seen a film with so many plot holes. I was going to point out these plot holes but seeing as the screenwriter hasn`t bothered about them then neither will I. Don`t waste your money watching this rubbish "},{"Title":"OK, but the book was worthy of much more","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hollywood can't do science fiction. It's tendency to go for the spectacular is probably forgivable since the target audience is aged about 15. This film was ok but given the budget and the right director this book could have made a really great movie. Pity. "},{"Title":"Unintentional comedy at its finest","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe people actually attempted to take this film seriously -- none of the actors involved seemed to!  Especially the always dapper Donald Sutherland, who devours lines like I can fly a helicopter! with campy relish.  If you're a hardcore Heinlein freak, don't bother with Puppet Masters -- it'll only break your heart -- but if you're a fan of extremely goofy, preposterous sci-fi nonsense, run out and rent it today, grab a couple of your more cheese-tolerant buddies and a couple of six packs, and settle in for a couple of hours of goo, ACTING!!, clumsily depicted paranoia, and some gut-busting laughs. "}{"Title":"Another de-science-fictionised science fiction movie","Date":"5 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Here we have yet another Hollywood butchering of science fiction. Unfortunately Hollywood executives seem to think that Science Fiction fans are either idiots who cannot see the cavernous plot holes (ala Independence Day) or like the butchery of a good book into a movie that seems to use only the barest plot parts and character names.Times and places are changed. It becomes something that only America can solve. Love stories get thrown in for no sane reason. Parts that would make the movie seem more plausible and give an insite into the reason for the invasion in the first place are chopped to a couple of minutes. The easiest way of identifying who does and doesn't have a slug on their back is completely ignored for some unexplained reason. The authorities (e.g. the President) are in almost from the start in the book, but not in the movie. More than one state is involved in the book, compared to three town in the movie. In fact the part of the book that involves other countries is completely ignored. And in the book, there is no happy ending where the hero goes wandering off hand in hand with his obligatory love interest.Judge for yourselves, but I bet the rumblings from RAH's grave were heard for months after this travesty was foisted on the public. "},{"Title":"What a stinker","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Problem #1 The chief problem with this film is its ridiculous screenplay. The film can't decide if it wants to be a mindless action flick or a character-driven sci-fi drama. So what you get is an alien invasion story where all the leads get infected by the aliens but are somehow saved by their friends while scores of infected extras get mowed down by machine-gun fire. If a lead character is infected, their buddies come up with all sorts of ways to peel the alien critter off, but if Farmer Joe comes running at them with a lug wrench, no one hesitates to pump him full of holes.Problem #2 Richard Belzer is in this movie and he is given not a single funny line! SPOILER When his character ices himself, I felt like it was Richard Belzer's way of saying, This flick stinks, I'm outta here. Problem #3 The final, cliché helicopter action sequence. It seemed like it they filmed it for another movie or something and just tagged it onto the end of this one. "},{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I`ve never read the source novel but I`m led to believe that it influenced classics like INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS  and QAUTERMASS 2. On it`s own this film falls down big time , I don`t think I have ever seen a film with so many plot holes. I was going to point out these plot holes but seeing as the screenwriter hasn`t bothered about them then neither will I. Don`t waste your money watching this rubbish "},{"Title":"A decent sci-fi flick","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a decent sci-fi flick. Good performances by Julie Warner and Eric Thal, and of course there's no role that Donald Sutherland can't pull off. Alien effects were revoltingly good. OK, it's not completely true to Heinlein's magnificent novel. Hollywood has a formula, (the happy ending, the obligatory love interest of one or more of the stars, etc.) and any deviation from it is exceedingly rare. That's why foreign films are good, because they are not bound by the formula. I've noticed that great sci-fi movies are almost always originally written for the screen, rather than adapted from books. Books are always better than movies, but science fiction seems to be particularly so.  "},{"Title":"Unworthy adaptation.","Date":"7 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Heinlein's book is, I gather, pretty good. I'm not a purist and I don't demand that a movie adaptation follow the print version closely, and in fact I haven't read the novel.But this isn't very good. In plot it seems more an overblown version of The X Files, except that the federal investigative team has more members, so that some can be taken over by the pods. It's hard to imagine Mulder or Scully zombified.In execution and style it's reminiscent of Carpenter's bombastic version of The Thing. Gloopy organisms coil themselves around people's faces and boomerang from point to point. Or they auger themselves into a victim's back. They attach themselves to the spinal cord of the victim, so you can't tell if someone is possessed or not until you have them strip down the back of their shirts and take a look. Julie Warner's examination was the only bright spot in the film.It bears no resemblance whatever to the classic 1950s science fiction film, The Invasion of the Body Snatchers. That much-imitated original (from Jack Finney's novel) began with a normal, steady state of affairs, grew through suspicion, developed into conviction, and led to action.This begins and ends with action, just in case the viewer might be bored during the first ten minutes of exposition and switch to an energy drink commercial just to watch cartoon figures leap around. The gloppy organisms, ripped off shamelessly and pointlessly from Alien, are on abundant display. The sloppy, sticky, guts are picked apart, accompanied by a lot of scientific gobbledygook.Donald Sutherland's performance provides the eye of this hurricane of horror. He's quiet and controlled, when almost everyone else is running around berserk.The innards of those parasites are a true mess, and so is the film. I can't imagine that Heinlein, a good writer, produced a book that could be so popular and yet so execrable. "},{"Title":"The alien take-over...","Date":"3 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This adaptation of a Robert A. Heinlein novel puts things right into gear when Eric Thal, Julie Warner and the ever-competent Donald Shutterland rush off to Ambrose, Iowa to investigate a registered UFO landing. However, collective-minded alien parasites have already begun to take over, turning humans into puppets to do their bidding. Writing trio Ted Elliott, Terry Rossio & David S. Goyer manage to tie things up fashionably, but also overworked themselves providing just about everything. Being a mixture of sci-fi, horror, thriller, action and drama, it's safe to say the wholesome feels a bit disjoint at places. The animatronic slug-like parasites by Roy Arbogast & Co. are a fine creation and get plenty of screen-time. Ambitious entertainment. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, although sometimes flawed Science-Fiction Thriller.","Date":"16 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Three top level government agents (Donald Sutherland, Eric Thal and Julie Warner) make a disturbing discovery that extraterrestrial beings have landed on earth and they quickly take over control of the residents in a small midwestern town. The agents find out, they can using their bodies and minds like puppets. While the creatures multiply and spread quickly, the agents have to think fast and destroy these seemingly unstoppable aliens.Directed by Stuart Orme (Best known for directing TV Movies or TV Shows) made an entertaining, science-fiction thriller with an amusing performance by Sutherland as the sardonic lead agent. While Thal and Warner certainly do well in their roles. Since this movie has good creature special make-up effects by Three Time Oscar-WinnerGreg Cannom (Blade, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, Hannibal). The feature has good production values but somehow director Orme doesn't have much imagination during some of the rather tense sequences and the climax between Sutherland and Thal is a disappointment with cheap visual effects. The movie is certainly on its best in the first two-thirds of the picture.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an good Dolby Surround 2.0 Sound. The DVD doesn't have any special features. The Puppet Masters came out in October 1994, it quickly became an box office disappointment and the movie had a lot of imitations before. Which the movie took the edge off and it never really caught any fire. Despite it is based on a novel by Robert A. Heinlein (Starship Troopers). Director Orme certainly wasted some talented actors in small roles like Yaphet Kotto, Richard Belzer, Andrew Robinson and Marshall Bell. Although it is nice to see Keith David (Best known for two John Carpenter movies, The Thing and They Live) in a supporting role. Will Patton seems to be having an great time as the odd-ball scientist. Since the script is pretty good. Written by Ted Elliott (Aladdin, Godzilla 1998, Small Soldiers), Terry Rossio (The Pirates of the Caribbean series, Deja Vu, Shrek) and David S. Goyer (The Blade Trilogy, Dark City, Death Warrant). Although their script was heavily re-written by five screenwriters and the director as well.The Puppet Masters today, it is certainly an curio. Although exciting at times with an nice leading performances by Sutherland, Thal and Warner. Which Sutherland is no stranger to this kind of movie, since he was in the superior remake as the lead actor in Invasion of the Body Snatchers, which it was directed by Philip Kaufman. Perphas some die-hard science fiction fans, it would make an great double feature with Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Puppet Masters for one night viewing. Despite some real flaws and an terrible climax, it is still worth viewing. Panavision. (*** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"Not at all bad","Date":"15 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Despite being one of the key dozen or so science fiction writers of the 20th Century, relatively little of Robert Heinlein's work has been filmed and, with the exception of Starship Troopers (turned on its idealogical head), nothing from the 60s onwards, when his work started to carry more serious subtext.The Puppet Masters, a book from the 50s, is essentially fairly lightweight, albeit the invasion motif is similar to that of much 1950s science fiction in echoing a fear about the spread of communism - indeed, the parasitic slugs in Puppet Masters form a single entity - a commune if you will - and are therefore a fairly obvious analogue for the red menace. The novel was also fairly saucy for its time, with large chunks of the population having to peel down to their skimpies and beyond to prove that their clothing was not hiding the alien slugs.Well, as usual, Hollywood doesn't like to present the naked body to the viewing public, so the protagonists in this film version of Heinlein's story encounter more difficulty than they need to, simply by virtue of everybody keeping their clothes on. Apart from that, it follows the main sequence of events fairly faithfully, albeit updated to be more contemporary.Donald Sutherland is a serviceable Old Man, even though he is quite different to how I imagined the character from the book (which hardly matters). There are several well-known albeit minor names in the secondary case, but the main leads are taken by Eric Thal and Julie Warner. Neither has had major success before or since (Warner had a lengthy run in Family Law) and, to be perfectly frank, this movie gives a good idea why - they have little charisma, and no chemistry despite the fact that they supposedly fall in love during the film. The story demands lead players who don't come across as insipid, but it doesn't get them.There is relatively little in terms of special effects, but what there is does the job. The major effect is the slugs themselves, and they are pleasingly unpleasant..There is some offensive - and entirely unnecessary - use of the F-bomb. I don't mind it when it's there for a purpose here it serves no purpose whatsoever. It doesn't advance the plot or illuminate character, it simply makes an unpleasant comment even more unpleasant, and it could have been omitted entirely without any detrimental effect on the movie.With some promotion, this movie could have been rather more successful than it was, albeit it came on the heels of what might have appeared to be similar epidemic-type stories. Perhaps Heinlein's time in movies is still to come. "},{"Title":"Mostly fun","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" An interesting adaptation of Robert Heinlein's original story about aliens that come to Earth and take over a small town as parasites controlling their host bodies. This film was made in 1994 and I find it an enjoyable watch. True it is very different to the source material. The Heinlein book is a lot different as are most book to movie adaptations. But I found it interesting without being overbearing.I liked the leads in this film and Donald Sutheland chews up the scenery as the leader of an agency who it seems, but its not overly mentioned go ET hunting on occasion. He's a great actor and added to the movie, making it just that much more enjoyable.There are other films that deal with the same kind of subject matter, most notabely the movie The Faculty which has exactly the same idea with little parasites attaching to people but this film stands well on it's own despite this and I'm sure will find its own little niche of fans. "},{"Title":"An X-Files Movie in disguise?????","Date":"26 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I may be the only one, but I just watched this movie again tonight and it is completely like the X-Files! Does anyone else see this?I had seen it before, but had not seen the connection. But tonight I noticed it.Even the music is similar...Is this a set up for X Files, or what????As I began to watch it tonight, hubby and I were amazed at how many X-Files references there were - there are all the elements of an X-Files story.We have both read the book - this has little if any resemblance to the book, but if you listen to the characters, and watch the way the story plays out - it is TOTALLY X-Files! "}{"Title":"Not Too Bad","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I read and still re-read, the book and must agree with other commentators; the film is NOT the book or even reasonably based on the book. Hollywood can never get the idea that a book is famous because people read it, because the author got it right the first time--in published form. They buy rights to film a book, but then change the guts out of the book! I loved only three things in this flick Julie Warner's comment bet your dad isn't happy he hired me, can't even do my job Sutherland's cool emotionlessness until Sam almost dies--it's like without Sam he won't have anyone to abuse who won't tell him to go to heck! The family feeling of the Team. Everyone loves each other enough to be willing to die for their comrades! Too cool! That said, the story is told as one we've seen Way too many times before. And better before too! I suggest to all our readers and commentators on here--Do what I do--make your own movies and show them on public access cable channels in your area! My crew and I have over the years, made 12 films shown all over New York State and Connecticut(though now I live in Florida--near Disney World where the real aliens live and work, LOL) "},{"Title":"A LOW-BUDGET SCI FI CLASSIC!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS CONTAINED HEREIN. I saw this in the theater when it came out, and it made a real impression on me. There are lots of great ideas going on in this movie from the fake flying saucer covering up the real space ship to the subtle homosexual overtones. It has a great line Don't think of them as children. They are the enemy. The X-Files TV show also stole the movie's tag line of Trust No One. I've seen this movie four times over the years and enjoyed it every time. I'm surprised this wasn't a hit when it came out. It's like an old sci fi comic book come to life!See it! "},{"Title":"Good sci-fi","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Slimy, disgusting aliens invade Earth.  They attach themselves to peoples backs and control their minds.  Sam Nivens (Eric Thal), father Andrew Nivens (Donald Sutherland) and Mary Sefton (Julie Warner) are all part of separate government agencies who join together to fight the invasion.Not a faithful adaptation of Heinlein's book but still a good film in its own right.  The script is good; it has realistic, believable characters; the aliens are agreeably disgusting and the action scenes are good and violent.  Also, with the sole exception of Sutherland (who appears to be sleepwalking) all the acting is good--especially Thal (tall, handsome and hunky) and Warner (beautiful, intelligent and strong).  A very good sci-fi film.  Also, I agree with some previous posters--one of the best scenes in the film is Thal's nude shower scene.  Woof! "},{"Title":"Great underrated sci fi flick, almost as good as Invasion of the body snatchers","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand the whining about plotholes and other negativity because this is simply a great film with a nice reference to Invasion of the Body Snatcher, with Donald Sutherland in optima forma! All the acting was good, especially the relatively unknown Thal. The supporting cast was simply splendid, I really enjoyed seeing those familiar faces, especially the geek scientist (I had seen him as a redneck cop in The Client) and the black actor (from The Thing). The special effects were also masterfully done, considering the modest budget for this film. I also loved the story, and for those who think it's unoriginal, consider it's borrowed from an early Robert A. Heinlein novel!I wish more sci fi fans would know this movie because it deserves a lot more fame than it got. But this way, it's a very nice cult hit which has an appeal of it's own. I have enjoyed this movie twice and want to see it a 3rd time on DVD even tho it has no extra's. It's just a wannahave for my collection.I give it 9/10, there wasn't simply anything wrong with this movie as far as I could see! "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the world of sci fi there are a handful of gold standard movies, the 2001's, the Alien's, and a much, MUCH larger group of really bad rip offs of these movies.  Only rarely do you encounter ones that fall somewhere in between, but Puppet Masters fits that bill.  It is not a great movie.  But neither is it awful.  I have certainly seen many many sci fi flicks that were much much worse.     While its based on a different book, this is basically the third, and least effective, version of Invasion of the Body Snatchers.  And it does a reasonable enough job of building suspense that its strong source material can carry it along.  Its not as good/scary as the original Body Snatchers, nor even as good/scary as the remake, but its still pretty decent sci fi.  Heck, it even gets a rare decent performance out of Donald Sutherland, who for once does not appear to be mailing it in.  The movie is marred by a weak ending, but if you're a sci fi fan its not a bad little time waster. "},{"Title":"Entertaining, But Flawed.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An entertaining film, marred by a ridiculous ending.  What's that you say?  Hmmmm...let's make like the parasitic aliens and tune in on Sam's thoughts  Yeah Dad, I'll obediently comply with your ordersand go off to stoke my relationship with Mary, while ignoring that I had only recently, and of necessity, fired a bullet into you, and then to effortlessly eradicate any concern whatsoever for your welfare as attendants cart you off to the hospital, in inexplicable contrast to what I had experienced emotionally a few minutes earlier as you lay on the ground bleeding, and me thinking that you might possibly be dead.  And I so wish you could be here now, watching me and Mary walk down the street as One in the final shot. But what the heck, I like the movie for the most part - as I did Predator with it's absurd ending.  The Puppet Masters, as Maltin has said, lost some of it's potential edge, due to it's well-worn theme (initially made in 1958 via the low-budget, unauthorized version entitled The Brain Eaters), but it's nicely paced, with good performances, convincing, if revolting special effects, and a script at least moderately faithful to the Robert A. Heinlein 1950 classic novel bearing the same title. Maltin awarded The Puppet Masters with 2&1/2 stars out of a possible 4.  Me too. "},{"Title":"It was just a OK movie","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The video rental shop near my house came up with a new idea that every customer whose rent one new video tape can benefit one other movie with charge free. My sister picked this movie, we had nothing to do but watching this one.My review can be summed up in three words  Better than expected. There were a few good parts that I could hardly expect to see in this mediocre movie. This movie reminded me of lots of other Sci-fi movies like Aliens, X-files....Anyway Eric's beautiful nude distracted me from watching this to an end. He was the gorgeous!! ^_^ "},{"Title":"Imagine how awful a movie can be when an entire high school makes fun of it...","Date":"7 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In 'The Faculty' (1998) (another bad movie but not nearly as bad as this), one character says that the novel 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers' by Jack Finney was a ripoff of Robert A. Heinlein's 'The Puppet Masters'. That's very possible, but as I haven't read none of those books, my opinion is that as a movie, this one looks just like the opposite a ripoff of Don Siegel's 1956 masterpiece based on Finney's book, or its 1978 remake by Philip Kaufman (even it casts this version's lead actor, Donald Sutherland). If you think it well, it even owes lots of things (the military setting) to the Abel Ferrara version, released one year before this.But that's not the worst part...Two or three years ago this flick was released on TV on Sunday evening (prime-time hour), and the next morning EVERYBODY in my high school seemed to have seen it, and was making fun of it and telling one another how terribly bad it was. This is the only time in my life that I witnessed this phenomenon, and of course I agreed with everyone it stank. It UNIVERSALLY stank, even for die-hard Sci-Fi buffs. I remember ironic comments about that scene where the heroes knew that something was 'wrong' with one character because he didn't look at the heroine's breasts...This movie deserves only one thing being featured in MST3K. It's perfect for that, and only for that reason it's good that they made it. Otherwise rent Don Siegel's wonderful classic, and if you can't find it, go for the Kaufman version (leave Ferrara's alone). But stay away from this one... unless you want to do your own MiSTing. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has all the elements I like. Donald Sutherland is one of my favorite actors, I like Science Fiction, Robert Heinlein is one of my favorite authors. I also like horror movies. How could all these potentially great elements be combined into one of the worst movies I've ever seen? It is forgivable to change the story, if the changes make for better filming, but in this movie the changes don't improve anything. The added material is pointless as well. I could go on for many lines, but this abysmal movie is just not worth wasting the time. What's the line? They managed to snatch failure from the very jaws of success! "},{"Title":"Very weak effort, illogical plot, terrible ending","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The most fascinating thing about this movie is the wildly diverging responses it produces.I thought it was rubbish from beginning to end.The way in which the alien functions is not made clear at all, perhaps deliberately to camouflage the inconsistencies in the plot, so that many events make no sense. The obligatory romantic interest is as boring as it gets. The ending seems copied from any old slasher movie where the monster simply won't stay down.A waste of Sutherland (who's always worth watching) and Warner (who's extremely beautiful in a low-key unglamorous way). "}{"Title":"The Puppet Masters in My opinion is a good alien film!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Puppet Masters is a very good alien film.Donald Sutherland was good and it was unusual for male lead by Eric Thal.Julie Warner acted good and looked great!Will Patton's role was very different.Richard Belzer was the same as always and Marshal Bell was good but I was kinda disappointed by the role they gave to Yaphet Kotto as he didn't do much.The music is great!The Puppet Masters is a good alien film that is action packed and is never boring!I think all fans of alien films will like this! "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I seem to be in the minority here.  I can't understand why thismovie isn't getting the most enthusiastic reviews.Sure, the plot has been visited again and again in books, moviesand TV (including Richard Basehart's mind being taken over atleast 34 times in Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea).  Does thatmatter so much?  Haven't we seen Saving Private Ryan and A.I.before?  Did anyone criticize them as just another Longest Day,or just another 'robot wants to be human' movies?The Puppet Masters is expertly handled.  The direction is tight andsuspense-building.  The early scenes of the kids with the UFOroadside attraction are clever.  Sutherland is great.  The dialogueis realistic.  This remains one of my favorites "},{"Title":"Better than the book! *SPOILERS*","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  But only about a million times better. I saw this movie for the first time six months ago, and I LOVED it! It depicted almost perfect pacing and progression of the crisis. All the reviews cried it was not nearly as good as the book, so I set out to look for the book most eagerly.Well, it turned out to be hard to find. I later discovered that the book was so awful that there was no demand for it. I read it all in one sitting, my excitement slowly fading, and being replaced by a bitter taste in the back of my mouth. The movie solves all the problems of the book. It manages to distill the essence into something completely different, and infinitely better, simply by removing the more glaring SF elements.The novel was written in 1951 and set in 2007. It's hopelessly dated. We still have six years to go, but I'd say it's a safe bet that we won't have the rocket cars or ray guns predicted within. The movie seems to imply that it takes place in near future America, but perhaps that's just my perception of things. It lacks the ardently misogynistic, anticommunist tone of Heinlein's work, and dare I say, transends it's roots. To progression of the movie was chilling, and if you've managed to avoid the book, you'll most likely be caught off guard by one of the many plot twists.SPOILERS Say goodbye to your son, Andrew., using children as shields, Sam writhing in the shower, using encephalitis as the solution (rather than 9-day Venusian flu, as in the book. Venus isn't home to an indiginous population in the movie, as it was in the novel, by the way), biting at the hot poker. Donald Sutherland's unflappable Andrew Niven. I could go on and on, but it's these details that make the movie. It's a cerebral work of fiction, and the logical handling of the crisis was entirely believable. Although the ending could have been better, and there were on or two slips on the parts of the characters, overall it is the best realistic sci-fi film since Aliens. "},{"Title":"Hmmm","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have never read the novel this was movie was based on, or any of his other works for that matter, so I have nothing to compare this film to. I also haven't seen Invasion of the Body Snatchers (shame on me). With that said, I have one question Why the HELL wouldn't you just invent some sort of kevlar armor that attaches to the back and neck in a comfortable fashion? You would think at least the armed forces dudes would have thought about it.. I mean c'mon boys. Anyway, I thought this was entertaining enough for a boring Tuesday afternoon. I've wanted to see this since when it was released and I was much younger and I'm glad I finally have. Fun concept. "},{"Title":"a puppet of better movies","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK, how many movies have there been about aliens coming to earth and possessing people? The Puppet Masters doesn't seem like much that we haven't seen before; specifically, it looks like a remake of Invasion of the Body Snatchers. Still, Donald Sutherland makes the most of his role as a really creepy weirdo. It's just that the movie as a whole doesn't offer anything new. Sutherland, plus Eric Thal, Julie Warner, Keith David, Will Patton, Richard Belzer and Yaphet Kotto all pass in a middling movie.In the thick of everything, you gotta admit that those slugs were pretty nasty-looking. "},{"Title":"Mediocre sci-fi movie at best","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The boring and redundant plot mirrored so many mediocre sci-fi movies I have seen. Nothing exciting, nothing unexpected. Just the same old story line of aliens trying to take over the earth by abducting the inhabitants and probing their minds. The attempted abduction of the president was lame!! And I really can't explain why there was an attempt to infuse a love story where there was no plot or necessity for one. Best thing I can say about Puppet Masters is the bathroom sceen where Eric Thal is nude. It's a shame the excitement of the movie ended up being the obligatory nudity, albeit, beautiful body of Eric Thal. "},{"Title":"Fairly mediocre","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very generic Scifi-thriller with very little originality to it.We've seen this type of thriller before. Can anyone say Invasion of the Bodysnatchers? That one is also a lot better made (even the very lame remakes are superior to this dung).Essentially it's a communist rehash. Who can you trust? Who's to not be trusted?The movie is like the 50's and 60's but with aliens attaching themselves to your back instead of some sneaky russian.There are so many elements that are borrowed from other borrower-movies (pun intended) that this becomes a very mediocre mess. The cheesy way of noticing non-humans was the first thing that made me roll my eyes. Also funny how the puppets are quite human in the beginning of the movie and then towards the end are really robotic.Well, not to give too much away, but this is really lowbudget action-scifi. It's not scary, and it's done in a very generic way. The cheesy plot-twist at the end was what really killed any originality IMHO. "},{"Title":"Derivative.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From the perspective of someone who has never read Heinlein's novel, this movie seems highly derivative and offers nothing you haven't seen before (unless you have never seen any version of the Invasion of the Body Snatchers story or anything similar). It often gets reduced to a typical action movie. But it ISN'T campy, at least not campier than a movie like The Exorcist. "},{"Title":"Dumb","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had nothing to build up on. The action started right away so there was absolutely no suspense to get you going for something to look forward to. These small alien creatures latch on to human's spines and control their nervous system and their entire bodies. They can shut down their hearts, speak for them and kill them. It's not exactly an original story so I didn't expect much and it wasn't good at all. Also what took away any suspense is every main character was eventually controlled at one point by the aliens. Very little action and absolutely no suspense or comedy. And there's no nude or sex scenes involving Julie Warner so that was disappointing too, she's cute. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Attacked by kippers.","Date":"26 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Having just seen this film, I felt it fair to mention that this is a typically awful sci fi film. An alien lifeforce (shaped like a kipper) takes over humans by use of a chord that overrides the nervous system. Yep. Bodysnatchers type thing. You know the drill. Check out the movie Parasite starring Demi Moore. It's the same thing. I'm fed up with kipper shaped aliens and bad effects although they can be funny for the wrong reasons. OK not funny... hilarious. I howled with laughter at this film when the kipper was swinging from the air conditioning fan. Haha. Actually, rent the movie for that scene alone. It's comedy at it's best!  "}]