[{"Title":"Over-The-Top-But Entertaining Revenge Flick","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"67 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hey, I enjoy a good revenge movie as well as the next guy, even though I know forgiveness is the better way. Revenge films satisfy base urges in all of us. But, holy smokes, this crosses the line a little bit with the glorification of such....at least with the ending (which I won't give away but involves Sharon Stone's character).Along the way is a fun ride as the revenge-obsessed Stone hires Sylvester Stallon (The Specialist, a term for his bomb-making talents) to kill all the people responsible for her parents' murder years earlier.The villains are over-the-top, to say the least. One almost has to laugh out loud at one of them James Woods. Few people in his era (70s and 80s mainly) were better at playing despicable villains than Woods, and in this film he plays that role to the hilt. He also rattles off the best line in the movie when he tells some tourist to get a new shirt, too.The other villains are played by Eric Roberts and Rod Steiger. Roberts is nasty and arrogant all the way and Steiger - as he has so often since the 1970s - appears cartoonish in his over-acting.The film moves quickly which means it's very entertaining and some of the bombing scenes are quite memorable, such as a chunk of a condo building falling into the ocean.Even though the villains are really nasty, there are no good guys here, either. Everyone is seriously flawed, as is the message of the film. I guess this is one of those guilty pleasure movies they talk about, because I still enjoy watching it every five or so years. "},{"Title":"Hardly Stallone's worst, but it's not worth mentioning.","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"33 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  * 1/2 out of ****Arguably Sylvester Stallone's last box office hit (unless you count Cop Land), The Specialist is not the typical Stallone testosterone fest.  In fact, it remains a fairly atmospheric thriller revolving around obsession and revenge.  But it's not as interesting as it may sound, thanks to the generally lackluster script and mostly unlikeable characters. Stallone plays Ray Quick, an ex-bomb specialist who works for hire.  After the movie's requisite prologue, he's in Miami working for May Munro (Sharon Stone), who wants him to kill three mobsters, especially the head mobster's son, Tomas (Eric Roberts), because they murdered her parents when she was a little girl.  Quick contacts her only by phone, they are to never meet, but he's admittedly intrigued by her and vice versa.  However, she's actually working for Ned Trent (James Woods), Quick's former colleague who's out for revenge.Action fans expecting bombastic and over-the-top action sequences should steer clear, this movie will be too sluggish for them.  The Specialist has no desire to function as a typical Stallone actioner.  There are no large-scale gun battles, fisticuffs, or car chases.  In fact, I gather Stallone received the role purely on the basis of his box office clout (and perhaps also his ability to brood and act generally depressed fairly well).   So what is The Specialist, then?  Is it a thriller?  Yeah, sort of, there are a few suspenseful moments, mostly pertaining to Stallone using his bombs to knock off the mobsters.  Surprisingly enough, the twist of having the hero kill the bad guys with explosives (Speed and Blown away came out the same year) works well enough, mostly because the villains' impending doom bears a certain inevitability that plays to the movie's advantage. But there's little else about the movie worth recommending.  The story doesn't make much sense; as soon as it's revealed Roberts' murdered Stone's parents when she was a child, I scratched my head in confusion.  He couldn't possibly be more than a year or two older than Stone, meaning he committed the murders when he was about, what, ten or eleven?  More likely, it appears the filmmakers are trying to pass off Stone as a twenty-year old bombshell.  Sure, Stone looks great (and I do mean great) in this film, but she can't even pass for thirty.The romance is unsurprisingly perfunctory and generic.  As soon as the hero and heroine meet, they almost immediately tear their clothes off and go at it.  This is neither romantic nor sexy, even with the undeniably hot Sharon Stone as part of this tryst.  I've always kind of liked Stallone, subpar an actor as he may be.  He's always had a fairly commandable screen presence, though he has yet to translate that to genuine charisma (which is what puts him considerably behind that other big lug, Arnold Scwarzenegger). Neither suspenseful nor exciting enough to recommend, The Specialist is of little interest to anyone except for Stallone and Stone fans (and maybe James Wood fans, who will either delight or wince at his maniacally over-the-top performance).  I'm still waiting for Stallone to revive his career with a big-budget action blockbuster, but I don't see it happening.  Hey, I'm one of the few guys out there who actually liked D-Tox, so I wouldn't necessarily say his career has gone down the drain. "},{"Title":"Interesting Stallone-Woods-Stone Action Drama","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Specialist may not be great cinema, but it does offer some good bang-bang explosives action and also some interesting characters. Sly Stallone is a former CIA-attached Army explosives expert, Raymond Quick, skilled at focus detonations that blow up certain areas while leaving surrounding areas unharmed.  In 1984 he and his partner, Ned Trent, must blow up a bridge frequented by a Columbian drug lord, but a civilian bus enters as the explosives are set to go off.  When Trent callously goes through with the mission, Ray disarms the bombs, then beats up Trent before having him discharged from the Agency.Ten years later Trent now works as security chief for a Miami mafia chief who years earlier had a former underling named Munro killed - in front of the man's daughter, May.  May Munro now wants her parents' killers blown up, and she wants Ray Quick for the job.  Ray is initially reluctant, believing it to be a setup, but eventually accepts, and starts blowing up the three thugs responsible one by one.  But it is a setup - May Munro is in reality working for Trent, who is using her very real desire for revenge to smoke out Ray.  Quick, though, is too smart for Trent's traps - until Ray and May's passion heats up ad Trent gets the break he needs to finish off the both of them.The film's highlights are James Woods' over-the-top performance, the explosion scenes, and also John Barry's haunting score, fleshed out by Gloria Estefan's garish cover of Vicki Sue Robison's 1970s disco classic Turn The Beat Around.  "},{"Title":"Perfect Entertainment","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is, apart from the film music, as a whole a must-see for action movie lovers with erotic scenes, built in smoothly. The double role of May makes the movie richer there IS a plot possible in these kind of movies!. Action abound and well distributed over the time. Eric Roberts and James Woods play their roles at the same high level as Sylvester Stallone and Sharon Stone.I see originality, in the sense of action the highly developed explosive devices-do hey really exist?CIA will know.. A flaw ,which i do not understand up to now, is that the getaway boat from M&M seafood seemed to be so readily available. The goofy trick with the telephone in the Fontainebleu Hptel as well, but those are not disturbing details. The movie has a steady pace and ends with the Miami Sound Machine!. Best scene is of course , the intimate scene in the hotel. Superb entertainment! A 9. Will see it again. "},{"Title":"A terrible 'action' film that is more accidentally humorous than seriously suspenseful.","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Although Stallone was already a big budget Hollywood star with many a title under his belt with Sharon Stone who also had a few films (most noticeably 'Basic Instinct') going for her and James Woods, again, with some reasonably successful outings (most notably in my opinion a 'Simpsons' episode), 'The Specialist' fails to live up to its talent hype and attempt as a film noir come action film.What struck me upon looking this film up after seeing it was the director. He'd had hardly any experience previous to this film and thinking back to the film itself; it's no wonder it really turned out the way it did. A big budget and a big cast with a screenplay that wasn't terrible probably demanded a bigger and better director. I could kick around a few names like 'John Woo' but I won't get too into that.Fatally, The Specialist doesn't do right what it's supposed to do right. The camera work is bad (I actually spotted one instance of camera shake in this film), the fight scenes are poorly choreographed and badly executed, the dialogue is a bit iffy at best and is rather clichéd at times and the stereotypes of Colombian drug lords are laughable. With the action scenes, the extras just sit up waiting to be hit and are poorly put together in a way that you can see Stallone's next move as he wins the punch-up from a beaten position. The dialogue put across via the recorded phone messages feels forced and they snap back at one another too quickly. The character played by Rod Stieger is a little too stereotypical and his pronunciation of the word 'you' like 'jew' can only be taken seriously for so long before a serious scene involving intense dialogue is broken up by a smirk here and there.What makes the film also rather cheesy is the editing at some points. Early on in the film, a character threatens Stallone at knife point and asks him a question. Cut to a reaction shot of a silent Stallone and immediately, the character asks the question again &#150; not even giving Stallone the time it takes to blink to reply. This was very noticeable and good editing, as they say, is un-noticeable. One other incident is where Stallone sneaks up on a pistol wielding guard during a hotel evacuation and knocks him out from behind in the lobby area. We keep on the same camera and pan as he runs away. From this, we see that for the entire time, people (extras) have been running right past, merely feet from the assault and don't even batter an eyelid at what just happened as Stallone runs off in the OPPOSITE direction.Every action film has its effects and this films' was poor. The blatant blue screen effect of the water getting closer and closer via the window as the suite breaks off the side of the hotel and falls to the sea as a guy waves frantically at the camera crashing towards him without trying to get away really brought out a long shake of the head from me. The fact when one of the bombs went off in the room, one guy fell down before the other was also laughable. These are the action scenes of the film and should be suspenseful and nerve-wracking &#150; not humorous, instead.If you're looking for a decent Stallone action-based film from the mid-nineties, avoid this and see 'Assassins' instead. That film's particularly large cast rivals this one and the direction and script are a lot better. "},{"Title":"Some more support","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"20 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I'm not really a Sly-fan I found this movie highly entertaining and it made me laugh quite a lot. I totally agree with the comment of bensonl who, in my opinion understands the value of entertainment. Right you are, mate! I think it's silly to look for a good plot (is there one?) in an action flick like this. Anyway, who cares? If you're in for a plot go see 'Usual Suspects', I'd say.By the way, if you're being led by all the negative comments, you'll miss the chance of (yet again) seeing Sharon without clothes.....mmmm!     8 out of 10 to push up the score. "},{"Title":"Support for the The Specialist","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  An entertaining film.  The 30% of people who voted 1, 2, or 3 have no sense of what entertainment is! I guess they think the Postman or the English Patient are better films!  But they have to be the most boring ever! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, contrary to what's mostly said","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sylvester Stallone is without doubt still in shape, and if you have previously enjoyed watching him on screen, you will surely like him on this movie. Sharon Stone is also a good choice to play the girl, since her and Stallone have good chemistry on the film. The mutual attraction on both characters is divinely shown by the two actors. Although a lot of people didn't seem to enjoy this film, or even think of it as acceptable this movie is actually quite amusing. It is mostly to divert yourself for a while, so don't expect a big film with deep dialogues. But if what you're looking for is to have a good time without having to think too much, this is what you want, since it is indeed an agreeable way to entertain yourself. "},{"Title":"James Woods Just wind him up and watch him go!","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As others have mentioned, James Woods is the only really entertaining asset this film has. Even a good dosage of Sharon Stone in the nude cannot elevate this film above the level of crappola.The plot isn't worth commenting on. You just have a vengeful woman (Stone) hiring Sly Stallone to blow up a crime family who killed her parents when she was a child. By the way, does anyone else find it totally ridiculous that Stone's character is a child when her parents are killed by Eric Roberts & co., but now she's supposed to be all grown up and he still looks the same? Totally laughable.Anyway, just watch James Woods do what he does best. He goes way over the top with his portrayal of a former colleague of Stallone (in the CIA I think) now trying to help mob boss Rod Steiger hunt him down. Woods easily steals every scene he's in. He looks like he's having a blast with the corny dialogue.My favorite sceneWoods and some hit men are on their way up to Sly's hotel room to waste him. About four of them jump on an elevator, and just before the door is about to close, a couple of senior citizens try to get on with them. The man is wearing a god-awful brightly colored shirt, and woods not only tells him and his wife to get lost, but also insults him about his shirt! You can just tell Woods ad-libbed the line about the shirt just as the doors were closing on the old couple. Truly hilarious!The rest of the film besides Woods is terrible. Stallone never knew how to say no to a bad film, and that is why his career has bottomed out. Stone bounced back with a big role in Casino the following year. Woods is also in that one, and once again, he steals every scene. At least Casino was good, though!The Specialist is worth about 4 of 10 stars.So sayeth the Hound.  "},{"Title":"Don't listen to anybody else","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"30 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know, if you read some of the other comments people have posted, they say that The Specialist is just a lame action movie.  Well, they're wrong.  IT WAS A GREAT ACTION MOVIE.  But then again, what else would you expect from Sylvester Stallone, the most entertaining actor in history.  Sly stars as an ex-CIA agent who is hired by a mysterious women (Sharon Stone)to blow up the men who murdered her parents.  The explosions are awesome, and the fight scenes are great too.  Sly and Sharon both give great performances, and so does James Woods.  Woods plays a phsychotic hired gun with a personel vendetta against Sly.  All in all, The Specialist was a very entertaining movie.  But don't take my word for it, go see it for yourself.  Trust me, you won't be disappionted. "}{"Title":"Stallone + Stone = Fireworks!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This seems like a film tailor-made so Sly & Sharon can 'strut their stuff' in the coupling dept. Sharon vamps, Sly warbles thru his lines. Yea, he's got a deep & sexy voice but you can only pick up on what he's saying to her on the phone if you got close-caption on your set! Anyway, they both look VERY fine in this film. James Woods is the pest you'll love to hate being the back-stabber that he is. Slime is the only word to use for Eric Roberts role & Rod Steiger's Hispanic accent is fun! See the edited version of this one. It's got a slick color to it that's quite appealing being that it was shot in Miami where everything's bright pink & green. "},{"Title":"If not for James Woods, this movie about bombs would have BEEN a bomb!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Let's face it, Sly Stallone can never be a romantic actor, no matter how hard the poor guy tries. He attempted to be suave and sophisticated in this movie, THE SPECIALIST, but alas, thanks to his rough andtumble, RAMBO image, Sly fails. Maybe it's just his performance here, or perhaps by the others, especially Sharon Stone, Eric Roberts, and Rod Steiger (Oh God, he was a riot in this movie!). The actors mentioned probably gave their murkiest, most career-ruining roles of their lives, and for what?? The only reason why I found this movie interesting are the action sequences, and my favorite actor of all time, James Woods. Why he decided to be in a cheap flick like THE SPECIALIST is beyond me, but Woods manages to shine as the sleazeball thug who wants Sly's character's head on a platter. Apparently, Woods was the only enthusiastic thespian that walked in this movie's set; about everyone else looked bored. The same goes mostly for the viewer. "},{"Title":"Mediocre revenge thriller made watchable by Woods's performance and John Barry's score","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The best thing about The Specialist is the performance of James Woods, who really sinks his teeth into his villainous role and is enormously entertaining. What he also does that is good is making his material more interesting than it deserved to be, much has been said about the scene with the shirt and for good reason. Eric Roberts is pretty good also, he doesn't have anywhere near as much to do and his character is rather one-note but somehow Roberts does bring some intensity and menace whenever he appears. The scenery is lovely too, the sex scene was appropriately steamy and John Barry's score is the other of the two assets most worth noting about The Specialist. Barry was one of the all-time great film composers and I have yet to hear a bad score from him, and the music for The Specialist has his typical lushness, beautiful harmonic writing and moodiness, these things may seem out of place for a film such as this but actually it works. Unfortunately very little else works. Sylvester Stallone is not the best of actors but as an action star he showed great charisma. Here he is very wooden and mumbles his way through his lines. Sharon Stone also flounders, Stone has shown she can be good(she is brilliant in Casino) but she does look awkward and there is the sense that her heart wasn't really in it, which makes her character's predicament difficult to engage with. Regarding the chemistry between them too, the only time where it works is in the sex scene, everywhere else you'll struggle to find any kind of passion. Coming off worst was Rod Steiger, giving a performance so embarrassingly over-the-top it was like watching a cartoon, which was completely out of kilter with the rest of the film. The characters have no real depth and personality, the most colourful character was James Woods's and his performance itself has a lot to do with it. The dialogue has its moments, all of which with Woods again, but on the most part it's very weak, often lacking sense and flow and often aimless with far too much talk. Story-wise, the lack of originality concept-wise can be forgiven(revenge thrillers often have that but it's not always a bad thing) but for it to be plodding, laughably implausible and at times incoherent is less forgivable, as well as parts being so predictable any suspense and tension is severely diluted and having parts that have little to no relevance. Other than revenge, you don't have a clear idea as to what the heroine's motivations are. The action sequences lack any kind of momentum or excitement and just looks so awkwardly staged and passionless, a few are so ridiculous that it brings unintentional laughter. The direction is flat and with the vibe that he didn't know how to direct a thriller, and visually only the scenery really impresses, some of the colours are nice but others are garish and the film in terms of photography and editing does often look like direct-to-video quality. Overall, Woods, the shirt scene and the score are great, Roberts, the sex scene and scenery are good but the script, story, leads and Steiger are just bad and the film on the whole is mediocre. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"This explosive action drama is a dud.","Date":"11 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm surprised that The Specialist was a box office hit, despite all the negative reviews. The Specialist is a movie to forget for all the cast involved, particularly Sylvester Stallone, Sharon Stone, James Woods, and Eric Roberts.Sylvester Stallone is former CIA bomb expert Ray Quick (a laughable name for a character) troubled by a past mission from 1984 which involved the bombing of a South American drug dealer. In the bomb blast a young girl is killed, but his partner Ned Trent (James Woods the only film's saving grace as the villain) is determined to see the mission through. Following a violent confrontation between Ray and Ned, Ray vows to end Ned Trent's career in the CIA. Ray makes good on his promise to have Ned dismissed from the CIA, and Ray later resigns and disappears.Fast forward to Miami 1994, where a mysterious woman named May Munro (Sharon Stone) hires Ray who is now a explosives hit man to kill Tomas Leon (Eric Roberts), his father Joe Leon (Rod Steiger) and other members who murdered her parents years ago. Ray reluctantly agrees but finds himself attracted to May. After Ray kills one member of the Leon family, Ned Trent resurfaces to help Tomas Leon in tracking down his former CIA partner Ray.The Specialist is one of Sylvester Stallone's disappointing movies. He is very wooden in this movie. Sharon Stone seems to be replicating her past roles from Total Recall (1990), Basic Instinct (1992), and Sliver (1993) as the mysterious but sexually charged woman but here she wasn't anything special. James Woods was the movie's only saving grace as the unhinged ex-CIA bomb expert looking to seek revenge on Ray. James Woods' Ned Trent oozes nastiness at every turn, aggressively threatening people at gunpoint and being extremely rude and abrasive. Eric Roberts did a decent job as the creepy mafia thug Tomas Leon.Considering this movie was a box office hit, I ignored the negative reviews and still decided to give The Specialist a go. The reviews were spot on, this movie was a dud. Save for a few good scenes here and there, this movie was nothing special.4/10. "},{"Title":"Looking to write off 2 hours? Give this a shot.","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With a few tweaks, THE SPECIALIST could've been a jewel in the so bad it's good category. But in this sullen and sweaty snoozefest, it's James Woods who walks off with the whole thing. He seemed to know what kind of trainwreck he signed up for because it's a shamelessly unhinged performance. He's letting it all hang out, gnashing up the scenery. It's really out of place in (I'm guessing what was supposed to be) a sultry noir flick, but he makes the whole morose thing (almost) watchable. What's hard to fathom is how they set a movie in Miami, feature a toned and nude Stallone and Stone, and came up with a spectacularly unsexy affair.It's not offensively bad, just kind of a waste.4/10 "},{"Title":"The Steamy Shower Sex Scene Makes Up For Everything","Date":"23 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I could have given this movie a rating of 1 as it remains an action film that an action star like Sylvester Stallone does in his career.But the presence of the beauteous and sexy Sharon Stone and their shower sex scene makes up for everything.The Specialist is action film that features Sylvester Stallone, Sharon Stone, James Woods, Eric Roberts, and Rod Steiger.It is directed by Luis Llosa.Aside from that,it also presents a Latin pop soundtrack features Gloria Estefan's hit Turn the Beat Around.This over-the-top star vehicle for box office draws Sylvester Stallone and Sharon Stone.The story of the movie has Stallone stars as Ray Quick, a former CIA bomb expert now retired in Miami after an operation against a South American drug lord went horribly wrong, resulting in the death of a child. Ray is coaxed out of retirement by May Munro,played by Stone, to help her get revenge on the powerful organized crime family -- headed up by Joe Leon (Rod Steiger) and his son Tomas (Eric Roberts) -- that killed her parents years before. In the meantime, Ray's former partner Ned Trent (James Woods) is on the Leon family payroll and is seeking his own kind of revenge on Ray. As Ray executes Leon's soldiers one by one, his attraction to May boils over into a steamy encounter in the shower - which the primary reason why one may view the movie, a prelude to an explosive finale. The movie was very bad except for the steamy shower sex scene between Stallone and Stone.Although the director wisely kept his camera focused on his buff, semi-clad stars and the film's spectacular effects, the somewhat silly and incoherent story.As for the performances,I think that Stallone still has difficulty speaking his lines as though he was still playing Rocky while Stone is stuck with her Catherine Tramell-like portrayal.Finally,this is movie is good for people who love action films regardless of the plot. "},{"Title":"No crabs were harmed in the filming of this movie!","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I had the pleasure of catching the last hour of this one on the late-night cable at the airport hotel. I sort of enjoyed it, but then, it had no competition and I wasn't ready to fall asleep yet. While playing spin-the-dial, I found a natty James Woods emotionally torturing a comatose Sharon Stone, and I thought Well, at least there'll be something interesting to watch until that wedding party finishes up downstairs.I won't say I enjoyed it completely, but these were probably the best circumstances under which to watch it. Also, I missed the first hour, so part of my brain was able to work at reconstructing the plot while I watched the eye-candy. I agree with the reviewer who said that it looked terrific; Miami was beautiful and the colors were sparkling clear.What I enjoyed-- (**POSSIBLE SPOILERS, BUT DOES IT REALLY MATTER?**)James Woods, of course. I only managed to see Eric Roberts for about five minutes before he had that fatal cup of coffee, but I liked him in their final confrontation scene. Then, when James lost it on the phone with Sly, I think he earned his paycheck in ten minutes of screen time. Too bad about that innocent phone...The sex-in-the-shower scene. Sly looked (and acted) like a Classical Greek sculpture. I don't even remember what Sharon Stone looked like naked, but then, to be fair, she was covered up a lot of the time. I do remember that Sly had better breasts. Not surprising that he has a porn background. One question does the shower drain leave a permanent mark?Finally, I loved the small touches of humor, and there were a few. I especially enjoyed the scene when Sly blew the Crab Shack and it began raining live crustaceans. You just don't see that often enough in today's films...So, two out of ten, with an extra point for being there when I needed it.  "},{"Title":"special kind of comedy","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1984 Bogotá, Columbia, CIA operatives Ray Quick (Sylvester Stallone) and Ned Trent (James Woods) plan to blow up a bridge to take out a drug lord. Ray notices a girl in the car at the last minute but Ned blows up the car anyways. Ray leaves in anger. Today, Ray is in Miami as a contract hit-man who uses specialized explosives to minimize innocent losses using a messaging board to find clients. May Munro (Sharon Stone) wants to kill three men who murdered her family when she was a child. May infiltrates the mob by dating the drug-lord Joe Leon (Rod Steiger)'s son Tomas (Eric Roberts). Ned Trent is now a security expert working for Joe Leon and made a consultant to the police.This is so over-the-top and overwrought. It almost works as a comedy. Woods is working so hard to be a cartoon character. Sly is deliberately intense and Sharon Stone is soaking in sex. There is a lot of sexual posing. Eric Roberts is sleazy and even Rod Steiger reaches back to go over the top. The plot is tortured and so is everything else. It could have been fun except it takes the story so seriously. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and over-dramatic, The Specialist is a tremendously dull thriller","Date":"9 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After the failure that was Rocky V, Sylvester Stallone was officially off the A-list and tried his hand at comedy. But it was a failure for him, being reduced to an atrocious movie with Estelle Getty as well as a movie that is named after the most coveted prize in acting Oscar. Cliffhanger got him back into the game, though only for a brief shining moment. It pretty much all ended with Judge Dredd and Daylight, both substantial failures in many aspects. But I believe that it was The Specialist that sort of started the downfall for Stallone after a successful year in 1993. While it technically counts as a hit, so many things go wrong in it.Departing from over the top solo efforts, The Specialist tries to steer Stallone in a different direction in this slightly erotic but mostly derivative revenge thriller. Twists and mayhem ensue, yet it never quite does much for us to be honest. 10 years after a bombing that gets him kicked out of the CIA, Bomb expert Ray Quick (Stallone) is in Miami waiting for his next targets on the orders of May Munro (Sharon Stone), who wants revenge on the men that killed her parents when she was a child. The men are made up of the Leon family in Joe (Rod Steiger) and Tomas (Eric Roberts), both who are vicious and cold blooded to May.Old friend turned enemy Ned Trent (James Woods) overlooks the situation, though he knows that Ray can kill just about anybody without really trying. While killing some associates of the Leons, Ray gets a little too close for comfort for May and soon becomes personally attached to her past. Despite accomplishing the necessary killings, it isn't quite over for Ray and May, who still have to deal with Ned before they can get away. Plus, one of them is not telling the truth to the other, so it will be a matter of who gets who in the end.The Specialist hardly represents the worst of Stallone, but it's closer to the bottom than the top to be honest. An unusual film even for Stallone, The Specialist is darker and more subdued for the typical Stallone film. Sadly, that's where the film loses us in trying to rebuild Stallone's image despite him retaining muscles for a role that definitely didn't need it other than one erotic but hopelessly pointless scene. Moody but cheesy, The Specialist tries hard to be a throwback revenge film but ends up getting tangled into too many webs and doesn't deliver the necessary thrills.Surprisingly based on a series of novels, I'd have to imagine that the novels at least seem more interesting than this joyless action picture. For what the film tries to be in a dramatic thriller, the end result makes it cheesy and depressingly routine for Stallone. The script mostly plays like a series of puzzles that never seem to make sense, though the film tries hard to fit them. The only enjoyment you'll get is the many ways that Stallone kills his targets, which sadly provide only some pleasure when they pop up. Without those bits of overkill, The Specialist is an empty spectacle full of fireworks but no thrills.The screenplay wants us to buy into the various twists and turns, but eventually they'll leave your head either shaking or sleepy, though it wouldn't matter because the script runs out of ideas halfway through. When the movie goes through its targets, it's as if The Specialist seemed to stall and just wanted to end with even more fireworks than shown before. Eventually, it gets tedious to get to a finale that sadly is as big of a letdown as seeing James Woods and Rod Steiger being conned into a film made for Stallone and Stone. Woods does his best to inject the movie with life, but even his hammy performance can't cover his lack of enthusiasm for the role.Woods chews the scenery and rarely gives it back &#x96; that is until Stallone comes into the picture. His lack of conviction hurts his role greatly, giving us a character that looks good on paper but often seems underwhelming and lackluster. Stallone distances himself from being a macho action hero in The Specialist, yet the look on his face makes you think otherwise. He gives us enough mystery to give us an occasionally interesting character, but even he can't hide his muscles from becoming a distraction. The lack of background story on him makes us even less interested, not to mention that Stallone isn't what he used to be.Stone fits the manipulative woman well, but that's a role she's been known for her whole career. She certainly has the body and looks, but she doesn't have the brains to pull off a part that Kathleen Turner did well in Body Heat. While her intentions are modest, it's the plan in action that makes Stone's character less than believable. Steiger is more hammy than Woods here, yet he seems less interesting because he becomes irrelevant in the long run. Roberts either seems too old or too beat up to pull off the beautiful tough guy, lacking any sense of morality and becomes a distraction for The Specialist.Some of the action pieces can be fun, but since they aren't the focus of The Specialist, they seem less than stimulating to be honest. A few exhilarating moments are negated by bad twists, dull characters and an atmosphere that's more tacky than mysterious. I suppose setting the film in Miami had something to with it, for it seems that the cast had more fun off the set than on it. Barry's music is better fit for a romantic drama, not something as mysterious or dull as The Specialist amounts to be. The Specialist gives a few cheap thrills, but it simply never does much for its characters or atmosphere.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"James Wood is outstanding","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Full of entertainment. Nicely paced with minimum of dialogues and full of action. The muscles of Sly and beauty of Stone work well. But for me James Wood is simply superb and somewhat stole the show with witty performance.Sly is as usual as is Sharon Stone, however Eric Roberts did justice to his role. Plot was almost non existent but you don't need it in such a fast movie. And yes, don't miss the opening shot of Sly and Wood. It is vary goodThe fight scene in the bus with Sly saying I hate knives was a good piece of direction. Don't miss it just sit back and enjoy. You might want to see it one more time, maybe. "}{"Title":"Sassy, high-octane melt-in-the-mouth thriller. Plenty of big bangs but little sizzle.","Date":"23 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While it's a passive thriller, `The Specialist' is a bit unsatisfying. The plot is rather implausible and in retrospect, it's basically a series of explosions following in a hopelessly episodic tone (boom, bang, boom). Despite the lack of genuine sophistication, it has an engaging easy-on-the-eye appeal to it that making it reasonably enjoyable. Even so, there's a pretty cover but little substance. While some scenes are quite clever others have that `Hollywood-ish' quality to them that doesn't make them all that believable. But then again, movies are a form of escaping from the real world- right. The glamorous cast is a pleasant diversion with a series of decent (if un-remarkable) performances. Sylvester Stallone acts in `Rocky' mode for the most part. Fairly one-dimensional but this is a role he does well. She lets her nudity do the acting for the most part, but Sharon Stone is always great as a `femme fatale'. James Woods gets the best lines and shows the most charisma in his part. Eric Roberts doesn't do much with his role, nor does Rod Steiger with an unconvincing German accent. The movie gets plenty of erotic sass from some scenes that seem soft-core porn scenes that seem pointless but are well executed. While it works well as a mindless action flick, it would have been better had it had a touch of old fashioned gloss.  It's an adequate example of it's sort- the big budget summer blockbuster, but there's nothing particularly remarkable about `The Specialist'. It's good if you're into that sort of thing so I would rate it as being average. My IMDb rating 5.3/10.  "},{"Title":"LEAVE THE MOVIE ALONE, IT'S NOT THAT BAD.","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I for one thought that this is an effective action movie that was really entertaining. I don't know what people's problem is that they have to dump on this movie so bad. It was good. -*** stars! "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've seen - and I've seen thousands!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful actors, wonderful Miami, excellent music (the CD is a must!), absolutely stunning wardrobe for Sharon Stone designed by Judianna Makowski and a different type of action (more suggestive if you like). I can see this film over and over again.  "},{"Title":"Very good revenge thriller with several good twists","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that even though this films rating is 4.7 I found it very good and enjoyable. The cast is excellent and includes Stallone, Stone, Steiger, Woods and Roberts, who all give decent performances. Stallone and Stone are both great as the leads, and I reckon this is certainly one of Stallone's better films compared to the ones he's been in recently. You get to get away from the action side of him and see more of his personality and emotions which is good, as we usually see as  the action hero. Steiger and Roberts are both decent as the supporting villains but stealing the honours from the rest of the cast is James Woods who gives a quite outstanding performance as the key villain. This film has several great scenes including some great explosions and a very good sex scene.I thoroughly enjoyed this and would recommend it to people who like thrillers. 9/10 Check it out "},{"Title":"Where do I start?","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, let's see. Just off the top of my head, here are some of the features of this turkey. Sly Stallone mumbles so badly that only about 5% of his dialogue is intelligible (though this is probably a plus, given the quality of the writing).Sharon Stone is nice to look at but her acting starts off bad and gets worse in a hurry. Her character is so unlikeable I cheered up when Woods slapped her around. Rod Steiger's accent, which I believe is supposed to be Cuban because he pronounces you as chew a la Scarface, comes and goes. James Woods plays a parody of himself (this was actually the most entertaining thing about the movie). They show Sly working out, and all he does are ballet-like stretches to show off his bod, and it was not a pretty sight. He is so over-pumped that there are alarmingly bulging veins on every inch of his body visible. Stone and Stallone (has a nice ring to it, huh?) have no chemistry--during their big sex scene, they look extremely bored instead of aroused, as if they are about to doze off but the only thing keeping them awake is to make sure their buff bodies are displayed carefully so they look their best on camera.  Continuity is terrible-Sly's character adopts a fluffy grey kitty, which I guess is supposed to make him sensitive (I was just worried he'd crush it accidentally) but in a scene towards the end, the cat is dark brown. I give a grudging point towards the kitty not being killed by the Columbians or Woods--the one thing that I didn't see coming, because every time Sly came home looking for his cat I expected him to find it nailed to the wall or something equally hideous. Woods does have a great scene (a couple, really) where he does a little trick with a pen and some plastique to frighten his office staff. I also laughed at the way he'd constantly be yelling Shut up! to characters who hadn't even said anything yet.The movie is, I have to admit, one of those that is so bad, it would qualify as one of those 'love to hate it' movies that you sit around with your friends with to watch and make fun of. Worth renting if 1. you are a Woods fan and find him entertaining in any movie no matter how terrible it is or 2. you have a free rental coming at the video store (or both of the above, like me). If you can't stand all three of the principal stars, skip it by all means. "},{"Title":"James Woods Steals The Show","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to 1994's The Specialist.Plot In A Paragraph Sylvester Stallone is Ray Quick, a freelance bomb expert who lives off the grid. (Don't worry he is a good guy underneath, it is Stallone after all, he won't kill innocent people, takes in stray cats and gives up his seat to pregnant women on buses) May Munro (Sharon Stone) contacts him and wants him to kill the three men who killed her family years ago, who work for the Leon crime family, headed by Joe (Rod Steiger) and his son Tomas (a fun Eric Roberts) Their head of security Ned (A brilliant scene stealing turn by James Woods) Just happens to be Ray's former partner.Ray Quick has to be the blandest and dullest character had played at this point. I'm not sure if he was bored in the role, but he sleep walks his way through the movie. Like with 'Cobra' we get shots of Sly looking mean and moody behind his shades, or intense and moody as he works on a bomb. Lots of posing as he listens to Stones voice over and over as he stalks her. Lots of posing not much actual acting. Sharon Stone does, what Sharon Stone did at that point of her career, look good and take her clothes off. Eric Roberts (how did this man not have a bigger career?? I'd much rather watch him on screen than his sister) is a lot of fun, and actually under used. Steiger is surprisingly under whelming, which is a shame. But it's James Woods who this movie belongs too!! He is simply fantastic, and the movie is s lot poorer when he is not on screen. So once again, for the second movie in a row, Stallone is completely overshadowed by his costar. Like Wesley Snipes in 'Demolition Man', James Woods not only steals every scene he is in, he walks away with the full movie!! You could argue three with John Lithgow in CliffhangerAs with Nighthawks and Demolition Man, Stallone had scenes cut featuring the villain (This time Woods) and more shot with himself (the scene with the thugs on the bus, and the one where Roberts threatens Sly with a knife) at the last minute. It made no difference, Woods still stole the movie. Despite a relatively short running time, it actually feels a lot longer than it is. An interesting note on this is David Fincher was set to direct this at one stage. Stallone liked Fincher, and wanted him, but he was overruled by the producers, because of the failure of Alien 3. Instead they went with Luis Llosa, who had directed the straight to video 'Fire On The Amazon' with a Sandra Bullock and Sniper with Tom Berenger in 1993. Whilst Llosa's career went nowhere (he only directed 2 more movies after this) whilst Fincher made the mega hit Se7en a year later. "},{"Title":"James D Woods","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What makes this flick for me is the performance of Woods. Convincing bad guy, great screen presence. To my surprise, no-one mentions one of his best lines (and there are many). When Woods is closing upon Stallone's hideout, using the suborned Miami cops - and the cops are falling into Stallone's booby traps, he walks towards the hideout through the smoke with the line it's so hard to get good help these days.......Beauty! He makes the film.The concrete of the apartment - exploding with Stallone's bombs - falling into the water and into the camera - good. Rod Steiger with his Latino accent - good. Stone showing her figure - OKbut I still come back to Woods as the bad guy....... "},{"Title":"not as bad as youd think","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SPOILER!! Not one of SLYS better films but still worth a watch. Although Rod Steigers awful Marlon Brando Godfather ripoff is so bad its an insult and Eric Roberts who cant act is bad.James Woods does do better as a sleaze ball and Sharon Stone is at her slutty best.What doesnt work is the romance between Sly and Stone.I just cant believe her being into him ,He is so homely .great body but ugly face. Still the movie is worth a look and the interesting way the bombs are made is a nice touch. Cool effect at the end with James Woods getting blown up and then flying into another bomb and getting blown up twice.Enjoy "},{"Title":"Rated 8; 6 1/2 for its other merits and 1 1/2 for numerous shots of Sharon Stone in short skirts showing those incomparable legs.","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story line is pretty good, if somewhat similar to many other Stallone films.  The special effects are spectacular when bombs start exploding, although there are too many shots of bomb explosions.  However, any movie featuring Sharon Stone in very short skirts displaying those imcomparable legs can't be too bad.  The Stallone/ Stone romance is pretty improbable, but the love scenes are well done. "},{"Title":"Sept. 14th, close enough to start celebrating Christmas!!!!!","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Hello IMDb, how are you? Long night huh? I hear you. Yeah, IMDb, this movie, The Specialist, I've seen it, you got a data base on it, I think we both know what we're talking about here, IMDb, a mediocre movie. We are so lucky we all live in a world where mediocrity is the most prized commodity. Numb, hollow hopes and dead-eyed dreams will forever triumph over anything vivid or vital or dared in spite of impossible odds. Hooray for Hollywood, The Great Meat Grinder, the great purveyor of homogeneous mashed paste. Yes, all of this ties into the movie, The Specialist starring Sylvester Stallone and Sharron Stone. Maybe it doesn't tie in directly. "}{"Title":"A speciality of different sorts","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Specialist is one of those underrated movies, and I'm talking from a critic's point of view. It's a super exciting flick, cause it's different from a lot of other sorts around that time, the thrilling climax almost bringing shades of the finale in The Professional. Stone, a woman controlled by a mafia family, responsible for killing her parents, enlists the help of CIA bomb specialist, Stallone to take them out one by one, Steiger saved for last. This is perfect for Stallone, playing another loner type character who's methods of assassination are dangerously impressive, Roberts demise for one. Woods who used to work alongside Stallone in the bomb disposal business had a falling out, when Woods went AWOL on a job. Woods, sacked from the agency is now working for Steiger as well as the police department recognizes the work where the scene is set for the re acquaintance of two arch rivals. Featuring some nice broads in lingerie, The Specialist is fun all the way, where it's great to Stone as a revenge driven woman, who falls for Stallone, the chemistry between em, almost void. Stallone, might as well been a mummy in that briefly erotic sex scene. The baddies are great, Roberts almost mirroring that scene in Final Analysis, when he confronts Stallone, only he isn't smiling. God knows why this film got so much flack. Director Luisa followed this up, with the blockbuster Anaconda. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is and you've got a cult classic Stallone flick","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Specialist is not a great movie. Don't mistake my 8 for this being a cinematic masterpiece. But as one of the all time great Stallone fans I found this indubitably entertaining. It has a masterful performance of a villain (James Woods), a ton of ridiculous campy one liners, an equally campy and gratuitous red light sex scene that tries to channel 9 1/2 Weeks and Stallone being...Stallone. It was ridiculously campy and perfectly entertaining. Anyone that goes into this expecting any more than what it provides went in with ridiculous expectations. It has plenty of action, a ton of explosions, an appropriately cheesy 80's-esque storyline and the first 20 minutes is Stallone doing what he does best. The scene of him on the bus busting hooligans heads so that a woman can have a bus seat...random and awesome all at once. On the surface and by all accounts it really a terrible movie but look at it from a sheer fun and cheese factor. I don't think I had ever watched it before and it was just completely entertaining.If you love Sylvester Stallone like I do then you know what to expect from him. In The Specialist he is a quiet brooding explosions expert who becomes obsessed with his latest client. Stallone grunts and says a few one liners and kills people the way we love him to do. He is good in the role and while it doesn't stretch his acting ability by any means, it was a good role for him. Sharon Stone...man is she awful. I don't recall seeing her in anything where she impressed me. She was certainly sexy in this but her melodramatic performance is laughable. The chemistry with her and Stallone is pretty good...I actually think they're one random completely gratuitous sex scene was at least almost hot. She is definitely one of the weaker points of this film but she pulls off the role just barely. James Woods might be the number one reason to watch this movie. This isn't a new role for him, in fact I felt like I'd seen him do this before but he was great at it. He plays a maniacal former CIA operative and bomb expert who is now working private security for a mobster. He is ruthless, fast talking and downright evil. He is brilliant in this role!! He is the perfect adversary for Stallone. Eric Roberts has a small role as the sleazy son of the mob boss. Roberts is good...he plays sleazy well and the best scenes are his interactions with Woods but he is mostly expendable (no pun I swear) and doesn't make a big impression. The legendary Rod Steiger is the mob boss himself. Steiger doesn't have a huge role but he has some solid scenes (again the best of which are opposite Woods) but something about him and his charisma commands attention on screen.Director Luis Llosa isn't exactly a household name. He has had some okay films under his belt including Anaconda and Sniper and has worked with some big names with those films and this one. He seems content to stay in the realm of average. I think he probably let Stallone, Woods and Stone do what they do best and let the story unfold. The story is actually very good and was actually considered one of the best scripts in circulation in Hollywood before it was made. It has lots of twists and turns and enough explosions to keep any action fan happy. Its a drama, its a romance, its a baby-blue type erotic thriller, and its an action flick. If you don't see it for what it is then you will certainly be disappointed. Nothing about it is amazing (with the exception of maybe Woods) but everything about it is entertaining. It was a good time and it thoroughly filled my Stallone quota so for that reason I am scoring it a solid 8. Might seem ridiculous to some but I am voting strictly on entertainment value and I go with my gut!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie, but not Slys best...","Date":"15 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE SPECIALISTI love cheesy action movies... especially those from the 80s and 90s. And let's face it... the royalty of action movies has to be Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone.I had seen The Specialist a long time ago, but I didn't remember much about it... apart from the most famous scene in the movie.I really enjoyed it... it was good action and also a good thriller too. This was made when Sylvester Stallone was in his prime in my opinion. He made some classic films in the 90s. One of my favourite movies of the 90s is Demolition Man.This is not one of his best movies, but it is still a very good one. In case you don't remember it, the story is about a guy who is a trained killer hired by the government who goes into retirement after an innocent person gets killed by mistake. He gets hired by a lady who saw her parents get murdered when she was a little girl, to kill the guy who killed her parents. He is the son of a mafia boss. The problem is, Stallones old boss now works for the mafia.The acting is pretty much what you would expect from a cheesy action film. It's alright but some of it is comical. Sharon Stone plays the lady that hired him and she does a great job in this. But then back in the day I liked her as an actress. She has made some great films. Eric Roberts plays the guy that Stallone is after. Eric is really good at playing a bad guy... although I think he was really good in Best of the Best. He has been is so many big movies, yet doesn't seem to get the recognition he deserves. Rod Steiger plays the mafia boss... he is funny. His accent just sounds so fake that every time he spoke I smiled. JI will give this film a 7 out of 10.I really liked it, but Stallone has made better.If you want to read more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttp//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Another underrated Stallone film/Welcone to the 90's","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sylvester Stallone's 1990's output was, and still is, over looked by the majority of movie goers and Sly fans. With the exception of Cliffhanger and Demolition Man, the vast majority of Stallone's post-80's work is forgotten and even resented by some. But The Specialist (along with Assassins & Daylight) features some of Sly's best work. Big budget films with slick scripts, lots of thrills, and great co-stars. The problem with Stallone's 90's films are that Sly isn't playing an over the top, ultra violent action hero. His characters are subdued, introspective and grounded in realism. So in return, many find themselves disappointed by his 90's work.Like Banderas in Assassins, Stallone's co-star James Woods steals the show in The Specialist. He chews the scenery up and is as electric and volatile as ever. Any time James Woods in on screen you're going to be drawn in. He's just that awesome. Another great actor in Eric Roberts pops up and does a devilishly good turn as a baddie. Sharon Stone is Sharon Stone. She gets naked, shows off her bazookas, and cries a lot. Which isn't a bad thing. The Specialist isn't one of Sly's best films, but it's entertaining and better than many reviewers would have you believe. I think Sly's 90's work just gets better with time. "},{"Title":"Stone in Miami","Date":"21 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Luis Llosa was given a Hollywood project and the outcome is not as bad as one imagines. This was the first time pairing of Stone and Stallone. Unfortunately the two do not spend much screen time together So as a result of this, the movie looses out on few marks. The viewer would watch on in anticipation however the pair meet after half the movie completes. But their first meeting does not evoke much excitement either.To me the movie was very reminiscent of Luc Besson's 'leon', due to the similar scenario. However there are differences and one should not make comparisons. Despite this the first scene set in Columbia also reminded me of a similar scene from the movie 'Scarface'. I could not help noticing these connections and I'm sure there would be many more if observed closely.What surprises me the most is that I was so indulged in watching the movie that the notes I made was limited. I found the phone conversations between the two leads very intimate and erotic. That was a high point for me. These scenes really developed more anticipation in me to looking forward to seeing them meet. It helped me to sympathise with Sharon Stone's character. But I found it difficult to relate to her experience of loosing the family as in that specific scene she was very young. I'm unable to understand as to why it took so many years for her to decide to take revenge.The plot is not groundbreaking on any standard, but Stone and James Woods presence enhances enjoyment and sustains the viewers attention. Sharon Stone entices a bomb expert to avenge her family's murder. Initially Stallone is unwilling so Stone decides to go in herself by befriending Eric Roberts, the son of mafia don 'Rod Steiger'. Eventually Stallone decides to make the move. He has three targets to kill which he accomplishes with a variety of unique bombs. However later the tables are turned when Stallone discovers that he was set up by Stone as this was a plan between her and James Woods to apprehend him. However this does not prove easy to accomplish as Stone develops feelings Stallone as the two have become close.The setting of Miami in Florida was very suited to the movie's theme. The nightlife and locales were pictured very nicely. This added to the movie's appeal. Initially it is difficult to feel interested with the plot as the plot progression is at a slow rate. This was because Stone's character development takes up much running time. However after 30 minutes the pace picks up. The explosion scenes were filmed very uniquely and the different methods used were very hilarious. It urges one to watch on in anxiousness. The background score was appropriate to the movie and the it used at the right moments. Sharon Stone is given the opportunity to wear a variety of different clothes. She has never looked beautiful. It really suited her image. In my opinion she was the correct choice for the movie. Rod Steiger gives his impersonation of Tony Montana and Eric Roberts displays his good looking body. James Woods overshadows Stallone in yet another fantastic performance. Every time he appears it is a treat to watch him. His dialogue delivery is perfect. Stallone takes a back seat and effortlessly plays it straight. His practical involvement is restricted but he never dissatisfies. "},{"Title":"A Decent Pass Time!","Date":"29 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, the movie is not a legendary movie. Yet at the same time it is not a cheap movie that has been designed to be too casual. The movie is creative yet full of times when the movie seems to be too slow and weird. The story is about two people - an explosives specialist Stallone who is hired by a beautiful Sharon Stone who is hell bent on making some people pay for their past crimes.There are some very interesting scenes showcasing some really creative ideas as to how one can plant explosives in order to get rid of your enemies. My favorite scene was where Stallone gets completely angry with a guy who blocks a seat of an old lady and teaches him a nice lesson. And there is a scene where Stallone and Stone get to be in the shower together but that is more like an example of how not to pair up someone. Perhaps a major drawback in the movie is this pairing of Stallone and Stone.Sylvester Stallone was either given an incomplete character or Stallone simply chose to play him as a silent man with no expressions. It is difficult to tell whether the role became what it was because of Stallone or was it some fault in the creative path of the director and the story writer. But this character neither inspires nor does he invoke any sympathy from the viewers. You can identify with Rocky and Rambo and be inspired by them or feel sorry for them but not this character. The character is too lifeless.But there are some really decent effects in the movie. The action may seem extravagant at times but considering this is meant to be an action film, this aspect can always be excused. In fact, sometimes it is needed for a movie to be enjoyable that something unreal should be shown. Overall, this movie is watchable for certain creative directions here and there but not a movie you would like to keep seeing again and again. "},{"Title":"Good...But Not Great","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm a big fan of action films, love the explosions, gunfire and fights!By no means is this a bad movie that you should avoid, its got a good, solid story thats easily understood, Sylvester Stallone puts in a solid performance, however this is surpassed by Wood's evil, cowardly character, pent up on revenge. Stone's performance was however the best in the movie, showing true disgust in the presence of woods, and amazing admiration when in the presence of Stallone.A few good twists, great explosions, albeit with a couple of random, unneeded fights. Introducing a cat to show the characters sensitive side was pretty bad to be honest.However this was in no means a bad film, it takes a lot to impress me and in a way, this film did. Not the best action movie ever, but definitely worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Taciturn meets Vengeful and make sweet dreams","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sylvester Stallone is the same hurt, private, taciturn, powerful character he plays in Rambo and Cliffhanger. Sharon Stone is the same gutsy, flashing-eyed grown-up woman bent on revenge that she will play in The Quick and the Dead.The plot is simple. She wants revenge but is compromised. She wins through because she has Stallone and his skills. He achieves a kind of redemption through it.it's full of implausible action.And to dismiss it as a second-rate action film is to miss a cinematic experience. It is not brash - it is mystical. The music is wistful and ever-present. The scenes are welded like a dream sequence. James Woods' over the top cop breaks it up until even he is caught in the dream.Great direction - "},{"Title":"The Wrong People Saw This Movie","Date":"19 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was an okay, but not great movie. With a little work it could have been much better. They needed less over-dramatization and cartoonishness concerning several of the characters. They needed more development of a few characters. They needed to work more inside Stallone and Wood's heads beyond simple character development -- Dennis Hopper or even Charles Bronson could have done a good job in Stallone's role.But, to get to the point of my comment title, this movie was probably pulling the wrong audience from day one -- the right one never showed up. Everyone saw Stallone's name and they wanted Rocky and Rambo, or stayed away because of Rambo, more than Rocky. They are going to be disappointed. This is not a John Wayne Shoot'em Up movie, it is more a Clint Eastwood Spaghetti Western. They are not gonna see 10+ knockout punches per round complete with slo-mo flying sweat, grimaces and groans. They are not gonna get a guy who carries more ordinance than a Hummer and can walk through a hail of lead from professional shooters and shoot them at will. "},{"Title":"A silly but entertaining film","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger is a hilarious Latino mob boss, dropping lines like Ju think I'm going to..and Ju know whaddd? James Woods here is at his over-acting best; screeching and hollering out his lines as he chases Sly's trail around Miami. And then there's Sly and Sharon Stone. She is as hot as he sounds dumb...like as in fresh from the Rocky film ring, post fight, drooling, monotone line reading, dumb. But, his character is an explosive expert who, as Stone points out, can shape his charge and, direct his explosions. Hot hot hot. If Sharon Stone weighed in at about 200 lbs, this movie would be unwatchable, but it is Sharon Stone, and the rest of the cast seem to have fun doing what they're doing, I say it's a good diversion if you have absolutely nothing to do with your time. "}{"Title":"Caliente!","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ray Quick (Sylvester Stallone) is an ex-CIA agent that is contacted by May (Sharon Stone) for a simple job. She wants him to kill the men responsible for the death of her parents, which she witnessed as a child. Quick is the specialist of explosives and uses them to his advantage. But what Quick doesn't know is that his fellow comrade (James Woods)is working for the very people that he's trying to kill. The movie turns into an explosive game of cat and mouse, with May being the possible pawn.There are lots of clever explosions through the film (A section of a hotel, a bomb in a coffee cup, centered explosions), and lots of steamy moves from Stallone and Stone (If they were ever a couple, you wouldn't have trouble combining their names. Just say Stallone!)As usual, Woods steals the show. Stallone and Stone actually have some heat and Eric Roberts and Rod Steiger are just there for the fireworks. "},{"Title":"A fast paced action movie with capable actors.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stallone and Woods are ex CIA commandos who have become opposing forces. Stone is a not so defenseless damsel in distress and you guessed it Stallone comes charging to the rescue.  This is not Gone with the Wind and if you are looking for it just keep looking. However, if you are a fan of Stallone or Stone and like fast paced action movies go down to the video store now. Stallone and Stone work really well together and they give you a great movie never slows down.  James Woods is the Champ of heavys.  No one even comes close to his talent for creating evil characters and in this movie he breaks his own record.         "},{"Title":"Would've been a good movie if...","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Believe it or not this is a good movie. I don't hate this at all. Why? It has horrific dialog, plot holes large enough so you can plow a cruise ship thorough, and not much going on in the plot department. I like this movie for its setting(so exotic, so alive, and up to date) In fact, so up to date that this is one of the first movies that had modern cellphones in them. Believe it or not the hero in this movie takes the damn bus! THE BUS!!! Sharon Stone and Slyvester Stallone make a great couple especially in sex in the hotel shower scene. Talk about chemistry. James Woods makes adds some hostility and a pulse to this melodrama with his wisecracks, outbursts, and foul-mouthed banter as the villain. But what's with the late Rod Stieger and Eric Roberts fronting as Cuban mobsters? C'mon, here. The strange thing is, they make it work. The action sequences such as the Sly kicking ass and taking names while encountering a couple of thugs on a bus and throwing one out the window, a hotel room explodes and collapses into the ocean with the bad guys still in it, and the funky way Sly sets traps for the bad guys gives this movie redemption. However, the characters in question could've been a little bolder, a little more gunplay is needed, and I have a major beef with discrepancies in the May Munro story. She looks 35, now if her parents were killed when she was a little girl, shouldn't Tomas be a tad older(he looked the same age in her flashback) The Specialist would've been a great movie if the plot was better explained and more intense. "},{"Title":"Sharon Stone in a little black dress","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've been critical of Sharon Stone in the past, not only questioning her talent but also her sex appeal.  Now that I've seen The Specialist, I must apologize to the movies' current sex symbol.  No, I haven't changed my opinion concerning her talent, but I now realize that a lack thereof does not mean Ms. Stone has nothing to offer.  To the contrary.  She has much of which to be proud, and, in The Specialist, it's all on the screen.  You see, Stone wears this short little black dress, an outfit that emphasizes her fabulous figure and even her beautiful face.  She looks terrific, which, alas, is the only reason to see The Specialist.The muddled thriller finds Stone as May Munro, a gorgeous babe whose parents were murdered by mobsters.  Now she wants revenge and hires Ray Quick, a former CIA agent played by Sylvester Stallone, whose specialty is explosives, to blow her enemies to pieces.  The culprits, mob boss Rod Steiger and his swaggering son, Eric Roberts, are not about to go quietly, and, of course, they don't, although, as expected, they do go--kaboom, that is.The explosions are pretty good, but there's nothing quite as explosive as Stone in that short black dress.  Her acting isn't bad either, but then who wouldn't look like a professional thespian when sharing the screen with the wooden Stallone and the scenery chewing James Woods.  Even Eric Roberts, an actor whose performances in Runaway Train and The Pope of Greenwich Village are tributes to ham, is subdued, and, therefore, effective.  But it is Stone who steals this show, with a little help from the costume designer.  "},{"Title":"I think they forgot to write a plot","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Truly appalling This is an action movie by numbers... but the action isn't very exciting and the plot holes just annoy. For example, when rehashing the well worn cliche of hero deals with gang on bus, the violence is totally disproportionate to what the gang has done......and these little explosive devices that magically only take out one person (even knowing which way round they hold a saucer) are frankly dullA bad plot with terrible acting and only semi-amusing stunts "},{"Title":"What a stinker","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Apart from the wooden acting, the heavy-handed direction, the vapid dialogue, farcical 'action' scenes and the incredulous plot, this movie was the worst film I've seen in a long, long time.  Given a choice between stabbing myself repeatedly with a pen and watching this movie again, I'll take the pen.   "},{"Title":"Very Good, Underrated Action Movie","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  People have been saying this is a terrible movie and it does have a few flaws in it, but its a fun, exciting action film with plenty of action for fans and good performances from the cast, especially James Woods, who is a terrific villain. I think it's worth a look and is Sly's best movie in a long time. "},{"Title":"Missed In First Release - Sell-By Date Pretty Good","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Somehow I missed this film in first release, which is so surprising because the themes are very similar to my favorite action/romance film, Tequila Sunrise, which was released six years earlier. Here we see Sly, Sharon, James and Eric at the height of their physical beauty, and the acting's not that bad either. If you are a fan of action films and appreciate that back in the 80s and 90s we used to get a little gratuitous sex along with our violence, then this film is for you. Okay, Spoiler Alert the denouement is a soft porn shower scene. I especially appreciate Sly's flank as he rolls over Sharon. supine on the shower floor. Delicious.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Move along, people","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Specialist is probably not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it is surprisingly bland for a Stallone flick. Everyone involved just seems to be sleepwalking through it, which is the last thing you want to see in an action flick. Director Luis Llosa (of Anaconda...fame?) probably can't do much better than this, but I've never seen Sly look so bored throughout a movie. Same with Eric Roberts, usually his bad guy schtick is pretty entertaining but this performance is just totally phoned in. Particularly the first half of The Specialist drags like crazy, the only thing that kept me awake there is Sharon Stone's intense hatred for bras. In the second half the movie does manage to pick up the pace, but there's no tension whatsoever because you know exactly how it will end. Everyone who watches the first ten minutes of this thing knows that the climax is going to be James Woods talking for way too long and then getting killed, so why take so damn long to get there? It's not all bad though, because in the end The Specialist shows us the most unconvicing movie kiss I've ever seen. It almost makes everything worth it. Almost. "},{"Title":"A really awful film","Date":"21 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Stallone never could act at all but he comes off pretty well in this trashily risible flick alongside a hammy and ancient-looking Rod Steiger, a truly dreadful Eric Roberts, and the King of Hammy Overacting himself James Woods. However Sharon Stone is badly miscast as May Munro. Stone was never much of an actress and she only became famous by taking all her clothes off for a very exploitative piece of garbage called Basic Instinct, when she was already in her mid-thirties. In this film she was 36, yet we are supposed to believe that as a child she witnessed her parents get killed by Eric Roberts. That is just laughable, when Stone and Roberts are clearly the same age. It would have been more believable if Woods had played the Roberts role. Eric Roberts is not even remotely believable as a mobster.It's hard to believe this movie had a cinema release. Nowadays it would just go straight to DVD.0/10. "}{"Title":"No film with a score by John Barry can be less than a 5.0","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As time passes the film becomes at the very least a postcard from the early nineties, a fidgety time for the studios, coming off an incredible 20 year Golden Era of Modern Cinema (1968- 1988) and proves again that the lens loves Sharon Stone. The biggest problem with it is pacing. It is impossible to watch without drifting off because the 'suspense' has been drawn out to the point of tedium. Too bad, there are fine actors at work here. Maybe our new action directors have spoiled us rotten, (Liman, Donner, Cameron) Putting it in the hands of Luis Llosa seemed a bit risky at the time and it seems like his biggest fault with the picture was his allowance for style in place of substance. The John Barry score elevates the film from a 4.0 to a 5.0. "},{"Title":"Subtle, high-tech, well-researched, reasonably acted","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like this movie for the scenery, the gadgets, five stars, good plot and reasonably good acting all round. People often put Sylvester Stallone down, but he played a more subtle role in this movie than the Rocky, Rambo, or Cobra - type of movies. Sharon Stone and James Woods pretty much reprised their roles in Casino, and I suspect both movies were made around the same time. Eric Roberts was OK as a spoiled little rich bad guy. Rod Steiger played a Godfather-like figure on a lesser scale but not detrimentally. The explosives scenes are well-done, the dialog is appropriate for that time period, and the gadgets are pretty advanced even by today's standards. Overall, the movie is an experiment using high-tech and star weight to compensate for less physical action. I recommend it for re-watching now and again. By the way, anybody know what type of pocket computer Stallone was using to connect with Sharon from the phone booth? I want one of those babies ) "},{"Title":"Unremarkable but enjoyable fare","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked this film.  People often criticise Sly Stallone who turns in pretty much his usual character performance - solid action with a tender heart deep down.Stallone isn't a bad actor - he might not be Olivier but for me is convincing for the roles he plays.James Woods had some dodgy lines in this, as did Sly but enjoyable hokum. Seems that efforts were made - despite this being a solid Stallone actioner - to avoid the usual fist-fights and guns.  Sharon Stone was surely hired for box office appeal (to boost the film given Sly's is fading) and she turns in a credible performance.  Perhaps any starlet could have done the job but Stone's popularity must have helped sell the film, which without her might have been another Stallone flop (which would have been undeserved).  Good film.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"19 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It certainly isn't as bad as the critics said.  The Specialist offers nothing special, but it's solid action entertainment.  The stunts are really cool, especially the hotel scene involving the room collapsing into the water.  James Woods seems to be having the time of his life as the villain, and let's face it--you can never get enough of watching him play the hot-tempered villain.  The late Rod Steiger gave a fine performance, donning a convincing Cuban accent.  I like the seductive score, and I can't get enough of Gloria Estefan's rendition of Turn the Beat Around.  The film doesn't have any surprising plot twists or turns, but I still enjoyed it and will give it a recommendation.  Come on, there's much much much worse films out there!    My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Overall, a pretty good movie","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But what was Rod Steiger up to with that accent?  I couldn't tell if he was Cuban, Irish, Yiddish, or if he had a stroke.  The scenery in this movie is beautiful, the plot was good, the explosions were cool...but when Steiger was onscreen, I cracked up! "},{"Title":"Not much on action. But more on emotion.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was'nt that bad. Anybody would call this movie a pointless action movie, really did'nt see it. If you ask me it was Sylvester Stallone's best film in years. He tried to pull of some good acting, he does okay in a few scenes. Sharon Stone is also great has a women who hires Stallone to eliminate three gangsters who murdered her parents, But Stallone is not your usually hitman, instead of a gun, he bombs his victims. They really go with a bang. James Woods is also good has Stallone's former partner turned enemy, he was really good at being bad. And for Stallone fans, if your looking for pointless action movies, look for Judge Dredd and Assassins. "},{"Title":"Not a top movie at all, but very tasty for action-fans.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many people dislike this movie, but i wonder why. OK, the story is not fantastic at all and some actors really make a mess from it. But hey, Stallone & Stone in one movie, plus a lot of action and a beautiful erotic scène, it is worth it. It's not a top movie, but if you are a Stallone-fan you will like it. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad!!!1","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone is mercenary, who is been chaced by James Woods just for saying one name. Sharon Stone is a woman who has lost her parents and wants Stallone to revenge to the killers of her mother and father. The Specialist (1994) is average basic-Hollywood, where scenes and outside are fine, but the inside is hard to find. Stone is surprisingly good, but Woods steals the show again.6 out of 10. Rod Steiger and Eric Roberts co-star very well also. Stallone wasn't so good in this movie as he was in Rocky, First Blood or CopLand. Even in Assassins he was better. "},{"Title":"Should be on a Grecian Urn","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, when movies have things blowing up, it's worth at least $1.49 at the video store.  But when you have Stallone and Stone in a shower scene it's like watching two perfectly chiseled statues.  That scene alone is worth the price of admission.  Holy cow, people--Michaelangelo would have used these folks for his paintings.If I had a body like that, I wouldn't mind having this one show as a memoir. "},{"Title":"It ain't that bad, right?","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know, I know. The Specialist is one of the most critically lambasted films of all time, and from I've heard from other IMDB users, this film makes Ishtar look like an Oscar winner!! True, Stallone was VERY miscast in this movie, and the same goes to Sharon Stone. They both seem extremely bored and tired and loathsome to others! The only great performances here is certainly to James Woods' role as the main villain. He chews up the scenery like always. He's the ultimate bad guy Stallone had to face in all his movies, next Wesley Snipes' role as Phoenix in Demolition Man. Another particular performance in this movie is Rod Steiger's role. He made me laugh really hard with his fake Cuban accent!! -- Oh boy, I hate that deep couch!! Eeeyoh!!  "}{"Title":"Amazed how bad this movie is...","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie back in 1994 or 1995 when it came out. Frankly, I did not have any memory regarding this one at all and along came the opportunity to watch it again and I got to say, this is one of the worst movie experiences I've had in a long time.First of all, the movie is the typical cliché type story with two buddies becoming enemies. Then the movie is moving so slowly, it is hard to watch. Along with the completely displaced John Barry score, the movie creators obviously tried to go for something more artistic in an action movie, but they failed miserably. However, the action is missing. Just a few predictable and unspectacular explosions. The characters are all annoying and not even the main character played by Stallone receives my sympathy. Don't watch it. It is a complete waste of time. More importantly, if you have watched it already, don't watch it again. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie. I loved it.","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm really disappointed by the negative reviews some folks have given, but they're entitled to their opinions. Personally, I really enjoyed this film. Sylvester Stallone plays a former CIA explosives expert who quits after he's teamed with a psychopathic colleague (James Woods) and innocent children get killed in an operation. Working as a freelance he's hired by Sharon Stone to avenge the murder of her parents by a drug baron (Rod Steiger) and his son (Eric Roberts). The plot thickens as he falls in love with Stone and finds himself pitted against Woods, now hired by Steiger's crime cartel. To say any more would spoil the plot. The performances by ALL actors concerned was great, and don't l;isten to anyone who says otherwise. Stallone CAN act and really conveyed the angst of someone falling hopelessly in love while knowing his emotions are going against all his instincts. I was surprised by the 'depth' he showed in this movie. Eric Roberts was excellent as the vicious & narcissistic son of a drug daron. I've always considered him to be more talented than his fantastically lucky sister (Julia). However, the real star of The Specialist has to be James Woods. He was wonderful. He's only ever been better in Salvador and Casino in my opinion and should have been Oscar-nominated. He was that good. The scene where he humiliates a police bomb squad is electrifying. Sharon Stone was good too. All in all, it's well worth watching. "},{"Title":"PRETTY BAD","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So Eric Roberts supposedly killed Sharon Stone's parents when she was a little girl. What is she now, 28, 30 or so? Eric Roberts looks like he might be 35, or maybe 38. So Eric Roberts is supposed to have done this evil deed when he was, what, 13?So Sharon Stone just HAS to get close to Roberts by seducing him and dancing with him, because it's the only way. It is? She couldn't just have him rubbed out the old conventional way? I mean, the guy walks the streets and goes to nightclubs, for crying out loud. Plenty of opportunities to kill him, wouldn't you think?I don't know, alot of hard-to-overlook inconsistencies here.The movie LOOKS great, and Eric Roberts and James Woods seem to be having a good time with their characters. Stallone just doesn't seem to pull this off too well, and Sharon Stone just overacts this to death.Not very good... "},{"Title":"A NO BRAINER","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Once again we can watch a typical Hollywood action movie, this time with a Stallone as a lead actor. Is it any better than others?NO. Well, with a few exceptions. There are some positive aspects such as acting of Eric Roberts a.k.a. Tomass and James Woods a.k.a agent Ned. They are undoubtfully the better part of the movie. O.k. not to forget Sharon, who is just to good to act in this kind of movies. And hey, i must not forget some black humor scenes, for instance a bye-bye signal and Ned remarks (...The elevator is full, and buy yourself another shirt...).And that's about it...there's too many things missing in this movie, to cope with other actions movies, and that's why this movie will soon be forgotten. I would rate this movie lower, if there wasn't pluses which i mentioned above, and that's why a low grade of4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Just not good, no matter how you look at it...","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film more times than I've bothered to count... meaning, at least twice(had you going there, didn't I? Bet you thought I had seen it hundreds of times). Yes, twice that I'm sure of. You know how I know? Because I recognized one scene. One scene. 110 minutes worth of film, and I recognized a mere five minutes or less of it. This movie is just not worth your time; I can imagine the novels are quite exciting and interesting(I dig cyberpunk; William Gibson is a genius... if you're a fan of the genre and haven't read his Cyperspace Trilogy and/or Virtual Light yet, do so, now), but the film... well, isn't. The plot is a mess, full of twists that barely make sense(and definitely don't keep your interest; rather the opposite). The pacing is dreadful. I still can't bring myself to watch more than a few minutes at a time without shifting my attention to something else. The acting is fair; Woods is solid, as always. Stone and Stallone are decent. The characters are not particularly interesting or well-developed, and the viewers don't really care much about what happens to them, or why. The action scenes are not very involving, apart from the one I mentioned, the one scene I remembered. It's a short fight taking place in a bus, and it's quite reminiscent of Arnold himself. Some cool one-liners in that scene, too. Very macho, very bad-ass. I've read that Steven Seagal was offered a chance to star(and direct, too; I guess it's true what they say, an accident never comes alone). While I doubt that this film could have been much worse, I'm still glad that didn't happen. All in all, this just isn't really worth your time... unless you're a huge fan of someone involved with making it, I suppose. I recommend this only to the biggest fans of Sylvester Stallone, Sharon Stone and/or James Woods. Everyone else should probably just skip this one. You won't be missing anything, trust me. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Say what you will this one is a guilty pleasure","Date":"18 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies I know I shouldn't like but (secretly) really do. Its a revenge thriller from the early nineties and watches like a sexy, slightly crazy mob movie with over the top bad guys, lots of (unique) explosions and one hell of a sexy shower scene after we've finished with all the foreplay over the phone.Sylvester Stallone plays Ray Quick, an ex-bomb specialist who works for hire. Ray is tortured about his past, living off the grid and riding the bus. After several breathy phone calls he agrees to take that one last job before retiring. He's been contacted by May Munro (Sharon Stone), a woman seeking revenge against the Leon crime family who murdered her parents when she was a girl. For some reason she still finds it necessary to sleep with the head mobster's son, (Eric Roberts) which in turn makes her character pretty annoying throughout, as she slinks around showing side boob, acting bitchy and looking miserable.There are a few twists, lots of big explosions, -the one with the front part of the hotel falling into the water is great and of course the scene in the shower which showcases Stallone in his prime and yeah, he looks fantastic, Stone does too.I enjoyed the entire cast; Eric Roberts is also perfect as the spoilt, privileged and brutal son of mob boss Rod Steiger who I also enjoyed and James get a better shirt Woods is awesome, manically over the top as the bad guy. His character really grew on me by the end, kinda fun in his increasingly frustrating mission to hunt Ray down. This one is definitely a guilty favourite.One question why doesn't Ray ever drive? He rides the bus even takes out some hooligans in a ultra cheesy scene. He manages to navigate a speed a boat fine. "},{"Title":"Guilty Pleasure.","Date":"1 April 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Stallone,Stone,Woods,Roberts and Steiger.This movie can't be bad.It was way better than 5.4 rating. Good story, nice characters, OK acting, and nice ending.Guilty pleasure movie.See it,you wan't regret.Stallone is pretty much ultimate badass. Anti hero with some tragic past, Stone is beautiful heroine, Roberts is absolutely creepy ,Steiger as usual. But best performance is easily from Woods.And hell yeah this is movie where Sharon Stone looks best.By far. "},{"Title":"An explosive mixture!","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Specialist is an exciting 90's action flick that shines out a bit. It's a stylish action movie, set in beautiful Miami, with lots of explosions, comprehensible twists and a pinch of erotic.Sly Stallone did his job just as well as clean-limbed actress Sharon Stone - not outstanding performances, but solid. James Woods however nailed this movie with his acting. Escpacially the scenes between him and Quick (Stallone).The special effects (if you want to call them so) are pretty good in general - with a few exceptions.If you're looking for an unchallenging late night action thriller, this movie fits just perfect. "},{"Title":"Slightly cheesy, sexy revenge thriller","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this film. It's actually one of my favourites. Sharon Stone is stunning, brilliant and brings convincing anger to the role of May Munro - the young girl who's grown up and out to avenge her parents. Stallone, whilst the big monosyllabic hero, he's got depth and personality and for my money, it's one of his best roles. Eric Roberts and James Woods make up the main cast and are both vicious and determinedly broken and dastardly. The soundtrack is amazing, I bought the CD, and it's a glamorous attractively shot film. Again Stone shines in a wardrobe to die for.The only problem with the film, is that it's a little on the improbably/cheesy and overacted side - especially Roberts and Woods... they're a bit hammy. However, I've watched it many times, and it still stands up as a good film and hasn't aged that much (except scrunchie-spotting, lots of cigarette smoking and some male fashion faux pas) and certainly is still very entertaining. It's quite dark, and with very adult themes, but there's some real heart in this film and I think the chemistry between Stone and Stallone is very sexy. Love this film, and love the passion of revenge that is portrays. "},{"Title":"An independent and a loose cannon","Date":"22 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sylvester Stallone is an explosives expert who contracts out his work after leaving the CIA when his superior James Woods callously killed some innocents on a South American job. Stallone before he left the agency got the demented Woods canned. Both are at large now, Stallone is an independent Woods just a loose cannon.Sharon Stone hires Stallone because of his precision hits with explosives, not an easy thing to do. She wants three Cuban gangsters killed as they killed her parents while she as a child watched. One of the three is Eric Roberts the son of Cuban Mafia capo Rod Steiger.Wouldn't you know it Woods is now working for Steiger and he's got his own agenda. He recognizes Stallone's signature and Steiger who has the Miami PD bought and paid for go to work assisting Woods track down Stallone. As for Stone she has her own agenda as well. But is gets nice and personal with Sly and Sharon.Stallone fans should be pleased with The Specialist. It has enough explosive charm for anyone who likes to see things go boom. As for acting honors they go to James Woods who has a knack for playing deranged and callous characters. A villain you love to hate.One might become a Stallone fan after seeing The Specialist. "}{"Title":"John Barry? WTF?","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I caught this again on AMC, and was casually watching this, still on now.The music was so Barry familiar, I knew it was John Barry, as I can usually predict the ST artist for many films, but I have to say, I thought the score matching to the scene, sucked! I mean really! I was hoping to log into IMDb and NOT see John Barry. I wonder what they paid him. Its like he put his score on auto play, took a long coffee break and let the music and movie run recording.Horrible job with soundtrack timing with visual elements.S "},{"Title":"For Sharon Stone fans only","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The scenes of sexy Sharon Stone getting around in a very short black dress are about the only redeeming feature of this awful movie. The story line is implausible - just one example the action hero gets to learn from a phone call that the bad guys are coming up the elevator, but he manages in those seconds to drill sufficient explosives in the floor and ceiling that the whole room of the apartment falls into the sea when the bad guys enter it. The director tries to compensate for the script and cardboard cut-out characters by setting off plenty of explosions; yawn. The actors do their best with the atrocious script but to no avail. "},{"Title":"Defending an underrated and misunderstood Stallone's Action Thriller!","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Specialist (1994) is the most underrated bashed hated Stallone action thriller flick from it's fans and critics! I grew up with the film and it is still one of my best favorite action Stallone films! People seriously,simply don't understand what the movie is about. It's an action thriller, revenge Flick! The film is misunderstood and it is different Stallone film than in any other action films he played. The Specialist is not a masterpiece, the greatest or the best action film, but it is solid and good. It is an Entertaining action thriller from the beginning to the end.Stallone plays an trained Ex CIA agent who kills accidentally in Bogota, Colombia a wife and a kid and the bombing goes awry. I loved it how a CIA agent went trough hell, than he leaves the business and becomes a gun for hire. I love the character Ray Quick, I even memorize Stallone's Character! He is a trained henchman an Ex Special Forces The Bomb Specialist expert and Ex CiA Agent turned mercenary for hire, I love that! In this movie Stallone doesn't use a hand gun or any machine guns trough whole film, but he uses his expatriate, high explosives and hand to hand combat to kill a mobster and corrupted cop who was once a promising CIA agent but killed an innocent people and set up Ray!Stallone's character is well done written, he has a heart. He refused to kill innocent people, women and children, when he set up the bomb in Miami to kill Tomas Leon, inside was May and the bomb explodes, Ray cared and run to stop the bomb but he was too late. Stallone goes to the funeral of the woman identified as May Munro, he mourns and he is filed with quilt with killing an innocent person again. On a bus ride, Ray gets out of his seat and offers it to a pregnant woman. The people haven't see that or noticed, how a good hearted person the character is. He even took a cat under his wing. I love Ray Quick I don't care what anyone says! This movie has always been flawed with it's screenplay, a powerful score, lush cinematography and a solid cast. It has plot holes, but I still love it. I love the twists, the action sequences, the erotic's sex scenes in the hot tub, this scene really never bothered me. The special effects were great, the bomb explosions. I absolutely love this movie. It is very stylish, sexy and explosive. Stallone and Stone were perfect together. The Miami scenery was awesome. The music score was amazing. And the action was intense. Sylvester Stallone is truly an amazing actor and a truly a great talent. Also James Woods gave a powerful performance as Ned Trent a vengeful a hired assassin and a corrupt cop! Sharon Stone did a wonderful performance as a drop-dead beauty! I love the bus ride scene! Ray Quick gets out of his seat and offers it to a pregnant woman, only to have a young hoodlum take the seat instead. Quick calmly beats the crap out of the hoodlum and all his friends, throwing one of them out a window (not open), and then re-offers the seat to the woman. This scene has no bearing on the plot, but helps us get to know Quick. It is awesome powerful scene! Why I love this movie? I love it because in this movie Stallone doesn't use gun or machine guns but he uses his expatriate, high explosives and hand to hand combat. The Specialist is the most Underrated Action Thriller. I love Sharon Stone from Basic Instinct to another action thriller The Specialist and I love James Woods playing a villain in this movie. This was the only action movie that Stallone made in 1994 it was success but it turned in to one of very underrated movie and honestly I don't care.This movie is, apart from the film music, as a whole a must-see for action movie lovers with erotic scenes, built in smoothly. The double role of May makes the movie richer there IS a plot possible in these kind of movies!. Action abound and well distributed over the time. Eric Roberts and James Woods play their roles at the same high level as Sylvester Stallone and Sharon Stone. I see originality, in the sense of action the highly developed explosive devices-do hey really exist? CIA will know.. A flaw ,which I do not understand up to now, is that the getaway boat from M&M seafood seemed to be so readily available. The goofy trick with the telephone in the Fontainebleau Hotel as well, but those are not disturbing details. The movie has a steady pace and ends with the Miami Sound Machine!. Best scene is of course , the intimate scene in the hotel. Superb entertainment! Two of Hollywood's biggest stars combine fiery action with steamy sensuality in The Specialist. Sharon Stone, a drop-dead beauty with a fatal past. She's sworn death to the mobsters who murdered her parents and she's decided the method of their disposal blast 'em- one by one- to kingdom come. She also knows the right man for the job cool-fire ex-CIA explosives expert Ray Quick (Sylvester Stallone). That is your basic plot! I am giving this film a 8, because what the hell, this film deserves it! I love this film it is my best Stallone fifth favorite film! The Specialist is a 1994 American action film directed by Luis Llosa, starring Sylvester Stallone, Sharon Stone and James Woods. 8/10 Grade B Studio Warner Bros Starring Sylvester Stallone, Sharon Stone, James Woods, Rod Steiger, Eric Roberts Director Luis Llosa Producer Jerry Weintraub Screenplay Alexandra Seros Based on The Specialist novels by John Shirley Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 50 Mins. Budget $57.000.000 Box Office $159,055,768 "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The filmmakers spent a lot on this movie. Big names Stallone, Stone, Roberts (Eric), Steiger and Woods. The score is by John Barry, Emilio Estefan Jr was involved and appears in the film. A huge number of people were involved behind the scenes too. So do we get end product? No.Stallone goes through the motions &#x96; the illogical and unnecessary violence, the contrived stunts, the flat delivery and the lack of facial expression. Stone looks gorgeous and waits for some interesting dialogue to be delivered to her. It doesn't come. Roberts looks angry in every scene &#x96; presumably with his agent. Woods gives it some effort but he's got nothing to work with. Steiger is almost unrecognisable. If I tell you that I saw this on a satellite channel, and I actually looked forward to the adverts, you'll get some idea of just how bad this is.And the only thing steamy in the shower scene is the steam.This film well deserved its Razzie awards worst actress (Stone) and worst screen couple (Stallone/Stone) Should have also won (but was only nominated for) worst actor (Stallone), worst supporting actor (Steiger) and, finally, worst picture. Everyone involved with this should be embarrassed, and that's a lot of people.I'll give it two stars cos I still like Sharon Stone. She just made a huge mistake on this one. "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's pretty simple really, this is an appalling film, honestly just awful. But like so many other films that have virtually nothing going for them somehow it kept me watching. There are 3 caveats to that statement - firstly, it was on TV so I hadn't wasted any cash renting it out, secondly I didn't actually make it to the end, but if it hadn't been for an inconveniently placed ad break i'd probably have watched on, and thirdly I am mentally ill (or at least I must be for staying up late to watch this).I don't know if this is due to my snazzy new TV but somehow it looked like it had been filmed on an HD home video camera. Perhaps the extra clarity of the screen just served to expose the awfulness of the cinematography. There were scenes, particularly one in a bar, that looked like they could have been straight out of Home & Away. Strangely though it wasn't even an HD broadcast, so it could really be that this film is, after all, that bad.Anyway, there's not a huge amount to add to what has already been said, Stallone is just Stallone, as is Roberts (as in he's Roberts, not Stallone.. if you see what I mean). Steiger (head of the Leon family) is about as menacing as my mum. Woods hams it up quite well all things considered. Stone is awful, but in this company looks like she should be up for an Oscar, as should the loud shirt that is the recipient of the best line in the film when Woods comes out of a lift (you'll have to watch it just for that).It's worth watching because it is sooooo bad, and you will laugh out loud many, many times, so on that basis I recommend this movie wholeheartedly (but still can't bring myself to give it more than 3/10). "},{"Title":"Just one big bang after another","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Specialist can perhaps best be described as Sylvester Stallone doing what he does best- Rambo-style mayhem- meets Sharon Stone doing what she does best- looking sexy and glamorous.Sly plays Ray Quick, the specialist of the title, who is a former CIA explosives expert. Ray left the Agency after a mission to blow up a South American drug dealer went wrong, resulting in the death of an innocent young girl. Ray is now working as a freelance hit man, and is hired by a young woman named May Munro. (M. Munro? Is this evidence of Sharon Stone's Marilyn complex?) May wants revenge on Joe Leon, a Miami gangster and drug baron, who was responsible for the murders of her parents. Ray has a personal interest in the case as his former CIA colleague Ned Trent is now working for Leon, the two men have become estranged, as it was Ned's ruthlessness that was responsible for the girl's death.You can work out the rest of the story yourselves. Actually, there isn't much story to work out. Just one big bang after another.The film was directed by Luis Llosa, the man who a few years later was to be responsible for the awesomely bad Anaconda, one of the nineties' greatest examples of the Ed Wood school of film-making. In 1994, however, Senor Llosa was a mere freshman in this particular school and had not yet mastered the art of making a truly awful movie. His chances might have been improved had he been able to secure Steven Seagal as his male lead. The producers apparently offered Seagal the role, but turned him down when he demanded $9 million to star and direct. (If I were a film producer I would happily pay $9 million just to keep Seagal out of one of my movies, but that's another story). Deprived of the services of Hollywood's most wooden leading man, Llosa was forced to turn to Sly, who is just not in the same league when it comes to the noble skills of Bad Acting. He has even been known occasionally to resort to Good Acting (although, admittedly, not in this film).Llosa did, admittedly, direct Sharon Stone to a Worst Actress Razzie, but he can claim little credit for this, as the Razzies frequently have less to do with recognising truly bad films than they do with settling old scores and cutting tall poppies down to size. After the success of Basic Instinct, few poppies in the early nineties can have been taller than Stone, and the Razzie was probably a way of warning her not to get too big for her boots. Certainly, her performance here does not involve much Good Acting, but it is a perfectly adequate one when one considers that she is not being called upon to portray Lady Macbeth or Hedda Gabler but the glamorous heroine of an action-thriller.There is, in fact, little Good Acting anywhere on display here; the nearest approach is probably James Woods' splendidly over-the-top contribution as the villainous Ned. As in Anaconda Llosa manages to achieve the feat of damaging the reputation of a once-distinguished but now ageing actor. In Anaconda he was to perform this service for Jon Voight; here it is Rod Steiger as Leon who is left with that look of why on earth did I ever sign up for this? The Specialist can therefore be regarded as a valiant attempt to make a Bad Movie, but the sublime heights of So Bad It's Funny were, as yet, beyond its director's grasp. All he ended up with was a rather dull, derivative and uninteresting action-thriller. My main objection to it was the glorification of the character of Ray Quick who, despite an attempt to give him some sort of ethical code, is no more than a hired killer. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Dreary vanity project action film","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dreary action vehicle for Sylvester Stallone is a bone-crushing bore. Here he portrays...oh, who cares? It is basically the same riff he had done in the majority of his films. A dour Sharon Stone is on-hand as an enigmatic woman who coerces bomb expert Stallone into assassinating the Mafia clan that killed her family. Rod Steiger offers yet another horrible example of overacting as the head of the gangster family. In a ludicrous move, Eric Roberts portrays the assassin responsible for killing Stone's family when she was a little girl. Now an adult, she is playing up to him for revenge. Of course, there is only a two-year age difference between the actors and the film seems to be trying to convince us that there is a huge age difference. The opening scenes are basically a series of phone calls between the leads. You know the film is in trouble when Stallone's lasagna lips render a good portion of the crummy dialog unintelligible and Stone responds by remarking how much she likes his voice. Stallone purportedly campaigned to cast Stone as the lead, but someone forgot to write her a role. She spends the majority of the film as eye candy, cowering or being pulled around, pretty much like a traditional action heroine. There is nothing for her to sink her teeth into. There is a steamy shower scene near the midway point which deftly showcases the daunting physiques of the stars, but other than that there is literally nothing else to recommend the film in the slightest. Oh yeah, James Woods is also in the film, but charitable audiences may do him a favor and forget he was even in it. "},{"Title":"This film endorses the use of terrorist tactics in the USA.","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I once overheard a film critic remark of a Buster Keaton movie that it was incredibly ironic that the star chose to portray a college boy with two left feet because in reality Keaton was a great athlete. It occurred to me then that obviously a clown like any other actor although expert at acting the fool, is usually not himself a fool. John Wayne had a great reputation as a political reactionary, yet probably most of his living admirers are ex-hippies who are politically liberal. He had a way of making the audience believe that it wasn't safe to be as tough and mean as the characters he portrayed. Maybe that's the effect he was cleverly trying to achieve.Using the same theory, it might be reasonable to guess that Sylvester Stallone is not to be confused with the characters Rocky or Rambo or the Specialist; however he seems to be the exception to the rule. In his case I believe the opposite theory is in use he desperately wants to be confused with the characters he portrays because he has a political point he wants to make. The Rocky films are an ideological tract they represent the frustrated desire of bigoted Americans to dominate black and Soviet athletes. The Rambo films are a brief on the frustrated desire of right wingers to destroy the communist enemy. The films are very manipulatively made, technically designed to force the viewer to identify with their heroes. It would be reasonable to assume that the star, who has been creatively involved in production of many of his films all the way from the planning stage, is a propagandist for reactionary right wing causes. In terms of political action he recommends violence to the audience as his solution to the world's problems.The Specialist is particularly troublesome because of the means the ex-CIA agent employs to wreak revenge on his criminal foils. As a demolitions expert, he uses a home made bomb to get rid of the bad guys. This bomb explodes in a public place where any innocent civilian might easily pass by and be killed. Regardless of who the target was supposed to be, I was astonished that an ex-CIA agent, shown to be a good guy hero, could be depicted committing such an act of terrorism inside the United States. Doesn't Stallone know that there are innocent bystanders almost everywhere in populated areas? I'm sure he does, but apparently he felt the end justified the means. Radical Muslim terrorists think the same way and are usually condemned by our government specifically for the means they employ. Since Stallone has a reputation for being a thinker as a film maker, it would be interesting to hear his opinion of worldwide terrorism. Does he disapprove of the tactics of terrorists? How would it be if government authorities, including law enforcement officials, used terrorist bombs every time they wanted to get rid of a bad guy? Is it okay to wipe out civilians in a revenge attack as long as the bad guys get wiped out at the same time? As a film, The Specialist says that terrorist tactics are okay even at the risk of innocent lives. "},{"Title":"They don't come any awfuler (Is that a word?)","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Woods can't even save this miserable outing. Sharon Stone comes on WAY too strong and should put this at the bottom of her resume. Sly Stallone? You'll be begging for another Rambo. You know something? I saw this at the theatre when it came out years ago, but rewatching it on Cable (Why?) I couldn't even REMEMBER most of it! Neither could my spouse! We must have SLEPT through it or something...yeah, that's it. Total snoozefest. Rent if you have severe insomnia. Is better than Sominex®. "},{"Title":"A TV movie with stars...","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Plot Stallone is a 'specialist' (Oooh, so that's where they got the clever title from?) ex covert ops person who used to work with the frighteningly manic James Woods, until Woods decided it would be more fun to kill innocent people than to put up with Sly.After the obligatory flashback scene explaining all this (Which I've just saved you the chore of having to watch if you've got better things to do, like read the back of a cereal box) Woods now associates with the guy who killed Sharon Stone's family (Not in real life, the movie. Keep up!) When Stallone and Stone ultimately pair up, as you may have guessed they do, the situation becomes a sort of tag-team vengeance affair.Am I making this sound boring? Sorry, but the story really is as uninteresting as all that. To pep things up, director Llosa (who henceforth shall be known by me as 'king of the over-sized B-movie', after directing this AND Anaconda) spends more time than is strictly necessary on a gratuitous sex scene showing Stone (yay!) and Stallone (ugh!) naked, blows some things up and practically lets Woods do whatever he wants.The script is laughably bad, and Stallone's acting tries its hardest to match it. I swear the guy thought he was doing Shakespeare, inserting needless pauses into his lines and never wavering from an absurdly solemn tone (Business as usual then for his worst work, only worse) The user who likened this to The Red Shoe Diaries pretty much nailed it. Most of us are aware that Stallone has done porn before, so perhaps he was yearning for a return to his roots.It is pretty awful. No worse than the 'made for TV' stuff they crank out usually, but seemingly so just by virtue of who is in it. Even Woods having fun can't quite raise the audience to the level of doing the same. Only watch if you are EXTREMELY bored. "}{"Title":"In all fairness, this film IS BAD.","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Imagine an episode of Red Shoe Diaries with Stallone and Stone as mainflirters.  And if you don't know Red Shoe Diaries, don't even think oflooking up the database!  Instead of David Duchovny as the narrator, weget James Wood.  And as expected, Wood steals the play.At the end of the day, this film is about a twisted ex-police officer,who now faces his archrival, his pupil who is too emotional.  Thisofficer (Wood) paces the film, he's all over the screen, and cleans upthe slimy mess Stallone and Stone leave.If you are expecting romance, action, intriguing plot, good script, runlike hell, away from this.  If you're looking for Wood's performance,well, you've got plenty other films to enjoy.  Why would you have toview this one? "},{"Title":"Incoherent pastiche","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had the strange feeling after watching this film, that I had seen all  the parts somewhere else, like Miami Vice, or a Vanilla Ice film, all bright sunlight, schmoozy parties, and tough talk. In short, it's a day out for the SFX team, and a waste of the multi-purpose Specialist title. Stranger too, because Sharon Stone is not a useless actress, nor Stallone, when he puts his mind to it, nor Woods. The film was a money trap only, I suggest, and viewers wanting substance shouldn't bother. One Star for the sheer gall. "},{"Title":"It must be a first, a movie constructed solely around the filmmakers trying to remove Sharon Stone from her clothing","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***SPOILER WARNING***They had a saying in the 40s `It's a whole lotta nuttin' and that would accurately describe a movie like `The Specialist' because it seems on the surface to have a lot of plot and would seem to have characters with hidden meanings but it's doesn't add up to anything.Sharon Stone plays a woman who wants half of the cast dead all for various reasons not the least of which is that she was held at bay as a child and watched her family die by a mobster's hand.  That's fine but all of the reasons that she wants everyone else dead are brought up and summarily forgotten and by the end all of the bad guys are dead so we figure it's not worth asking anyway.Since no one in Hollywood in confident that a woman could carry a picture like this on her own we get Sylvester Stallone as a former member of the bomb squad. (It's my theory that he is also on hand to insure movie patrons that they will get to see Stone in various stages of undress).  Storywise, he is brought into the fold because his old partner (James Woods) has switched sides and is now working for the Miami drug syndicate.  If that isn't enough, you have a cold hearted vicious thug in the mix and this one is played in an embarrassing role by Rod Steiger who looks like Fred Mertz and talks like he's doing a bad impression of Ricky Ricardo.  Also around just to have the evil stud character is Eric Roberts as Steiger's nephew who is on-hand to do all the muscle-work.Stallone begins a strange relationship with Stone over the telephone which eventually leads to their meeting and to their big sex scene to keep patrons from asking for their money back.  Yes, there is a hot sex scene but it comes not from their personalities but from the factor of expectations two attractive people = sex.The scriptwriters themselves, I think, got confused by their own overwritten script.  Just when we think we are about to have a question answered they go into a series of explosions and shoot-outs to insure that patrons with short attention spans will have forgotten to ask any questions when the noise subsides.All of this leads to a paycheck for those guys who do the work on the explosives.  As I say that movie doesn't add up to much when it's over, it's a lot of unanswered questions, situations without payoffs and no closing kiss until all the villains lie dead i.e. It's a whole lotta nuttin' "},{"Title":"don't waste two hours of your life on this movie","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Specialist was every kind of suck imaginable and more.  I had no idea that film-making got this bad.  From a completely diluted and unconvincing plot to explosions that wouldn't fool a four year-old, this movie is not worth wasting any amount of time, much less two hours.  The only thing that kept this film from being a 1 out of 10 is the actual shooting of the film. I commend the focus puller and camera operator on keeping every shot looking good, even though in the same position I would have quit so as not to watch such a horrible film being made.  2/10 "},{"Title":"overall fine performances, just a gawd-awful movie","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not particularly fond of Stallone or any of his movies, but I think it's not far off to say that he has done much better than this pile of crap. Stallone mumbles his way through the film, making me think 'thank God for subtitles'. And I hate subtitles. I won't even begin to comment on his acting skills, but then, nobody watches his movies for the acting. I find Stone usually worth checking out, but her performances, especially with earlier movies, differ tremendously in quality. I'd say, that, taking the role and the script (or lack thereof) into consideration, this performance was not bad. Overall the performances were not that bad, it's just the film and the story itself that make it entirely unwatchable. Seriously, have you ever heard such an unconvincing story? I've seen science fiction that was more believable than this thing. I'm really a fan of Eric Roberts, which was my reason for renting this movie, and I'd say that his performance was allright, but not above average. And way too short. We could've used more than one Bad Guy (not counting Steiger) in counter balance to Stallone. To even up the screen time, a bit. Woods was great, as usual, but it just doesn't make it worth it. I can enjoy Woods in mostly any movie, but this one adds nothing. It's all 'been there, done that'-kinda stuff. Steiger made me laugh. He is a good actor, so I suppose his accent was meant as a joke. (I hope) Who cast this guy anyway?? He doesn't look Cuban, not even if you try very hard to believe it. So I didn't think the accent was misplaced. I think the movie was misplaced. It belongs on a scrap-heap. "},{"Title":"Yes, this movie *is* that bad!","Date":"5 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a stunning piece of crap. The dialogue was unbelievably horrific -- I laughed out loud at Sharon Stone's sexy I hear you... shape your charges. There's nothing good to say about the acting either... Stallone with his usual ham-fisted acting technique, Stone trying to convince us she's worth more than a beaver shot (give up!), and Woods looking pained as he tries to figure out how he ended up in this crudola flick. The action was boring when it wasn't campy.Don't bother with this movie!  "},{"Title":"Stallone Shines in Lousy Dud of a Film!","Date":"21 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rod Steiger should have been on holidays when they made this film. A high calibre actor making a fool of himself makes for good humour in this ridiculous no purpose of a film. Sharon Stone is terrible as a trampy bimbette set on revenge. James Woods can hardly contain himself in the scenes with Rod Steiger who is vainly trying to act as a sophisticated Hispanic drug dealing crime lord. This film could have been in Elvira's world's worst film festival. Sylvester Stallone, however, is quite good as the serious, sombre and lugubrious hero who is trying to defend a girl's honour and enact her revenge on criminals who killed her parents when she was a child. The story is so weak, the acting so bad, the direction non-existent. It makes this one difficult to watch. The music is good and so is Stallone. But his efforts are wasted in this one. Pass it up! "},{"Title":"A dumb action film with some unintentional humour.","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" As moronic as one would expect. For the brain-impaired this is a treat one explosion after another, and a whole bunch of tough guys snarling and threatening each other in almost every other scene. Woods makes the most (which isn't much) out of a standard psychotic-bad-guy role, while Stallone is not only unconvincing but quite laughable, as well. Sharon Stone tries hard to be even worse than Stallone, which she manages quite often. Eric Roberts is his usual menacing or-I-'ll-kill-ya self, and his character hasn't aged a day since he killed Stone's parents some decades ago (a scene which is shown as a flashback a couple of times), or are they implying that the nearly middle-aged Stone is eighteen in this movie? (For those not convinced that Stone's small breasts come from a land called Siliconia, this movie will be a disappointment; the shower scene removes all doubt.) Steiger neither looks Latino nor does he do a Spanish accent that goes beyond silly. The dialog begs for a MST3K treatment. "},{"Title":"Disappointed to say the Least","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am a huge fan of Stallone.. but this movie was ridiculously bad.. seriously.Like I said.. never question my allegiance to the Sly movies.. but this movie was terrible. Bad acting all around (accept for James Woods at parts) bad plot. bad writing. bad screen play. bad character development. bad SEX SCENE (INCREDIBLY long, drawn out and totally unnecessary!)I'm not gonna rip on stuff like how completely unlikely it is that someone (especially in 1994) would have as complex of devices as they had in this movie because lets face it, this isn't Stallone's first unrealistic movie nor is it probably his MOST unrealistic movie.I did get a laugh at the hotel/bomb/water scene though... no spoiler there )Anyway, that's my opinion, take it or leave it.Fox-x "},{"Title":"James Woods is the only thing this movie has going for it.","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is just another mediocre action flick with bad dialogue, bad acting, an iffy plot, and lots of gratuitous explosions.Plenty of what the heck were they thinking material here, too.  Like, Rod Steiger playing a Latino (or maybe just a white guy with a Latino accent). Which, I guess, makes Eric Roberts' character Latino.  Roberts is, of course, reliably unlikeable--the kind of character that makes you count the seconds wishing for his death scene to just come already.There's also a laughable scene showing intercut shots of Sly Stallone doing some ballet aerobics (or something) in his house while Sharon Stone just stands in the middle of her own living room doing a Marylin Monroe in front of her open breezy windows.Stallone and Stone's love scene, which shows plenty of Stallone's icky spider-web shoulder veins, is also pretty strange.  It's got Stallone curling up in the most feminine way possible, like something out of a deranged Victoria's Secret catalogue.  He makes Sharon Stone look masculine and very unsexy just by being in the same frame with her.  Pardon me for a moment, but... eeeeyeck! I think I need a shower now too.Two more criticisms 1) This has one of the cheesiest moments I've ever seen in an action film that's supposed to at least have high production value, if nothing else.  2) What the heck happened to the cat at the end?  He was the only character I cared about!Like I said, James Woods is the only thing this movie's got going for it. He gives a great performance as the villain.Stallone should've stayed away from trying to play macho tough guys and stuck to playing likeable underdogs with tough guy tendencies, like in Rocky and Cop Land--it's the only time he's ever been good.3/10 stars (mostly for Woods). "}{"Title":"Worst action film ever","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was stupid. I mean who thought of Sylvester Stallone and Sharon Stone, together? It's completely annoying and is one of those films that the best part is the credits because the viewer can now breathe a sigh of relief that they made it through the film. Stone's yelps every time there is an explosion is very annoying as well.don't's vote 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"*1/2 OUT OF FIVE","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone stars as Ray Quick, a professional hitman hired by May Munro (Sharon Stone) who wants revenge for her parent's murder, in this overblown and sub-par actioner which stands out only for James Woods' performance as a crooked FBI agent. Other then that though, the movie is hideous and hideously dull.  "},{"Title":"The Worst movie since.....Demolition Man","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There's nothing more to say than this is the worst movie I have seen since a long long time...The kind of movie you know the end after 5 minutes without having seen any trailer...Don't rent it, don't watch it, and don't think about it ....  "},{"Title":"If it were not for......","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If it were not for the appearance of Sharon Stone's ample mammae, this movie wouldn't even be worth the cost of the match to burn it with. I would endeavor to guess that the main actors in this movie donated their time and talents gratis, because I cannot imagine anyone paying for the services of professional actors just to let their talents languish in the doldrums of obscurity, drivel and overall bad acting. There are so many gosh awful movies these days I believe that the moguls of Hollywood have merely capitulated and sold their souls to the gods of the box office take. This movie could have been just as successful with simply, Sharon Stone, and the rest of the roles could have been filled with B actors. What a waste of A talent. "},{"Title":"A great cast can only do so much with the mundane material","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In 1984, a couple of bomb specialists, Ray Quick & Ned Trent kill some children on a school bus when Ned Trent refuses to activate the fail- safe on the bombs. Ray refuses to be associated with Trent any longer, and turns him in. Ray is presently an outsider, living in Miami Florida, doing odd jobs here and there. May Munro has secretive phone calls with Ray about bombing the Leons, Tomas & Joe. May witnessed the Leons kill her parents as a child from the closet of her room. Ray initially declines the offer, but his outlook changes when Ned Trent is working with the Leons. Ostensibly, the script for The Specalist was passed around a bit. Steven Seagal was offered the lead role, but turned it down when they wouldn't pay him 9 million. Stallone refused the lead part as well at first, but was goaded into it after a while. I'm glad Seagal turned the part down. He didn't fit the description for Ray Quick. In all honesty? Stallone should have gone with his first instinct, and said no to this movie. I'm a die-hard fan of Sylvester Stallone, but i'd be lying if I said he hasn't made some forgettable stinkers in his career. After a suspenseful opening with Stallone & James Woods at their absolute best, this goes down the toilet rather quickly. For starters, it's WAY too talky. Instead of infusing it with action like they should have, they fill it with plenty of uninteresting dialog. The only action we get are some dull explosions, and an amusing action sequence that involves Sly, kicking some ass on a bus to defend an old woman's honor. There is also plenty of steamy flirting with Stallone & Stone on the phone if that interests you, as well as some awkward love-making. Sylvester Stallone can peel a potato for three hours, and I would still be entertained. He sleepwalks through a lot of this film, and looks rather indifferent. There are a few scenes where we get the patented Stallone charisma, but he just looked bored. It is hard to take his character seriously when he has a cat named Timer (!) It wasn't a bad performance by any means, just rather ordinary for him. Sharon Stone gives the best performance in the film (Not by much) with her sexy showcase. I thought she elevated this film with her presence alone. James Woods gives it 100%, and I have to commend him for it. Not many people go nuts like Woods does. I love the guy. Eric Roberts is decent for the most part. He had some good intensity, but his part felt phony. Rod Steiger embarrasses himself with his hammy performance. He annoyed the crap out of me with that accent as well.Final Thoughts Despite some twists and turns, the competent acting, and the potential it has, this movie isn't very good. I admit to owning this movie, simply because I love Sylvester Stallone. It's a below average film that lacks action, script coherency, and thrills. I'd say pass4.8/10 "},{"Title":"A little different, but still very much the same","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I consider Sylvester Stallone quite a good actor and his movies tend to be quite good as well. The Specialist is an action movie but it has a more developed plot than do most action movies. I was a little concerned when the rating 'Hard Sex' was displayed because personally sex scenes are quite boring -- there is little plot or character development in a sex scene, and even though people might say that one can tell a lot about somebody by the way they have sex, that is generally something that I do not associate with character development (and most Hollywood sex scenes seemed to be identical, with only the participants changing). I feel that most movies could dump their sex scenes and still have a well developed plot. Anyway, there wasn't much in the way of sex scenes in this movie and when it did pop up, I just ignored it.The Specialist is about a man named Ray Quick (Sylvester Stallone) who is an expert with explosives. He used to work for a government agency blowing up people that were considered a threat to the nation. He worked with a man named Ned and after a dispute, they parted company.When we first come into the movie, Ray Quick has retired but a woman named May Munro (Sharon Stone) needs his help to avenge the murder of her parents. There are a lot of twists and we really never know if May is trustworthy. She leaves a note for Ray saying I'm not a woman you can trust. One thing we never know is why her parents were killed by the Mafia. They were either undercover FBI agents or they could have upset the Mafia by embezzling money.Ray Quick is a character that should be looked at. He is more of a stereotype than one would expect. He is the tough highly trained killer who refuses to kill innocent people. This is a flaw, though it is not tragic. Ned's uncaring attitude towards innocent people was his tragic flaw, but he was the bad guy and thus, as is supposed to happen to most bad guys in Hollywood, dies. It is not his tragic flaw that kills him but rather him prancing about bragging about how great he is. The interesting thing about Ray Quick is that I don't think he knows how to drive. I cannot recall him at any time during the movie being in a car, he always catches public transport and at the end he is in the passenger's seat rather than the driver's. This actually makes an interesting change to the stereotype.This is a typical action movie with a reasonable story. The characters are stereotypical and Hollywood clichés dominate. There is only one change that happens with the main character and that is that he no longer becomes a loner. There is nothing in the way of in-depth challenging themes but rather it is an enjoyable but brainless movie to watch when one is bored. "},{"Title":"Misfire","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" &#x84;The Specialist doesn't work as either thriller (because there are no REAL plot twists) or as a action movie (because there is no REAL action) . The whole movie just doesn't have much to offer to a viewer .Stallone is miscast in the title role . It's just unbelievable for me that someone as strong as Stallone would be also an expert when it comes to bombs . The role should be played be someone with more intellectual look . There is no real reason for Stallone to play that part . There are only two fight scenes and they hardly anything spectacular ( not too mention that the second one was forced into the movie probably because of fear that audience will die of boredom) . Stallone doesn't got anything to do in terms of action and acting , so it's no surprise that he gives a bad performance. He's lost as the whole movie.Sharon Stone looks great and actually gives a nice performance . Along with Casino and Basic instinct this is her best performance . She's both sexy and vulnerable. James Woods gives a typical James Woods performance . He's a lovely asshole in this one. It was good to see Eric Roberts in small , but nice part.The director Luis Llosa rather awfully directs the whole movie . The pacing is flat and the whole movie lacks tension . It just drags the whole time from beginning to the end. The screenplay is also unimpressive since audience is able to see the so-called twists long before they appear.Is there anything good about this movie ? I actually REALLY enjoyed the romance between Stallone and Stone . There is undeniable sexual tension between them . I also enjoyed the sex scene (against popular opinion). And there is plenty of nice looking explosions and some funny one linersI give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Fair Entertainment!","Date":"6 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'The Specialist' delivers Fair Entertainment. The Action-Sequences are great & the performances are potentially impressive.'The Specialist' Synopsis A woman entices a bomb expert she's involved with into destroying the mafia that killed her family.'The Specialist' passes of as a time-pass fare, as it gets some moments right & as mentioned, The Action-Sequences are great. Alexandra Seros's Screenplay isn't mind-bending, but fairly decent. Luis Llosa's Direction is so-so. Cinematography, Editing & Art Design, are nice.Performance-Wise Sylvester Stallone is as usual. Sharon Stone looks stunning & delivers a good performance. James Woods plays the evil guy, superbly. Eric Roberts doesn't cut ice, while Rod Steiger gives his best shot.On the whole, 'The Specialist' can be viewed once. "},{"Title":"Not all that special","Date":"17 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the most pointless movies to ever make it onto cinema screens. Whether that's a good or bad thing will ultimately be up to the viewer, but there is a good chance for big disappointment.The plot and the acting, and pretty much everything about this movie puts it on par with direct-to-video action movies. The only thing better are the the special effects, mainly comprising of juicy slow motion explosions, including a hilariously exploding hotel room. Now there is nothing inherently wrong with B-grade action movies, they can be entertaining in their own way, but the thing is when they are viewed they are picked up to be watched, you know what you're getting. The ultimate undoing of this film is that it was not released as a B-movie, but a big studio action film and that's where it is going to disappoint. With all that money you'd think that they'd produce something a few notches better than this.There are a few pluses here the many explosions, James Woods in a decent crazy villain role, and a shower scene with the two attractive stars, but still - something's missing. Maybe the film could have been a bit shorter and thus brisker. Or maybe a more satisfying final confrontation between hero and villain. Or maybe even both. --- 4/10BsCDb Classification 13+ --- violence, sexual content "},{"Title":"James Woods is always the best (spoiler inside)","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Woods's one of the best performance. It's difficult to express in words how much he enchants me. He has the capability of creating those no-mercy spine-chilling scariest villains in movies like Ghosts of Mississippi, The Getaway, and this movie, The Specialist. He has got equal talent in other type of roles like The Hard Way. He astonishes me with his amazing screen-confidence even the times when he is surrounded by bigshots like Robert De Niro, Sharone stone, Sylvester Stallone, Whoopy Goldberg, Kim Basinger; and good comedy actors like Joe Pesci. Think of the scene in this movie where he is playing with explosive and talking at the same time.Sylvester Stallone didn't have much bodily action to do in this movie other than doing stuff with his bombs. Sharone Stone is always a show-doll with her too heavy and stale makeup. Has anybody seen her without makeup and in Tshirt-Jeans? Guess not.The storyline is not very attractive, but bombs were really great, I had good time watching those moments.  "}{"Title":"No, really, it is that bad.","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone is especially wooden.  The plot turns are especially implausible (Eric Roberts is 2 years older than Sharon Stone -- we're to believe his character is old enough to have been performing hits while she was just a wee tot?).  Eric Roberts and James Woods compete for the crown of scenery-chewers (is that to compensate for the onscreen void of Stallone? Too much, too late).Completely emotionally unconvincing. "},{"Title":"this movie stinks really bad","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the acting of everyone including sly is very poor. The ending really bites the main bad guy (James Woods) dies of accidentally stepping on a trip bomb and then the movie is basically over.(P.S.) guys especially don't watch this sly gets naked!!!!! "},{"Title":"See this film only if you're a James Woods fan.  Even then, stay away!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  James Woods is the best thing about this really dumb film.  He chews the scenery and he is about the only thing that is enjoyable in it.  Stallone was much better in the lively Demolition Man, and Rod Steiger is drop dead funny with that really, really bad Cuban accent.  Chew are a good God.  he says at one point.  I'm just lucky that I didn't pay full price for this turkey.   "},{"Title":"Bombs away","Date":"6 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's been years since I last saw The Specialist, and watching it again today is a reminder of why Stallone ended up on the STV scrap heap (we'll see what those recent sequels to Rocky and First Blood plus The Expendables do to get his career rebooted). Sly is a retired CIA bomb expert who is contacted by a woman (Stone) who wants him to help her kill the people who killed her family. What he doesn't know is that she is in the employ of an old buddy of Sly's (Woods) who wants to flush him out and kill him. Eric Roberts and Rod Steiger play the heavies. The film is extremely slow moving. There are no action sequences and the bombings are nothing special. Sly sleepwalks through his role. Woods is the high point of the movie, but it's not his movie, after all. When he's not on screen, the film really drags. Stone is Stone. She was still attractive in a bone-thin way in 1994, but her acting is dreadful. At times, the film plays like a spoof of the genre. Wait until you see Steiger hamming it up as a Latin drug lord. "},{"Title":"Nothing is special about this action flick except for Stone.","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You love Sylvester Stallone for his super strength sock-it-tooey, which you get tired of. You love Sharon Stone for her sensuous sexuality in skin and silk, which you have burning desire for. Best of all, you'll love to hear  me say it sucks, because THE SPECIALIST is a plain vanilla action movie in kitty litter than it speaks out a bunch of S's. Showing off the actors' personality traits taketh away the excitement, with James Woods as ridiculously silly. He deserved a big bang in show biz after all. It is in terrible need for Stallone and Stone for more chemistry and interaction than the sum of their parts, and it also should have followed Stallone's path. Stone lovers won't be disappointed, but there is true meaning to the phrase sex sells, and demands to run her course her way for the whole movie. The way she reacts to explosions is also pretty silly. Action movie cliches that aren't remarkable are the end results to a below average movie that specializes in sex appeal more than anything. Expect no more thrills, but check it out unless Stone is worth -oneing the video. Mushy, ain't I? "},{"Title":"Special usually means clinically retarded...","Date":"27 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sylvester Stallone stars as Ray Quick, an assassin who is hired by a mysterious woman (Sharon Stone) who hires out his services to get vengeance on the mobsters who killed her family, along the way they fall for each other and the audience is bored by it all. James Woods pops up and provides the only real moments of interest but even he is wasted on garbage such as this. The problem with the movie is its awful script;The dialog is so stilted and artificial were shocked that doesn't involve androids. Stallone and Stone have no chemistry so basically we watch them discuss cat and mouse games that is hideously boring to watch. Also for some reason Stallone seems to think that saying nothing is akin to acting. Sorry, Sly but that isn't acting. Talented actors such as Eric Roberts and Rod Steiger look hopelessly lost with the lousy script as both of their characters (Despite being the main villains of the peace) are desperately underwritten. The Specialist is one of the worst movies of the 90's and even Sharon Stone's sex scene isn't that erotic, mainly because she is sharing it with Stallone. If you want to see these actors nude (And seek help if you want to see Sly in the buff) then watch Basic Instinct or one of his pornos, chances are you'll find better stories there.1/2* Out Of 4-(Awful) "},{"Title":"The Specialist","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Luis Llosa (Anaconda), I recognised the title immediately and remembered seeing a short trailer with the leading actor, so I decided to give it a try. Basically Ray Quick (Razzie nominated Sylvester Stallone) used to work for the CIA as a explosives expert, and he is now living as an outsider somewhere in Miami, Florida. He is hired by May Munro, living under the name Adrian Hastings (Razzie winning Sharon Stone) to help get revenge on those responsible for killing her parents Stan (Chase Randolph) and Alice (Jeana Bell) when she was young (Brittany Paige Bouck). Ray agrees to do this and manages to kill three of the mobsters, blowing them up, but one of them is Tomas Leon (The Dark Knight's Eric Roberts), son of crime boss Joe Leon (Razzie nominated Rod Steiger), and Ray's original friend, now enemy, Ned Trent (James Woods) is helping hunt down Ray as the murderer. Ray becomes suspicious of May, thinking that she has set him up, but they do eventually do team up to go against the bad guys. Also starring Mario Ernesto Sánchez as Charlie and Sergio Doré Jr. as Strongarm. Stallone is alright, Stone is her usual sexy and husky self, but she isn't great, but the big problem is that the explosions are mixed about in a stupidly paced film, so apart from these explosions, there's not much to be interested in. It won the Razzie for Worst Screen Couple for Stallone and Stone (tied with Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt in Interview with the Vampire The Vampire Chronicles), and it was nominated for Worst Picture. Adequate! "},{"Title":"This was a comedy, right?","Date":"23 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie in a comedic kind of way.  Sly stomps around, trying to act suave.  His voice gives him away in every situation as just a big dump retard.  How could someone of such brain power perform such masterful bomb explosions?  I guess is Sharon Stone wanted to get in bed with me, I would get stuff done that I don't have the first clue of how to do.  Eric Roberts and James Woods in the same film is like dating two women at the same time.  It's fun, but sooner or later you will pay a price.  Rod Steiger's racist accent should of had the latin community up in arms.  The opening scene when we find out why Sly and James Woods part ways is very funny.  Then we have Eric Roberts jumping out of his car because Sly is looking at him really hard.  He pulls a switchblade on Sly and tells him he might lose an eye if he keeps looking at him in a sexual manner.  We get to Sly and Stone naked sooner or later and it is a good steamy sex scene.  James Woods keeps wandering around acting crazy and like he knows what's going on.  By the end, all of the white actors playing Cubans get their's.  Not to give away the ending, but we need a part 2.  4/10 "},{"Title":"Look, Ma -- I'm Inna Movies!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I was a teenager, a high-school freshman or sophomore, I recall having contests during gym classes with the other guys.  We'd stand in front of the mirror with our arms folded across our chests in such a way that each hand was lodged under the biceps opposite, and then we'd nudge the muscles forward to see what we might look like with seventeen-inch-circumference upper arms instead of the pitiful fourteen-inchers were were cursed with.  Some twenty years ago I was amazed to see a photo of Sylvester Stallone, a fully grown man, solemnly pulling the same stunt in some publication like People Magazine.  The Specialist is an expanded version of that photo of Stallone's already expanded biceps.  I can't think of many other movies in which we see more of the hero's nude and preposterously overblown bronzed body than we do of the heroine's.  (Too bad, Sharon Stone hasn't much more than that to offer.)  Stallone just can't seem to keep his clothes on.  He's always taking showers, walking around with towels around his waist, doing exercises, lying back on a bed with some kind of purple kimono coyly draped over his groin while Stone kneels worshipfully at his feet and runs her hands up his oh-so-muscular legs.  I wonder if Stone was jealous of all Stallone's nude scenes.  The plot?  Oh, the plot.  Well -- you've got me there.  You see, Stone wants to knock off these bad guys who killed her parents.  And Stallone has a history with James Woods (the only performance in the movie worth watching).  The whole business is engineered by old Rod Steiger who is, we can tell, Hispanic because he pronounces you as chew.  Woods has something to do with the police, and with the bad guys as well.  And Stone seems to have more than one motive.  And -- well, I don't want to spoil it for you.  In fact, I couldn't, even if I wanted to.  Nice photography of Miami.  Fireballs like the Fourth of July at Olympic Park in Irvington, New Jersey.  The score is lifted wholesale out of Body Heat.  Enjoy!  If you can. "},{"Title":"First rule Don't bother to watch.","Date":"28 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the very weakest Stallone vehicles in which a series of banally macho characters say clichéd lines at one another for 110 minutes.James Woods plays James Woods, while Eric Roberts pouts and minces like Liberace on crack. This does at least make for a refreshing characterisation, whereby the supposedly butchest character is actually the campest. Woods has the sort of on-the-edge, loose cannon character that seems written for an actor of Gary Oldman's ability. Unfortunately it's given to Woods, an actor who has, despite over fifty films to his name, never appeared in a decent movie. Okay, I'll give Casino a pass.In the midst of all this is Rod Steiger (or, as I liked to know him, King Thesp) wasting himself on a stereotyped Mafiosi-type role. Steiger later played opposite Arnie in End of Days and was shrunk by aliens in Tim Burton's unfunny B-Movie homage Mars Attacks! How distressing that such a first-class actor should have been forced to live out the end of his career in fourth-rate bit parts. As he said in this film A man's gotta eat, right? It's full of irrelevant scenes which help to build up the moronic machismo of Sly's &#133; er&#133; character. After standing up on a bus for a pregnant lady, Sly finds a gang member has stolen the seat and is refusing to give it up. Does he ignore the situation like most other people would? No. Reason with the guy maybe? No. He throws him to the ground, boots him in the stomach, beats up his two friends and throws him through a window. He even follows it up with a glib I believe there's a vacant seat. Of course, in real life, the bus would have ground to a halt while the driver accessed the damage and refused to drive on, quoting union regulations, and the pregnant woman would have screamed at him for excessive behaviour. Instead, the scene cuts away as we get to more testosterone-packed japery. But it's also the hypocritical morality that annoys. I hate knives winces Stallone after being threatened by one. So knives and stealing bus seats are bad. Throwing a man through a glass window is perfectly acceptable? You might think I'm reading too much into what is just a brief scene, yet it's scenes like this that regularly punctuated vacuous action movies and went unchecked. For Stallone's Ray Quick, it's not an eye for an eye, it's your entire head, arms and body for a papercut.A later scene has James Woods gain the respect of some underling cops by threatening to blow them up with Semtex. Woods, a deadly rival of Stallone's, just happens to work for the same man who Sharon Stone has hired him to kill. It's a tale of much contrivance but little consequence, on which every one-note motivation is played out before the camera, allowing for no suspense or intrigue. But let's cut to the chase There's only one reason why people really watch this film, and that's to see Sharon Stone naked in the shower. Seeing pneumatic parodies of the human form with star egos hopelessly out of control isn't pleasant. And in what film doesn't Stone take her clothes off anyway? In the middle of all the male egos Stone is very much odd woman out. While her role is supposedly that of empowered female, she needs a man to help her do her work and is there as a physical victim to show their power. Any other function is merely that of receptacle to sexual desires, Stone doing that sexy voice of hers which is as sexy as a sack of kippers. Even searching her for weapons in a church can be a masturbation analogy. Violence against women was commonplace in 90s action movies (as True Lies attests) and seeing Stone cruelly striking another woman is far from pleasant.I'm fairly sure I had a closing line planned for this review, but unfortunately my boredom made me forget what it was... "}{"Title":"Disaster Area","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Never has the one film made so many past and future Oscar nominees and winners look so stupid. Even the brilliant James Woods, who fights hard but even he can't save this junk. A note to Sylvester Stallone Why is it that you have to tediously play the same role in every film, even when it doesn't fit? He's always the decent 'good' man who is wronged by everyone else and who always does the right thing. WAKE UP! Your character in this film was a government assassin. AN EVIL, EVIL man who blew people up for money. So, having him suddenly discover a conscience because a young girl is in the car they're about to zap is especially puke-worthy. It's not like he didn't know what he's been doing all these years. This problem is all the more so in that crap-fest Assassins, where he also killed people for money. So, in this film and that one especially, why didn't you play it as such and drop all the really sickening moralising O.K? "},{"Title":"..all those pretty colors, but UGH !!..","Date":"24 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've read all the comments posted here and am not surprised to find that almost everyone finds it to be an obnoxious movie. I watched Passenger 57 first; kept wondering why Snipes was so thug-ish during the whole film, till he walked into the sunlight with the pretty lady. Then, found a VHS of The Specialist and subjected myself to another two hours of junk, with The Italian Stallion. Double UGH ! I think I was so shocked from four hours of this kind of action movies, I was paralyzed, unable to get-up and switch from video to satellite-TV. Didn't really have to get-up - I could have clicked it all away. Problem is, out of all those satellite-channels, there was nothing good or nothing I hadn't already seen........I blame myself....I was enlightened with how many users knew so much trivia about The Specialist. I had never heard of the film; I got a good education on it. $15-mil for Stallone (Ray Quick) ??? If his career is on the skids, why does he command such a high fee? (Not surprised to learn he has done porn in the past; that's not my being dumb, just haven't been that interested in him since Rambo.) $45-mil to make the movie? WOW ! Just think how many good things all that money could have done. I didn't see Anaconda, and am now glad - so, I wasn't aware that Luis Llosa directed both films. I'm not one to worship at directors' doors. One good movie doesn't mean they ALL are going to be good. One-at-a-time, please....For a long time, I've been wondering why actors/actresses think whispering their lines is sexy, or demonstrating they know how to emote. Stallone should have pitched his voice at a higher tone, and stopped trying to get all those weird mouth-movements onto film.On the other hand, James Woods (Ned Trent) needed a muzzle for his hollering - or someone in the sound-booth to turn-down the volume. I am hoping his beyond-over-the-top screaming was done for camp. The only positive comment I can give for these two actors is, I'm glad age has filled-in their faces....both were always gaunt-looking. I was also surprised to see that Stallone is no taller than Sharon Stone (Munro-Hastings). The sex-scene in the shower exposed his backside, no bubble-butt, guys....Let's face it, Stone hasn't done anything good since Basic Instinct. Her entire career has been one of every actor she's appeared with, with their hands all over (and inside) of her body. Instinct was a first-time shocker - enough, already ! I must also comment that micro-mini skirts were not in style for the 90s a huge, veiled hat and a dress that hardly covered her panties, in a church?Like many, I didn't recognize Rod Steiger (Joe Leon). Sad deterioration. I finally remembered Eric Roberts (Tomas Leon) from Runaway Train, A pretty-boy type he is not....now.Paul Andrew's comment says it all for me, although I agree with the majority of the other comments. I don't even consider the few opinions who thought it was the best film ever made - in just the period of the 90s ?? Wow! again...I found no redeeming nor entertaining qualities for The Specialist, except for how hard the special-effects artists were hitting it, and the pretty colors the explosions made. If this is the best Llosa can do with all that money and directing-scripting, no wonder he isn't getting any work. I found the sets and locations to be colorful, but that doesn't replace a good STORY........the only good thing I found in this movie is, I saw it free...... "},{"Title":"Their my problem now... & I'm theirs. Terrible big budget action flick.","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Specialist starts as May Munro (Sharon Stone) contacts hired assassin Ray Quick (Sylvester Stallone) & ask's him to kill the three men who murdered her parents & the man who ordered it, being a helpful kind of chap Ray agrees. Things become complicated when Ray's old CIA buddy turned baddie Ned Trent (James Woods) show's up wanting to kill Ray because he hurt Ned's feelings back in 1984 & that's it basically.This Peruvian American co-production was directed by Luis Llosa which is a name I instantly recognised as this is the guy responsible for one of the worst big budget horror flicks of the 90's, namely Anaconda (1997) which is a film I hate with a passion & guess what? I also hate The Specialist as well, luckily after both this & Anaconda tanked at the box-office & were critically torn to pieces Llosa hasn't been allowed to make an American film since, there is a god after all... Anyway, the script by Alexandra Seros which takes itself far too seriously was 'suggested' by the Specialist novels by John Shirley & is terrible, for a start there's barely any action in it & the scene set on the bus where Stallone beats up some thugs is so pointless & utterly irrelevant to the plot it sticks out like a sore thumb & smacks of a re-shoot in an attempt to up the action quota. In fact all The Specialist offers in terms of action are a couple of exploding vehicles & some large explosions at the end otherwise this is one of the least action packed big budget Stallone flicks I've ever seen. The character's are awful, the dialogue is awful, the story is utterly predictable & pedestrian with virtually no reason given why Ned wants to kill Ray at this point or no reason why May's parents were originally murdered & at nearly two hours long it's a real chore to sit through. I really, really dislike The Specialist & would call it more of a thriller than an action flick although I'm betting the trailer makes it look like it's full of explosions & action scenes but just don't be fooled because it isn't.Director Llosa is an awful director & it's no surprise no respectable studio has let him go anywhere near a film camera since this & Anaconda, there are so many scenes in The Specialist which are played straight & meant to generate tension & excitement but are so poorly & ineptly handled they come across as laughable. The opening scene where trained assassin Stallone suddenly develops a conscience is stupid, the scene in the police station where James Woods threatens an entire room of cops with a homemade bomb is ridiculous as the cops would have shot his head off, the sex scene between Stallone & Stone is one of the most unerotic & frankly ugly pieces of film I've ever seen & James Woods losing it in front of all those cops & telling them all to shut up is just hilarious & his character comes across like some sort of clown rather than the hard as nails bad guy he should have. Apart from when Stallone beats some punks up on a bus there's no fights, there's no shooting, there's no car chases & the only explosions worth mentioning are right at the very end if you can make it that far.With a supposed budget of about $45,000,000 The Specialist was a well funded film although I struggled to see where the money went although Stallone was paid $15,000,000 to be in it so I guess there's my answer. Apparently Steven Seagal only wanted $9,000,000 to star & direct so why didn't Warner Bros. go with him? Well they didn't want to pay him that much so they went to Stallone who only wanted an extra $6,000,000 anyway... To be honest this feels like a low budget straight to video Seagal flick, it really does. The acting is terrible from all involved, Stallone is even more wooden than usual, Stone is just plain awful & not particularly good looking in this while the usually superb James Woods is left trying to make the best of a terrible script & a rubbish character but even he ends up looking somewhat embarrassed.The Specialist is a terrible film which I hated when I saw it back in the 90's & still hate now when I saw it but a few hours ago, there's nothing much more I can say other than I personally think it's complete rubbish except some decent explosions at the end which aren't worth waiting for. "},{"Title":"Stinker","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sylvester Stallone has never been a good actor. And yes, when i say that i also count Rocky I, Rambo I and Cop Land. The difference there was that he actually played the role of someone who was more or less beaten into a retarded state which fit his personality and screen presence more or less perfect. Anyway, i'm never expecting much from Mr. Stallone but this movie is still a little crap-smelling gem among his work.I don't know why i enjoy movies that are awful, i always have. At least to a certain extent. And this movie is certainly awful. The action scenes are crap, the attempts at a thriller are soon smashed by Stallones complete lack of talent and everything more or less completely collapses before the end. There is really only one redeeming factor here and that is James Woods. You can say a lot of things about him but he's usually good, even when everything else stinks. I don't know if good is the word for his performance here, entertaining is probably more like it.So what sucks about the movie? More or less everything. The story is pathetic, Sharon Stone is weak, Stallone is awful, the effects are lame... Need i go on? Yes i do. This movie also contains the least erotic sex-scene in movie history. Sylvester Stallone stands eyeballing his own muscles and doing ridiculous poses while a naked Sharon Stone in vain tries to get his attention. When she finally does, sane people have already tuned out.Why does a crappy movie always seem even more crappy when it looks expensive? I don't know, and neither do you probably. Well, there is something to think about while avoiding this stinker. I rate it 2/10 and that leaves the score at.. James Woods 2 - Rest of movie 0. "},{"Title":"Big Dumb Sly trying to resurrect his career...","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Stupid movie about specialist hitman (Stallone) who teams up with a beautiful, busty woman (Stone) and goes on the run from criminal James Woods. Loads of big explosions and fight scenes. Not much interest. I prefer Stallone as Rocky.Arnold's still the best action star out there. "}]