[{"Title":"Star Trek Matriarchy","Date":"6 July 2015","Score":"43 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers AheadWell, did you like seeing how far we have come from the Icon of the 60s James Tiberius Kirk? You could beat on him all day; three or four guys at a time, he gets back up on his feet bloody and bruised. Then, he kicks your butt. Look, what we have here. A bald, emaciated, little baby girl that cries like she lost her dolly. Well, I can tell you one experience Rene will not have to endure seeing Uncle Jean Luc crying like a little baby girlie who wet her panties. What a sight! See, ladies we do not find this endearing like you do; as the instrument of castration Troi looks on approvingly. We do not call it vulnerable; to us, and all real men it is neutering. This was preceded by the sailing ship where we were taught that it is funny to push men into the water but very wrong and inappropriate to do so to a woman. Their crew is so pathetic. We have the token Klingon castrated just enough to no longer be threatening to the matriarchy. God help this country if we are ever attacked with these men to save us. Soren is the only person capable of acting in the movie. How I wished he would unleash a little of the old ultra-violence on this cast. Yes, Data the worst stand up comedian in the universe. I would have fixed that emotion chip quickly for him.Could I ask a question? If you could travel anywhere temporally, why on earth would you go to a moment where the physical battle's outcome was problematic? Any person with a working brain would have gone into the distant past where Soren was alone and helpless; years before any of this was taking place. I can answer it for you. Because they would have to kill him, Trekkies cannot do that sort of thing, that is a no no. We saw that in Insurrection where never mind if the particles would help trillions of other people; we are not allowed to use force for good. We might hurt someone's feelings. See, if by progressive, instead of my word decadence, the word is inaccurate unless you mean progressing off the side of a cliff suicidally. Could Kirk's death have been more insignificant and ignominious? I am not a Trekkie, Thank God, but I grew up with Kirk. This is the death scene you wrote for him? Contrast to Spock's noble death in Wrath Of Khan. What a piece of crap this movie was!! You can see why most of the original crew refused to be in it. Why Shatner allowed the Icon that he was to be sullied like this is beyond me. Watch some of the original episodes, please. The sight of the Icon with Baby No Tears who has the temerity to lecture all of us on death. Gee, leave that to the warriors amongst us, stick to playing with your dollies. If I had weeped like a three year old little girlie, I would not presume to speak about death to anyone. How do you think the Kirk of the 60s would have reacted to weepy baldy? The movie is to the TNG crew what Star Trek 5 God Wants Out Of The Movie was to the original crew. Nemesis was bad but it had lots of action and excitement; this is boring, maudlin, emasculated and features the pathetic death of a legend of the 1960s that boys like myself grew up wanting to be; we did not choose emaciated, weepy, bald weaklings. The movie is a minus 100. "},{"Title":"Hands down- The WORST Trek film","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"34 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This was truly the worst of the Trek films, brought down by its own hubris. Let's look at its sins. * Killing the Greatest hero in SF for no good reason. * Destroying the Enterprise-D for no good reason. * Killing Picard's loved ones for no good reason. * Turning Picard into a crying sissy-boy. * Turning Kirk into a jerk. * Turning Data into a babbling idiot.In some ways, time has undermined this film. In 1994, one could see TNG and TOS as almost equals. Since then, the Next Generation crew has diminished in stature, while the Original Series crew has risen. (Why else would they recast it in ST-XI?) But the reality is that this just isn't a very good film and never will be. It's dramatic flourishes are diminished by how badly they are handled. Come on, not only killing Kirk, the greatest hero that Science Fiction has ever produced, but then killing him with SCAFFOLDING? It like having John Wayne break his neck tripping over the spittoon in the saloon! The films other fault is that it is too derivative of TNG. You'd have to have seen those episodes to know who these characters are. "},{"Title":"Welcome To Wasted Opporunity City","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Been home nursing an emergency tooth extraction over the past week and nothing was able to assuage the misery like wallowing in Star Trek. I watched a bunch of the cartoon shows & made myself come to grips with THE FINAL FRONTIER (re Shatner's movie), which managed to be fun when regarded as a study in applied narcissism. But boy how I dislike GENERATIONS, and won't be watching it, though I decided to try and deal with my feelings about it once and for all.I think its a cop-out, a cheap sloughing off of responsibility that should have been handled with graceful dignity. This is not the way that I will remember Star Trek. I say that because for me the essence of Star Trek is James Tiberius Kirk, watching him grow & learn. I switched on the spoiler warning disgronifier in case you are not aware that Captain Kirk dies in this movie, and for absolutely no reason at all. It was as if to say his learning curve was arbitrarily being concluded in a re-write, even changing the way he died from the original script (two versions were filmed) for reasons that have never been explained to my satisfaction.I had learned to like TNG and her crew by the time the film premiered, though I think that Tourette's Guy is probably right when he addressed what Brent Spiner is up to these days. Google it if you don't know what I mean, I always despised Data. He was a decent plot device and they did come up with at least one great episode where they got him a sweet girlfriend with nice legs, but enough with the emotion chip already, OK? It's clear that his model was incompatible for the input, they had long milked the gimmick dry, and it turned him into a jerk.I did like watching the saucer section crash, which in a theater looked about as believable as Godzilla destroying Yokohama, enhancing the enjoyment. The producers knew we would get off on seeing it and were so kind as to show the mayhem twice, providing the film with it's two most interesting sequences, thoughtfully shot from different angles for variety. But the rest of the treatment left me cold. I didn't give a damn about the Nexus, which sounded pretty swell compared to graduate school. I went with my fiancée at the time, smuggling in a flask of blackberry brandy so we could drink a toast to Kirk when he finally bought the farm. Turns out the bottle was 3/4's empty by then due to the draining experience of watching the film. Which looked muddy and rushed, filled with subplots that went nowhere, cameos by assorted Next Generation personalities which distracted from the focus, and a forced sentiment that was at odds with my own feelings about the show.Which was great, don't get me wrong! Heck the TNG episode Tapestry is one of Star Trek's finest hours, whichever series that turned up in rocked. It was just that the series run had come to an end with a superb show-stopper of its own. There was no unfinished business left to attend to, no need to pass the baton as producer Rick Berman put it, by having the Original Series crew and Next Generation crew appear in a film at all. The classic crew made a rousing, emotional exit in the very satisfying THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY. Kirk had said himself in the soliloquy that it was the final adventure for that crew, but by forcing the issue Shatner became the proverbial drunk who wouldn't leave after the party was obviously over.Which in many ways turns out to be the case as Shatner used his studio muscle to not just get himself written into the picture but threatening to direct at one point. The whole subplot involving Kirk is a distraction from the rest of the story and feels superimposed, though yes, the horse riding scenes with Picard are nice. But if they had to happen at the expense of the dignity of Kirk's character then they were as unwelcome as his demise. Shatner also bullied himself into the film specifically to have his character killed off heroically, then posited himself to come back in the 2009 prequel film, as if. I now realize he deserved to be left out of that one, having cast his fate already. It was about time someone made Bill keep his place in the line after such an unnecessary curtain call.Kirk deserved a better movie to go out in, or rather his own movie if it was that damn important. And I say it wasn't Why kill off anyone in the Star Trek universe at all if there are an infinite number of ways to bring them back? Emotional death scenes suck, and it made the film perfunctory or formulaic in my eyes, trying to fix what wasn't broke in the first place. On its own the Next Generation crew's story was pretty good, and from what I've read a lot of what they would have been doing ended up being chopped out to make room for Kirk's scenes back when A-list talent movies at least didn't run three friggen hours. This crew was short changed, eventually coming back to make at least one good feature in FIRST CONTACT, though by then my heart just wasn't in it anymore in part due to GENERATIONS.So I don't know. I thought maybe I had confused my feelings for the woman I had gone to see this with the film itself, which I have seen since on home video and didn't like any more. Actually less, wishing I'd had more of that blackberry brandy or at least a six pack of Romulan ale. Here is a Star Trek movie that will drive a classic series fan to drink, and that isn't ever a pretty thing.4/10 "},{"Title":"I'll take the 5th over this!","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" People used to complain about how bad the 5th Star Trek movie was but I'll take that one any day over this annoying stinker. At least Final Frontier had some funny character moments whereas in the is film the Next Generation crew come off as a bit lifeless with the exception of Picard and Data (which is unfortunate in the latter case).Generations was a pointless picture that did not need to be made. It would be better if they had started the next generation movies with First Contact (and stopped there).The main plot - a bad guy wants to get into a happy magic land that floats around the galaxy like a giant red ribbon in space. In order to accomplish this he shoots rockets into suns in order to change the direction of the ribbon so he can hitch a ride.Who authorized this mess?The Starship Enterprise has to stop him but Captain Picard can't do it alone so he brings in help from the past in the form of legendary Captain James T Kirk. The two captains then proceed to get into a punch-up with Malcolm McDowell and (spoiler!) Kirk dies from a falling bridge. Yep, that's the epic death of Captain Kirk. He doesn't save the whole galaxy by ramming a starship into a doomsday machine or go down fighting blood-crazed Klingons. He falls off a bridge trying to save some planet we never see or heard of before trying to stop a crazy old guy from shooting rockets into suns so he could go to a magical happy land. Dying peacefully in bed would have been better than this ignominy. Added to this fiasco are the painfully not funny scenes with Data and his emotion chip. It was desperately being played up for laughs for the movie-going audience whom the film-makers must have thought of as idiots.I will say I did like the scenes between Kirk and Picard when they were in the magic ribbon (called the Nexus). I just wish those scenes had been in a much better movie than this. Also the beginning of the film with Kirk, Scotty, and Chekov though unnecessary was nice.Overall I cannot recommend this movie unless you like Rifftraxs who do one on this film. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"14 June 2008","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I remember when this first came out I thought Wonderful. Kirk and Picard in the same movie Sadly, I was disappointed. Don't get me wrong, it's not that it's bad. It just could have been so much better. It feels like Star Trek - The Understairs Cupboard Clearout. Don't need Kirk any more so we'll kill him off. Enterprise D? We'll get a new ship. And there's the Duras sisters lurking at the back. We certainly won't want those any more.Kirk's role is so short lived it was hardly worth bringing him back (and watching Shatner waddle around makes me think they should have called the film Star Trek 7 - The Search for Kirk's Waistline). As for Kirk's death scene that was just an insult. Falling off a bridge. It's what I'd do, not a space legend (still don't know why there's an iron bridge on an uninhabited planet)There's also an irrelevant subplot featuring Data and his emotion chip, though Data's life form song is a great moment.Overall, a wasted opportunity "},{"Title":"'Generations' Revisited","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I was for some reason compelled to put this into the old DVD player last night, and was pleasantly surprised. After 2009's big-budget reboot (which I was duly dazzled and entertained by), this comes off as a think piece/art film in comparison, and a time capsule from a period where 'Star Trek' was everything Gene Roddenberry wanted it to be- cerebral, compassionate, and thoughtful- and people were eating it up by the millions.I recall being thoroughly underwhelmed by this in the late 90's- my younger self, like many others, was expecting a bombastic 'Event' movie- Kirk was meeting Picard, for crying out loud! But instead of a ripping, old-style Star Trek space opera, we got K&P meeting in a log cabin, while Kirk made breakfast, followed by an extended pony ride in which Kirk's character does little but support the story's themes of mortality. And you know what? That's FINE!I recalled Roger Ebert's review of the second 'X-Files' movie, in which he called it refreshing, adding that it was heartening to see a summer franchise film that didn't have a villain as big as a building. 'Generations' doesn't have a villain at all- it has an energy ribbon, and a scientist who desperately wants to harness that ribbon's power after a personal tragedy. What it does have are several indelible sci-fi images (the ribbon approaching Dr. Soran on the mountaintop, the Enterprise-D saucer touching down on a planet's surface) and an abundance of class. This is a gem of a film that now seems to hearken from an era when every genre film didn't have to be shown on a three-storey screen and have 3-D shrapnel flying at the audience throughout. "},{"Title":"An In-Depth Review","Date":"17 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" One does have to admire Star Trek Generations and what it tries to do. In short, it is given the difficult task of having to bring closure in two ways 1. Closure for the character of Kirk, who's been around since the beginning of all Star Trek, and 2. Closure for the TNG series, which had just wrapped, and now had to destroy their Enterprise-D set before moving to further adventures. For the most part, you have a success until the last act.We start with a prologue with Kirk, Scotty, and Chekov which is well done, plus it's nice too see Alan Ruck show up. Kirk acts a little different than he does in the TOS movies (more on that later). There is then a clever transition to 80 years later, aboard the holodeck. For the next hour and a half, you have a great ST movie. All the TNG cast is there and Riker, Troi, Crusher, and Whoopi Goldberg are all GIVEN SOMETHING TO DO (this became a problem in the later movies, which focused on Picard and Data, and the rest of the gang felt tacked on). The story is solid, there're moments of humor, philosophical ideas behind the Nexus, and Malcolm McDowell plays a nice villain; he doesn't have much screen time, but is still well acted and had a great backstory.Where the film starts to falter is when Kirk and Picard meet side by side. The scenes fall flat for several reasons 1. The idea of the two of them meeting sounds great in theory and may excite fans, but the truth is that they're very different characters, don't really have the best chemistry or make all that great a team. 2. The premise of the Nexus starts to seem contrived, just a plausible explanation so both characters can meet, and it raises more questions than anything else. 3. The biggest problem of all is that Shatner never seems to fully get into the character of Kirk. He plays him as just a character making one-liners, winking at the camera; he knows he's just making an extended cameo. This may really be the fault of the script's; Ronald D. Moore and Brannon Braga had written for TNG and had never written Kirk's character before. That leads into the ending...MAJOR SPOILER! Others have said so before me the emotional impact of Kirk's death is somewhat lost because he is a supporting character in this story, and we do not see him grow very much. This is not to say it's all bad; I do very much like the idea that Picard is the only witness to his predecessor's death.And that's Generations pretty much. Great film right up till the end. One Final Note it's become a well-known story that Brent Spiner hates cats and when filming the scene when Data is reunited with his cat, he remarked Does it have to be the cat? Couldn't he find Geordi? Frankly, I think that would've worked MUCH BETTER, and been a great redemption for Data. Shame they didn't follow his advice.The result is a good ST film, but not as great as the classics in the series 2, 4, 6, and 8. "},{"Title":"Loved It!!! Great Transition From Old to New Generation","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"59 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Despite some other people's reviews on this site, I thought this was an EXCELLENT Star Trek film.  In fact, this is probably one of my favorites of the films.  I thought everything about this film was above average, the story, the special effects, the acting, the directing...EVERYTHING!I thought the story was absolutely brilliant and quite inventive.  I really loved seeing the two captains fighting and working together.  Also, I love the idea of this place, The Nexus, a place where time has no meaning, you can relive all of your favorite memories and your dreams become a reality.  I thought the story was excellent.The special effects in this film were definitely above par!  There are several scenes that just made my jaw hit the floor because they looked so good and were done so well.  I've noticed a few people have complained that they used the exact same footage of the Klingon bird-of-prey exploding that was used in Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country, but I say if they're going to use some archive footage to save some money and put that money into the other special effects that they need for the movie, more power to them !  Besides, the scene is such a tiny scene in the movie and it wasn't the climax of the film anyway, so where's the problem?The acting and directing are top notch in this film.  I thought all of the actors did a fantastic job.  William Shatner pulls off a great performance in his final Star Trek film, as well as James Doohan and Walter Koenig.  The Next Generation cast does a great job as well, Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Michael Dorn, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Marina Sirtis, Gates McFadden and Whoopi Goldberg all pulled off great performances!  Malcolm McDowell did a fantastic job as the antagonist in this film!  I also really enjoyed seeing Alan Ruck and Jenette Goldstein in the film, although they both had very small roles.All in all, I thought this was a great addition to the Star Trek series and a great transition from the original Star Trek crew to the new Star Trek crew.  Also, I love this film because you need to know very little about the original Star Trek films to enjoy this film.  The only thing you need to know is that James T. Kirk (William Shatner) is the star of the original films and that Scotty (James Doohan) and Chekov (Walter Koenig) co-starred.  Also...it may be useful to know that Commander Sulu was another one of the original crew members (but not terribly important).  Anyhow, I would definitely recommend this film to any sci-fi fan and to anyone that likes the Star Trek films.  I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Prepare to be disappointed","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The two preeminent captains of Star Trek come together in the same film and it should have been an experience to satisfy every Trekker's nerd fantasy but alas it wasn't. There was a lame plot where the cartoonishly mad scientist villain Dr. Soren engineers the destruction of a planet to change the course of and once more be part of the Nexus, a dimensional fantasy world where Picard and Kirk live out the lives they wished they had made for themselves. Of course Picard convinces Kirk to help him change the events created by Soren and the Nexus apparently allows for time travel as well as being a fantasy paradise type place. This doesn't really resemble a film but seems more like a two-part episode of the TNG series, albeit a very bad one. Geordi LaForge is taken prisoner and turned into an unwitting spy by the Duras sisters and Data gets turned into a grinning idiot by his emotion chip as well. Aside those things the writers destroy Picard's character in this film through the needless deaths of his family making him seem to have a problem just being in command. Picard was a great captain-strong, compassionate, determined. He was treated badly in this film. As for Kirk, his death seems a little cheap. This entry into the Star Trek franchise was a huge disappointment. "},{"Title":"What a waste of a film","Date":"29 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers ahead! Let me start this review by saying there are only really two movies in my life that have utterly let me down, left me feeling cheated, and completely disappointed. Generations was one of the two. First I'll start with what I liked. (this will be short) The design of the enterprise B, with the excelsior design being one of my all time favorite star ship designs. Also the special effects were pretty good. Its was cool to see Kirk, and Picard on screen together.Now what I didn't like about this movie. This movie had the potential to be the best trek of them all. By pairing out both the original crew, and next gen crew. What was handed to us was a waste of a movie, and the waste of a great character.Kirk had only 30 minutes of screen time in the film so it was more like a cameo. So the audience was tricked by the marketing as to making you think he would be through the whole thing.The lighting in this movie was terrible. It was always dark on the enterprise D. I really don't know what they were trying to accomplish with this.The music was depressing, and overly sentimental. A complaint I would have about all the next gen films. Listing to the score of this film it kept saying to me Hey this is kirks last film cry your eyes out he not coming back.This music combine with Picard learning his family burned to death in a fire. The destruction of the enterprise D, Data crying over his cat spot, and finally the lousy way they killed kirk. The movie was just a depressing downer.Finally the biggest nail in the coffin the death of kirk. Why did they kill him off? He could have lived and stayed in the 24th century. It seemed they killed him off just for the sake of killing him off. Also kirk dies as the catwalk he clings to gives out? Pretty poor send off to give such an great character.When I first heard about this movie being made I was really excited. I was expecting a full blown epic cross over of the full original cast, and their ship. With the next gen cast, and their ship. What I got was a pale, poorly done slap to the face of what could have been.I'll end this review with this. This bad poorly done movie, and the killing of kirk would come back to haunt me once more years later in 2009. When the new star trek film was release featuring Leonard Nimoy, and a recast of the original crew characters. See they tried to include Shatner in this film some how. Which if they did would have been awesome. Alas they couldn't because why? Kirk was killed off in generations. Which made me despise star trek generations even more. "}{"Title":"The Trek Movie That Should NEVER Have Been!  Spoilers","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" When it was first announced that Generations was being made with cast members of both TOS & TNG, I was excited. Despite the highly-publicised fact that Captain Kirk was gonna bite the dust in this one, I had high hopes, recalling how the death of Spock was handled in The Wrath of Khan. Not to mention, with the TNG series finale', All Good Things..., being soooooooo good, a TNG big-screen outing that combines the casts of both series HAS to be even MORE spectacular!!!However, what we were treated to was a murky, discombobulated outing that essentially wasted the talents & screen presences of Jimmy Doohan, Walter Koenig, Jonathan Frakes, Mirina Sirtis, Gates McFadden & Michael Dorn. The scenes that featured William Shatner, Patrick Stewart, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, & Malcolm McDowell were spotty at best, though Patrick Stewart was given ample time to emote.The three cast members of TOS (Shatner, Doohan, & Koenig) all did fine jobs (as always!) with what they had to work with, but it's obvious that the roles the latter two wound up with were written for Leonard Nimoy & DeForest Kelley. Chekov as a medic & Scotty as a science officer? Not that they couldn't do it in a pinch, but the dialogue could've at least been re-written to suit the characters. However, it speaks volumes that Nimoy & Kelley turned down the parts once they'd read the script.The lighting on this film is one of the most frustrating aspects of watching it, from a technical standpoint. Everything appears in ambient lighting, which is something that was rarely done on either TOS or TNG. When Will Riker walks out of Picard's ready room, he walks onto the bridge in almost pitch blackness. HUH?!Also, what's with each crew member changing uniforms every time they come back from an away mission? START with the new uniforms & let it stand at that!The biggest complaint I have about this movie is the fact that co-writer Brannon Braga admitted from the get-go that he was not a classic Trek fan & had always wanted to kill off Captain Kirk if the two casts ever met on screen. As I stated earlier, the death of Spock in Trek II was handled tastefully &, as Kirk stated in his eulogy, his sacrifice (was not) a vain or empty one. Spock's death actually SERVED a purpose. Braga simply wanted to kill Kirk, & it shows in the lack of depth with which it was handled. Classic Trek fan or not, if it hadn't been for Shatner & Co., Braga wouldn't have enjoyed the lucrative coattail-riding career he's had for almost 20 years. He needs to be a lot more respectful of his elders.The shoddy plotpoints that lead up to Kirk's first death in the 23rd century are hackneyed & poorly written. For Starfleet to assign a young, bumbling officer as the captain of their flagship is not only ludicrous, but also ill-conceived. I guess he was trying to make some type of political statement about the military as a large, unthinking collective, but he wound up insulting a, if you'll pardon the bad pun, generation of fans who grew up watching a Star Trek series where Starfleet was adept at assigning officers who could handle crises without looking over their shoulder or having to call home every time. I know this was designed to make Kirk look good & still vital despite his retirement, but it only served to make Starfleet & their newly-chosen crew look like nothing more than a bunch of buffoons & publicity hounds.The attempts at trying to tie in loose ends from TNG (Lursa & B'Etor) was a hindrance that could've been done without. They had no logical place in this movie; it was a contrivance that Dr Soran just so happened to contact two Klingon sisters (or maybe they contacted him -- who knows, who cares?) who had it in for Picard & could help him with his plight if he helped them with theirs.The emotion chip scenes with Data, while being far better utilised in ensuing TNG films, were forced, & I don't know if Brent Spiner is to blame for that or the writers. TNG always had a healthy dose of humour in it, but throughout the film, I kept waiting to hear a muted trumpet blaring waa-waa-WAAAAAAA! after every one of Data's lines once he'd installed the emotion chip. And the one word of profanity spoken in the movie was spoken by Spiner in a lame attempt by the writers to garner cheap laughs from an already insulted audience.Bringing in Guinan as a bridge to explain what the Nexus was & what it did was overkill. While it's generally a welcome thing to see Guinan, her scenes were a bit too pat & explanatory (not to mention they were forcibly reiterated when Picard finally confronted Dr Soran face-to-face) & again, a character's presence was wasted by being reduced to, what Ridley Scott termed, Irving The Explainer. Let's have a little mystery here folks! Who's this madman destroying stars? Why's he doing it? Guinan, care to espouse for me? Thank you! As I said, a bit too pat & FAR too pandering a mentality for a Trek film.Another thing (& this has always irritated me about TNG) that really bothered me about the whole Picard-going-to-rescue-Kirk-from-the-Nexus-&-save-the-universe-one-last-time nonsense is that Picard has always been portrayed as a little bit TOO perfect. Kirk, like any other human being, made occasional mistakes, & his foibles made him all the more identifiable with the audience. Not so with Picard; he was always depicted as right, regardless of the situation. Granted, here, Picard had foreknowledge of the Nexus & how it affected those within it while Kirk didn't, but to suggest that Picard would be less susceptible to the wiles of the Nexus than Kirk is ridiculous. Braga really goes out of his way to say MY captain's better than YOUR captain! with this one.(BTW -- I know Ron Moore co-wrote this script with Braga, but the points I bring up are the ones where Braga had his hands in a bit too heavily.)And, finally, we have the death of Kirk.Spock died saving the Enterprise from the obsessions of a madman. Kirk died saving a solar system from the obsessions of a madman.The difference? How it was handled.Spock's death was poignant to the point of tears. The only reason Kirk's death caused tears is because it was so senseless. Whether it's the original ending where Kirk, after saving the solar system, is shot in the back by Dr Soran, or the theatrical ending where Kirk, after saving the solar system, FALLS OFF A BRIDGE (!!), the death is pointless. Hey, Jean-Luc... look! I've saved the universe one last time, like we agreed. Now I'm gonna go off & die somewhere.Puh-LEASE!!Kirk doesn't even get a decent burial for cryin' out loud! At least Gary Mitchell gave Kirk a tombstone!! Picard dumps his body under a pile of rocks & places his battered Starfleet insignia atop it, then calls his ship to pick him up. How friggin' TOUCHING. I'm all choked up just thinking about it.TNG was able to redeem itself, very much like the cast of TOS did, in their subsequent films. I regard Generations as I do Star Trek The Motion Picture; it was a gawd-AWFUL movie, but it laid the groundwork for some really fine films to get made.And that's REALLY the only reason this movie should still exist. "},{"Title":"My, how disgustingly tragic","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  So, let me get this straight... we've got a movie that has an underlying purpose to pass the torch from Kirk to Picard, right?  Okay, instance one of movie falling on face.  I swear, that's one of the worst ideas I've ever seen to have a hero ushered out of the series.SPOILER To tell you the truth, the way Kirk died at the beginning of the movie was infintely better, without question.  Heroic act, self-sacrifice and fate finally caught up with him.  Terrific.  Leave him dead.  Almost makes me glad that in the Star Trek universe that's how he's remembered.Instance 2 of movie falling on faceSPOILER AGAIN Why oh why do we have to wreck the Enterprise D?  Perhaps one of the absolute greatest starships ever seen in the entire franchise, it has that epic look to it that the flagship of the series needs.  It has a way to safeguard non-combatants.  It has a buttload of weaponry that can and has been used to beat down some pretty nasty threats.  Here's the biggest bone of contention The Enterprise D has beaten the Borg more than once and it's killed by a Klingon ship.  Not just any Klingon ship, mind you.  Not even a battleship, but their smallest combat ship, the Bird of Prey.  I don' care how they did it, the fact that it was a Klingon ship (don't bother referring to the sisters, unless you tell about them in the movie for people that may not have watched the series, forget it), but it was a Bird of Prey!In case you haven't noticed, I find this to be an insult against Star Trek and a crime against humanity.  Any hate mail?  Write it out, put my email in the address box and delete the whole thing because you aren't changing my mind. "},{"Title":"They Should Have Ended It After The Last One","Date":"1 July 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations*1/2 (out of 4)113 mins/ PGCast Patrick Stewart, Jonathan Frakes, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Michael Dorn, Gates McFadden, Marina Sirtis, William Shatner, James Doohan, Whoopi Goldberg, Walter Koenig, Malcolm McDowell, Alan RuckDirector David CarsonPlot Captain Picard must team up with Captain Kirk to stop a crazy scientist from destroying a whole planetary system in order to enter a world of happiness. JJ's Verdict Many believe that Star Trek V The Final Frontier is the worst of the series. I however, believe that Star Trek Generations is the worst of the series. After the success of Star Trek VI, Paramount must have been wondering what to do with what has at that point, become a great franchise. Of course, bring in a new cast and start again with Star Trek. Now this would have been fine, had they decided that some people (actually quite a lot of people) had never seen The Next Generation TV series and so needed a nice and easy to understand introduction to the characters. However, they didn't bother to introduce us to any of the characters or their backgrounds, or their relationships with other characters, or even their names until about half way through (and still you're struggling to remember who is who). Further on in the film, they want you to feel emotional towards these characters, but you can't because, as the viewer, you have no connection with them. This new crew and ship, set in the 24th century, while not a bad bunch of characters, do not capture the magic of the original crew and considering they had been on a TV show for 7 years, their chemistry is extremely poor and lacklustre. Now to the actual plot.... Kirk is guest of honour on the maiden voyage of the Enterprise B. But when a mysterious energy ribbon forces the Enterprise to save the ship's passengers, it comes at a cost the death of Captain Kirk. Meanwhile, eighty years into the future, Captain Picard of the Enterprise D is up against evil scientist Soran, who is destroying planets so that he can reach Nexus, a mind matrix of happiness. Needing help, Picard somehow finds Kirk in the Nexus and the two team up to defeat Soran. Although the film is marketed as a battle involving captains from past and future, Shatner's role in the film is nothing more than a glorified cameo and you end up wondering whether Picard actually needs Kirk. Their scenes, although fun and full of references that Trekkies will love, are extremely silly and unnecessarily boring and slow. Throughout the film, threatening situations appear out of nowhere and while the action pieces are well set-up they are confusingly executed. Many other things are confusing and unexplained like how Picard gets out of the Nexus and it never tells the viewer how much time travel actually happens in this film. The only positives in this horrendous film are the short appearances of James Doohan and Walter Koenig as their original crew characters and the performances of British actors Patrick Stewart and Malcolm McDowell as Picard and Soran. Stewart has such a commanding presence on screen and the way he deals with emotional stress with his ageing self is superior to Shatner's in past instalments. Malcolm McDowell, most famous for playing a psychopath in Stanley Kubrick's ultra violent A Clockwork Orange, is both freaky and frightening in a very good performance. With three screen icons in its cast, it seems ridiculous that Star Trek Generations could be anything but good. Of course, it doesn't work that way in the film industry and even actors as good as Shatner, Stewart and McDowell can't stop this series 7th instalment from being a downright failure. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"10 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a poor transition to the next generation. Perhaps this is why the next generation never caught on. The premise is flawed that Captain Kirk would apparently die saving his crew only to be suspended somewhere in time until some 80 years later when he is released. Then Kirk gets to work with Captain Picard and help him kill the bad guy only to get killed himself and then Picard is the only person with him when he dies.Star Trek could have made a much better movie. They should have employed a storyline where Kirk and his crew stumble upon a future problem and travel through time to help bail out Picard's crew. Thus, the experience of Kirk trumps the technology of Picard. Also, Picard and crew could drop hints about Kirk and his crew's fate. Then at the end of the movie we could have Picard and his crew watch Kirk and crew go back in time. That is how the baton should have been handed over to the generations team.I caught this movie on TV today and it looks stiff and dated. "},{"Title":"This movie is Star Trek gold.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Being a big fan of Star Trek, this movie came with shear excitement to me. I had seen every Original Cast movie (That's Star Trek 1-6), and was ecstatic to see my favorite crew up on the screen. The movie starts with a tragedy that the Original Crew experienced 70 years before the Next Generation, and ends by taking it and clashing it with an approaching disaster which the Next Generation crew needs to stop. It certainly shows the true nature of Kirk and Picard. The phrase Make a difference is said often, because that's the moral of the film.But, when the two most legendary captains of all time combine their strengths, their unstoppable... or are they? "},{"Title":"Stodgy end for the original crew","Date":"14 October 2014","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" STAR TREK GENERATIONS was widely heralded as the cross-over movie that featured crews from both the original 1960s STAR TREK along with the cast of STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION. Unfortunately it's pretty much a failure on both counts, coming across as a particularly stodgy extended TV episode.The problem with the original cast is that there are only three of them, and the biggies (Nimoy, Kelly) are missing. Meanwhile, Doohan and Koenig only get a few scenes in the beginning. Shatner does better, but even he's kept off-screen for a great deal of time, leaving this a shambles. Personally I was left waiting for his return as the film inevitably picks up whenever he's around.The stuff with the new crew is largely embarrassing, particularly a never-ending sub-plot involving Data getting an emotion chip which leads to some of the lamest, most embarrassing comedy ever. It just has no place in a film like this, and it feels like the writer was just attempting to fill up the running time. Patrick Stewart is equally wasted, moping about with his non-existent family. At least Malcolm McDowell gives a decent turn as the villain, and the film's pretty entertaining when it focuses on him and Kirk; so the first half hour and the last half hour are the decent bits, and the rest is rather dull, silly, and stodgy. "},{"Title":"Extremely poor dialogue, NOT redeemed in any way","Date":"22 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" To illustrate the horrible-ness of the film to the best, Star Trek Generations is to the original crew films as to what Star Wars The Phantom Menace is to the original Star Wars trilogy. Horrible! Whilst perhaps not as horrible as The Phantom Menace and the two horrid sequels that followed, Star Trek Generations gets plenty wrong for what is yet another perfect illustration of a horrible Star Trek film and perfectly justifies the statement that all Star Trek films with an odd number are poor, with the exception of The Search for Spock.Following the presumed death of Captain James T. Kirk, over 70 years later, The Enterprise has fallen into the hands of Captain Picard who deals with family strains whilst a new threat is under way. A surviver of an accident, that isn't carefully explained nor dealt with, has begun his attack on a star that when destroyed, will somehow give way to be able to visit the Nexus, which is a dream like world that presents the best and the happiest moments to anyone and everyone.The film suffers on almost every single aspect. The story is poor, but it goes even beyond this. It's not just a poor story and poor writing, but the story leaves no impact on us, as we have no idea who these new characters are. Much like how the original crew were first presented in Star Trek The Motion Picture, the characters here are presented extremely ridiculously and annoyingly, the greatest of them being Data, who could have come off as an interesting android for the remainder of this franchise but is literally depicted as Jar Jar Binks. Now, it is clearly evident where George Lucas got his influence from. See, Spock was a fatherly figure and a wise man and was an interesting and likable character. Data is supposed to be a similar character but here is presented in the most horrid manner much like how we were apparently supposed to view Jar Jar as a Yoda type character. Such event is referred to as deliberately taking a sh*t on one's head! Data is annoying and is horrible jokes about an emotion chip and how he is suddenly able to understand jokes that were told years ago is not funny, its downright ridiculous. And not in a good way like in Monty Python and the Holy Grail. This character should've been presented far better and horrible writing is clearly evident here. Not only is Data poorly written, so is Picard who throughout the film deals with such family issues, having recently received the news that his family has died. Two things make this completely a forgettable and unnecessary sub plot to the film This is the first time we even know who Picard is. There is obviously no reference in the original series due to the fact that this takes place over 70 years later. And secondly, the story about his family is hardly elaborated in anyway whatsoever and is instead, thrown in from the air and just left in a steady place. More poor writing is evident here. Each character is poorly written, to the fullest. The villain in the film, played by Malcolm McDowell, is yet again, another one of the many examples of poor writing in the film. His plan and his plot in the film is quickly summed up and almost never really referred to. Had he been written well, Soran could be a similar villain to Khan from the great 'Wrath of Khan'. Apparently in the film, Soran deals with personal issues of his own. Maybe&#x85;This character is hardly explained, due to horrible writing and has quite a silly and ridiculous plot. Whereas Star Trek 5 was ridiculous, it was not to this extent. The villain had a purpose that seemed more legit than here.Special effects are the same as all Star Trek films. Not great but decent enough for a pass. The acting is good, I would possibly say. Patrick Stewart as Picard is a great choice as is Malcolm McDowell as Soran but both are utterly wasted in this film. Returning is William Shatner, early on in the film as Captain James T. Kirk, in the best proportion of the film and returning late in the film in an extremely ridiculous concept.The best part of the film is the opening proportion as it cleverly resembles a good Star Trek film dealing with Kirk's desperation to get back into the captain's chair. Everything after this, is downhill&#x85; ***SPOILERS*** The film suffers a lot in every way possible but here is when it is clearly evident that this is a truly horrible film. Our main character, James T Kirk, who has been loved by all is killed at the very end of the film in the most ridiculous and one of the most anticlimactic deaths to one of the great heroes. He dies and this scene shares no emotion like good Trek films do. When your main character, that you've loved so long, is killed and you laugh, that there is the perfect example of poor writing.***END OF SPOILERS*** Star Trek Generations, is in my opinion, the second worst film of the franchise, winning the silver medal with a gold going to the first Star Trek film. This film pretty much ensures that all odd numbered Star Trek films are terrible, with one small exception. Badly written, with a lame story and undeveloped characters, due to poor writing, Star Trek Generations is an utter failure. To imagine this movie, it is the Phantom Menace of Star Trek. To illustrate, prior to the making of the film, the director realized it was the 7th instalment and that it had to be horrible, and so asked for some horrible writing and extremely poor character development This film is a complete failure in every aspect. "},{"Title":"Old meets New in mediocre adventure","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERSSo it came to pass, from one crew to another. Like everything else in this world, the Star Trek movie franchise evolved. Gone went the entire crew of the original series, gone went Spock and McCoy arguing whilst Kirk sat in the middle. To replace them came the successful crew of the Enterprise NCC 1701 - D. We lost Spock's logic and gained Data's android take on humanity. We all have a favourite crew in the Star Trek universe, Whether we love the classical touch, or the well thought out adventures of The Next Generation, or the violence of Deep Space Nine or even the almost camp style of Voyager, everyone has their own favourite. Eventually though, it was obvious that Kirk would disappear from the big screen, to be replaced by Picard. In Star Trek Generations, this would happen through a few complicated twists and turns, but it would work well and would be a nice way to pass on the torch.In this seventh film of the series, but the first to star the second crew, both Kirk and Picard are eventually united in a quest to prevent the evil Doctor Tolian Soran (Malcolm McDowell) from destroying millions of lives for his own personal goals. Combining the styles of the classical with it's replacement, we are given a union which fans have dreamt of for years.Perhaps the main problem from the offset is that this feels more like a gimmick than a proper story. It feels like the writers were fully aware that Kirk and his crew had achieved a decent send off in Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country (1991), yet they chose to abandon this in favour of bringing Kirk back one final time to team up with Picard. It seems interesting that at the beginning of the film, along with Kirk only James Doohan's Scotty and Walter Koenig's Chekov were featured. Whilst Spock made a brief cameo in an episode of this second series, as did Dr McCoy (a suitably brief conversation with Data in the pilot episode), only Doohan and Koenig were featured in this film (on a different note, Doohan had also received a cameo episode in the series where he teams up with Commander La Forge) and it is worth considering whether this was intentional or whether some of the original crew declined the possibility.In Star Trek Generations, there are some superb scenes where the franchise is alive and well, these are limited however, with Commander Data (Brent Spiner) receiving most of the highlights, most notably his lifeforms song. At the same time as with the majority of the films staring this crew, key members feel under utilised. Whilst Troi, Riker, La Forge, Data, Picard and Worf will get key story elements in the series of films, it seems strange that Gates McFadden's Doctor Crusher never really is given much to do. Part of the beauty of the original series was the way in which Kirk interacted with the members of his crew in which he had a strong history, in the Next Generation by contrast, the one member who Picard has the most history is Doctor Crusher. This storyline is never focused upon however.Anyway, in this one film, there are some beautiful lines which make the audience laugh. At the same time, Kirk's role might be gimmick based, and it might devalue the climax of the previous film, but for what it is, it is done with great tact and is a moving end of the Captain's involvement. Therefore to summarise, for what it is, Generations is worth a watch. As a way of unifying the two captains, it works well. As a way of introducing the second crew to the Big screen, it's not bad. As a way of destroying an old ship to allow for a new one, it also works superbly. However, compared with so many other films in the Star Trek catalogue, it's a mediocre effort which could have been better. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic, weird and just plain bad","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The first part of the movie isn't that shabby. It has what seems like a normal Star Trek plot with temperal distortions, people who aren't who they appear to be, and some space-action. But then it falls apart totally. From the moment Picard beams down to a rocky desert-planet, it's a total waste of your time. And after they enter a temperal distortion-field of some kind - called the Nexus, it just keeps on getting worse.*** Some minor spoilers (which don't really matter, since I hope you'll take my advice and stay away from this movie) *** Now, Star Trek isn't exactly known for being realistic. After all, they break most laws of physic in every episode. But they don't usually have enormous plotholes. This movie does. After they've entered the Nexus, Kirk & Picard decide to go back and stop the previous events from ever happening. And this is where one of the enormous plotholes is They never leave the Nexus ! If they did, they'd be floating around in space millions of kilometers from where they entered the Nexus. After all - as I understood it - the Nexus were just creating illusions for the ones inside it. So this would work about the same as The Matrix.There are a number of other huge plotholes that just makes this movie fall apart. And the slow sentimental parts of the movie takes it apart even further. Sure, the message is nice Live your life to the fullest, cause we never get any second chances. And the scenery in the Nexus and the crash of Enterprise is breathtaking, but that don't compensate for the lack of an interesting and working plot.So, instead of seeing this movie, go live your life to the fullest ! "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful, Awful","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS If you believe STVTFF is the worst trek movie, then you haven't seen this movie. This film's only decent part was with Kirk, Chekhov and Scotty. It became bad from when the TNG crew entered the spotlight. Picard tries to avoid offending the two Duras sisters, and this cost him his ship, some of his crew, the two klingon sisters, Soran, the civilization Picard tried to save and worst of all, KIRK!I don't know what went through that writer, Rick Berman's mind when he came up with the grand idea which was, in four simple words To get Kirk killed. When I thought of Kirk's death, I thought it would be while he was still in command of the Enterprise, not getting crushed by a bridge. When Kirk died, the reborn Star Trek died along with him. If we bring Kirk back, Star Trek will return to its former state of glory. Anything can happen in the Star Trek world! I would give this movie * out of **** "}{"Title":"Unfair End to Captain Kirk","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The one thing that ruined this movie was Captain Kirk's Death. not to mention that's Picard's devotion to duty is what indirectly caused it. Didn't Picard know that Kirk was RETIRED when he was dissapeared on the Enterprise B? "},{"Title":"FOR THE LOVE OF GOD.........PLEASE STOP TREKKING!!!!!!!! When generations meet...it sucks! SPOILERS","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  STAR TREK GENERATIONS wasn't that great. The premise of Kirk meeting Picard could have been done better. Picard wasn't much of a action hero in this one.....he was a wussy, politically correct dweeb. (ie. the scene where Malcom McDowell cuts loose with the time is the fire in which we burn. line...the best line in the movie. Picard gets scared and goes away.) The villian was interesting yet I hate films (ie. CLIFFHANGER) like this one were the villian is flamboyant and knows no fear only to get scared and scream 3 seconds before being blown up by the good guys. Why does he continue to stand on that podium....why not jump for it instead of watching the rocket bomb come in? Then Picard is such a wimp they have to send in kirk to battle SORAN (MCDOWELL). This film had it's moments but I'm tired of them screwing around on the Holo Deck....they did too much of that on the Next Generation. We also have the plot point where Data becomes a Jerry Lewis style comedy guy via a emotion chip.....bad plot point. This film wasn't too bad, yet, could have been better. There are some impressive effects, yet effects are not enough. "},{"Title":"Weak, wobbly fan gratification . . .","Date":"15 March 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The wonderful thing about Star Trek The Next Generation as a television show is that it doesn't lean on a lot of fan gratification. The writers and producers of that show have the imagination and the confidence to put together a show with such a keen human touch that it doesn't need to pander to us. It doesn't need a lot of references to the original series. It is, I think, a show that stands very well on its own two legs.I wish &#x96; oh how I wish &#x96; that I could say the same about Star Trek Generations a movie that is clumsily and hap-haphazardly put-together in an effort to join Captain Jean Luc Picard and Captain James T. Kirk on screen together. I don't object to the joining of these two science fiction icons, but the story on which their meeting is mounted is nonsense. It doesn't matter how you get there . . . just GET THERE! Star Trek Generations, opens with a scene that takes place in the 23rd century, and seems superfluous if you examine the rest of the plot as a whole. Three members of the old Enterprise crew, Kirk, Chekov and Scotty are on hand to witness the maiden voyage of the new Starship Enterprise (that's Enterprise 'B', if you're keeping track). No sooner are they out of space dock then a distress call informs them that two ships are in danger of being destroyed by something called a Nexus Ribbon, an energy anomaly that looks like a volcanic crack in space. The Ribbon threatens to rip the Enterprise to shreds, and Captain Kirk makes his way to the engine room to reprogram . . . something that will allow them to get away. The situation is diffused, but in the excitement, Captain Kirk turns up missing.Shoot forward to the 24th century and we find the crew of the Next Generation (that's Enterprise 'D', if you're keeping track) facing the same problem. The Nexus Ribbon is about to destroy a research space station loaded with people. They are beamed aboard and, among them, is a crazy-eyed scientist named Soran (Malcom McDowell) who demands to be sent back. Captain Jean Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) won't hear of it. Some pep talk with the ship's bartender Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg) reveals that Soran is willing to destroy planets and moons in an effort to hitch a ride on this Nexus Ribbin. Inside it, she explains, is like being inside joy, a place where you can live out your wildest dreams, a place where time and space have no meaning. Uh-huh.Here is where I have a logical question. Why is Soran obsessed with hitching a ride on the Nexus Ribbon to live out his fantasies when he lives in an age that provides the holodeck, a recreation room that can replicate pretty much anything you can imagine? Doesn't it seem like a colossal waste to spend all that time causing stars to go supernova in order to hitch a ride to an anomaly that might have the potential to kill you when the technology to do the same thing already exists? The question plagued me all through the movie.I was also unhappy about the subplot involving the android Data (Brent Spiner) who is easily the most interesting and curious character on the show. Here he reveals his desire to have an emotion chip implanted in his head, to make him feel what human beings feel. Question Why? Why with all this Soran business going on is he so worried about his emotion chip? When he gets it hooked in, he becomes insufferable, laughing out loud at inopportune moments and making inane jokes. Worse? The plot involving Data and his emotion chip are left unresolved.Finally, I was plagued by questions about why it was necessary to have Captain Kirk in this movie to begin with (other than the obvious). Kirk reappears inside the Nexus Ribbon and has a conversation with Picard that is so innocuous and so wholly tilted toward the plot that any wonder what these two giants might talk about in the downtime is left for you imagine. The movie is no help. Finally, when they team up to take down Soran, it is on top of a rickety metal scaffolding where the battle comes down to the ancient formula of western fist fights. Here we have a series dedicated to reaching out into the galaxy and finding out what lies beyond and this movie whittles down to the oldest cliché in the book. Don't Star Trek fans deserve better? Don't they deserve something more than this for all their years of loyal service to this enterprise? This is a movie that feels like a very weak episode of the series. Where's the grandeur? Where's the wonder? Where's the excitement? Where's a script doctor when you need one? "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better!","Date":"30 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This entry in the Star Trek Movie franchise is sometimes terrific and sometimes over the top. It begins nicely with the original Trek gang of Kirk, Scotty and Chekhov inspecting a newer version of the Starship Enterprise. Things are interrupted by the villainous Soran (Malcolm McDowell) who is searching for the new element tri-lithium in order to make his way home to Nexus and he'll stop at nothing to complete his mission. An explosion occurs on the Enterprise and Kirk and Soran are missing and presumed dead. The film's first weak spot is the introduction of the Next Generation crew, who replaced the original gang. They are shown on the Holodeck cruising aboard a vintage sailing vessel The Enterprise dressed as a Horatio Hornblower-like crew. People start falling into the ocean and it's a really silly outing. This episode is interrupted by a storyline involving the death of Captain Picard's (Patrick Stewart) brother and nephew and then the insertion of an emotion chip which causes Data (Brent Spiner) to overact like an idiot. Spiner plays the part of a robot better than he does a human. I'm not sure if it's him or the director (David Carson), but it was way over the top. Once we get back to the main plot line of pursuit of the villain Soran the film gets back on course. The Data character in this movie made me cringe! This film was meant to create the transition of the original crew's Trek films over to the Next Generation gang. At times it does the reverse, making one pine for the old gang, but eventually we bond with the new crew. I will say that the Klingon scenes and the scenes on the space station are good, as are the Nexus scenes. The rest of the Next Gen crew are fine, Troi (Marina Sirtis), Worf (Michael Dorn), Riker (Jonathan Frakes), Geordie (Levar Burton) and the always dependable Picard (Stewart) and Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg). Effects and visuals are excellent as is the music score by Dennis McCarthy and McDowell makes a superb villain as usual. A few tweaks and this could have been so much better. "},{"Title":"Bad companies","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a shame! Hollywood at his worst...Paramount wanted to boost Star trek the next generation so they decided to crossover old and new cast crews without any coherence.If you like to see a legend destroyed, buy this film (you can also buy Mission Impossible with Tom Cruise, another Paramount's sacrifice). In Star Trek, Generations, you'll be able to experience Captain Kirk RIDICULOUS & OUTRAGEOUS death,the absence of Spock (a sage decision to ignore this movie from him), Malcom Mcdowell's mercenary's awful acting and finally a bad scenario... Star Trek VI is the real generational transmission in the saga,with a consistent story and dialogs.P.S  sorry for my poor English! "},{"Title":"Dispels the myth that the odd numbered Trek films are poor","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This in my opinion is one of,if not the best Star Trek movie ever made.                          **Spoiler Alert** This is the film that sees  captain Kirk and Jon Luc Picard meet in a thrilling storyline that incorpirates moments like the destruction of the Enterprise(which is superbly shot),Data being given his new emotion chip(which has some very funny moments) and ultimately the meeting up of the captains which leads to the death of Kirk. Ironically this is the best display of acting from William Shatner that we see in any of the Star Trek film. Another reason i love this movie it that it heralds the start of a new era with the next generation crew and the end of the old franchise which , for me went on far to long. A great action movie that you cannot fail to enjoy. 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Bad Start for TNG (*SPOILS THE PLOT*, but it deserves it)","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  They just HAD to find a way to kill Kirk, didn't they?OK. I liked the idea of a TNG movie. But why did they have to include Kirk in it? I mean, why make the entire movie revolve around the Kirk-Picard affair?In addition, it's quite boring. Compare that to the plot of ST6 and it can cause you to sleep. The emotion chip is a bad idea (I don't think that they should have done that - and it's the worst thing in the next TNG movies) and the movie has only a few good scenes.My advice to you unless you're a real fan of TNG, don't watch it. skip straight to Star Trek First Contact. It's not worth it. "},{"Title":"Picard should sue filmmakers for slander","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This abysmal TNG movie turned Picard into a confused crying old man, destroyed his family for no reason and transformed Data into a raving idiot. How is that possible? Picard has always been an explorer, not a common family man. He knew what he wanted to be, embraced his vocation and made his decision fully knowing what to expect from then on. No regrets. The Captain was never comfortable around children and the last thing he craved for was a housewife and a bunch of kids. He was meant to discover new worlds and travel the the galaxies, not to baby-sit and enjoy domestic life. Of course, Picard had his emotional moments throughout the series, but those moments were always perfectly justified, consistent with his character and carefully planned. The idiots who made this movie&#x85; have they no common sense? No understanding of these characters? No respect for the fans? It's like they did it in spite of the Trekkers, in spite of everything Star Trek TNG stands for.I can't even remember anything else from this movie, that's how awful it was. They shouldn't be allowed to trash the franchise like that, yet they did it over and over again with every single opportunity. It's a crying shame, that's what. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch but a completely illogical and weak plot","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This film is an excuse to pair Captain Picard with Captain Kirk--something that should not have normally occurred since Kirk died long before Picard was born according to the shows. However, because of a silly plot device called the nexus, they join together to kick the butt of the bad guy, Malcolm McDowell. Because of this odd plot, you only get to see a few of the old crew and most of the new crew at the beginning of the film--the final half is just the showdown between the three. I really don't want to get into a thorough discussion of the plot and all that occurs--you can certainly see it yourself. But the film packs a lot of emotion into it--seeing one of the characters actually die twice in the film. And, it is odd but original. The problem, though, is that with this nexus, you can choose to go back to any point in time and relive it--trying to correct what occurred the first time. However, when the captain gets that chance, why didn't he go back several months or even years and prevent anyone from dying in the first place? This plot hole is pretty big and makes what happened in the movie irrelevant if the good captain had only used his brain. "},{"Title":"Television without the ads","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I have some fondness for Star Trek, but it belongs on television.  `Generations' is what you get when you take an inferior tv episode and pump it up until it's movie-sized.Star Trek (I'll speak of the four series as if they're one) SOMETIMES has clever scripts this isn't one of them.  Remember Whoopi Goldberg, with her risible hats?  How my heart sank whenever she appeared...  Well, it's finally revealed where her fashion sense comes from a transcendent paradise called `The Nexus', which few people can summon up the willpower to leave - it's like Earth, but without so many mosquitos.  The main plot has something to do with The Nexus.  I won't say what because then I'd have to start talking in pseudo-scientific jargon myself.  There's also a sub-plot in which Data gets an emotion chip, which, like so many sub-plots from the land of television, does not bear on, illuminate, comment on or work in counterpart with the main plot it's simply THERE, because ... well, ya gotta have a sub-plot.  There's probably a textbook ratio of sub-plot screen-time to real plot screen-time.  I'll bet `Generations' conforms to it.`Generations' is a clumsy, ill-conceived splodge of all things that the makers felt were required of them, with screen time carefully reserved for Guinan, Picard, LaForge, Crusher, Crusher, Data, Worf, Riker, and Deanna Troi, not to mention - and believe me, THIS is forced - Captain Kirk.  See characters you know and love look dowdy and out of place on the big screen!  I stopped watching Star Trek movies after this. "}{"Title":" underrated entry in the Star Trek saga","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie. I can't understand why so many people dislike it. Wonderful music, an eye-popping saucer crash, and a great climax when Captain Kirk kicks ass one final time. Slightly better than INSURRECTION. "},{"Title":"Boldly Go Away","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  A real stinker in the series -- Malcom McDowell is wasted,Kirk's death scene is ridiculous, Picard cries like a newborn babe, Data trembles like a bunny, and the special effects of the Enterprise's crash scene look like they could have been done in my backyard with a Wham-o frisbee and an 8 mm camera.Only because its a Trek movie, it's worth seeing for s's and giggles--  "},{"Title":"The weakest TNG film... possibly the weakest Trek film overall","Date":"27 June 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations primary focus was to pass the baton from the original crew to the TNG crew - and it failed miserably. This film not only kills off the most legendary of Starfleet captains in the worst way imaginable, but also suffers from poor writing, disregard of actual facts and inconsistencies between scenes. The director of the film is from TV world (and it is quite evident with the choppy scenes). The music composer (who had done music for the TNG-era and Enterprise series') basically rehashes all of his TV work in this film for a very forgettable and generic musical score. Well, let's get to it, shall we?The story, in short, is about a mad scientist, Dr. Soran, who wants to get back into the Nexus, a time ribbon flying around in space which fulfills the dreams and desires of those who enter it. Kirk ends up in the Nexus at the start of the film after saving the Enterprise-B. Picard ends up in it with Soran midway through, then Picard leaves with Kirk to stop Soran again.The way Kirk is used in this film is awful. It is pretty much assumed that he was killed just because they wanted to kill him. Although, years later, the writers have regretted that decision and would have let him live. I think it's more bothersome of how/why he dies. Falling off some scaffold to stop a weak villain. Then to top it off, he is buried by getting rocks piled on top of him and there is no mention of him following his death. If they really wanted to kill off Kirk so badly, they could have done it better, with a proper burial, eulogy, etc. Nothing of the sort is made at all, which is a huge disappointment and a slap in the face/big middle finger to the fans.The Nexus is just a huge plot hole and makes no sense when explained. Most Trek phenomenon can be easily dismissed with technobabble but it just doesn't work here.My first point is Guinan. She was in (and ripped away from) the Nexus before Kirk or Picard ever enter it. Picard encounters her echo in the Nexus and the echo seems to know everything about him, even though the echo had never met Picard or even Kirk. How does the echo know all of this? So, theoretically, there should be echoes of Picard, Kirk and Soran still in the Nexus, even though Kirk and Picard left it? Do you need to kill the echo in order to ensure the person is actually deceased? It just brings up to many unanswered and illogical questions.Secondly, I don't see how you can leave the Nexus to any point in time. I'm assuming that with Picard and Kirk leaving to what was a completely destroyed Veridian star system, they essentially created an alternate timeline... or maybe it reset the timeline? It doesn't make any sense. And why go back to a point in time where it's a race against the clock?Lastly, if it can destroy ships, how does it not destroy the natural landscape of Veridian III when it passes through it? Or for that matter, why does it not destroy human flesh? Aye-ca-rumba...Some other odd/bad points in this film to be mentioned The mismatched uniforms among crew and main characters become a big distraction, especially when Riker has his sleeves rolled up exposing the blue turtle neck, since he was wearing a DS9 cast members uniform that was too big for him.If Soran already had previously built a rocket on Veridian III, then why did he need to torture Geordi for Trilithium information which he never revealed to him? He was going to launch the rocket regardless since he obviously already had built it. Also, the rocket took about 7 seconds to reach the Veridian star, which means the rocket must have reached over warp 9 from initial takeoff. I'm thinking of this in terms of our solar system. Earth is the third planet away from our sun. Veridian III should theoretically be the third planet in the Veridian system. Do you see what I'm getting at? Veridian III is made a faceless planet, giving the audience nothing to care about when it is revealed that the planet (and system) would be destroyed. Imagine if it was Vulcan or even Earth that was going to be destroyed. Would have helped the film out a bit.The whole plasma coils thing after the Klingons match the shield frequency is just plain ridiculous. Why didn't Riker order to change the shield modulation to deflect the shots? It had been done before in episodes on the TV series'.The subplot of Data's emotion chip was highly annoying and detracted from some of the more serious moments in the film, although I believe it was to be a parallel to Picard (like most of the TNG films are).I really find it hard to believe is the opening sequence that the Enterprise-B is the only Federation starship in range within our home solar system. Isn't Earth the Headquarters for the Federation? Aren't there shipyards constructed throughout the solar system? Of course, if another ship went instead, then we wouldn't have had this movie......Wait! Where is the Nexus? I'm going to go back in time and fix this now!!! Generations is definitely the weakest film in the TNG series and I would venture to say the weakest in the first 10 Trek films, hanging off the coattails of Star Trek V. At least Star Trek V had a somewhat clean and consistent storyline. "},{"Title":"Two Hours' Tempest in a 3-Minute Pot of Tea","Date":"2 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" While it has been remarked that Generations is the only Trek film that was ever meant to be a movie (meaning it doesn't really feel like an episode of a TV series), I still do not feel that is sufficient grounds for liking a movie that is this bland and stupid.Here are the good things about this movie. 1) The ribbon looks pretty impressive. 2) Data swears a bit and sings a little ditty while scanning for life forms. 3) It ends. Nothing else is really worth seeing. Kirk seems to be saying, Get me out of this franchise! with each passing line, while Captain Picard's constant attempts at pathos are nowhere near as convincing as they proved in the series and the other movies.Additionally, the naval holodeck scene at the beginning is nowhere near as funny as it was meant to be and the rest of the film is populated with new characters who are either dangerously gutless (the captain of the Enterprise-B) or disturbingly one-dimensional (Soran). Whoopi Goldberg gives an interesting performance, but, even coupled with the list of three that I gave above, it's still not enough to salvage this movie.This is the only Star Trek movie I dislike, let alone hate. "},{"Title":"One of the best, next to STFirst Contact","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This is undoubtedly one of the best Star Trek films next to First contact. The special FX were superb, the plot was excellent, acting was excellent, and one of the most striking things about the film was the beautiful filming locations.The beginning started off a little weak but towards the middle of the film the movie began to strut it's stuff. Once the plot forms after the destruction of a Federation science station the movie will not fail you. The Enterprise-Klingon battle scene was excellent, and the factor which allows the Enterprise to win is also very interesting. Although the part on the planets surface where Picard tries to stop Soran (Malcolm McDowell) was a little weak, especially where Picard magically escapes Soran's 3 disruptor blasts unharmed, the scenes after that were spectacular. After entering the Nexus and realizing he must go back to save the crew of the Enterprise (and the Solar System they are in) Picard seeks Kirk's help (William Shatner). I was truly amazed by the filming locations, they were downright beautiful! Kirk and Picard fit very nicely into it, and it is easy to see why Kirk would not want to leave the Nexus. The ending fight between Soran and the Kirk-Picard team was a bit sub-par compared to other ST movies, but none-the-less it put a very nice touch to the end of the movie. The way that they leave the story open to a another movie is very well done, and I have to say it fits in very nice with ST First Contact.I would definitely recommend renting or buying this movie, and if you watched it on TV then I have to tell you to go rent the movie, because many scenes were edited out to fit the movie in a 2-hour timeslot. "},{"Title":"...the best of the Star Trek movies and the best Sci-Fi film of the Ninetees.","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Though nearly all would disagree - especially Star Trek fans - I consider this the best of the Star Trek movies and the best science-fiction film of the nineties. I had no problem with the storyline which many found weak, laughed up a storm at the humour, loved the musical score, was dazzled by the special effects, was impressed by the acting (superior to that of the cast of the older series), and recognised the climax at the correct point in the film - the meeting of Kirk and Picard - old and new captains of the Enterprise. I preferred this film, the seventh installment in the Star Trek films, to the eighth episode First Contact which I found over-acted and containing unnecessary decline in the rectitude of the crew. "},{"Title":"Still the best Next Gen movie!","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  In my humble opinion as a Star Trek fan I think Generations is still the best TNG film to date.  From the opening sequence to the closing scene I think this film moves pretty well.  The score by Dennis McCarthy is a refreshing change from the ever rehashed Jerry Goldsmith scores, also the soundtrack album is a great listen by itself.  The death of Kirk I thought was done very tastefully with no overacting from Shatner and I was sad to see him go as I'm also a big fan of the original Trek movies (including V) and the final Oh my is heart wrenching. The Enterprise shots were filmed beautifully and it was great seeing the Enterprise on a theatre screen for the first time. I thought the story was great, it was a bit more complex than the series episodes and had more time to develop. The only complaint I have is when Data and Geordi continually state the obvious for the benefit of the non Trek fans and then the dialogue doesn't sound natural. They should take note of The X-files movie, if you don't watch the series, tough, chances are you won't know what's going on. To finish off I find Generations easier to watch over and over again where as First Contact can get very boring after you have watched it twice and I can't comment on Insurrection as I have only seen it once, but I intend to remedy that very soon. Enjoy Generations, it's still the best.   "},{"Title":"Maybe too fan-oriented","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I've read countless different views on ST Generations and i've come to believe that it mostly appealed to Star Trek fans rather than the general audience, in particular to those fond of The Next Generation tv series. As I consider myself a fan, i couldn't be more happy with the way the TNG crew debuted on the big screen. For me it's less of a consumer oriented movie and more of an insight into the relations of the TNG crew.From the very beginning i could tell it was going to be a very emotional movie. And indeed, there were quite a few moments that touched my heart Kirk's apparent death, Picard talking to Troi about his nephew's death, Data's funny, yet touching, babble, the image of the captain's home at Christmas, but also the moments of confrontation between Picard and Dr. Soren. I particularly liked the first time they meet in ten forward, when Soren grabs Picard and looks him straight in the eye. The psychologic tension is unbelievable and i can truly say that Patrick Stewart and Malcolm McDowell are explosive as hero vs villain.The story holds up pretty well, with minor exceptions, probably noted only by the hardcore trekkers (the big question was Why didn't Riker remodulate the shields frequency when he saw the klingons were shooting straight through them?). Otherwise it manages to keep you watching, has some nice twists and ties-up some loose ends too. The cast do their parts pretty well, with Stewart, McDowell and Spiner standing out.David Carson does a fine job in giving an overall more ominous feel to the ship as in the series. The yellow lighting works well and the modified interiors are also good. Still, i didn't understand why the footage of the exploding klingon ship had to be reused from ST VI (and not only). That kinda took away the joy of the moment for me.All in all a good movie, not quite up to First Contact, but still a must see for any Star Trek fan and maybe not much so for one not acquainted with the Star Trek universe. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Generations has long been criticised as one of the poorer Star Trek films but I disagree with that assessment.One of the focal criticisms people make about the movie is Kirk's role in the film. William Shatner is afforded nothing more than a glorified cameo. However, I think this adds to the picture as opposed to detracting from it; Generations is a Next Generation movie, so to feature Kirk prominently would be a mistake and a slight on TNG cast, who all acted ably in their first screen adventure.Also, Kirk's death (also heavily criticised) to me is well done too. The character had long stated in the series and films his destiny was to die alone; and although not strictly true, his death did seem remote and lonely and the fact he died not in a hail of bullets added to the picture in my opinion.Patrick Stewart as Picard, and Shatner demonstrated real chemistry together,and Brent Spiner as Data steals nearly all the scenes he's in; an emotion chip adds some real comic moments.Malcolm Macdowell also is a terrific villain, with a real, simple aim which thankfully makes the plot a lot clearer as science, admittedly complicates matters a bit too much in several sequences.All in all this is a terrific, traditional Trek adventure. Well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Star Trek 6½","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The end of the original Star Trek was probably a very hard thing for Paramount to deal with. Fans go on about how hard it was on them, but consider Paramount and Viacom for a moment. Suddenly, their sacred cash cow was gone, and the Next Generation series, which was in its fourth season by the time the original crew were put out to pasture, was not living up to the enormous international sensation it followed.When the first Star Trek feature film was released, it dared to do something different by offering a very scientific and researched future. Sound effects in space were kept to a minimum, gadgets were barely used, leave alone acknowledged, and the focus was almost entirely upon human drama. It might have presented one of the most unbelievable scenarios a science fiction film has ever been based on, but it grounded that scenario in just enough reality to make it work. Which is where Generations ultimately loses the plot.The whole opening of Generations just cheapens the end of The Undiscovered Country. The original cast got a beautiful send-off with a major Roddenberrian goal accomplished, their signatures recorded on film, and their model spacecraft riding off into the sunset. It was a high note that could never be equalled. But some moron at Paramount thought let's bring back some of the old cast and do a crossover, it will make a fortune. Given that Scotty seems to have adopted the mode of speech associated with Spock, it is quite apparent Leonard Nimoy told Paramount he'd rather do something that qualifies as creative. As one critic said, let them go people, it's only a TV show.Like Insurrection, Generations shoots itself in the foot by basing itself on a classically uninteresting premise. A wave of cosmic energy sweeps through the universe, and those who come into contact with it are trapped within their own unreal fantasy land until they can get out of it. Putting aside the premise of locational heroin for a moment, it doesn't bode well that this is pretty much all I can remember about this dull, uninteresting film. Given the adventures that Kirk has had in previous outings, to rewrite his history so that he goes out on a note like this is insulting to those who paid good money to see the previous six films.I'll admit it, I've never found the Next Generation cast a tenth as interesting as the Original Series cast. But that is hardly a fault of the cast. Patrick Stewart has floored me before as Charles Xavier in both of the recent X-Men films, so it isn't like he is incapable of making a well-written role work. Marina Sirtis almost screams that she could do so much more with a better-written part. As for Malcolm McDowell, well, this is the guy who made a name for himself in one of the most controversial adaptations of all time. He certainly can't have too many agents left to fire.In the end, Generations suffers from exactly the same problem as the TNG series. Too much gloss, not enough cerebral activity. Again, scientific credibility is stretched to its limits. When Kirk is sucked into the Nexus, the idea that he is the only one to go is laughable at best. What makes the rest of the film fail is that the writer and director don't seem to realize that a feature film is not a two-hour television episode. One cannot rely on endless scenes of people sitting down and conversing to carry the film, but this is exactly what they try to do. It is for that reason that this load of swill, which would have been much better as a three-episode arc in the television series, gets a one out of ten from me. It isn't the worst in the series by a long shot, but it comes off that way when all the penalties are tallied up.  "}{"Title":"Star Terrible Needs Renovations","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" What do you get when you have past and future Starship Captains meet? Well apparently you get a sloppily written film with poorly conceived plot devices and characters that make me wish for deafness. Nothing about the Nexus makes sense, there's no real point to Kirk and Picard to EVER have met except to get some fanboys excited. A villain called Soren wants to go inside the Nexus/Energy ribbon which almost destroyed his ship 78 years prior to the time frame of Star Trek The Next Generation. If his ship was destroyed, he would have gone into it and there would be no movie. However, he was rescued by the Enterprise B and he spends the next 78 years apparently trying to get into the Nexus even though he would have just gone there if his ship was destroyed by it. Instead he initiates a wildly complicated plan to make the Nexus go on a certain course by destroying stars. Why can't he beam into the nexus either? hmm? Even in the vacuum of space you can survive for at least a couple minutes. So basically, the plot makes no sense, the motivations of the villain make no sense and finally it makes no sense why Picard chose Kirk to help him stop Soren instead of anyone younger than 40. This movie was meant to do only one thing Cash in on the hype of the old generation meeting the new. This movie is horrible. "},{"Title":"A plot device flying through space","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  In this passing of the torch film, the cinematic Star Trek franchise transfers from the crew of the original Star Trek to the Next Generation crew.  Enormous effort has already been devoted to bringing characters from the original series into the Next Generation series; Scotty, Spock, and Sarek are among the crossovers.  Although a pleasure for trekkers, this rarely results in compelling screenwriting, and Generations is no exception.The problem here, as elsewhere, is the dreaded plot device, a fantastic happening or object that allows a character to skip over decades unchanged.  In Generations, the device is an energy ribbon, which zooms through space, destroying some things, but also snatching some people into a fantasy land where dreams become reality.  In the first sequence, Kirk is one of those snatched (although others assume he is destroyed).  This allows him to meet Picard, who is snatched 80 years later by the same ribbon.So far, we're running at about the usual level of belief-suspension for a Star Trek plot, but the unlikely Kirk-Picard summit precludes even more outrageous reasoning.  First, the ribbon's fantasy land is so utterly attractive that a scientist named Soran (who had a close encounter with the ribbon years ago) willingly dispatches millions of innocent lives to arrange another, more permanent rendezvous.  Despite this, Picard and Kirk have no difficulty seeing through the facade.  It's not real, is it? Kirk asks, though if it's real enough to include all the other trappings of normal life, it should be able to replicate the feeling of realness, shouldn't it?Picard (with the help of Guinan) has no problem moving from his fantasy (a sort of Dickensian Christmas with a large family) to Kirk's (a woodsy spot where he chops wood and cooks breakfast for a slumbering lover).  Why not pop over to Soran's fantasy and talk some sense into him while he's at it?  Nevermind.  Instead, they jointly emerge from the ribbon, back into the real world, though not at the point they left it -- in fact, they're nowhere near the ribbon when they come out.  How did they manage that?  And if they're not constrained by time or space, why not pop out at some point where they can nab Soran without a struggle?  The answer, of course, is that it wouldn't make for an exciting movie, though movies with such shaky conceptual frameworks rarely excite on any but the most basic levels.Generations isn't devoid of merit.  Malcolm McDowell does a pleasantly evil turn as Soran, and Brent Spiner portrays an appropriately jangled Data, who has just installed an emotion chip.  It's fun to watch the Next Generation working with a Hollywood budget, but director Berman often falls short of the task.  More than once, he does sharp zooms on characters' faces as they are about to die violently, a technique I thought had perished in the 70s.  Still, if you're in a tight spot for a Star Trek fix, this will probably do it for you, plot device and all. "},{"Title":"Calculated treachery","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Generations. For me, this is a sad movie. The movie itself was excellently done, and just as good as all the others, but the content just ... saddens me.With Sulu's daughter at the helm of the Enterprise-B, the crew of living legends accompanies a skeleton crew of trainees on a press blow out of a short jaunt, which turns into a distress call/rescue mission which morphs into something very serious.Meet the Nexus; a ribbon of the time/space continuum which has the ability to create and destroy anything in its path; to take it/them to different whens and wheres.This is the unfortunate end of Kirk's reign as Captain of the Enterprise. He disappears into the Nexus and into an eternity of peace on his old Iowa farm. Or so it seems.I wanted him to die in battle. Be assassinated in his sleep. Anything noble. But instead, he was given a peaceful eternity. OK, fine. I have no choice but to deal with it. While I respect Piccard as Captain of the Enterprise, he will never be James Tiberius Kirk. But this is the end of the old series and the beginning of the new; hence the name Generations. If you are a fan of these movies, a collector of anything Star Trek, this is a definite needful addition to the set. This is the movie which ties the two series together.Meet Captain Piccard and crew. I'll assume you're already familiar with them and I won't bore you with the details. Over the years, I have developed (if somewhat begrudgingly) an appreciation for this new crew and cast of players...and, while I still mourn the loss of the legends I loved, I look upon them as new neighbors, of sorts; with a certain measured withdrawn fondness.With the addition of an Emotion Chip, DATA is now an emotion-ridden, diseased AI personage, but in light of his not being able to grasp the concept of humor, he is willing to stake it all in his attempt to be more human.Also, this is the movie that first realized the potential we all knew was in the Enterprise, to separate into a saucer section and the remaining half of the ship. You could always look at the Enterprise and just knew that, Hey, there's kinda like a flying saucer on the top front half! But this movie actually did it. It marks a milestone in the series and in this line of movies. I also must say that the way they brought Kirk and Piccard together was sloppy and puerile. They both deserved better treatment and so did we, as fans. They did the best they could, I suppose, but in ignoring Nimoy's suggestions to counter the plot misconfigurations and obvious premise problems, I can honestly understand why Nimoy backed out of the director's chair and left it to someone else. Had they listened to him, this would have been a much better enterprise...pun intended.I love the movie, and enjoy it...now. But when I first saw it, it infuriated me with the off-handed disposal of Kirk and his illustrious career.Kirk is dead. Long live Captain James Tiberius Kirk! It rates an 8.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"First and only  reunion  of the mythic Kirk and Picard in an exciting motion picture","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The picture is a crossover between the classic Star Trek with New Generations , they are incarnated by the usual sagas , as Captain James T. Kirk (Shatner) , Scotty (recently deceased James Doohan) , Chekov (Walter Koenig) and even a Sulu's daughter(Kim), they are reunited with the new crew from USS-17o1 , as captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) , Data (Brent Spiner), Worf (Michael Dorn) , Laforge (LeVar Burton) , Troi (Marina Sirtis) and Dr Beverly Crusher (Gates McFadden) , plus an uncredited Woopi Goldberg in a brief apparition . The film focuses captain Picard who must confront a villain megalomaniac scientific (Malcom McDowell) who has an only objective to get a bizarre , weird entity  ¨Nexus¨ which heads a relentless rout , besides he is taking on nasty Klingons (Brian Thompson) . He travels time and manages to hook up with Captain Kirk , both of whom team up and battle against the nefarious enemy . As always , the comic relief results to be the commander android Data , this time , he attains an emotional chip experimenting human feeling .Idealism , humor , humanity , several agreeable characters and trademark effects abound and will please the enthusiasts and the neophytes . The writing is concentrated upon characters as well as the action and magnificent special effects by ILM (courtesy George Lucas) and a spectacular production design . Atmospheric and sensational music by Dennis McCarthy , habitual of TV episodes . Colorful cinematography by the classic cameraman John A. Alonzo . The motion picture was well directed by David Carson . The movie was made in the typical professional manner of the franchise and in the nostalgic mode of its predecessors . Yarn will appeal to hardcore trekkers as well as the initiated. "},{"Title":"Solid, but disappointing","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The one problem we have with the Next Generation films (all four of them) is that someone high up in the film-making process seems to forget that the Next Generation began as a television series about equals, as opposed to the Original Series having 3 stars and a lot of supporting characters. I understand that Picard and Data are seen as the most popular characters in the Next Generation that appeal to the general public, but the story lines that get played out for the two of them in the movies (family and finding humanity) have already been done in the series.Those two themes - Picard's family and Data's quest for humanity - are central parts of this film, and take up a lot of the time, but the other characters do get their moments, and being the gracious professionals that they are, Frakes, Sirtis, McFadden, Burton and Dorn all give fabulous performances. Whoopi Goldberg appears unbilled as Guinan, and Patti Yasutaki also appears as Nurse Ogawa.Generations also features three members of the Original Trekers, Captain Kirk, Scotty and Chekov, the latter two in small roles, while Kirk has a much larger role, yet his scenes, alongside Picard, are the slowest and most boring part of the film, even if they are confronting the enemy together.One of the enemies in Generations is a mad man, well played by Malcolm McDowell, the others are the two Klingon sisters who appeared towards the end of the Next Generation series, and make welcome appearances once more. Also watch for Jacqueline Kim as the daughter of Sulu from the Original Series.This is a decent film, but like all Next Generation films, can be quite repetitive and leaves some of the cast (particularly the lovely McFadden) with little to do. "},{"Title":"A childhood favorite of mine.","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I always loved this movie. From the very first time I saw it, at the age of 10, I absolutely adored it. It took a big risk, admittedly, in bringing the Original Series and TNG together, but I believe it did it extremely well and with a lot of ingenuity. The first part of the movie seems to pick up where The Undiscovered Country left off; and it does so on a somewhat sour note. Retirement does not sit at all well with Captain Kirk, and he hates the idea of being a legend and having the namesake of his beloved ship run by a bunch of inexperienced kids and a skeleton crew (the running tuesday gag is hilarious). I think Walter Koenig and James Doohan were marvellous in the first part of this movie, and the scene where they arrive on deck 15 and find themselves staring into the void of space is chilling.After this, it picks up with the Next Generation Crew, and boy, does the camera love the Enterprise D. It's emotional to see the crew going through the changes this movie throws at them, and by the time Geordi's kidnapped and Data's emotions are uncontrollable, my heart was in my throat.It's also a pleasure to see Whoopi Goldberg reprise her role as Guinan, and as far as humor goes, Data's newfound sense of humor had me on the floor.I LOVED Picard and Kirk's interactions and the segment in Kirk's cabin is an absolute hoot. (Picard This is not your bedroom.) Soran is a great villain, truly ruthless and threatening. Out of all the Next Gen films, this is probably my favorite. It has an atmosphere about it that's very appealing to me, and the only other TNG film that had the same feeling was Nemesis, which I still maintain was a DAMN good movie. "},{"Title":"An engaging adventure with exciting action and an interesting story.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"24 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" *** out of ****Star Trek Generations stands out, in my mind, as the most underrated of all the Trek installments. Fans of the original series may not like the transition from old to new, but I personally prefer the crew of The Next Generation, and having been familiar with these characters through the show's seven season run on TV, seeing them on the big-screen was a welcome sight. Personal preference aside, Generations does a fine job of delivering an engrossing tale packed with exciting action and understated humor.The plot involves an energy ribbon called the Nexus, a place where time has no meaning, where you can live out your greatest joys without fear or worry.A near deranged scientist, named Soran (Malcolm Mcdowell), has amassed a horrific plan to enter the Nexus, one which could cause monumentous destruction and kill hundreds of millions. It becomes a race as the crew of the Enterprise-D struggles to find Soran before disaster strikes.Generations has a fair share of problems, but for the most part, it's a very entertaining adventure boosted by excellent special effects and good performances. The film's highlight is the spectacular crash of the Enterprise, one of the most harrowing, exhilarating action sequences of any of the Star Trek films. Then, of course, there's the meeting between the two captains, Picard and Kirk, a memorable union that symbolically passes the torch and ends on a poignant note, which is enough to ignore the plot holes in the climax. Definitely recommended, Generations is a good stand-alone film and makes for an enjoyable warm-up to the superb First Contact. "},{"Title":"Bye Kirk,hello Picard!","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"33 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Above average Sci-fi action drama movie that has a modest production in comparison to the average high qualily fare STAR TREK film.This 7th Star Trek movie played more  like a special TV episode which although still good,kind of let down a lot of high expectations due to a great potential storyline and incredible trailers.The movie was rushed and the screenplay/script really took the steam out of the storyline.Also,the special effects were very trimmed down.Still,if one is a big Star Trek fan,you will never forget the emotional scenes of Captain Kirk(what a guy!) and the great acting of Shatner (not to be outdone by Stewart!) here.Yes,this one could have been so much better but I would take a Star Trek movie over the majority of Scifi movies out there!For Star Trek fans only......  "},{"Title":"A massacre of all the beloved characters","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I am new to TNG and recently watched the entire series. Then started watching the movies until I reached the Generations. Time traveling episodes are my favorite and Picard meets Kirk, what could go wrong.Captain Kirk, Picard's entire family, the Enterprise-D, and even the Duras sisters where killed in this movie and all of them deserved better. There are two other killings in this movie which bothered me the most Data and Picard himself. They don't actually die but their characters are destroyed. The scene where Picard is sobbing uncontrollably was so unexpected that I thought this is one of those situations where an extraterrestrial phenomenon is affecting the emotions of the crew and took me a while to realize that was really happening. On the other hand Data installs his emotion chip and turns into a very bad and irritating comedian to the extant that he becomes intolerable after a few minutes.This is one of the worst episodes with the TNG cast and should be left out of the history and story line of Star Trek. "},{"Title":"the hand-off","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Retired Captain Kirk, Scottie, and Chekov are attending the maiden voyage of the new Enterprise with the media. They are surprised by a distress call. Kirk manages to save some of the refugees before losing himself to the energy ribbon. Two of the survivors are Tolian Soran (Malcolm McDowell) and Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg). Almost eighty years later, The Next Generation crew encounters Soran who is working with the Klingon Duras sisters for his own purpose of returning to the energy ribbon and Nexus.This movie achieves the needed goals of the franchise. It gives Kirk a final curtain call, and it gives a satisfying hand-off between the old crew and the new one. Kirk is one of the iconic characters of not only Star Trek but all of sci-fi. This movie basically gives him two death scenes and they are both classic Kirk. The hand-off is needed for the Next Generation to take over the movie franchise. Granted, it works best for fans who have seen both series. For non-fans, the characters would still make sense but it wouldn't be quite so satisfying. The movie itself has enough technical babble and sci-fi action for those familiar with the franchise. It is a bigger expansion of the new TV series but it's not different. "}{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"17 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This should have been a good Captains' meeting, however, it was part of a Next Generation episode... and a too brief Original Series clip...However, as I enjoyed the image enhancement that the TNG group offered with this movie, I would have worked out the story. Paramount executives went a bit too fast to introduce Picard's crew into the big screen.Part of the Synopsis 78 years after an event which took Captain Kirk's life, Captain Picard and his crew save a would-be scientist, which in fact is a madman who wants to enter a Nexus inside a deadly space ribbon. It is not his first experiment. He is backed up by an evil Klingon crew, headed by the Duras sisters, hungry for payback against the Enterprise.Though it was fun to see for once Data display emotions, thanks for Dr. Soong's microchip, the almost surrealistic meeting of Picard and Kirk deceives a bit we would have loved to see both in a better setting than a back country landscape.I would not blame the actors here, but the storyline itself, a reminder of Star Trek V, which was too average a madman looking for something apparently good, and the Enterprise crew must stop him.Sad that DeForest Kelley (health) and Leonard Nimoy (technicality) were absent for this movie.I would have renamed this movie Star Trek Nexus. Given another year to release the movie, it would have been better... "},{"Title":"Like an extended episode of The Next Generation","Date":"11 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The feel is of an extended episode of Star Trek The Next Generation. It doesn't really have that 'big movie' feel or the special effects to go with it.Fortunately, it makes that up in part by the pure thrill of including the original Star Trek cast, culminating in the meeting of captains Kirk and Picard, William Shatner and Patrick Stewart. Both are excellent actors that bring superb gravitas to their roles.The rest of the Next Generation crew don't get much of a look in, with the exception of Data who is the subject of a halfhearted subplot where he gets given an 'emotion chip'. Cue lots of getting overwhelmed by emotions and commenting on it continually.The bad guy Soren, played by Malcolm McDowell is OK. He brings an intense, even psychotic focus to the character. But I'd like to have seen more from the Klingons that he falls in with.In summary, if you're a Star Trek fan you'll enjoy this. But it's not a movie that will be of interest to a wider audience. "},{"Title":"A Disenchanted Generation","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing Star Trek VI in cinemas near Xmas-time in 1991 and being satisfied that the original crew signed-off on such a strong film before handing over the Enterprise to new generations. I ate up a lot TNG on television when I was a sick teenager with nothing else to do but lie in bed. A lot of people were disappointed with Generations when it was released in late '94/early '95 but I didn't get to see it until much later. Now, as an adult with a refined opinion, I can see how dissatisfying it is.With Kirk and Co. moving on the Enterprise is now helmed by the naïve Harriman, who lacks the confidence to trust his own decisions. When a mysterious energy ribbon causes havoc on the other side of the galaxy the Enterprise rushes in to save the day, but guest of honor Kirk dies (or apparently dies) when a huge section of the deck is torn off the ship, taking him with it.Flash-forward 78 years and Picard is now at the helm of Enterprise-D and the ribbon, now called the Nexus, has come back. After beaming the survivors of a doomed solar observatory on-board Guinan recognizes one of them as Doctor Soran, who survived the previous Nexus disaster. Picard's suspicion of Soran is proved correct when he double-crosses the Federation, kidnaps Geordie, and hooks up with the Klingons. Meanwhile Data experiments with his emotions chip and feels guilt over not being able to save Geordie.The plot makes Z-E-R-O sense when you think about it. The Nexus is apparently a type of heaven where your dreams can come true on a whim. A nice idea, but Soran's motivation is to get back into the Nexus as any cost. He plans on destroying a solar system to pull the Nexus close to him and be whisked away. Er...why does he not just fly into it in a ship? If Kirk is in the Nexus and is still alive then it will obviously work even if the ship gets destroyed. If this DIDN'T work for whatever reason then just beam into the Nexus. Duh!For some reason Paramount didn't think a movie about the hugely successful Next Generation crew would stand on its own so they cooked-up this nonsense plot to shoehorn a Kirk/Picard team-up into the mix. But they barely feature together and Kirk's real death scene is the STUPIDEST death in movie history. What were they thinking? He falls a few feet from a rickety platform? Really??? THAT is the big send off for one of the most iconic characters in all of history?Aside from this massive failing the film looks great with lots of dark lighting and shadows, and is a huge step-up from TV production values. Sadly, Jerry Goldsmith did not score this one, leaving the composing duties to TV composer Dennis McCarthy who does an adequate job, but the movie is painfully lacking the familiar Star Trek themes. The action and effects are still quite nice to this day, which is unusual for 1994 vintage CG.Star Trek Generations is simply incapable of giving the audience what it wants. The arrogance of the studio and producers faulted this film down to the marrow, but there is still a lot in there which is entertaining, especially the ethereal atmosphere inside the Nexus. Just keep your expectations somewhere in the middle and you'll be okay. "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This is my first movie in the Star trek franchise. The story is engaging. The technology they show in a movie made in 1992 is quite astonishing. The CGI work varies from OK to good in various scenes. For example, the way the launcher at the climax, disappearing and reappearing is OK, and the way showed planet Veridian was good. The character importance given to the Android was engaging at the beginning but the way they transformed him into a human, making him cry was not required. It spoiled the essence of his character. Android David from Prometheus was better I felt. The Klingon Commander Worf aboard the Enterprise wasn't given much importance. Since it is my first movie, may be I wanted him to be a part of the action.What I didn't like was, the story was dragged a bit nearing the climax, when Captain Kirk had to change his heart. It was lengthy. What I liked was the main villain of the story, the Nexus. And how Soran was deviating its path towards Veridian.On the whole I enjoyed the movie. May be I will enjoy all the episodes in the franchise. "},{"Title":"Watch Another","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Probably one of the worst Star Trek movies. That's coming from someone whose a huge fan of the movies and TV shows. Star Trek Generations is to the original crew films as to what Star Wars The Phantom Menace is to the original Star Wars trilogy. Malcom McDowell is wasted. He's an excellent actor otherwise, just his talents are put to waste in this movie. None of the characters exude the kind of character that you would normal expect. The movie looks very low budget. Most scenes look like a kid with a camera and a cheap toy could of done the same thing. I would only see this just because it is part of the Star Trek series. There is only one decent film featuring the Next Generation cast, and that is First Contact. If you want to see a film worthy of the Next Generation TV show, watch that film, and ignore all others. "},{"Title":"Worst Star Trek Movie Ever","Date":"30 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Its difficult to find something positive about this film, when you think about how many times the original crew saved the world and how many times they avoid being killed. And look how good the Next Generation series were, this film was a huge disappointment . For a start the killed of Kirk was that really necessary then we have the destruction of yet another enterprise starship seems like they destroying one with each movie now. Then to add insult to injury the kill of Picard's family. So much sadness and destruction in this film. Then they made poor Jean Luc Picard cry and make commander data babble like a baby.This is just painful to watch such a pity. "},{"Title":"Much Better Film Than I Remembered","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" When I originally saw this film in 1994 when I was 13 years old, I was distinctly underwhelmed but having re-watched this for the first time in over 20 years, I appreciate this film a lot more. Even though Star Trek will always work better as a TV Series, this is actually a very good film and I'll explain why below.Originally I wasn't too fussed on the film because I was an avid Trekkie who had loved 'The Undiscovered Country', had been a huge fan of the TNG series and remembered that Scotty said in Relics that I'll bet Jim Kirk himself hauled the old gal outta mothballs and thus the film had what I considered a major plot hole as a result of Kirk dying. Now that I'm considerably wiser and no longer a virgin/13 years old, this minor plot inconsistency really doesn't matter to me. ;-)Whilst the special effects are a bit rushed/cheap in places (re- using 'The Undiscovered Country' and TV Series effects), it stands up fairly well for a 20+ year old film on a limited budget (particularly compared to the new films). Anyway, special effects can sometimes get in the way of a good script or even negatively affect a film...as they did with 'Into Darkness'.Generations has some stand out moments. I was quite touched by how lonely Picard and Kirk were despite the fact that they had extraordinary lives with excitement and variety that most of us could only dream about. And yet, Picard mourning the death of his family and the family he never had, really touched me...in a way that it didn't 21 years ago. Behind that extremely intelligent and reserved character, was a real, nuanced human being with regrets, dreams and hopes that were never quite realised. When people say this is out of character for Picard, it's obvious that the events in TNG Episode 'The Inner Light' really touched him on a personal level and made him reconsider how important family was. Kirk too, seemed to have heartache in his life and how his decisions/Starfleet ruined any chance of a normal existence. It was sad and compelling to watch and something I never really noticed when I was 13. In fact, the writing by Braga and Moore is very good in the Nexus part whilst the acting by Patrick Stewart and William Shatner made this even more believable/tangible. Moreover, there are humorous elements to the film - Data and the tiny life forms speech made my girlfriend laugh out loud several times - in fact, we watched it 4 times! Thus, it's not all sad. -) And to me, that's the mark of a good film. Soran, played by Malcolm McDowell, hams it up but is a good character. It was also nice to see Chekov and Scotty one last time. Seeing Kirk, Chekov & Scotty on the bridge and how out of place they were was a nice touch and well-acted. Obviously the rest of the cast probably weren't utilised as much as they should have been but that's only a small negative. Try to watch this with an open mind and maybe you'll appreciate Generations a lot more than you did previously. I know I did. -) "},{"Title":"It's not the best but the essentials are there.","Date":"19 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I have always been a fan of sci-fi movies, specially the Star Trek and Star Wars universes.Hence, I noted that I was missing a few movies of the Star Trek saga, namely those with captain Jean Luc Picard.The movie Star Trek Generations makes the connection between two different eras James Tiberius Kirk and Jean Luc Picard &#x96; played by the always excellent William Shatner and Sir Patrick Stewart.We can see that the actor's age is an important factor and many of the original cast did not accept being a part of this new project, ending up being replaced by second line characters and the script being adjusted to that fact.Altogether it's an interesting movie, which the fans will always like but, as we say in Portugal não é a mesma coisa (it's not the same thing).The past history of the Enterprise falls deep into Kirk's character and William Shatner itself.It's an interesting sci-fi movie, where the irreprehensive Sir Patrick Stewart plays captain Jean Luc Picard, with James Kirk, opposite to a very competent bad guy - Soran, played by Malcom McDowell (will never forget A Clockwork Orange), remembering Spocks's half-brother Sybok, in a quest to final the ultimate wellbeing.It's a worthwhile for the fans, it makes the link between the original Star Trek and Generations, but, for some reason, the series reboot was made with the original characters (different cast of course), and the special guest star Leonard Nimoy.It's not the best Star Trek, but the essentials are there. "},{"Title":"Trek for everyone?","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek (VII) 'Generations' had the difficult job of trying to please everyone (or every 'Trekkie' at least) by bringing together both Captains of the Enterprise in the same adventure, while, at the same time, not giving too much screen time to the more tried and tested filmic icon, James T Kirk, in favour of the Next Generation.So, out went the bankable old crew and in came the untested marketing enigma of whether the Next Generation's success on the small screen would translate to the big screen. And it was made so. Just.Star Trek lore tells that the even numbered films are better than the odds. And, when you compare to the previous 'Undiscovered Country' (number 6) and the following 'First Contact' (8), you may be inclined to agree.Generations is not a bad film. It's definitely one of the better odd numbered Star Trek films, but it was hampered with the impossible mission of bridging the gap between old and new. It does its best. The small time the two Captains are together is good fun to watch, just woefully too short. But then again, it's supposed to be the new lot's film, not another James T Kirk affair. Also, back with Kirk, there were only really three main characters (Kirk, Spock and Bones). Since the Next Generation, every regular cast member has been given his or her own set of episodes, therefore all of them are - almost - given their own screen time. Unfortunately, most people only prefer the more interesting characters of Piccard and Data, meaning you have to put up with Beverly Crusher and Ryker at the same time.Generations won't really win too many new fans over to the Trek Universe. It's more a labour of love. I don't know anyone who truly loves it. They sort of put up with it as a necessary bridging gap between old and new. It's not the best, but it certainly isn't the worse (films 5 and 9 get my vote on that one).You probably need slightly more than a mild interest in Trek to really enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Great Cast And Wonderful Ending","Date":"4 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" William Shatner's final appearance as Kirk.The later parts of this film where William Shatner, Patrick Stewart and Malcolm McDowell all meet up are some of my favourite Star Trek moments ever! So well scripted, acted, directed and scored (by Dennis McCarthy).William Shatner as Kirk is a total knockout in this film and Generations is a touching end to classic Star Trek.Don't forget to hang around for the end credits as Dennis McCarthy's closing title score is wonderful and perfectly matched to such a touching film. "}{"Title":"Star Trek Generations","Date":"26 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" A new film, a new generation and the beginning of a newer franchise. I don't like these shorter one word film titles though.The film kicks off with the handing over of the Enterprise from Kirk to a new younger crew. You half expected the next generation crew to be at the hand over but not so. Shatner looks uncomfortable in this sequence (in my opinion), it does seem as if he would be quite happy to carry on being the immortal space legend Kirk. It seems like a painful break for him and the original cast members that join him...Doohan and Koenig.The same could be said for myself as a viewer, I've never been a Trekkie but I have always enjoyed the original cast. This new film starts off well and in familiar territory with the beloved Kirk Scotty and Chekov under pressure, but it quickly falls flat as we hesitantly hand over to the new duller greyer crew.The problem with the new generation is quite simply the new crew, Jesus they are bland! so very boring, the only character I think has some interest is Worf. A Klingon male that has joined Starfleet and worked up the ranks, could almost be seen as a turncoat to his Klingon people, interesting.Other characters in the film are all rather meek and uninteresting. McDowell's character isn't really very threatening and fails to crank up the tension when on screen, hardly a villain to remember. I must also admit I always hated Goldberg in Star Trek, she just seemed to big a name to have involved plus she really doesn't fit this type of genre if you ask me.Other personal issues I have with this film and the new crew is the character of Data. A tremendously annoying character that looks like a makeup mistake, terrible effects when we do see his innards and whose humorous moments are rather forced and cringeworthy. His whole development during this film are along the same lines as Kryten from British sci-fi comedy 'Red Dwarf'...yet not as good I might add. Of course my opinions are personal preference within the Star Trek universe.Anyway the plot is pretty dull frankly, an odd choice of adventure, at least up until the Nexus takes Picard whilst part of the Enterprise crashes (film highlight borrowed from 'Star Trek III' perhaps?). Things do get a little more interesting then especially as we get Kirk back. Still many questions arise during these sequences, what exactly is the Nexus? an afterlife of some kind? where does it come from? how does it work? etc...How come Picard can see and talk to Guinan? and how come Kirk had only just arrived there despite him entering the Nexus 78 years prior? Lastly, how come they can both simply decide to leave the Nexus to where ever they wish?Maybe I missed these points I dunno but luckily it doesn't detract from the fun of having Kirk and Picard double up in a pretty cool franchise generation cross over. Alas they still decide to kill off Kirk which I think is a mistake because he and his classic crew got a bloody good send off in 'Star Trek VI'. Seeing as he gets killed here you tend to think the character would deserve yet another royal send off with a big military funeral attended by all previous characters in a special episode or another film. Seems an anti- climax to just leave it at this after all that has gone before.As for the effects well of course they look sharper and bolder but most of the shots were CGI created with only a few models used. For me this is a shame and adds to the shiny plastic fake look of the film just like its TV counterpart, models always look better. The whole film did feel very much like an outstretched TV episode, more so than previous film offerings if you ask me. Like I said the plot is thin and could easily have been a simple episode (seeing as the effects aren't exactly much different). There really was no big silver screen stand out moment, the space battle against the Klingon sisters was quite good but that's all you get.Overall I think this was a disappointing start for the next generation of Star Trek films. I admit it was always gonna be a hard sell to me as I never followed Star Trek after the original crew and never liked the next gen cast/crew. Despite that its still a very mediocre entry with a lot of dialog which could almost be construed as time wasting of sorts.Seeing Kirk and Picard together was damn good I have to say. Seeing the Shat back in action in the finale despite weight and age really puts a smile on your face, Trek fan or not. Lets not forget it was a three way battle including McDowell, that's a pretty awesome trio of legends duking it out right there folks. Just a shame the rest of the film didn't live up to the action and excitement in the finale. It took the inclusion of Shatner to bring that excitement I might add, that tells you something.5/10 "},{"Title":"The End and The Beginning...","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" ***Warning! Spoiler Information Inside***After the send off that was Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country(1991) , Paramount of course realized that the success of Television's Star Trek the Next Generation , Which lead to the spin-off Star Trek  Deep Space Nine , also could lead to another series of films with this popular new crew. So we got Star Trek Generations, designed to deliver Jean-Luc Picard(Patrick Stewart) into the center seat.Picard and Company find themselves thrust into the plans of mad scientist Dr. Soran (Malcom McDowell) who is seeking to return to a sort of interstellar haven known as the Nexus. Dr. Soran, like any mad scientist type is unconcerned who or what is hurt by this affair , so long as he achieves his aim. This all is timed wonderfully as Capt. Picard is confronted with the sudden death of family , and Data(Brent Spiner) is enabled with a special chip allowing him to experience emotions for the first time.The script is skillfully written, and the superb tasking of director David Carson (Star Trek Deep Space Nine/Emissary Episodes 1&2)makes the movie a natural view. Some aspects of the movie can be viewed as inconsistent by die hard fans (ex the emotion chip).In the end the film should satisfy both fans and the average viewer with great action and effects.Four stars(of 5.) "},{"Title":"A rather underwhelming film","Date":"3 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" It's not a bad film but it is a rather underwhelming one, I'm afraid. It doesn't live up to the excellent TNG, one of my favourite TV series of all time and the best Star Trek series in my view. I loved the concept of a world weary Captain Kirk wanting to make a difference and dying heroically saving millions of innocent people but the execution is severely lacking. It should have been epic but it wasn't. Ronald D. Moore and Brannon Braga wrote TNG's wonderful finale All Good Things... at the same time as the film and have since admitted that the film suffered as a result. My favourite part of the film was the TOS movie era segment at the beginning of the film.The TOS and TNG cast members were as good as ever (particularly Patrick Stewart and Brent Spiner) but the only newcomer who made an impression was Malcolm McDowell, who is extremely good as the sort of interesting but clichéd villain Tolian Soran. However, I think that he could play a role like Soran in his sleep. I liked the fact that they used the Duras sisters Lursa and B'Etor, the only individual television villains other than Khan to subsequently appear in one of the films, but they weren't used as well as in TNG. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Star Trek adventure","Date":"14 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Just finished this, first time seeing it. While definitely not as good as First Contact, a film that holds up as a great Trek film and a great sci- fi action film in it's own right, it's still a very entertaining sci-fi adventure and a nice farewell to the Enterprise from TNG. Seeing the bridge in ruin at the end with Picard and Riker beaming touched my nerd nodes somewhere sensitive. While I'd still rather watch the best episodes of the series over this any day, it's still very good, if flawed. The ideas are pretty sound and true to the series; interdimensional dilemmas, philosophy about time and space and what's important and whatnot. But there are some things I have gripes with, things that don't make sense in the context of the series, despite the affection for the series displayed throughout. For instance, Riker firing at and destroying the Klingon bird of prey while they're in a vulnerable position, and Data going yes! which seems totally uncharacteristic of them; We just killed an entire crew of Klingons whose defences were down, yes!!! And I notice that one of the klingons on the bird of prey was someone Riker befriended in the second season episode of TNG in which he becomes first officer of a Klingon vessel. That was the one instance in this film that made be go nooo! out loud. Not many other gripes other than that apart from Data being annoying at times (although thankfully his emotion chip schtick wasn't overdone), and Picard having a disturbingly vivid fantasy of a wife and kids in the nexus; apparently he likes redheads. One of the best parts of the film was the villain, Soren, played by Malcolm McDowell. He comes across not only as a cool villain making speeches about time being a predator and the fire in which we burn, but also as a somewhat sympathetic character, a man with nothing left to lose who wants paradise and is willing to do anything to get it. And really, can you blame a man who lost his wife and kids to the Borg for wanting it back in some kind of timeless fantasy where he won't be able to feel guilt over the sacrifices he made to get there? Kirk's final farewell is very touching, and seeing the two captains on screen together was cool. A good Star Trek film, but not the best, certainly not as good as First Contact. "},{"Title":"The passing of the torch","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" While this film is considered the passing of the torch of the original crew to the next generation cast in their film debut, the storyline has retired James Kirk, Montgomery Scott, and pavel Chekhov as guests aboard the enterprise b under her maiden voyage during a test run. What is initially suppose to be a m initial shaken down ends up becoming a rescue mission when the enterprise has to rescue two el aurian ships trapped in an energy ribbon called the nexus which creates a fantasy paradise in which greatest desires are fulfilled. During the rescue mission, Kirk is presumed dead and transitions to the tng cast in which Picard and company rescue soran from the armagosa observatory. Little do they know that soran plans to return back to the nexus by destroying the star to alter the path. Patrick Stewart does a great job showing the captains emotional journey of loss and overcoming his fears while Brent spiner portrays datas curious it to evolve beyond his programming, however certain cast members like gates McFadden is given very little to reduced and practically reduced to a cameo. I also wish the tos would have all appeared one last time as intended. However I would say a decent transition to the tng cast, "},{"Title":"The worst Star Trek movie","Date":"23 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" A lot of the time, fan-fiction for a franchise is so ludicrous and more focused on what the fan wants to see than what would work for the story. In the case of Star Trek Generations, the same can be said, only this time it's the creators of the film who have the ludicrous ideas that focus more on what they want or what they think fans want than what would work out well. This film is probably what a lot of Trekkies have dreamed of. The movie or TV episode where James T. Kirk (William Shatner) from the original series and Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) from TNG would team up to stop a villain. The film focuses more on the basic premise that these two legendary star ship captains must work together than making a movie with a good story that would have worked to have the crew of TNG series solely in it. Starting off at some point in between The Undiscovered Country and TNG, Kirk and a few remaining members of his crew are welcomed as guests for the maiden voyage of the Enterprise-B. During its voyage, the star ship receives an distress signal and investigates it, discovering a ship that is about to be destroyed by an energy ribbon and beams the survivors aboard, including a man who wants to enter the energy ribbon, Dr. Soran (Malcolm McDowell). The Enterprise gets caught in the ribbon and in a successful effort to save the ship, Captain Kirk is feared dead.Cut to 78 years later on board the Enterprise-D, under the command of Picard. On board, the android Data (Brent Spiner) has an emotions chip implanted into him so he can feel more human while Captain Picard learns that his family has recently perished in a fire. The crew runs into Dr. Soran who is planning on entering the energy ribbon to a place called the Nexus, which is described as a place of joy. Picard attempts to stop him, but he is unable to and both Soran and Picard are swallowed by the Nexus. In the Nexus, Picard discovers Kirk and the two form up to go back to stop Soran, as there is no sense of time in the Nexus, and stop him from changing the Nexus' course to enter it because by doing so, it will destroy a planet.The subplot involving Data learning to adjust to the emotions chip is not particularly interesting and is used not so much to develop Data as a character, but more for him to be a source of comic relief by doing a number of things that make us laugh at the movie, not with the movie. Ironically, the only time I laughed at anything Data did in this film was the one time I was told it was not funny, which was when he pushed Dr. Crusher (Gates McFadden) into the water on the holodeck after a misunderstanding.Fortunately, the fan-fiction part is only the last twenty minutes or so, and the combination of Kirk and Picard isn't all that bad, the mission and their plan makes no sense. After meeting up in the Nexus, they go back to right before Soran changes the ribbon's course so they have a race against the clock. Next, they act as though they have one chance when in actuality, they could keep entering the Nexus and coming out to try again until they got it right. Next, Picard could have gone back to the day he rescued Soran and prevented him from going through with his mission while Kirk went back to his time via the Nexus. When there are three much more probable options that could have been used but were not for the sake of seeing Picard and Kirk work together to stop a bad guy, it's not only insulting to the audience's intelligence, it is insulting to the characters of Picard and Kirk intelligence because in the past, they have been shown to to come up with better plans in less time than they had.Star Trek Generations is easily the worst film out of all twelve Star Trek films. While The Final Frontier and Insurrection were bad, they were at least more thought out and had a more coherent plot to it that did not rely on what feels like fan-fiction. "},{"Title":"The Disappointing Generations","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Twenty years on, looking back at Star Trek Generations is quite odd. It's placement in the history of the franchise was unique coming just after the end of the Original Series films while The Next Generation, which had recently come to the end of its TV run, was about to begin its own series of films. What would be better than to bridge the two sections of the film series then by featuring the two in a film together? With that as both starting point and promotional point, Star Trek Generations was released to theaters. Yet the finished film has proved to be one of the lesser regarded Trek films. Why is that?The film was written, directed and scored by the production team of The Next Generation TV series and that ultimately was its biggest problem. Generations, as a film, feels like little more than a two-part story from the TV series translated to the big screen. Outside of the opening 15-20 minutes of the film, its structure and pacing is far better suited for TV. Watching the film, one can sense where the ad breaks would go and find one or two places where the first episode cliffhanger would go. The film also does, as the TV series would do, try to find moments for all the characters to contribute something to the plot, which leads to some odd moments as well (such as Crusher briefing Riker and Worf in sick bay of all places). There's also a tendency in the film to break up important scenes by suddenly shifting tracks and trying to do a character moment inside of it with the two biggest offenders coming in the film's first hour. The result is jarring to say the least and breaks up the flow of the film immeasurably. That isn't the only problem though.Where the TV origins are most apparent though is how the film starts picking up elements of Next Generation continuity. Data's emotion chip as well as the appearance of the Duras sisters are the two prime examples, things which work if you're a fan of the TV series following those threads but for anyone else coming in (or indeed even for a casual fan of Trek such as myself) they can be a bit odd. The way that Data's emotion chip is handled as well, in that it's used for virtually nothing but cringe-worthy comedy moments the entire way through the film, doesn't help matters either. The lesson here is that what works in a weekly TV series doesn't necessarily work in a film, especially one aimed at casual fans and a larger audience. Perhaps the worst side effect of that though is what it does to the opening 15-20 minutes of the film. Though those opening minutes are arguably the best of the film, ultimately they fill like a time filler to simply set up the end and bring the film up to length. It doesn't help that Scotty and Chekov, despite the performances of both James Doohan and Walter Koenig, are written so bland they could have been played by anybody (and indeed were originally intended to be Spock and McCoy, the latter explaining why Chekov rather randomly asks about the Enterprise B medical staff and then goes to sick bay). It sadly means that the best minutes of the film feel tacked onto it instead.The film does have its pluses though. As well as the Trek films' usually strong special effects, the film has some of the best cinematography in any film from the franchise thanks to the efforts of John A. Alonzo. The film also has some strong performances including Patrick Stewart's Picard and Malcom McDowell as the film's villain Soran, a character so single minded as to be apathetic rather than evil. It also features some of William Shatner's best moments as Captain Kirk, especially in the opening sequence on the Enterprise B where Kirk first deals with being a guest and then throws himself willingly into the action and his final scene is one of the film's few highlights. Despite some of its better elements, overall Generations is one of the most disappointing Trek films. The film's structural issues, odd pacing, over-reliance on using threads from the Next Generation TV series make the film feel like a two-parter from the TV series with an added prologue to bring it up to movie length. Indeed, looking at the film now, it isn't hard to imagine this film as the finale of the TV series with the actual finale (All Good Things...) as the first Next Generation film instead. Frankly, I think it would have been better that way. "},{"Title":"The Incompatibles","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" A lot has changed in three hundred years. People are no longer obsessed with the accumulation of 'things'. We have eliminated hunger, want, the need for possessions. The economics of the future is somewhat different. You see, money doesn't exist in the 24th century. The acquisition of wealth is no longer the driving force in our lives. We work to better ourselves and the rest of humanity. - Captain PicardLet me tell you something about Hew-mons, nephew. They're a wonderful, friendly people, as long as their bellies are full and their holosuites are working. But take away their creature comforts, deprive them of food, sleep, sonic showers, put their lives in jeopardy over an extended period of time and those same friendly, intelligent, wonderful people... will become as nasty and as violent as the most bloodthirsty Klingon. You don't believe me? Look into their eyes. - Quark Created by Gene Roddenberry, the original Star Trek TV series ran for three seasons. On one hand, the series was basically hippies in space, a band of enlightened liberals flying about and delivering sermons on civil rights, science, the arrogance of humans and the hipness of pacifism. On the other hand, the series was squarely a product of the just departed Kennedy era. So here we had a photogenic, chauvinistic American (William Shatner) bossing aliens around, dictating intergalactic policy, bedding alien chicks and surrounding himself with miniskirts. Groovy.Roddenberry would be given free reign to create The Next Generation in the late 1980s. More true to his original vision, this incarnation of Trek played like a cross between C-span and a pyjama party. Here a group of leotard wearing communists, members of the United Federation of Planets, travel about in a giant cruise ship and solve intergalactic mysteries. One giant step forward for bald-people, the series was popular with Western audiences, who saw the Feds not as commie heathens but good ole American peacekeepers, doing God's work with lasers and landing parties. Roddenberry's actual Utopian vision, however, now novel in our age of nihilism, was in keeping with science fiction authors of yesteryear. H.G Welles, for example, saw the combination of the nation-state system, capitalism, and the irrationalities of nationalism and religion, as a detriment to mankind, and so called for the establishment of a world government, a socialist economy, and a rationalistic culture in their place. He'd dramatise this in novels like The War in the Air, The World Set Free and Shape of Things to Come, which depicted the decadence and collapse of the old order and the building of the new. Of course in the real world, this new never came. Trek itself has always had one foot firmly in post-capitalist utopianism and another in the contemporary. It wants space battles, lasers and warp-porn on one hand, and diplomacy, peace and hugs on the other. Unsurprisingly, most of the franchise's best episodes belong to the latter category. The Survivors is all about a strange, perfectly manicured plot of green grass, the episode First Contact finds a primitive race shocked to discover that it's not alone in the cosmos, and other episodes find our heroes sympathising with terrorists, transvestites, saving giant space whales, performing C-sections on pregnant space oysters or fighting for cyborg civil rights. In Trek, problems are resolved by finding common ground and even mass murdering species (Silicon Avatar, I, Borg) are just a little bit misunderstood. It's even revealed that the franchise's chief races (Romulans, Cardassians, Humans and Klingons) share a common genetic ancestor; everyone's your brother! When it was not waxing political, most of Trek's best episodes don't even have conventional violence. Remember Me portrayed the universe shrinking around a single human being, whilst others derived their kicks from their mind-bending plots (Inner Light, All Good Things, Ship in a Bottle, The City on the Edge of Forever, Timescape, Yesterday's Enterprise etc). Such interesting episodes are few and far between, however. On a whole, the first two Trek series were mostly weak.After Roddenberry's death, the Trek franchise morphed into Deep Space Nine. Here, on a space station in the ghettos-end of the universe, a black guy and various other intergalactic outcasts struggle to co-exist. The Us/Them, Chair/Viewscreen dichotomy of previous Trek iterations then gave way to circles. Lots and lots of circles, and awkward angles, alien architecture, shadows, hieroglyphs and confusing, multi-species relationships. Our heroes can no longer warp away at the end of an episode, problems linger, solutions are difficult and old wounds rarely close.Ostensibly about Israel/Palestine/Jewish/Nazi relationships, told here via two alien races, Deep Space Nine attempted to deconstruct previous Trek incarnations, portray the problems (and drudgery) of maintaining a United Federation and deal with complex politics and religious clashes. This would occasionally give way to masterpieces (the famous, Holocaust themed Duet), but ratings would slip and so the franchise would introduce super-villains and lots of war and destruction.So the Trek franchise has always been weirdly contradictory, at times highbrow, often lowbrow, at times Utopian, at times outright fascist. Epitomizing these contradictions is David Carson's Star Trek Generations, a feature length film in which mild mannered diplomats are forced to shoot lasers, kick butts and battle James Bond villains. Throw in a subplot in which the crew of the Original Star Trek series are needlessly summoned back to life &#x96; as wisecracking, twinkle-eyed swashbucklers they are totally incompatible with later, snobbish Trek crews - and you have a film that desperately wants to be all things to everyone. If the film is irrelevant, not science fiction, not even space opera, and if its themes of time, death and ageing are both pompous and cribbed from Nick Meyers Star Trek 2, it nevertheless has a strong first act. It also has one interesting set piece in which our heroes visit Steller Cartography, essentially Google Maps for space-hippies.5/10 - Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"The Cast is Strong But The Plot Wears Thin,","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations is a good movie with a storyline that dosen't really go anywhere for a very long time but a very inspired cast like there always is in Star Trek.It definitely wasn't a fantastic start for the Next Generation crew,it being their first movie,but I don't think its as bad as most people make it out to be,I don't think its the worst Star Trek but its certainly not the best,these movies are sometimes outstanding (The Wrath of Khan) and other times awful (The Final Frontier),I would put this right in the middle.The plot was sometimes very frustrating because it just didn't know were it was going for such a long time,but the impressive cast made it bearable,I really enjoyed Malcolm McDowell as the villain,he always delivers very creepy performances and he fit perfectly into the Star Trek universe.I didn't really appreciate William Shatner's performance,it all felt very forced and I think this movie would have been better off just focusing on the Next Generation crew instead of bringing in members from the original series.Fans of Star TrekThe Next Generation will definitely be disappointed,but will still appreciate the casts strong performances.Captain Kirk (William Shatner) disappears on a mission,seven decades later,Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) encounters similar peril and only the two captains can save the Enterprise. "},{"Title":"Some fun to be had but not as momentous as it needs to be","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The seventh film in the series passes the torch to the crew of 'The Next Generation' with mixed results. A strong story was required to celebrate the meeting of Captains Kirk and Picard, but the plot is frustratingly underdeveloped and trundles towards a fizzling finale. It's a shame, too, that Leonard Nimoy and DeForest Kelley declined to appear.But there is excitement and humour along the way, plenty of thoughtful dialogue, an excellent performance from Patrick Stewart, and William Shatner seems to be having fun in his farewell performance, practically winking at the camera at times. The 'Trek' films are so middling that this isn't really any worse than the previous six (it's better than some); all the same, it carries with it the feeling that such a key chapter in 'Trek' history should have had more meat on its bones. "}{"Title":"The ultimate Star Trek movie. Kirk and Piccard are the best st duo ever!","Date":"27 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie mainly because Its Kirk and Picard the two best st captains who ever lived. therefore it is the best st movie of all time. I was surprised of how high the quality of this movie was. i'm sure allot of people think of it as two old geezers fooling around in a crappy license movie but this was quite the contrary. i almost lost track of time, i was so absorbed in how amazing the movie was. It just wasn't the fact that the two of them were together at last. The acting of Bret spinner was incredible as well. For those of you who haven't seen it yet you are in for a treat(i don't want to oversell but you are going to love this film!) "},{"Title":"Rough around the edges but it does the job, I suppose - 68%","Date":"16 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" With the original TV crew dispatched, it was time to hand over the baton to the next phase in the franchise - the Next Generation. As this was the version of Star Trek I grew up watching, I was eagerly anticipating their first big screen outing and at the time, I wasn't disappointed. But as is often the way, watching it again today reminded me of several faults I'd overlooked before. A weak plot and villain, dialogue that would make George Lucas cringe and some pretty shoddy direction undermines a film with surprisingly good performances and effects that do justice to Gene Roddenbury's original vision.On the maiden voyage of the new Enterprise B, the inexperienced crew are forced to rescue two ships breaking up in some weird space ribbon. One of those rescued is a man named Soran (Malcolm McDowell) who is desperate to return to his exploding vessel. However, the Enterprise herself is badly damaged and the guest of honour, the retired Captain Kirk (William Shatner), is sadly sucked out into space. Seventy-eight years later and the current Enterprise, helmed by Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) and the rest of the Next Gen gang, encounters the same ribbon as they rescue Soran again from a Federation space station. But this is no ordinary energy ribbon (like, are there many others and what are they like then?) - the Nexus is a portal to another realm where time stands still and every whim is made real. In his desperation to return to the Nexus, Soran is prepared to commit murder on a galactic scale and Picard finds himself in need of another Starfleet captain in order to stop him...Star Trek Generations has no lack of ambition in terms of story but execution is found wanting. Take the climatic battle between Picard and Soran on a rickety metal bridge that appear to be held in place with a couple of badly rusted nails - imagine a huge crystal chandelier held up by a safety pin and you get the idea. I know this is Trek and thus, eminently theatrical (much like Star Wars, of course) but Trek was always more about the characters spouting pseudo-scientific garbage than firing phasers and fisticuffs. To that end, we have Data (Brent Spiner) and his Emotion Chip overloading his positronic network or something which provides director David Carson with a handy sub-plot. But he gets it wrong - an android suddenly developing emotions could have provided us with moments of humour or Blade Runner-style philosophy but instead, we get Data going haywire for a bit and from that point on, he is reduced to comic sidekick. Not good.It's not a complete bust - the film looks OK although there isn't much to touch the zero gravity sequence from its predecessor Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country and the leads all perform well. Stewart and McDowell are actually a pretty good contrast - Picard's usually unflappable manner verses Soran's wide-eyed fanatic. The same cannot be said for the rest of the cast - perhaps with so much going on, they forgot to include any scenes of substance with Worf (Michael Dorn) or Doctor Crusher (Gates McFadden). Hell, even Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg) has more to do than those two. As a film, it's uneven - it's certainly entertaining in a not-really-sci-fi kinda way but fans expecting anything as dramatic as Star Trek II The Wrath Of Khan would be advised to seek their thrills elsewhere. But then, there's that unwritten rule that odd-numbered Star Trek films are no match for even-numbered films and technically, this is Star Trek VII - for me, if you're wanting a better Next Gen film then you should check out Star Trek First Contact. "},{"Title":"Many things about the plot are not based on genuine science.","Date":"2 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Certainly no somewhat sound Quantum physics theories were used. Emotional and thought provoking. Was the Nexus an energy field that created fantasies or 1 that manipulated time, might have been both, but makes no sense how it could affect time in regular space therefore going back in time before Veridian 3 was destroyed would not have been possible. The missile scene makes no sense, , how could it get to the star in a mere 12 seconds unless it went to warp which was not shown in the movie. The missile scene makes no sense, how could it get to the star in a mere in a mere 12 seconds unless it went to warp which was not shown in the movie. What irrefutably makes no sense is IMDbs stupid policy of at least 10 lines. "},{"Title":"Great Kirk!","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I always loved this movie. From the very first time I saw it, at the age of 10, I absolutely adored it. It took a big risk, admittedly, in bringing the Original Series and TNG together, but I believe it did it extremely well and with a lot of ingenuity.The first part of the movie seems to pick up where The Undiscovered Country left off; and it does so on a somewhat sour note. Retirement does not sit at all well with Captain Kirk, and he hates the idea of being a legend and having the namesake of his beloved ship run by a bunch of inexperienced kids and a skeleton crew (the running tuesday gag is hilarious). I think Walter Koenig and James Doohan were marvellous in the first part of this movie, and the scene where they arrive on deck 15 and find themselves staring into the void of space is chilling.After this, it picks up with the Next Generation Crew, and boy, does the camera love the Enterprise D. It's emotional to see the crew going through the changes this movie throws at them, and by the time Geordi's kidnapped and Data's emotions are uncontrollable, my heart was in my throat.It's also a pleasure to see Whoopi Goldberg reprise her role as Guinan, and as far as humor goes, Data's newfound sense of humor had me on the floor.I LOVED Picard and Kirk's interactions and the segment in Kirk's cabin is an absolute hoot. (Picard This is not your bedroom.) Soran is a great villain, truly ruthless and threatening. Out of all the Next Gen films, this is probably my favorite. It has an atmosphere about it that's very appealing to me, and the only other TNG film that had the same feeling was Nemesis, which I still maintain was a DAMN good movie. "},{"Title":"In shifting to a new crew and doing well to pay tribute to passing stars, the film is fittingly about characters  moving on whilst identifying and acknowledging the past.","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" If there was this stiff, stale sensation about the final few films featuring the old crew then 1994's Generations is the required breath of fresh air. Episode six was driven by intergalactic espionage, assassination plots, false-accusations and the-like; the hero of the series, Captain Kirk, was accused of murder; had to escape from a prison and then go all-around-the-houses in trying to prove his innocence in what was a film that shot all over the shop without there necessarily feeling like anyone was really going anywhere. Generations takes us to places we do not envisage; it opens our minds a little more and is often rife with that wonderful sensation we often get when we watch a science fiction and just flat out do not know, in a good way, where it is we're heading. It is not bogged down by frameworks nor is it plot heavy with looming peace talks; inter-species distrust and a sense of general emotional detachment. That's not to say the old crew were wearing out their welcome; on the contrary, it felt like the time had merely come for them to step aside, and the transition into the new crew led by Patrick Stewart's Jean-Luc Picard, with bits and pieces of the old crew popping up here and there, is both an energising and seamless one.At its core is a study of grief, two people grieving out of their loss for loved ones from further back in their lives. Where one man, this being Picard, identifies the grief and both expresses and acknowledges it away from the demanding; ego-driven world of space flight and commanding a crew, a certain Tolian Soran, played by Malcolm McDowell, can only proceed to do everything in his power to numb his emotions and 'escape' into an existence in which hurt does not exist. When Picard sits in his quarters and speaks of his family's great tradition, the blot on the jotter is revealed to be his own son's early death and that he is the last of his genetic line; the room and its interior at this point bathed in strips of light and shadow alluding to a more humble nature to the man away from the established patriarchy of running a space crew on a ship. His ability to let things go and accept the situation stands in stark contrast to Soran; a man who does his utmost to recapture the past when it is revealed his family was killed by another intergalactic species. He strives to manoeuvre a strip of energy known as the Nexus, which blunts the pain and falsifies the grieving process, towards him which costs thousands of lives on nearby planets and acts as the antithesis to Picard's way of dealing with death.Preceeding the main event is a launching of a brand new Enterprise ship, the talk of retirement in the previous film to which Kirk and his crew alluded has been followed up with; Kirk, the returning William Shatner, takes it on himself to travel on its maiden voyage as a guest. Through some difficulty, and some extraordinary space vacuum activity, McDowell's aforementioned character beams aboard round about the time Kirk is sucked out into space and thought to be dead, when a tear in the bowels of the craft removes him out into yonder. Decades later, Picard and a new set of crew members are enjoying the healthy ethic that they share whilst on board an 18th Century galleon boat in a simulated video game. In spite of the nature of how we first see them, there is less of a team effort in this edition; the utilisation of the Enterpsie's crew in the past canon sees characters the here and now equivalent to Bones and Spock pushed aside for this one man of Picard to take centre stage - many of the other crew remain anonymous with the most memorable thing about anyone being LeVar Burton's Geordi La Forge, if only for his funky eye-wear.A certain Brent Spiner plays a certain Data, a character with striking facial features which has it look like it may belong to an infant's toy doll after having left out in the sun for three-too many days &#x96; a character that alludes to what it might have been like had Kevin Spacey ended up playing Kryten, of British sitcom Red Dwarf-fame. The character makes for a meek substitute of Leonard Nimoy's iconic series stalwart Spock, a being of whom, in spite of not being of the flesh and blood variety, is unable to feel emotion and does his best to provide an outlook on the situation. There is a sub-plot involving him and his attempts to become more human via some programming which doesn't quite work, and this secondary optimisation detracts from the film's centralised hypothesis about raw human emotion and how we deal with it.With grief at the centre of the project, and some unfinished business to do with Kirk tantalisingly set up at the beginning, Generations weaves gently but competently in and out of a number of sub-plots and other such involving content. In a sense, the director of Star Trek Generations, David Carson, was in a lose-lose situation; guiding the return to the big-screen for a franchise as big as Star Trek, for the first time following the removal of the crew whom had started it, all comes across as quite the task &#x96; to paraphrase the immortal-to-some line about going where no one had before gone, this was a treading into new territory; had it broken down, one wonders if the thing would have had much of a life left. It is to he and his team's great credit that Generations comes off as good as it it; an involving adventure film with an exciting story, the required amount of conflict between a strong lead and a good villain which neatly rounds off certain members of the old crew's presence to boot. "},{"Title":"An uninspired launch","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" After a successful 7 year run (that could've easily gone longer had Paramount not been so anxious to launch 'TNG' as a movie franchise) the last thing 'TNG' crew needed was to be passed a baton they'd already seized. Nevertheless, we get a nearly 20-minute helping of Kirk, Scotty and Chekov that feels squeezed in; not unlike those gentlemen were into their ill-fitting Starfleet uniforms. Once TNG crew finally make their first appearance in their own movie, we get a story that really isn't quite big enough for their new medium. Like 'Insurrection', this tale feels better suited for episodic TV. That is until they shove Shatner back out on stage for the final act to remind us this is a big budget feature film (even though his final act fisticuffs are rather small scale stuff).The logic of the premise--even the internal logic--is dubious at best, but 'Generations' is competently directed, moderately entertaining, the cast doesn't shrink on the larger stage, and I give props for the Enterprise crash sequence, which is a pretty awesome bit of F/X work. "},{"Title":"A very bad Star Trek movie.","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This is a very bad Star Trek movie. First because this new crew seems very shallow. In the old movies, all the characters had some unique eccentricness which defined them. One could enjoy them even in a plot less movie like when drifting aimlessly in space. But after seeing this movie I can hardly define anyone they are all the same. Only Data with his emo-chip seemed to have something going on.Second is the plot. The plot is reasonable some guy that wants something bad. There is some philosophical message behind it, like time gives meaning to our actions. The old movies had such messages too. But the problem with this movie, and the main reason why I sack it, is because the plot is so ill-conceived. Towards the end, it actually is opposing its message. The two protagonists are fighting zealously, but even if they lose, they will be able to come again and try to thwart Soran's plans once more. So who cares whether they succeed or not this time&#x85; Not to mention the holes that time travel introduces. It is inherent to unconditioned time travel to devoid actions and choices of meaning because they can be redone. And this movie is full of such meaningless moments.And all this while the first 20 minutes were pretty well done&#x85; but in the end a disappointing Start Trek movie. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A mixed bag of pros, cons and mediocrity","Date":"4 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The involvement of the Original Series crew (Kirk included) is what hurts Star Trek Generations. The Nexus alone would make an enjoyable science fiction story for the Next Generation crew to deal with, and Dr. Soren a fine enough villain (and McDowell a terrific choice to play him). What this movie didn't need is the passing of the torch angle. And Kirk's infamous death felt shoe-horned in and, more upsettingly, a lousy way to go. That said, of the four movies, Generations is the most TNG of them. It's got the trademark technobabble (which doesn't work well on Scotty), character drama (Data's emotion chip, Picard's family turmoil), and it's nice to see these people and the Enterprise-D on the big screen - a ship I've always been fond of, so to find out that they destroyed it simply because the producers wanted a different model is . . . well, it grinds my gears, lemme tell you. Come to think of it, this movie's a mess, and the TNG cast and characters are lost in the shuffle of passing the torch and wearing Deep Space 9 uniforms. This thing needed another year's baking time, less devotion to the old guard and better story focus. They didn't need to sprint from series finale to big screen outing in six months. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A mixed bag of goods for Star Trek fans","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I've seen Star Trek Generations (STG) hundreds of times being a huge Star Trek fan. Recently I've watched it again from beginning to end in HD. Having watched watched pretty much every episode of all the Star Trek TV shows and all of the movies (including the newest Into Darkness), I felt the need to write a new, updated review for my take on this film. For many years, I hated this film as most other Star Trek fans have over the years. There many bad things about this movie. From the storyline to minor things like random changing between the standard TNG uniforms, this movie had a wild things going on. However, with all the shortcomings of this movie, after recently re-watching this film I've had a change of heart about my attitude towards this film.The good sides of this movie STG is still a good, quality Star Trek film. The camera work, set design, costumes, and the works were all done with superb quality. After having watched most of TNG over recently, I've come to appreciate the nice budget this film got. The CGI, for the most part, is great. The shots of the Enterprise D were fantastic and a huge step up from the TV show models, from the flying through space to the destruction of the ship. In HD, this movie really pops for being almost 20 years old already. Although some find Data's behavior over the top in this film, I found it hilarious and if you are truly a TNG fan you will enjoy Brent Spiner's performance. We even get to see Spot, Data's cat again! Lastly, although I'm not a fan of the story, the villain is great and the concept behind the nexus is intriguing. Now for the bad sides of this film the rest of the storyline! Simply put, STG has too much going on at once. They tried to cram too many things into this movie, making it a loyal TNG film while honoring Captain Kirk's history. The main thing that hurts this film and made many fans including myself dislike it, was the death of Captain Kirk. Captain Kirk's character was forced into this film. I found it completely unnecessary to ever make Picard and Kirk ever meet face-to-face in the first place. And the way William Shatner's Captain Kirk was killed off; I have and always will find it insulting and just plain bad for such a legendary TV icon. Although the story was interesting, in the end, TNG could have had a great start on the big screen without the passing of the torch from Kirk to Picard. The way The Undiscovered Country left off was perfect. Kirk has his last voyage in Enterprise and that was it. Instead they forcibly brought him back in this film as an excuse to involve him with TNG's storyline. In conclusion Star Trek Generations is a decent Star Trek film. If you can get past the mixed timelines/story and enjoy the good sides of this film, it is still an enjoyable movie with some hidden surprises. With that being said, though, this movie at heart is a TNG film. If you're not a TNG fan, you're going to hate this film. I also don't thing this is a good Star Trek film for the general audience. Unless you're a Star Trek fan, you probably won't get this movie. Of the TNG franchise, I still thing the best of the bunch is First Contact. "},{"Title":"For the fans...","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Few movies can deliver the sense of exploration and adventure as a Star Trek movie (or series for that matter) can. Star Trek Generations is at the same time the first movie with a new crew of the new Enterprise, and actually starts with the christening of the ship and its maiden voyage, with Kirk, Chekov and Scotty along as honored guests. The need to answer a distress call from two ships trapped in a gravitational distortion make the maiden voyage a nightmare. Enterprise is almost destroyed, and Kirk is a causality. Many decades later Picard and his crew answer another distress call with connections to the same distortion.Star Trek Generations is in many ways a classic Star Trek movie with all the elements that a Star Trek movie should contain. But it is not one of the best Star Trek movies, very much due that the story is divided. The main plot is about the distortion and the scientist that threatens several planets when he tries to use it, but it also got a subplot of a Klingon uprising. The subplot is not developed very much, it seems to be there mostly to justify an element of space ship action. I feel that perhaps would the movie would have been better if they have focused and developed just one of the tracks.Star Trek fans will in no way be disappointed, and as I consider myself as one among them, I liked Star Trek Generations. However I don't think the movie will convince many non-fans.7/10 "}{"Title":"Tthe last of the old crew","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" 'Star Trek Generations' had a lot of publicity with regards the two captains, Kirk and Picard meeting. It also includes the demise of Kirk.In my humble opinion this is one of the most underrated films in the Star Trek series. You have William Shatner as Kirk for the last time and Patrick Stewart appearing as Picard on film for the first time -- that is what gives the film a very exciting edge -- they have a strong chemistry. Add to the mix Malcolm McDowell as Soran, A delightfully manic villain of the piece who seems pathetic at first and then becomes exceedingly dangerous.David Carson does some great work as director especially with the Nexus sequences which add a great deal to the film's poignancy.The ending is sad and I think that like the ending of the Bond film O.H.M.S.S it may have harmed to its overall popularity. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As I'd Expect From A Trek Movie; But Still Good","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I find it hard to believe that some people thought that this movie was absolutely terrible. I mean, the script was well-written; the effects aren't terrible for a 1994 movie and the acting's good. What more do you expect from it? Captain Picard to stand up and begin doing a whole song and dance about the Nexus? While the story wasn't quite as good as I expect from a Star Trek movie, I still thought it was very good. The Nexus was, and still is, a very good concept for a Star Trek movie--a universe where time has no meaning does appeal to me greatly.And it still provides all the action and adventure that most of the Star Trek movies (except for the first one) give.So, all in all, while not as good story wise; in every other aspect, it is perfect. "},{"Title":"Risk is part of the game.....","Date":"22 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" In the late twenty-third century, the gala maiden voyage of the third Starship Enterprise (NCC-1701-B) boasts such luminaries as Pavel Chekov, Montgomery Scott, and the legendary Captain James T. Kirk as guests. But the maiden voyage turns to disaster as the unprepared ship is forced to rescue two transport ships from a mysterious energy ribbon. The Enterprise manages to save a handful of he ships' passengers and barely makes it out intact...but at the cost of Captain Kirk's life. Seventy-eight years later, Captain Jean-Luc Picard and the crew of the Enterprise-D find themselves at odds with the renegade scientist Soren...who is destroying entire star systems. Only one man can help Picard stop Soren's scheme...and he's been dead for seventy-eight years...I'm not a Star Trek fan, but i can imagine that the thought of Shatner and Stewart starring alongside each other in this movie is the equivalent of seeing Pacino and De Niro in Heat. It's a fun movie, but not because of the two captains, it's fun because of the great scenery and Macdowell as the pantomime villain.He chews all the scenery when he is present, and makes a worthwhile villain. There are sub- plots involving other characters that go straight over my head, but i feel that this is because i have not seen the series, nor have watched the films in chronological order.The cast are fine and look like that they are having fun making this, and the set pieces are adequate for any stand alone Sci-Fi movie.worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Data & Geordi buddy-fest raises my  rating Generations a 5 to 8.","Date":"14 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Like Kirk, Like Picard--but LOVE Geordi & Data. I have their pictures, their action figures. The pictures I've come across with just the two of them together I gold latinum hold onto.Generations is in my top five scripts their friendship plays a huge part in the storyline. They steal it--especially Data of course. Those who hate the chip, I say couldn't imagine the film would be without it. His silliness isn't non-stop; there's moments that I get close to lump rise, hold back crying or purring as it were. Spot....That said, other than a couple parts, after he's abducted Geordi's participation is sadly predictably lame. Now it's Klingons got him. Why couldn't Riker been the one captured and Geordi run the ship into the ground (hee)? After his helping evacuate people, he fades out. What-in-the-world?? That said my number #1 bone to pick with Next Generation, over the course of 7 seasons & 4 movies, little to no development for Geordi LaForge. Best scene all 4 movies just him, in Insurrection watching the scenery--a second before he begins talking to Picard. Couldn't he done a soliloquy? Once more these two outdistances my liking Generations' other plots. By the way, couldn't found someone else to die close to Picard than the nephew?? And for crying out loud, why isn't Whoopi's name in the credits as she's behind my fave buds in having the best scenes. "},{"Title":"Sometimes entertaining, but sometimes a bit bland as well","Date":"4 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I saw this movie on TV nearly ten years ago, being familiar with both the original Star Trek, and Star Trek The Next Generation at the time. From what I remember, I liked it at the time, but obviously had to watch it again to see what I would think of it now. So, I finally saw it for the second time (for the first time in many years), after watching its six predecessors in order, and while it was no HUGE disappointment, I was not as impressed as I was with most of the previous ones.The Enterprise-B, a new ship, sets out on its maiden voyage, with a new crew. Also aboard are three retired guests; Chekov, Scotty, and Kirk. When the ship is forced into a rescue mission, the three guests help out, but sadly, Kirk does not survive! 78 years later, Jean-Luc Picard is the captain of the USS Enterprise-D. When a distress call comes from an observatory station, Picard and his crew head over and manage to rescue Dr. Tolian Soran. Unfortunately, the crew are all unaware that Soran has evil plans for destruction! Picard learns that the scientist is doing this in an attempt to get back to the Nexus, a place of total bliss! In order to stop Soran, Picard must enter the Nexus, and meet Captain Kirk! Star Trek Generations has received its fair share of criticism from fans, for the plot and the idea of Kirk and Picard meeting. Well, I guess I agree to a certain extent, the plot is a tad awkward, but in my opinion, it's not as bad as some say it is. In fact, I thought Kirk and Picard meeting was one of the good parts. However, I also found that too much of the film is somewhat dull. Now, there is quite a bit of excitement in the film. There's also some good humour, mainly in the scenes with Data and his new emotion chip, which sometimes causes him to act silly. However, the film is not a consistent as I had hoped, lagging behind for too long at times.Of the six movies featuring the original ST crew, I would say this 1994 follow-up is superior to the The Motion Picture and The Final Frontier, but inferior to the rest. While polarizing with fans, I think it has enough to make it above average, but not by much. If you hate the idea of Kirk and Picard meeting, then it's obviously best to avoid Star Trek Generations. If you like that idea, then this is probably worth a try, even though you could still be disappointed by certain other aspects, probably including some that I haven't mentioned. "},{"Title":"why did it take TWO CAPTAINS to defeat ONLY ONE Villain?","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The biggest disappointment (among many others - including the omission of Mr Spock and Dr. McCoy) was that it took a two-captain tag-team of William Shatner and Patrick Stewart to defeat just little ol' Malcolm McDowell. I would have enjoyed it better if the McDowell character had some henchman protecting him (instead of the lame force field )and if our two captains had to defeat those villains with a combo of brain and brawn. sorry, McDowell did not seem such an invincible bad-guy that it would take both captains to take him out. also, the opening sequence, with the champagne bottle however artistically filmed as it christened the new Enterprise, stunk. The originally-planned opening sequence of a space-diving Captain Kirk would have been a lot better. thanks for listening and look forward to your comments. "},{"Title":"A New Era Begins","Date":"13 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek IV The Voyage Home was received so well in 1986 that Star Trek underwent a rebirth. Star Trek The Next Generation began airing the next year. After Captain Kirk and friends retired, it was Captain Picard's turn. Their first film came months after the show broadcast its final episode.Star Trek Generations does not begin in the 24th century. Original show stars Kirk (William Shatner), Scotty (James Doohan), and Checkov (Walter Koenig) attend the maiden voyage of the new USS Enterprise B. Unfortunately, the undermanned ship picks up a distress call from two ships caught in some kind of energy ribbon that will soon crush them. With no other ship in range, they manage to save 47 passengers, but at a very steep price. The electrifying opener is the movie's highlight and sets up the two most important story lines.Seventy-eight years later, Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) and the Enterprise D are sent to investigate the attack of a Federation Space Station orbiting the Amagossa Star. Here, the crew meets a scientist named Dr. Soran (Malcolm McDowell), seen earlier as a survivor of the energy ribbon's carnage. Upon repeated insistence, Soran is allowed to return to the station, and then becomes hostile.I saw the movie before I saw the show, and after seeing First Contact. I enjoyed it then, and now, after seeing episodes the show, I believe it does an acceptable job of transferring the characters from television to screen. Star Trek The Motion Picture and The Wrath of Kahn introduced the original crew to theater, but neither did well at using all of its characters. Generations does.There are also new challenges, such as the new emotion chip installed in Data (Brent Spiner). While the effect is amusing the first time he drinks a beverage and hates it, the humor begins to become lame. The chip hampers the investigation when Data starts laughing at jokes he heard years ago, then feels fear and remorse.The Star Trek films have a rich history of great villains. First there is Ricardo Montalban's Khan, Christopher Lloyd's Kruge, then Christopher Plummer's General Chang. McDowell takes the standard left by films II, III and VI and lives up to it. Soran's singular obsession has so consumed him that he does not care how many people he murders in blind pursuit of his goal. Soran is quieter than the others, but his peerless scientific knowledge makes him the deadliest foe yet.Sadly, the script is filled with mistakes. Soran must manipulate the ribbon to achieve his goal, yet he seemed to be succeeding when he was beamed off the doomed ship at the beginning. Its speed is another problem. It covers the incredible distance between Amagossa and Veridian in a scant few days, yet it takes several minutes to pass through Veridian III's atmosphere during the climax. According to the simulation, it should not enter the atmosphere, until its course changes. Clock errors also hurt the illusion. The Enterprise B's hull integrity reads 82 percent. Twenty seconds later, it is down to 40, yet the ship lasts for several more minutes. Captain Harriman (Alan Ruck, looking fifteen years older than he did in Ferris Bueller's Day Off) volunteers go to the deflector control then Captain Kirk halts him. What does he do? He stops to think for several seconds while the ship is being ripped to pieces. Later on comes the annoying cliché where one person tries to pull another from danger, their hands cannot reach, the second slips away, and the first can magically reach him now.This film should have won a Visual Effects Oscar. I have seen two of the other three nominees, including the winner, and neither has as impressive effects. The scene where Picard watches a star shrink right in front of him is the most astounding visual in the series, including the three films that were made later.Then there is the meeting between Kirk and Picard. Patrick Stewart is universally acknowledged as a far better actor, but seeing Shatner's screen presence is more riveting. Watching to two together shows just how awesome of an icon Captain Kirk has become. Dennis McCarthy's soundtrack does not rate as one Star Trek's best, but his theme featured in the horse-riding scene rings of pure beauty.Kirk at one point says, Who am I to argue with the captain of the Enterprise? With those words, the baton is officially passed. It may be weaker than their future adventures, but the maiden voyage of the Next Generation crew earns a recommendation and six out of ten. "},{"Title":"pretty decent entry","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" as Star Trek movies go,this is a pretty good one.i'd say it's almost as good as the previous entry The Undiscovered Country.i say almost because there are some moments where i felt it dragged and lost momentum.other than that,though,i didn't really have any issues with it.it thought the story line was quite unique and original.the writing is pretty good,and the action scenes are decent.the acting was also pretty good.the only other thing lacking is a an actual threat of some sort.i mean there is one,but the focus is not really on that.but this movie didn't seem to need that.it works without it.i give Star TrekGenerations a 7/10. "},{"Title":"ST FILM SEVEN Time Stalks Kirk & Picard Outside the Nexus","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This film follows The Undiscovered Country(91), the last to feature all of the original Trek cast, also functioning as a follow-up to the TNG series, which ended a few months earlier. So, there are a lot of elements to bring together, or attempt to, into a cohesive whole - a challenge that was probably next to impossible. This is, largely, a wish fulfillment dream for the Trek fans, namely an answer to the proposition 'what if Kirk teamed up with Picard?' The film represents the differences between this film series and others, in that much of the plot and themes are essentially dictated by the fans. The writers were given certain plot points that were mandated to be part of the story and their job was to somehow write around these Kirk meets Picard; Data gets emotional; Enterprise crashes; Kirk...meets his end? The writing is adequate, but due to the constraints, there were quite a few clumsy aspects to the overall story. There is an unusual scope to the film the first 18 minutes take place in the 23rd century, with Kirk, Scotty and Chekov (the last appearances for them) on the new Enterprise-B. This is a nice section, almost like a mini-movie or episode within the film, with our old guard crew definitely retired (tho I always felt Chekov had a good 10 years left in him). Then it transits to the 24th century, to Picard, Riker, Data and the rest of the crew of Enterprise-D.This transition in itself is not bad, but the writers had to come up with a way for Kirk to go forward and team up with his 24th century counterpart and using the by-now-stale method of traditional time travel was out. So they came up with the Nexus ribbon, an intriguing space/time phenomenon which mirrors the concept of the film a wish-fulfillment dimension where/when anything goes, anything can happen. It addressed the problem of how to get Kirk and Picard together, but is sufficiently vague and even hazy in its conception that it comes off as simply hasty writing, not the cleverness we hoped for. The threat faced by Picard and crew is the somewhat grandly villainous Soran (McDowell, fiendishly gleeful as is usual for him, but not entirely suitable for the tragic aspects of his character), whose plan to enter the Nexus involves destroying an entire solar system. Soran is teamed up with a couple of Klingon sisters from the TNG series and these actresses actually give the better performances in the film. The pace is pretty good, with enough action to offset the lengthy subplot about Picard's personal tragedy, which mirrors Soran's - parallels abound. The key battle scenes in space here echo those of the 3rd Trek film, in which a smaller Bird of Prey Klingon ship once again gains the upper hand over a more powerful Starfleet vessel - I suppose being a sneaky dastardly alien race has its advantages in both the 23rd and 24th centuries.But, it actually works to the film's favor, establishing a darkly ironic tone for the usually level, sometimes bland Trek universe. After seven years of evading destruction from all manner of cosmic menaces on the TNG series, the great ship is laid low by these cloaked skulkers, plotting their deeds from an outmoded vessel (the Enterprise-D's downfall was an edict from higher powers at Paramount, in reality). Likewise, after even more years of eluding all manner of death, Kirk appears to have used up all his good fortune. It seemed to me that, after exiting the safety of the Nexus, Kirk was doomed to fall, no matter what; he would've misstepped somewhere on those mountains even without Soran attacking him - all his cards had been played. Of course, as a longtime fan, I would've preferred Kirk survived and gone off into legend in the same way Scotty did on the TNG episode Relics. But no, the filmmakers were hampered by rules and lack of imagination, a bad combo for such a series. Rules were created for the Nexus, for example, which sweeps over the planet and takes Soran & Picard along with it, but leaves the Enterprise crew to die with the planet; so it only swept over that small part of the planet - convenient. Wild science fiction with loopholes.Kirk and Picard interact in much the way we would expect and it's a great exercise for the two seasoned actors, Shatner and Stewart. If only the setting wasn't so mundane - cooking eggs in a kitchen. The budget limitations, rushed quality and not thinking things out enough shows in these sections by rights, no one should be able to leave the Nexus. The audience has to make allowances to feel better about it all starship captains are made of different stuff. They'll get out. But, if you can get out, would you go back to the moments to just before everything goes to hell? Why not give yourself a day? If Kirk had to die, couldn't it have been on the bridge of an exploding starship or even an exploding planet, to give it some grandness, maybe even some greatness? You can drive yourself crazy with all the what ifs. Some of the themes, related to old age, the brevity of human life and making a difference, though having a 'tacked on' feel, do emerge by the end. And, it's interesting that the antagonist, who rebels against these declared virtues, is himself nearly immortal (Guinan's race is very long-lived); that may be why he instigated this conflict, not knowing the preciousness of a brief life. But, this is what happens when you put together a film as modified by fans - you get a fan film - exciting in many ways, quite illogical in others. That's what Spock might say and he was missing, but I think Nimoy had the same opinion. Next was the all-new crew film on the new Enterprise-E in First Contact. "},{"Title":"A slight miss in the hand off.","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The original crew of the Enterprise is gone. Their time of adventure has ended and they are now passing the torch to a new crew. Well at least the cinema torch.Generations is supposed to be the great connection between Star Trek and Star Trek TNG. We get a chance to see what Kirks fate in life was and his eventual return to help the new Capitan of the Enterprise. An amazing concept that creates a fun yet really flawed film.First lets look at the good. FX are great and it is amazing to see the Enterprise D on the big screen. I was impressed with many visuals in this film especially a certain scene of crashing I won't mention so others won't get ruined by it.That acting was very good as well. It is obvious that the crew of TNG know and love each other and just enjoy working together. Shatner and Stewart also have some great interactions that I found fun and enjoyable to watch.To bad there are bads to this however.Probably the greatest flaw to this film is that the plot feels only half thought out. We get introductions to so many extra things that are supposed to add depth (I assume) but never do. Data gets an emotion chip, Picards brother and nephew die, Kirk in the ribbon, and many more. This film seemed to have many good concepts running together causing the writers to make it hard to focus on one thing. To often I found myself wanting to get into situations deeper only to be left hanging.My biggest gripe with this film is another plot issue and also something of a spoiler, so skip the next paragraph if you don't want it ruined...Picard ends up in the ribbon with Kirk. By now we know that you basically live out your own personal heaven in the ribbon. It is supposed to be so perfect that it has driven one guy made and caused Guinan a lot of emotional stress. You figure this would be a very hard process of getting Picard and Kirk to leave. Yeah all of ten minutes to leave. Not only that but Guinan appears out of no where to push Picard out. How the heck is she here? We get a very short sad reason and picard gets up thinks about it and leaves his own personal heaven with little issue. Kirk takes more of the ten minutes to get out but hey, he is a lot older by now right.I am done with my spoilers now. Again the issue comes to not enough depth in important areas in the plot.Oh, as Trek fan I have one final problem. They destroyed my favorite Enterprise ina very lack luster way.Enough nerd crying.This film is alright, not a horrid mess. However this film is also lacking in important areas. THankfully it was followed up with First Contact. "}{"Title":"Nothing more than a two hour collection of plot devices&#133;..","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Basically this film had a list of purposes &#150; put Kirk and Picard together in the same film, explain why we had thus far never seen an Enterprise B and get rid of Enterprise D and all of its seven year old sets so they can have a nice shiny new ship in the next film.This is achieved with a ludicrous set of plot devices, the silly Nexus energy ribbon thing and the mad Doctor Soran where little more than tools used to get Kirk and Picard together and finish off Enterprise D in the process.All in all a bit flat, also the much over used Data emotions plot was recycled from the TNG series YET AGAIN resulting in some unnecessary and quite frankly embarrassingly bad scenes.Still, they achieved their aims I suppose and the wrecking of the Enterprise D was nicely done but surely Geordi could have sorted out a little warp core breach without too much trouble?Never mind, the TNG crew would be back with a vengeance in the next instalment&#133; "},{"Title":"the film they had to make","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  After the success of the TV series, 'Star Trek The Next Generation', and after the endless debates of who was the better Captain, Kirk or Picard, this is the film that Rick Berman and co. had to make.Two generations collide, and not just two generations of Captains. Two generations of Star Trek fans come together in this film.  Fans of the original series who didn't like The Next Generation had to see it, because Kirk was in it. And fans of the Next Generation who didn't like the original series had to see it, because Picard was in it.  For fans of both, like myself, it was a dream come true.So Data gets emotions, and Troi crashes the ship (not her fault, granted) and Picard and Kirk go horseriding.  It really is a film for the fans. Non-fans needent bother with this one, they wouldn't understand.  The most accessible Trek film was yet to come. (Insurrection).All in all it's a good film, but it's really one for the fans. And as a fan, i thouroughly enjoyed it.   "},{"Title":"TREK Transition Shortchanges Both Crews...","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" STAR TREK GENERATIONS serves neither the original TREK series or the 'Next Generation' crew very well, but producer Rick Berman had a nearly impossible task to satisfy the fans demanding a Kirk/Picard story, and to please the followers of the popular spin-off. Berman had no desire to see the original cast in any more features (it would be difficult enough to provide ample screen time for his OWN large cast), but Paramount demanded that he create a 'transition' between crews, so he wrote, with Ronald D. Moore and Brannon Braga, an opening sequence featuring Kirk, Spock, and McCoy, with a climax that would supposedly have Kirk 'die' alone, in space, thus fulfilling his prophecy from STAR TREK V.As another link between TREKS, Leonard Nimoy was asked to direct GENERATIONS, a wise decision, as he had worked in both TV series, had directed two successful TREK films, and co-written a third. But after reading the script, he said, bluntly, it was TERRIBLE! He offered suggestions, but Berman, struggling to complete the last episodes of TNG, as well as put the film together, did not want to burn up any more production time on rewrites, politely informing Nimoy to shoot what was written. Nimoy turned down the assignment, showing DeForest Kelley the script. After reading it, Kelley stated that he felt THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY was a far more suitable finale for Dr. McCoy, and passed on it, as well. Shatner, getting a HUGE paycheck to revive Kirk a last time, remained committed, and James Doohan and Walter Koenig were hastily called in for the opening sequence (which was why Scotty called Kirk 'Jim', and Chekov was suddenly gifted with medical skills). Kirk's disappearance still packed a wallop, but the absence of Spock and McCoy blunted much of the scene's dramatic power. With TNG director David Carson now in charge, a larger-scaled yet mediocre 'Next Generation' film emerged, with Picard and Data getting most of the screen time, and La Forge suffering the kind of physical abuse that Chekov routinely got in the earlier TREK films. Picard experiences a personal tragedy, and, as he had, far more memorably in the TV series, ruminates about the life he 'could' have had, had Starfleet not beckoned. Meanwhile, evil Dr. Tolian Soran (Malcolm McDowell), having discovered a benevolent entity, the Nexus, that would allow him to 'live' with his dead wife in an eternal state of bliss (a la George Clooney's SOLARIS), decides to destroy a planet to reroute the entity to him (why he didn't just hijack a spaceship and fly into it is not well explained). Utilizing two whacked-out Klingon sisters and their 'Bird of Prey', he soon attacks the Enterprise, and when Picard attempts to stop him on the planet's surface, the captain fails, with the pair sucked into the Nexus.Picard finds himself in the idyllic family life he'd always dreamed of, but, through willpower and the intervention of a 'ghost' of Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg), he comes to his senses, and is told the 'help' he needs to defeat Saran is in the Nexus...in the form of James T. Kirk, sucked into the entity nearly eighty years before... While the 'Meeting of the Captains' offers the 'strengths' of both actors (Shatner shows his signature physicality and cockiness, Stewart, as always, is quiet and intellectual), the scene feels stilted and contrived, enjoyable only when Kirk reflects on Spock and McCoy, and both Captains share a horseback ride (something Shatner had wanted to do since STAR TREK V). Of course, Picard convinces Kirk to join him against Saran (It sounds like fun, Kirk admits).In yet another continuity glitch, the two captains leave the Nexus BEFORE Picard's initial confrontation with Saran (if the Nexus has any power over time, why didn't they just reappear prior to Saran's arrival...or why did Picard need Kirk, at all, if he could have just returned, alone, and blasted Saran?) Of course, as Berman wanted to finish Kirk off, once and for all, he had to bring him out, as well...Speaking of Kirk's death scene...In the FIRST cut of the film, after a short but exhausting fight sequence (clearly showing Kirk as too old and out of shape for hand-to-hand combat), Saran pulls out a hidden blaster, and shoots him in the back...while the dying Captain stalls the villain long enough for Picard to save the day, the Enterprise's most famous Captain dies, in a most unheroic manner (perhaps an honest indication of how Berman felt about Kirk!).Berman had NO idea how popular Captain Kirk was, however, and the preview audience was so outraged by the sequence that Paramount, sensing a potential disaster, demanded the scene be rewritten and re-shot, a costly (as the film had already 'wrapped') but necessary move.The second version offered far more of the 'Classic' Captain Kirk that fans had come to expect, facing Saran fearlessly, duking it out, and proving himself far more of a match for the alien than Picard had been. He ends up 'saving the day', although there is a sense of irony that a man who'd spent most of his life on a 'bridge' would die when a bridge he's on collapses! While this ending was FAR superior to the first version, it still seemed an ignoble climax to a legend. Even William Shatner, after viewing it, considered killing Kirk a bad move, and offered a screenplay for a sequel where Kirk would be resurrected...which Berman, wanting NOTHING more to do with him, refused.So Kirk dies, his body covered with stones by Picard, and the 'Next Generation' crew is evacuated from yet another destroyed Enterprise. STAR TREK GENERATIONS could have been a much better film, but in his haste to finish it, and move on, Rick Berman disappointed both series' fans. Fortunately, the greatest of the 'Next Generation' films, FIRST CONTACT, would soon be made. "},{"Title":"The best Star Trek film I've seen, but still cheesy and almost unwatchable...","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" ...Star Trek Generations - I'm assuming - was hyped because it was pairing both Cpt. Kirk (William Shatner, yay!) and Cpt. Picard (Patrick Stewart, oh my!) together for the first time - I'm sure Trekkies were wetting their pants because of this.  Of course, what these lifeless fans fail to realize is that both Shatner and Stewart are old.  In their ending battle with Random Trekkie Bad Guy No. 12-or-something (Malcolm McDowell) you're not sure whether our two heroes will save the day or suffer from strokes and lose their denchers - or both.What's with Trekkies anyway?  What's so appealing about Star Trek?  A bunch of guys in bad makeup and near-Spandex suits shooting laser guns that resemble T.V. remote controls at aliens with bad makeup?  Oh yay!  I mean, the aliens aren't even original!  The Klingons are Jamaican people with weird horns.  The Vulcans are elves who are also (very) boring.  All the cool and far out aliens are skinny people with...bad makeup.  There are no Rancor-like monsters.  No psychological aliens ala It from A Wrinkle In Time.  Geez, the aliens in parody Galaxy Quest were cooler than this.And don't expect the acting to be any good.  The actors are all still stuck on that T.V. thing.  I don't think they realize that movie acting takes a little extra effort.  Except for maybe Stewart, who I'd say is the best actor of the entire series.  Though, that's not saying very much really.Anyway, Star Trek Generations is a sappy, boring, cheesy movie of a sappy, boring and cheesy franchise, 5/10. "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I am a Star Trek fan...(DS9 was the best...)Generations is pretty much dissed by Trek fans, but who cares.  I like this movie.  And you know why? Shatner.  I'm not sure how he did it but he steals the show from Patrick Stewart.  Nothing against Mr. Stewart, but in this movie he is just simply...boring.  Shatner brings a child like sense of adventure to Kirk that no other Trek-character can match.I like the 'meeting' of the two great Captains.  Shatner gives him a kick in the butt by saying as long as you're in that chair you can make a difference. I like that.Klingons, Data and a great job by Malcom Mcdowell really make this a fun and 'deep' movie, when compared to the action of First Contact and the boring offerings of Insurrection and the very dreadful Nemesis...I give Generations a 9 on a Trek scale..and a 8 on a general movie scale... "},{"Title":"I liked Generations a lot!","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked Generations a lot.  It is a movie I own on DVD and I love to watch it.  The plot wasn't that great, but the overall passing of the torch theme between Captain Kirk and Captain Picard was great!  I thought the battle scene between the Enterprise-D and the Klingon ship was awesome, and I was just really impressed with everything including the film score.  The only thing that disappointed me about this movie was the fact that I expected more out of an interaction between Kirk and Picard.   "},{"Title":"Usual suspects, better than expected outcome.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  If you're a fan of the Star Trek milieu, then this movie is for you.  As much as any product of the Star Trek universe and history will have its groaning moments, it has its moments of charm as well.  The Next Generation cast obviously have a great love for their characters and bring all their skills to the fore, and the classic cast ham it up as only Star Trek fans can appreciate.  You might have to love Star Trek, though, to love and understand this film, but if you don't it's still a nice space adventure sci fi film with heroics, strange sights, and good action.  STTNG always had great science fiction plots, but were sometimes restrained by their budget and the technology available to them, so its good to see them with some real money behind them.  All in all, nice transition from the old series' movies to the new. "},{"Title":"Ok, but could have been better","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** What IS it with Star Trek movies? Almost without exception they start off promisingly, and then somehow, somewhere, the wheels fall off them.* spoilers ahead*It's ironic that  Kirk had to bow out and make way for the 'younger' Picard, since Picard looks older than Kirk anyway (he's not, of course. At least, Patrick Stewart really is 9 years younger than William Shatner), but I suppose some of the rest of the TOC were looking conspicuously long in the tooth.Anyway things start out well. I've always preferred Picard to Kirk as a captain, even if some of the other major cast members aren't as strong as the original cast. Nevertheless everything looks promising a nice balance of action, drama, comedy, special effects, and not too many gaping plot holes (at least compared with the ludicrous ST V) - but somehow it just runs out of steam.Why?  I'm not entirely sure, but somehow Malcolm McDowell's character was just silly, and when my memories of this film return to its worst moments, I usually think about him and his silly bloody rocket, and Kirk and Picard arsing about trying to stop him lettingit off.Generations isn't a bad Star Trek entry. It's about as good as ST VI, and ought to demonstrate that not _all_ the odd numbered movies are poor, but again, I'm left thinking, why make a movie of this stuff? Take one of the better two-part Next Generation episodes and you've got better SF fare. It seems to me that for some reason the gaping holes in logic that seem endemic to the movies appear less frequently in the TV series. Are the movies dumbed down for a wider audience?For example, in this movie, we have The Nexus - a ribbon of space/time or somesuch thing which wanders around the galaxy, and if you get caught up in it, you exist in a state of absolute bliss, where all your fondest fantasies are realised.Why?I mean, what possible reason could a celestial phenomenon have for doing this to people?Another thing that had me scratching my head. Guinan (and sometimes I wish someone would wipe that stupid enigmatic half-smile off her face by just kicking her in the shins or something) tells Picard she can't help him stop Dr Doom or whatever McDowell's character is called - but there's someone who can Kirk.  Ok, why does Picard think he needs Guinan's help to physically stop McDowell from launching the rocket, lwet alone Kirk's help? As it turns out, as events unfold, he couldn't possibly have known this except in hindsight. Certainly the chances of two people succeeding are probably better than one person alone, but as a premise for getting Picard and Kirk in the same scenes, this is pretty lame.Oh, and in the Star Trek V Kirk says he's always known that he'll die alone. Guess what - he doesn't. That's not really a logical error of course, but in the code of these films, when someone comes out with a pronouncement like that, you're really supposed to take it as fact.  Of course, it's a bit dubious as to where Kirk actually dies. I suppose they might get out of it that way.One more beef Data's emotion chip. He puts it in, and straight away starts acting like a total nutter - this in the middle of a really critical and perilous situation. Geordie is saying Data, are you alright?, or rolling his eyes, when in fact he should have de-activated him and reefed the stupid thing out, which is what he promised to do at the first sign of any trouble anyway.  In fact the emotion chip thing is a real shame. It could and should have been a powerful element of the film, but instead it was frittered away as a device to allow Data to provide the comic relief for the movie - a real waste of Brent Spiner's considerable talents, IMO.So after all that griping, why am I giving it 6 out of 10?  Because, despite all those problems, it's still quite watchable, even if I'll be watching old episodes of next gen before I re-watch this. "},{"Title":"Kirk goes down fighting","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit this is not my favourite Star Trek film by a long chalk, but there are moments of pure magic in it, which make forgive those moments of pure horror.Shatner gives a nice performance as Kirk and in the process shows off his superb horsemanship.Being a fan of real charector actors, I loved seeing Doohan, Koenig and MCDowell go through their paces.The ending did manage to pull a few tears from my cynical old eyes, but as a Star Trek lover that isn't surprising.In my opinion,the death of Kirk is a simulacrum for the death of the Star Trek genre. "},{"Title":"A great ending for the saga of Captain James T. Kirk.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I personally don't understand why everyone hated this movie so much. I thought the concept of the nexus was excellent, and the acting was not very bad, and William Shatner was able to fill the role of Captain James T. Kirk very well. "}{"Title":"Not that entertaining","Date":"3 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Well I couldn't what this movie when I herd about it. I thought it would be neat to see The Next Generation crew get a shot at the big screen. There was all this hype then the movie came out and it was a pain to watch. The story was weak, Picard is sad the hole movie, and Kirk dies. The only up side to this flop is the return of the Duras sisters who where in The Next Generation episodes Redemption Parts 1 & 2, and Firstborn.  "},{"Title":"Boldly go. . .where the Star Trek films have never gone before.","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I can remember the seventh season of Star Trek The Next Generation back in 1994. Great season with terrific episodes like Descent Part II, Genesis, Journey's End, and All Good Things. . . just to name a few. It had already been announced as Star Trek The Next Generation's final season. With Star Trek Deep Space Nine in its second season and everyone preparing for the launch of UPN and Star Trek Voyager in January 1995, all eyes were pointed at the 2 hour, final episode of The Next Generation. With the conclusion of the series in May 1994, we wouldn't have to wait long to see Captain Jean-Luc Picard's crew and the U.S.S. Enterprise, with the release of Star Trek Generations in the fall of 1994. The movie had been hugely hyped up as the death of Captain Kirk. Sureley that would attract Trekkers and non-Trekkers alike, but somewhere in the hype, something was lost, and it was the story.The movie starts back in the 23rd century where Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country left off. The U.S.S. Enterprise-A is decommissioned, and its crew has retired from Starfleet. With the launch of the U.S.S. Enterprise-B in this film, we have our guests of honor Commander Pavel Chekov, Captain Montgomery Scott (who guest starred in Star Trek The Next Generation's' sixth season episode - Relics) and Captain James T. Kirk. As the Enterprise ends it maiden voyage, it receives a distress call from two El Aurian ships caught in an energy ribbon. The Enterprise hurries to save them, but one ship is destroyed. Scotty manages to save 47 from the other ship, but soon the Enterprise becomes stuck in the ribbon. Their only hope, is to use the deflector dish to fire an anti-matter discharge into the ribbon that would free the ship. Captain Kirk hurries to make the modifications. In the nick of time, the Enterprise is freed, but the ribbon leaves its mark, as it tears a large chunk of the secondary hull (containing Kirk) away from the ship. Kirk is presumed dead.Flash-forward 78 years. On a holographic replica of the frigate Enterprise on the holodeck of the U.S.S. Enterprise-D, Lieutenant Worf is promoted to lieutenant commander. In his struggle to understand human emotions, Data attempts to get into the spirit of things by pushing Dr. Beverly Crusher over the bow the frigate Enterprise, but gets mixed results from his peers. Also, Captain Picard gets a message that his brother's family (last seen in the fourth season's Family) has died in a fire. Picard becomes very depressed. But in addition to that, a solar observatory has been attacked and left in ruin by the Romulans. Among the survivors is a Dr. Tolian Soran, one of the 47 that Scotty saved 78 years ago. Meanwhile, Data decides to implant his emotion chip that he recovered from his evil brother Lore in Descent Part II. Once the chip is in place, Data begins to act like a jackass - constantly laughing at everything.Commander Riker informs Picard that the Romulans were on the observatory looking for some of their trilithium. Picard orders Data and Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge to search the observatory for the resin. Once on the observatory, Data malfunctions. In an attempt to return to the Enterprise, Data and Geordi are taken captive by Dr. Soran. Meanwhile, Picard tells Counselor Deanna Troi was has happened to his family. In the midst of their discussion, the star in the system mysteriously explodes and they've lost contact with Data and Geordi. The explosion of the star has produced a shockwave that will destroy everything in the system. Riker and Worf attempt to save Data and Geordi. Soran abducts Geordi and beams to a Klingon ship, captained by the Duras sisters last seen in the episode Inheritance. Riker, Data, and Worf return to the Enterprise and warp away, just as the oberservatory is destroyed.As Dr. Soran tortures Geordi for information on trilithium, Picard learns that Data's emotion chip has been fused into his neural net and cannot be removed. However, Data remains competent enough to uncover Soran's plan. He is destroying stars to alter the energy ribbons course to Veridian III so he can return to the Nexus. Picard learns from Guinan, the bartender on the Enterprise, and who was also one of the 47 that the Nexus is like heaven, and Soran has become obsessed with returning there. Once at Veridian III, the Enterprise encounters the Klingons. They agree to trade Geordi for Captain Picard, if Picard can first talk to Soran down on the planet. They agree, and Geordi returns to the Enterprise. However, the Klingons use Geordi's VISOR to spy on the Enterprise. On the planet, Picard seems hopeless trying to convince Soran not to destroy the star, which in turn, will destroy a populated planet.The Klingons see a console on the Enterprise that will allow their photon torpedoes to pass through the Enterprise's shields. The Enterprise is attacked and heavily damaged. Data devises a plan to force the Klingons to cloak, which will lower their shields. The plan works and the Klingons are destroyed. However, the Enterprise's warp core has been too heavily damaged and is going to breach. Riker orders the evacuation of the secondary hull and the ship to be separated. With the crew evacuated and the ship separated, it slowly flies away, but the core breach explodes and the shockwave catches the Enterprise's saucer module. With all controls off-line, the Enterprise crashes on the planet.With no one to stop Soran, he destroys the star. The ribbon catches him and Picard and they are transported to the Nexus. But the shockwave destroys Veridian III, the Enterprise, and all the planets in the system. Once in th e Nexus, Picard convinces Captain Kirk, who was also caught in the Nexus 78 years earlier to come to the 24th century with him to stop Soran. Time repeats, the Enterprise crashes, and Picard and Kirk fight Soran. Soran is killed, and the explosion is averted, but Captain Kirk is killed as well. Picard buries him on the planet, and three Starfleet vessels begin to save the Enterprise crew. Although there were no deaths, the Enterprise can't be salvaged. The ships speed back to Earth to await construction of the Enterprise-E.***The story itself would be pretty good as the final episode of The Next Generation, but everyone was looking forward to the death of Captain Kirk, and the Next Generation storyline really interfered with that. But all in all, this is an OK movie.MusicWas composed by Dennis McCarthy, who also composed the music for the series. It is good and fits the movie well.SFXAs always, done by Industrial Light and Magic. The Enterprise destruction was a shocking piece of film. After seven years, it is finally destroyed. The crash sequence is also well done. Other mentions go to the damaging of the Enterprise-B. The only problem is that they used old footage of the Klingon ship being destroyed for the film.OverallThe movie may have been one of the best from 1994. But, as it compares to other Star Trek films as it falls victim to the Star Trek odd numbered curse, you may want to see Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan or Star Trek First Contact first. Those movies really shine as the crown jewls of the film franchise.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"To arrogantly go where no Star Trek film has gone before","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This is the film that proudly welcomes the crew of the starship Enterprise NCC-1701D into the ranks of mainstream films.  It is also what I'd like to refer to as the beginning of the end of the Star Trek franchise. Generations opens up with the maiden voyage of the the Enterprise B. The old heros of the previous starship Kirk, Scotty and Chekov come along to help send the new ship on her way.  Just when things seem calm and just a tad bit depressing , a distress signal is sent and the crew of rookies are thrown into a rescue mission to save a group of alien exiles from immediate destruction from a temporal ribbon called The Nexus.   Kick & Co. have to take charge of the situation as the freshmen crew stumble their way through the mission.  The end result is Kick sacrificing his life to save the crew and exiles.  So far the first fifteen minutes of the film is awesome. Now the story flashes forward to the Crew of the Enterprise-D. It seems that one of the survivors (Dr.Soran) of the nexus incident , seventy-eight years ago, is Hell-bent to getting back to the mysterious ribbon, even if it means wiping out a planets population. The story pretty much drags on from there.  In other places of the story, it makes crucially bad decisions in the narrative. This film give the impression the it wanted the new series to step out of the shadow of the original series.  The attempt of making a name for itself came off more as biting the hand that feeds it.    The whole presence of Capt. James T. Kick seem more of a selling tactic rather then an important plot point.  The main idea for having any of the members of the old crew join the new crew would be to honorably pass the torch. The other main reason for having Jim Kirk in this film is to see him in action on the bridge and to see how he compares and contrasts in leadership styles with Jean-Luc Picard on the bride.  This did not happen.  Kirk is never seen again in the film until the climactic final stand-off with Soran.The pacing of this film is done quite lethargically.  First-time film director, Dave Carson, snails his way through the exposition points about the Nexus with, not one, but two sappy and boring dream sequences in the nexus and and a long and annoying crash sequence of of the Enterprise on Veridian III that is so irritating, that it seriously rivals the boat crash in Speed 2 Cruise control.  To top it all of the obligatory Dog-fight sequence is a pitiful one, where the Enterprise obliterates a Kligon Bird of Prey with a single mesally shot. Yes the Enterprise D is destroyed in this film, but the shameless and heartless dismemberment doesn't end there.  Data makes the life determining choice of putting the infamous emotion chip in his brain, and no longer is able to contribute his impartial and objective wisdom to Capt. Picard and Co.  His main task is to now hold-up the other slow-points, as the films' comic relief.  There is one good scene between Picard and Data in the staller cartography room, but that is all that Data's emotion chip is worth.  And worst of all the legendary James Tiberious Kirk meets his unfortunate fate from the hands of Soran and the arrogant producers of the Star Trek franchise.  Kirk assists Picard in thwarting Sorans plans at immortality and loses his life in the process, but not in an exciting and honorable fashion, but more of a shameless mishap that insults the legacy of the character.  What the powers that be fail to realize is that the success of a franchise rests in the appeal of is characters.  If the public likes the characters enough then they'll be inclined to see the story.  By killing-off one of the most popular characters, you also kill-off the amount of fans in the process.  It seems that they didn't learn from the previous event of Spocks' death in The Wrath of Kahn that triggered a enormous letter campaign to bring him back. But at least Spock was given an honorable service following his brave sacrifice while Kirk just gets covered up by some stones that Picard found.  The producers of The Transformers also learned this lesson the hard way when they killed off their bold leader, which immediately destroyed the franchise, as well as the hopes of future films.  The difference here is that the TV audience got seven years to warm up to Picard & Co. while Rodimus & Co. got only the first 30 minutes of the film.So the film practically makes the audience feel like that little girl in the story as she carelessly gets carried away from her beloved teddy bear in the mist of disaster.  If TNG truly wanted to step out of the shadow of the original series , it should have done so without all the shameless dismemberment. It could have been able to stand on it's own with the plot points about The Nexus and Data's emotion chip.  The events of this film also put a hex on the future films in the series as well as the bogus, scape-goat superstition about ST films, saying that the odd numbered sequels are doomed to fail.  Th next film is due out this thanksgiving, but no one seems to care.  There was a time when ST films created quite the buzz, but it seems that Generations was the point of contingency where the fans just lost interest. This apparently is what happens when the people in charge don't have enough respect for a film franchise that ran strong for twelve years.In shot, this film was trying to be another tragic chapter in the mythos that put everyones beloved characters in the worst possible situations and tested their strengths and spirits, much like Wrath of Kahn of The Empire Strikes Back.  Unfortunately leave a bad taste in our mouths and an empty place in our hearts.         "},{"Title":"The perfect bridge between Star Trek old and new...","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This may not be the best of the nine Star Trek movies (so far), but it may be the most helpful in continuing the series.  In this movie, the baton is clearly passed between captains Kirk and Picard.  Finding a scenario where they could both appear was key, and in this movie that scenario plays out well enough.  The Next Generation movies that follow this film seem more tied to the past because of this film.  Plus, the movie has humor, decent special effects, and the delightfully villainous Malcolm McDowell. "},{"Title":"More an episode than a movie","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star TrekGenerations rarely receives the credit it is due, and is generally written off as another one of the 'odd numbered' films.  It's saving grace, however, is the fact that it contains many significant events in Trek history- The destruction of the Enterprise D, the death of Lursa and B'Etor, who held recurring roles in TNG and DS9, and the introduction of Data's emotions chip.  One of the noticeable fumbles is the uncertain uniform change.  The crew of the Enterprise randomly dons either the TNG uniform, or the Pre-First Contact DS9 one.  Basically, Generations views more like a glorified episode than a movie.  I would say that it is a good episode, ushering out the 7 year old Enterprise D, paving the way for the sleek new Enterprise E, as seen in First Contact.  The uniform issue is also solved in the next film, as the crew wears all new ones, eliminating the mix-and-match.  If you have not seen Generations, watch it with the expectations you would have for a normal TNG episode, and you'll be pleased. Fans had to wait for a 'movie quality' feature, but the next film First Contact was well worth the wait. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  On first viewing I, like others, was disappointed. It didn't give what the fans really wanted - the two crews of the Enterprise working together. But when I saw it later on cable it really grew on me. It has good story, good drama, some nice light humour, and the villian is much more interesting than the typical take over the universe sort. It also had that job v family life theme, as well as the getting older and feeling time over taking you theme that worked so well in past Star Trek movies. Generations is now one of my favourite of the Star Trek movies, second only to Part 4 the Voyage Home. "},{"Title":"Moving and thought-provoking.","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I have only ever really watched the Next Generation series of Star Trek and I am not what you would call a `die hard' fan so I was not at all disappointed that this film sees the final end of Captain Kirk. After all - Shatner's acting is really very hammy and forced, so much so that I found myself cringing every time he opened his mouth. Alongside First Contact, this would have to be my second favourite Star Trek film. McDowell as Dr. Soren is nicely understated though he is given relatively little screen time, and he also manages in this short time to convey a sense of the desperation of a man trying to get back to the utopian land of the Nexus rather than being simply the stereotypical `baddie'. Picard too is given extra range as we see a vulnerable side of him not previously explored. The storyline involving Data and his `emotion chip' is a genuinely interesting and at times very amusing sub-plot and nicely carries on the theme of characters exploring their lives and humanity. The story does at times lurch uncomfortably into sentimentalism, particularly Picard's rather Victorian `utopia', and the conclusion is a bit rushed, however overall the subject is well-handled. This is a very good first movie outing for the Next Generation team, and if you like it you'll probably also like First Contact. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Ok... what the hell where the Powers that Be thinking??","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Chico was in a state of disgust after watching this so-called star trek film. I mean, it starts out pretty good, y'know with the traditional elements of a Star Trek movie good musical score, innovative opening scenes, and an exciting feeling in the pit of your stomach. And then Kirk and Chekov and Scotty come out, and it's like ok, so far so good. But then, Kirk disappears.Flash to about 60, say 80(?) years to the future. Picard and his crew are into some little initiation ritual. you know the rest of the story, Geordi gets captured, Data acts like he's on a bad acid trip, blah blah blitty blah. ok, heres where my disgust takes place. Why in the hell did they kill Kirk?? and by chucking him off a cliff and crushing him with a bridge? I think it's the whole odd numbered trek film syndrome at it's worst. I mean, over all, it was an OK movie, except it felt like an elongated Next Gen episode, with a cheap death scene thrown in. No sceremonies, no funeral, just a cheap grave under a pile of stones with a rusty comm badge on top. Nice. Great way for Kirk to go. Why not just have a klingon shoot him with a phaser in the @$$ instead? that would've been at least a little comical. No stunning last stand on the Enterprise with Scotty ranting about the engines; No Spock, offering his logical take on the situation; No Bones bitching about how that pointy-eared hobgoblin is talking about logic at a time like this. I mean, basically it's a good flick, until kirk eats sh*t. That's my only gripe. everything else was ok, except... why Kirk?? why not Picard? oh like he's really THAT important. I mean, couldn't they just promote Janeway? Oh yeah, she's stuck in the Delta Quadrant!!  "},{"Title":"Star Crap","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  They just didn't care. At least that's the impression I got. The so-called `creative minds' behind the 'Star Trek-The Next Generation' TV series, when presented with the option of thinking outside the box (the television box), failed spectacularly. `Generations' comes off as nothing more than an extended TV episode with better special effects. The movie was even directed by one of the series' directors and the score was done by one of its regular composers.Much effort is made by the writers to dole out equal amounts of lines to those Enterprise cast members whose names don't begin with 'Picard' and 'Data' (Why do Riker and Worf go to Dr. Crusher to find out about Soren? Because Gates McFadden hadn't been seen in the movie for awhile, that's why). The destruction of the Klingons near the end of this movie is similar to the end of the Klingons from the last movie, from Riker's melodramatic `Fire!' to actual stock footage from `The Undiscovered Country'.But all of this pales in comparison to the real crime perpetrated here - the unceremonious `bumping off' of James T. Heroic death? Maybe. But when I imagined Kirk's death, it wouldn't be from getting chucked off a cliff and crushed under a metal bridge on a deserted planet. It was almost incidental within the confines of the movie. The death of Captain Kirk was upstaged by Data's reunion with his cat, Spot.  "},{"Title":"What this could have been with knowledgeable writers!!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS LOTS OF SPOILERSWhen you bring a TV show to the big screen, you straddle the line between casual or new movie goers and die hard fans. It's a fine line, and sometimes you stray into one yard or the other. I am a Die-hard trekker, mostly, so it was with great anticipation I awaited GENERATIONS. I saw it opening day.Lets start from the Top. This movie is lacking in story telling skills, and is badly edited with very little info for the newer trek fan (such as the wife of a trek fan). In order, my rants1.) The first 10-15 mins with Kirk are perfect, just like the previous films, it even FEELS like a previous film. From the opening champagne bottle smash to the slow pan of the crippled ship with its gapping hole, it's a great ride and filled with great Kirk speak and writing, like allowing the rookie to make his mistakes and have Kirk keep his place until called upon for help.2.) We are told that the borg destroyed guinans people and her planet. How is it that 67 years ago, when this happened, the federation went to retrieve refugees from her homeworld after it was destroyed? Would not Guinan tell them who destroyed the world? (the borg?) and if so, Starfleet knew about them 67 years before picard flung piard wayout in space to meet them. In fact, it was this that alerted the borg that we exist. So, either Guinans ships came a long long way and we sent 2 ships that almost got destroyed but they never opened their mouths about who attacked them, or the planet and by virtue the borg are much closer then q would have us believe and they still never opened their mouths about who attacked them all this time. Nice.3.) Suddenly, we are 67 years in the future. Its suddenly a sailing ship on the seas, and no one is in uniform and they are acting out some crazy pirate rite of passage. With no inference as to who these people are or how they got on a ship, it's a very bad segue. There should have been a seamless star field and a newer enterprise come into flew with that (76 years later) tag. Then we slowly zoom up to and INTO the ship into the hallow deck up to the other enterprise wooden ship.4.) Even worse, the very first shot of the enterprise we get on the big screen is a dark, rear shot of this ship pulling up to the space station? Wow. Who's idea was that? On the credits, its lit from all angles and shown in all its brilliance.5.) In the middle of an investigation, and unknown danger from the Romulus, Data decides this is the perfect time to pull out the emotion chip he took from larr (which was FUSED and destroyed in the episode, but miraculously in perfect order here) and just pop it into his head without A.) Notifying the captain that his helmsman and 3rd in command is undergoing a risky and dangerous event with unknown qualities and B.) The chief engineer just goes along with it and PLOP there it goes?6.) Despite the neat writing that soran gets to say to picard the very thing that will allow him back on the station, Picard should NOT let him go and allow him the potential to hide or alter evidence whilst data and geordi and investigating. Whoops! He shot a rocket into the sun!! Imagine that! Janeway makes these kind of choices, not Picard.7.) Geordi gets tortured and returned. He goes from sweat soaked guy strapped down rushed to transporter room with shirt on and all clean. Then, after a brief exam, he back in charge of engineering?! Who knows what was done to him, or if anything is implanted in him! There is, it's a camera in his visor., even a cursory glance at his transporter buffer pattern will reveal anomalies like extra material or alterations. Considering Geordie was also the target of brainwashing in a previous episode and had no idea, he should go off active duty until checked out. Nope, hes walking right on down. Sure enough, they see the transporter frequency. Attack! Great. Which brings us to our next problem8.) MODULATE THE SHIELD FREQUENCY! This has been done against the borg and whoever, all of the sudden, they stand there and get pounded endlessly because the blasts go right through the shields?!/ Unless hit #1 took down half of engineering, which is never said, they should have done that asap. It should be standard built into the software, and hit and you modulate rotating frequencies to try and deflect. Obviously, keeping it static isn't doing anything if its hitting you.9.) Meanwhile, picard is kidnapped to somewhere on the planet. Hmmmm. Shouldn't you be able to lock on to him and bring him back up? If you cant see his human signature because its near a dampening field can't you locate a power source or that field on a barren planet?! Can the crooks transport Picard to the other side of the planet from orbit? If not, you have only half a world to scan in low orbit.10.) Not sure how big this world is, but when an object as big as the enterprise slams into the planet and takes out a forest and digs a trench miles long, I am sure there would be sound or vibration waves that would alert picard to what has happened.11.) Alas, picard is a lover, not a fighter and could not drop the host of WEAKEST LINK let alone soran, and he launches his rocket and enters the nexus. Inside, Picard meets A piece of guinan left behind the last time she was here that tells him Someone can help him get out and go fight soran. Suddenly, The moment trek fans have waited for for 8 years happens Kirk meets Picard. Kirk is as mind washed in peace as Picard was, and he acts so out of character that its hard to know this is the legend who would stop at nothing for the federation and those in need. The meeting consists of 2 giants, and they chop wodd, cook eggs, follow each other up and down stairs, and ride horses. Be still. my heart. Knowing kirk like I do, I suspect his Utopia in the nexus would be Edith Keeler, who was his greatest love, not some girl he almost married. OR his nexus would be him leaving the nexus and fighting for Starfleet and saving those he loves, it would reject him or him it. He too strong willed to get caught up in that crap.12.) So, they leave. Not a few days in time, not a year before, not on sorans ship so they can ambush him, they leave MOMENTS before the nexus wave his the planet, and have little time to stop soran. Soran, this 3rd rate feather weight, fights BOTH kirk and picard to a standstill, and almost launches his rocket. Since it was going so badly, My thought was to simply let him launch it, go into the nexus, and then come back out again in a loop til they get it right.13.) Kirk, the greatest legend we have ever known, falls off a bridge and dies?!? What the F**K is that?! The writer says that they have NEVER SEEN AN EPISODE OF THE ORIGINAL STAR TREK AND HAVE NO IDEA HOW TO WRITE KIRK.  Who is in charge up there?!? In an interview the one guy says they were in a room and they are spouting ideas and it went like this 'kirk fights soran, Kirk hits him. Kirk falls, Kirk flies' and he like flies? no I mean DIES. I imagined kirk flying into the sky&#133;.14.) Can picard then launch the rocket and jump into the nexus with kirk and do it again?! Kirk doesn't have to die!!!15.) Riker, who has said Kirk was his hero, says crap about him and they leave kirk under a pile or rocks. No Starfleet memorial, no proper grave&#133;zip.I really wish someone would get this stuff straight. This film, while fun, disappoints on almost every level I can think of. It fails for a casual viewer and doesn't provide anything but controdiction for the die hard fan. What a mess. "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked the merging of the old and the new.  I enjoyed Captain Picard and Captain Kirk fighting side by side against the bad guy.  I have always been a Star Trek fan but there is one or two of the movies that could have done better.  This movie could have been improved a little but all in all it was a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Typical of movies made from TV shows","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star Trek Generations is far from horrible, but far from spectacular.  It's just like every time a movie is made from a television show.  They made everything flashier, prettier, etc., at the cost of giving us a sub-standard plot.  I think the biggest disappointment came when Captain Kirk died without even seeing the Enterprise_D.  Sure, that would have been predictable, that he would see it, but quite frankly I think that's what the fans would have liked.  They would have loved to see Kirk on the bridge of the Enterprise-D.  Or at least that's my opinion. A friend of mine commented to me once that Generations should have been longer, and a two-parter, with the 'To be continued...' coming after the Enterprise-D was supposedly destroyed after hitting the planet.  If you ask me, that wouldn't have been a bad idea. "},{"Title":"Eeeek!","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  They had millions of dollars at their disposal, and this is what they came up with? I even got phonecalls from my friends telling me this movie was a complete and utter crock! I mean, watching a regular TNG TV episode feels just the same as watching this turkey... I suppose the entire budget was spent on paying McDowell and Shatner for appearing here. The only positive thing was that Weasly wasn't in it, had he been, I would've yanked the tape right outta the VCR....   ;)  "},{"Title":"Jim's dead. should be treated like the animated Star Trek.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  As much as I love Star Trek, I did not like this film.  The lighting was bad.  The bridge of the Enterprise is bright, did they forget the light bill?  Also the film was very dark, starting with Picard's loss of his brother and nephew right up until the end of the film.  I think one of the best parts was when Dr. Crusher was knocked into the water by Data.  Not that I wanted to see her hurt but she lights up any scene she is in all by herself.  The writing was weak.  The characters did not really interact as they did in the series.My biggest problem with this film is JIM KIRK gets killed! He is my hero.  He wasnt supposed to die and surely not like that.  He deserved better.  If he died with the Enterprise that would be one thing, but this Dr. Soran??????  Jim Kirk saved the Earth countless times, kept the Klingons and Federation from going to war and questioned God himself. Soran wasnt even in Kirk's league.  Malcolm McDowell who played Soran actually bragged to the media that he got to kill Kirk. Ill bet he does not go to many Star Trek conventions.The only cure for this film is to treat it like the Animated Star Trek, not canon. "},{"Title":"Not that bad, but they spoiled a lot!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Could have been much better, it is well directed, has very good FX, and is well acted, contrary to what some people says about this. The problem is that the story of the Nexus sounds more like fantasy than sci-fi and how Kirk is killed in that ridiculous way!! What the writers where thinking, why could´nt have been more heroic, more honorable, a death worth of James Kirk? This only matter degrades the movie enormously.It was good to see Kirk and Picard together, but in some parts Picard looses points when he is compared with Kirk. Malcom McDowell makes Soran a very  good villain, his  lines of `...time is a predator' at the Enterprise's lounge and on the Veridian planet are terrific and makes you think about it a lot.  The short fight between Enterprise and klingons is good also. Generations is not that bad, its sin is that it could have been the best of all with the idea of the two captains together, but finally it is non memorable. Anyway, it is far superior than V and Insurrection. "},{"Title":"Thin Story, But Not All Bad","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Generations certainly isn't the best Star Trek film, but it isn't as bad as many have made it out to be.  It starts off with a very good sequence involving the Enterprise-B, with Kirk onboard, responding to a distress call.  It gets a little weak towards the end, and the ending leaves much to be desired, but all in all it is a good movie to watch on a Saturday afternoon.  Just don't expect it to be as good as The Wrath of Khan or First Contact.  "},{"Title":"A not so bad produced movie, good directing, acting, but however somewhat unrealistic plot and story","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star Trek Generations is a good movie.  It has good direction, excellent lighting photography, ie, look out for the ten forward sun rays beaming into in, the new bridge and its lighting.  The acting was excellent, by both captains and especially Data.  Also Malcolm McDowell portrayed his role ok.The idea of a 'nexus' is somewhat inconceivable to exist.  However I suppose they chucked into this movie to make the movie.  The special effects were exceptional, the set construction and location were ok.  The directing was somewhat over done if you get what I mean, there were some seldom unnecessary extremes for a simple shot, however genuinely sound.  The aforementioned lighting was well done by the director of photography or lighting director.I really can't lift this movie up any higher, it was a good big bang start for the next generation cast's introduction to the big screen, but it didn't struck a chord in me.  Even the death of one of Star Trek's main icons didn't have that magic as like it did with Spocks death in Star Trek II, however it was somewhat sad. The movie sort of carried on like on the premise of Star Trek The Motion Picture, a big budget movie, weak plot which really spoiled, no, killed, this movie.  It has more things positive on the technical side than on the contents side, acting, story etc.The fantastic however too long sequence of the ship crashing into the planet was probably the best climax of the movie.  The humour in it was not bad. Overall rating, 7/10 "},{"Title":"Contradictory good and bad at the same time","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Personally, I loved the idea of bringing members of the old Enterprise crew. The plot also was inspired and it was a rather new idea. I also liked Whoopy Goldberg's presence. And the minuses why did they not use the old crew more? I mean, except Kirk, the others didn't have more than a few words to say. And why did they have to solve the conflict in the end in the good old American way of fist-fighting? That was really a disappointment. Still, you fans out there should see it. "},{"Title":"Could have been great...","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I like to think this film had its heart in the right place, but what they were trying to go for didn't quite materialize on-screen.You're dealing with something big when you're killing off James T. Kirk. Like him or not, he is one of the most recognized heroes in television history.  He was the star of a TV Series that reached icon status.  He deserved a much more heroic end then he got in this film.  I really didn't see any point in killing Captain Kirk.  It seemed like the writer's way of saying, Your Trek is dead, my Trek has taken overThe comraderie between Kirk, Chekov and Scotty at the beginning of the film is great.  It's kind of a bummer when we get to the Next Generation crew and its obvious that they are not connected in the same wayA big problem with this film is I think they wait too long to explain what's going on.  We see a star's destruction, Soran attacking Data and Geordi, the aftermath of a battle at the observatory, a Klingon ship kidnapping Geordi all before we get a clue as to why all this is happening.And the whole idea of this Nexus.  A magical beam of light floating around the galaxy that is ready to make all your dreams come true, I just can't imagine something like that really existing.But there are some good things in this film.  I thought Captain Kirk and Captain Picard played well off each other.  Mr. Data was a hoot after he first got his emotion chip The battle between the Enterprise and the Klingon ship was a nail-biter.  The Enterprise's crash-landing was also great, but great special effects don't automatically make a film great.I'd say 4 stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Big thumbs down.","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Can they not let the original cast retire with some dignity?This movie is by far the sorriest excuse for a Star Trek movie I have ever seen. Even Star Trek V is superior compared to this. It was great to see the Enterprise D crew on the big screen, and we finally get to see Picard and Kirk meet for the first time, as we've always wanted. And how does it turn out?B-A-D.Where does one begin? The villain. Soran was a pitiful villain, an obvious caricature of Sybok from Star Trek V. Where are the good villains like Khan, Chang, and the Borg Queen when you need them? The Nexus--not a bad idea, but it sounds too much like the Great Barrier from Trek V. The Klingons are wasted. Picard moped for most of the movie, weak plot, very poor acting (especially by Patrick Stewart, which really surprised me), and Kirk's death was anticlimactic and bit big time. Okay, I'll be a little fair; the special effects were top-notch, far surpassing the effects in Star Trek II and VI. The dogfight between the Enterprise and the Bird of Prey was very good, and I enjoyed it a lot (basically the only part of the whole movie I liked). The opening sequence involving Kirk, Chekov, and Scotty was very good and suspenseful, and the scene when the Enterprise B is struck by a bolt from the Nexus looked and sounded great; it just all went downhill from there. The musical score for this movie was well done, but this movie certainly doesn't deserve it. Another highlight was the ship crashing, which was done for no other reason than they thought it would be cool to crash the Enterprise...'Nuff said.Bottom line tripe. After the terrific Star Trek VI, you'd expect the next installment to be even better. Sadly, that was not to be. Despite the state-of-the-art special effects and great music, this movie suffers from a weak plot, boring villains, bad acting, stupid sub-plots (Data's emotion chip and the Klingon's trilythium), and a horrible ending. Luckily, this was redeemed by the far superior First Contact. Watch this once, and that'll be enough for life.Final Grade 3/10 "}{"Title":"This could have been much,much better","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Captains Kirk and Picard finally meet in this 1994 Star Trek feature. That was about the only highlight. Why they decided to destroy the Enterprise,I will never know. Why they decided to kill Kirk the way they did,I will never know. Why they made this film the way they did,again,I will never know. Malcolm MacDowell is not a good villain,and the story is weak with continuity problems galore. A forgettable chapter in the Star Trek series.*1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Star Trek Generations","Date":"2 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The plot lacks any cohesion whatsoever.  Each time I watched this film it seemed to get worse.  Nexus is the name of hair products not a ribbon that swallows people in space.  Kirk is not dead.  You do not kill heroes. (Not that everyone loves Kirk, but he didn't need to be killed.)  It just looked like the staff of Generations was a little full of themselves and not good ideas. "},{"Title":"Not The Best, Not Nearly The Worst","Date":"22 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This was generally a good Star Trek film.  While the plot wasn't as good as VI or maybe even First Contact, it was solid, especially with Kirk.  My only big quabbles are more technical.  First, the awful lighting.  It's either too dark or too bright to be Star Trek.  Second, the burial of Kirk. Wouldn't he have a large funeral like Spock's?  After all, he's done his bit for king and country.  A good watch. "},{"Title":"Baldy and Rugman meet at last...","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This was alright, it could have used more of Picard and Kirk together, and I wish they had somehow worked Scotty and Chekov into it more somehow, but over all-entertaining, a decent start up for the newbies on the big screen. Malcolm McDowell did a good job as the baddie and Kirk's demise was handled alright.Not as good as some in the series, but okay-**1/2 outta ****-better than Insurrection, too. "},{"Title":"Oh my...","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Because I could tear this film apart from beginning to end, I'll strip my comments down to the essentials...Imagine some Paramount execs in a meeting. One of them says Hey, let's have a crossover between the generations. Another says Yeah, good idea, but let's only have Kirk meet Picard and let's kill him in a fifteen minute cameo. The Paramount guys throw their arms in the air with joy.Answer me this How do you kill off one of the biggest pop-culture heroes of all time and not upset everybody at the same time? It's simply impossible. Those idiots.As Kirk says as he dies Oh my...  Indeed...  "},{"Title":"They should have decided for ONE Generation...","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is certainly not bad, but far from the quality of the good Star Trek movies (II-IV and VI). It has too many too boring passages (especially in the Nexus, oh my, those sequences seem to last forever). Kirks dying words seem to be out of character. And the fate of the Enterprise seemed more than pointless to me.On the other hand, there are some good points, like Data's humor. He has the best lines of the movie. And then my favorite quote by Dr. Soran Time is a fire in which we burn. Wow, this is extremely well said.All in all, an average Science Fiction film.  "},{"Title":"Very watchable, entertaining and true to Star Trek.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  If you were going to introduce the Next generation crew to the films and finally write out the old, you could not have done it better than this. Generations is basically an extended two-part episode but with big-screen production values.  The direction is underrated as is the superb lighting and special effects to match any other in the series.  Most notable was the warm, emotional undertone to the story.  Picard and Riker looking back at the past and forward to the future near the end was a very nice touch.  A very good trek.  "},{"Title":"Call me a weirdo, but..","Date":"1 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I like Generations MUCH better than I like First Contact. Just what problem do all of you have with Generations? This is way more trek-ish than First Contact, which is not more than a simple action movie. Generations is definitely not the best Trek movie of all times (I'm still waiting for that), but it undoubtedly has more Trek spirit than First Contact. "},{"Title":"Can we please call an editor?","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Generations was barely held together by a weak story.  It ranks almost lower than Star Trek V.  The lighting was very annoying and odd.  The movie also needed an editor.  Many sequences went on for too long and others were too short.  Also, when Soran blew up the sun with that missile it only took 2 seconds for the light to go away on the planet.  On earth it takes 8 minutes.  Why does it only take a couple seconds there?  Personally, I am getting tired of the new ST movies based on time.  I thought that Insurrection would get passed that, but it still touched on it.  Oh Well. "},{"Title":"The odd-numbered films are underrated","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Yes it is true that so far, all the even numbered Star Trek films have been great, but that is not to say the odd numbered ones have been bad. They just haven't been quite as good. The only odd numbered film that could actually be considered bad was number 5. I liked Generations, and while First Contact was much better, Generations was still good. "}{"Title":"Enough with the Shatner-bashing, already!","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  And now for something completely different, like I LIKE Captain Kirk, in fact, I MUCH prefer him to Captain Picard's version of a starship captain. If Shatner is too old,  how come Picard isn't? Too many people get lost in the stereotypical image of Kirk as a shoot-em-up sort of cowboy captain when anyone familiar with the original show knows that the phasers are almost always set on STUN.  Picard seems almost too brainy, sort of the next generation version of Spock (and there's simply only ONE).  The show's token braniac, Data, is always trying to experience emotions (what's up with that, eh?) Anyway, I digress.  Suffice it to say that Kirk has endured this long because he is GOOD at what he does, get the babes, thwart the bad guys, and save the Galaxy once again.  Personally, I would like to see a resurrection similar to Spock's, but if that isn't possible, then I'll just have to be content with the fact that Kirk is more of a legend than he ever was.  "},{"Title":"Pass the torch, already!","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This transition film, meant to pass the torch from the old Trek cast to the newer Next Generation one just makes one realize how much we want Shatner to retire from the Captain Kirk role.  What begins as a fairly interesting tale about a ribbon of time/space energy called The Nexus (which is actually a plane of existence) slowly degrades into another vehicle for Shatner's gigantic ego.  Shatner is featured chopping wood, riding a horse, and generally flexing his aging masculinity.  Were it not for the appealing Next Generation cast and an intriguing sub-plot involving Data's emotion chip, this movie wouldn't be worth seeing at all.  For die hard fans only. Others would be better off skipping it and watching Star Trek First Contact instead. "},{"Title":"what was the director thinking?","Date":"13 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This movie fell into the Star Trek line of odd numbered movies being bad. Noticing they couldn't even get the holodeck rules straight in the first scene was not a good start. Then the orange lighting, Data's hokey behavior and Picard being a complete sissy sealed its fate. To potential viewers skip it and go see First Contact. To people who have already seen it my sympathies.   "},{"Title":"A Trek Disappointment","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I remember when i heard that the 2 generations of captains of the USS enterprise was going to be together is gonna be awesome..Well is was everything but less awesome.The movie have 2 big problems1.-Maybe was me or something but the deplete-Kirk-Picard have no magic or chemistry in this movie...i mean men they are legends in the universe and they don't have a cent of chemistry...CMO'N!!!..i heard that the fault of this was writer Rick Berman because he don't to make a a cop friend movie...But maybe that was everyone wants...Idiot!!!2.-The other big problem here was the death of kirk...I mean is CAPTAIN KIRK!!!...He deserves a great death like the emperor of Star wars or Sauron of The lord of the rings or Agent Smith in the Matrix movies or Voldermor of the Harry Potter saga...but no!!! They give us a very not emotion scene of death's kirk.....Dammit!!!That's why the saga starting very low key and thank god the bring another writer for the next movie because Berman....You really sucks!!! "},{"Title":"Boring and Confusing but with a couple of redeeming qualities","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Maybe I shouldn't be reviewing this film. I haven't seen Star Trek The Next Generation. A lot of what I say here may be said out of ignorance. Well, who cares, I'll review it anyway.The film starts out with the christening of another starship U. S. S. Enterprise. Captain James T. Kirk is on board for the ride. The ship comes across an energy phenomenon, which damages their ship. Kirk goes down to the core (or whatever you call that part of a starship) and fixes their problem. However, the room he is in is taken away by the energy, and he is declared dead. 78 years later, the current crew of the Enterprise, headed by Captain Picard (Patrick Stewart) is summoned by Star Fleet to check out a damaged space station. There they discover Soran (Malcolm McDowell, A Clockwork Orange), an engineer whose home planet had been destroyed by the energy field at the beginning of the film. Soran attacks some crew members, and then travels to a planet where that energy field is headed. Captain Picard then learns that the energy field is called the Nexus, a space matrix that brings to life your heart's desire. However, it destroys everything in its path, and Soran is willing to commit murder to get back in the Nexus.There are two things I really like about this movie. One is the Nexus. It really is an interesting idea. A phenomenon that brings your dream to life is a fascinating idea, and actually quite thought- provoking. The other part I enjoy is Malcolm McDowell's performance. McDowell feels evil, psychotic, and brilliant. But hey, it's not like he hasn't played a psychopath before.However, there are many things I don't enjoy. There are pointless subplots that for the most part go nowhere. The most prominent subplot involves Data (Brent Spiner), a robot who resembles a human. He has a chip installed in himself that causes human emotion. His emotions are discussed throughout the film, but it doesn't go anywhere and is distracting. This brings up another question- how did they put feelings on an electronic chip?Another subplot centers around Picard. Some family members of his have recently died in a fire. He is shown mourning them. Later, he is in the Nexus, and he sees them alive again. This subplot never goes anywhere.The trailer and the posters for this film give the impressions that Kirk plays a large role in this film. However, he disappears in the beginning and doesn't reappear until the final half hour. Picard finds him in the Nexus, at his old home. At first Kirk says that he won't return to Star Fleet, but for some reason suddenly changes his mind.Yet another flaw of this film is Soran's plan. He is willing to commit murder and destroy planets to get to the Nexus. But he knows where it's headed. Why couldn't he just fly to it?But my biggest problem is this- it's SO BORING. That's all I can say- it's so dull. I really didn't care what was going on. And this is coming from someone who liked Star Trek The Motion Picture.This film had a good villain and some fascinating ideas, but the slowness and subplots really brought it down.C "},{"Title":"Pass the Phaser...gently if you will.","Date":"14 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I have never quite bought into the curse of the odd numbers theory as regards the Star Trek movies, mainly because it's not as if all the odd numbered movies are stinkers, there is good value for Trek fans to be had. However, part seven, Generations, is a massive opportunity wasted. What should have been a smooth transference of the old Star Trek Enterprise to the new funky mob, something to please the old whilst embracing the new, is sadly neither here nor there.Plot basically features a planet crunching Nexus? And a barmy scientist in the form of Malcolm McDowell who we assume is up to no good when it reappears in the future. Enter Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart), the latest in the hot seat of the Enterprise, who has to team up with the famous Captain James T. Kirk, long since dead apparently, to save civilisations. That's pretty much it as a soggy wet screenplay hangs the plot out there to dry whilst director David Carson throws action set-pieces in the mix every other 15 minutes.Neither fans of either generation of the Enterprise are well served, unless the sub-plot of Data's (Bret Spiner) emotional chip shenanigans lights your fires? There is a distinct lack of genuine end of the universe peril, or credible villainy for that matter, while the attempt to make Kirk (William Shatner aged 63 at time of filming) out as an old age pensioner action hero?! Would be laughable were it no so sad and detrimental to the status the character has earned over the decades. Yes, the special effects are amazing, really eye popping, and the sound mix is also ear splinteringly joyous, but this is poor fodder and comes second only to The Final Frontier on the list of worst Star Trek films. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The next generation's transition into a movie didn't go so well","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" First of all,I would like to point out,I watched this movie before I watched The Next Generation and I was confused as hell.This is one of the major problems of this movie-if you haven't watched TNG,or even worse,this is the first Star Trek movie you watch you will probably never want to watch anything Star Trek related again.Several days after I watched the movie I took a look at some of the first TNG episodes and the movie started to become more understandable.After I watched the first two seasons of TNG,I decided that maybe I was too quick to judge the movie the first time,so i watched it again.And guess what,it sucked.I think,the fact that this movie is a TNG spin off is the source of most of it's problems. TNG had episodes entirely dedicated to the development of a single character.Data has the most(about 10 in the first two seasons in total).The average runtime for a TNG episode is 40 minutes.That makes for about 8 hours of character development only for Data! The movie,of course, can't afford that much time.Only Picard and Data get any development and it feels very rushed and unnatural.Data literally decides to install the emotion chip in 5 minutes.And the whole nexus/alternate universe thing is not very believable,I know this is Star Trek,but still it seems way too convenient.I think this movie rivals The final frontier for worst Star Trek movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad.","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I'm not sure why I'm reviewing this. Probably to give myself something to do. I remember the hype injected into this film, and then seeing it years later on a bargain bin VHS copy that sold for like $5 or something, all I can say is I'm glad I waited for it to hit the home video market.The basic plot is about some man suffering from psychosis and wanting to get back into the proverbial mental hospital where all of his whims and desires can be fulfilled. The antagonist, Dr. Soran, is a maniac who's got his mittens on a rocket that will bring about an energy ribbon that will bring him back into his once much loved nirvana. Said nirvana is a manifestation where all of his desires can come true at the conjuring of a thought. Hey, who wouldn't want that? But, thanks to Kirk, we discover that Nirvana, specifically Dr. Soran's version, is not all it's cracked up to be.It's a unique film in that we have a sliver of the original 1960's cast meeting with the TNG+ era cast of the late 80s, 90s and beyond. It's also oddly fitting (and no doubt intentional) in that the original show addressed psychological and behavior social issues plaguing society, and offered possible solutions, or at least causes thereof, finally meets the TNG people who do the same, but (unlike the original 1960's show) did so without any regard to an overarching societal norm. This made TNG one of the most pretentious, awful and valueless shows imaginable. But, both had their agendas for the TV viewing and theatre going public. One was an earlier iteration of the other, and it was inevitable that they should meet on the big screen.But the result itself is fairly dismissive of the original show. There's a kind of we're not cowboys anymore, so let this be your last battlefield kind of mentality that not just underscores the film, but is in fact in your face. The epitome of this comes with the famous scene near the end, and Picard's supposed deep reflection on mankind's past. The symbolism is that Picard's generation of space travellers is more rounded, robust, educated and emotionally blue printed than the warrior explorer of yore; i.e. Captain Kirk. Do you believe it? Well, you might look around at the world today and see how things have changed. But then you might question whether those changes were to your actual benefit, or whether they were made to avoid a large catastrophe for which you were not consulted. How much do you believe in fighting and bringing in others for that fight for what you believe is right? That's kind of the theme here.Dr. Soran is a manifestation of that, but represents the path of insanity, while Kirk represents the old ways. And for all of the struggles, confrontations, maneuvering and actual fighting that goes on, it is not Picard's generation that wins the day for the United Federation of Planets. And for all of that we are treated to a scene of him giving deep contemplation to a legendary figure at the end?Huh.In short the film is supposed to be a transition from old Trek with action to new alleged cerebral Trek with high ideals and better methods of dealing with miscreants like Dr. Soran. If you believe in that, then this film is for you.Me, well, those of you who've read my previous reviews and posts on other matters, know my views on the Next Generation of Trek, and they are echoed in this review. Even Shatner knew that there was something just not sitting right with this installment of the franchise, and it could be part of the reason why more of the cast of the first show was not involved in this production (probably wishful thinking on my part). The technical aspects of the film hit all their marks. No one save for Shatner himself really gives a lackluster performance. And again the only reason Shatner didn't give us the usual Kirk we've come to know and love is because he probably didn't agree with the script and overall message of the film. Kudos to him.The plot and story, to my way of thinking, had potential, but the execution seemed to put the basic plot behind the transition theme of old and new Treks. That is to say Dr. Soran and his ambitions almost felt like an afterthought. Almost like they were tacked on at the end, and were taking second billing to the Kirk-Picard thing. Had Dr. Soran and his scheming been the focus of the film, then everything else, in my opinion, would have fallen into place. Otherwise this film really missed its mark.Which is all the more puzzling of why more Trek-fans really gave this installment high marks. Again the love of a scientist and his theory rears its head with the sterling reviews that are less than objective. But, then again this is the IMDb.Not a good film, but I have to be honest, not really a horrible film in spite of its utter trampling of historic values of mankind. Take it for what it's worth, but don't say I didn't warn you. "},{"Title":"Entertaining send-off for Captain Kirk. William Shatner was brave to take this role","Date":"10 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" (Credit IMDb) In the late twenty-third century, the gala maiden voyage of the third Starship Enterprise (NCC-1701-B) boasts such luminaries as Pavel Chekov, Montgomery Scott, and the legendary Captain James T. Kirk as guests. But the maiden voyage turns to disaster as the unprepared ship is forced to rescue two transport ships from a mysterious energy ribbon. The Enterprise manages to save a handful of he ships' passengers and barely makes it out intact...but at the cost of Captain Kirk's life. Seventy-eight years later, Captain Jean-Luc Picard and the crew of the Enterprise-D find themselves at odds with the renegade scientist Soren...who is destroying entire star systems. Only one man can help Picard stop Soren's scheme...and he's been dead for seventy-eight years...I find this to be very underrated among Star Trek goers. I mean, how cool is it to see the two greatest Star Trek characters in history Shatner's Kirk and Stewart's Picard team up to face evil adversity. It was a real treat to watch. I'm well aware Patrick Stewart had already started Trek previously before this with the TV series, Star Trek The Next Generation, but it was still cool. I also thought the opening tribute to Kirk was well-done, and neat to see, considering he did so much for keeping Star Trek alive. This movie also benefits from one of the most underrated madman's of cinema Malcolm McDowell playing crazy like only he can, going up against the two memorable Star Trek icons. The finale is intense, emotional, and in my opinion a fitting send off for Kirk.Performances. William Shatner is not the star, his screen time is precious, but his bravery to take this part and putting his ego aside is clearly refreshing. He is still charismatic, and iconic as ever. Patrick Stewart's intensity knows no bounds, and he was the perfect choice to take over in the movies. I love the guy. Malcolm McDowell is a great foe for Stewart, and I was glued to the screen every time he was on it. Not many people can play a madman like him. Jonathan Frakes is likable, and enjoyable to watch as Riker. Rest of the cast does fine.Bottom line. This is an entertaining entry to the Star Trek saga, and many people underrate it as far as I'm concerned. It ranks among my favorites in the series. Recommended 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Next Generation Films Start with a Fizzle","Date":"2 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" STAR TREK GENERATIONS should have been a better film. It was a momentous occasion as the crew of the original Enterprise (well Kirk, Scotty, and Chekov...) pass the torch to the crew of the Enterprise-D. It's a shame that the first movie from the NEXT GENERATION crew arrived with a fizzle. The film focuses on a temporal nexus that passes through the galaxy; those who come in contact with the nexus are treated to their greatest desires. Captain Kirk (Shatner) disappeared on the first cruise of the Enterprise-B when it encountered the nexus on a rescue mission when ships containing El-Aurian refugees become trapped in it's grasp. 78 years later, the crew of the Enterprise-D encounter the same nexus when Dr. Tolian Soran (McDowell), an El-Aurian obsessed with returning to the nexus, begins demolishing stars to divert it's path. Now the crew of the Enterprise-D must stop Soran from destroying the sun of the Veridian system and killing billions in his quest.The crew of the NEXT GENERATION series are given their chance to shine and it doesn't go well. All of the characters fans have come to know and love are here and I suppose they all do admirably with what they're given (with one exception). Shatner's at his best in his final appearance as Kirk and it was a treat to see James Doohan and Walter Koenig popping in for a short cameo at the beginning of the film. Particularly Doohan, who seemed genuinely upset when it appeared that Kirk had died saving the ship. The film's villain, Tolian Soran, is the ever-awesome Malcolm McDowell. He does a great job as expected, and he could've been even better if utilized in a better story.Now, fans of the series won't be entirely disappointed. The film feels as if you're watching a two-part episode of the show. I'm sure this was to be expected with a director and writing team who'd worked on it often. The problem lies in the fact that this is a movie, not a TV show, and we expect a more cinematic experience. With the exception of some great cinematography from John Alonzo, this could've passed for your average season-ending two-parter. The filmmakers attempt to amp up the cinematic feel by adding some subplots that run through the movie. Captain Picard (Stewart) copes with the recent deaths of his family as the result of a fire at their vineyard, and it plays in somewhat well with the mortality theme presented by the nexus plot. Meanwhile, there is also an entire subplot dedicated to Data (Spiner) deciding to finally install his emotion chip and the zaniness that results. Laughing fits, cowardice, Mr. Tricorder, and Data's first curse word (that I'm aware of)...honestly, the film could've done without it. It adds nothing to the story and only serves to give Brent Spiner more to do with his continuing role in the features.Seriously, I would've been all right with all of these flaws if the film didn't grind to a complete halt the moment Picard is drawn into the nexus. Around halfway through the film, the movie is running at an exciting pace the Enterprise-D is under attack from a Klingon Bird-of-Prey that has found a means around it's shields and Picard is battling Soran to the end on the surface of Veridian III. Then, suddenly, it all lurches to a stop while we celebrate Christmas with the Picards in the captain's nexus experience. From there, we get a slow sequence of Picard trying to convince Kirk to return to reality to help him battle Soran and it just drags on. No excitement whatsoever. There's the ooh and aah factor of Picard and Kirk face-to-face but the feeling passes and we're left waiting for something, anything to happen to get us interested again. The entire last half of the movie is anticlimactic and killed the experience for me.At least it's not a terrible movie. It's just not all that memorable. The film has some highlights and, as long as you're all right with Data's wacky shenanigans, the crew does their usual good work. It was just a weak story (and the writers agree...it's true...listen to their commentary) wrapped around the sole purpose of passing the torch from original series to it's successors. For those who are watching the film for the first time as an introduction to the NEXT GENERATION films, try not to hold GENERATIONS against them. It gets better with FIRST CONTACT. "}{"Title":"It is an odd numbered movie in the series so I was destined not to like it.","Date":"25 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" In the Star Trek universe I usually have enjoyed the even numbered movies, not so much the odd and this one is no exception. It probably did not help that it had the next generation cast which I never really liked all that much anyway. Granted I enjoy seeing Patrick Stewart in other roles as he is a very enjoyable actor to watch, I just do not like him all that much as Picard. This movie also for some reason really feels compelled to kill Captain Kirk not once, but twice even. Like it feels he is a vampire and must be destroyed for this new captain to fully take hold. The plot device to get everyone together is utterly insane, basically an energy ribbon in space that destroys things also for some reason can teleport people to this wonderful land where dreams become reality, and one will do anything to get back. Which makes it seem rather strange the way both Picard and Kirk have no trouble escaping this place that one man would kill millions to get back to. The only redeeming factor in the movie is McDowell as the villain a role he can probably do asleep and a few nice special effects shots. Surprisingly, the next movie I would enjoy and surprise it is an even numbered entry into the franchise. "},{"Title":"Little Life-Forms Beware!","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Just as William Shatner almost killed the series as director of 'Star Trek V,' Picard and Data practically accomplished the same feat. My analysis is they unsuccessfully tried two different new plot lines into 'Star Trek Generations' Picard's emotions and Data's over-emotions. First Picard cries, heavily, followed by Data integrating an emotion chip into his brain. As the Next Generation's first big screen voyage, I think this was too much, too heavy. They should've just introduced the new Enterprise crew, verses expanding on the already fully run series. Who really wants to see Picard cry? Or who wants to see Data joke about Little life-forms? (By the way, that was NOT funny. It was annoying. As was his Go to hell line that was stolen from 'Star Trek VI.') Sure Malcolm McDowell was great, as usual, and it was wonderful to see Whoopi Goldberg, as well as Tim Russ (from 'Star Trek Voyager,') but the rest of the crew just sat around and expected you to know who they were from the TV show. The movie wasn't a complete waste the opening with three of the original crew helping Cameron (from 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off') helm Enterprise B, McDowell's performance (other than his finale on the desert planet,) the Nexus scene that joined Kirk and Picard were great and (no spoiler) Kirk's demise in a desert scene, much like a lot of the original TV show's backdrops. Unfortunately, my favorite Next-Gen character, Data, spends most of the film like a fool, attempting to correct his new emotion chip. This ruined his character and practically the film. Basically, we have a story based around a smart, century-old man who is desperate to get back to the womb of ecstasy. After watching the first 6 adventures, this next-gen one is kind of a letdown gone is the humor, mystery and cowboy-antics that made the original crew lovable. "},{"Title":"One of the few film subjects where it's hard to be unbiased...","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Generations follows what appears to be the end of Capt. James T. Kirk, only to find him still alive about eighty years later, where Capt. Jean-Luc Picard finds him existing in an anomaly in space and attempts to convince him to leave this protective haven to help stop a madman whose own attempts to join with this anomaly have included blowing up stars and suns to influence it's travel through space.It's hard for me to give an unbiased comment on this film, due, not so much, to my familiarity of the series, but, rather, because I'm such a fan of Capt. Kirk, his time, and the Star Trek series, as a whole. Some comments include some knowledge of what they know about this film and I find myself wanting to do the same In the first scene of what was, then, the latest starship to be called Enterprise, where Kirk, Scotty, and Chekov were on hand to send her off on her maiden voyage. Director David Carson had a dry run of the scene with the extras, was happy with what he saw, then brought in the film's stars and shot the scene. When the stars left after filming the shot, he went off on the extras for totally blowing the scene, where one of the extras remarked something about being hard to focus when you're on the bridge of the Enterprise with Captain Kirk. I will say that this is one of my favorite in the series of films because we find out what actually happened to Capt. Kirk after all the years of Star Trek The Next Generation and brief mentions of him and his time throughout the syndicated series. I think that this film is, perhaps, only topped out on my list of favorites in the film series by Star Trek IV The Voyage Home. 9 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Not great, but not awful, either.","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations gets a mixed review from me. Just like the debut of the original cast in Star Trek the Motion Picture, Generations stumbles out of the starting great--although not as bad as the former. We begin with the original cast members, Scotty, Chekov and Kirk seeing the new Enterprise released from space dock under a green captain and crew. While out, they receive a distress signal from a ship caught in a strange energy field. Called the Nexus, we find a young Guinan (Whoopie Goldberg) and a madman know as Sauran. Kirk is killed in action. Spring board about 80 years into the future and we find the Next Generation cast on standard exploration. They find Sauran many years later and discover a fiendish plot. Instead of trying to get to the Nexus, he wants to bring the Nexus to him on a planet. In order to do that, he needs to destroy a few planets that could affect some heavy populated areas. Picard must stop him. However, he fails, finding himself in the Nexus. He finds the famed Kirk in the Nexus from 80 years prior. Unfortunately, the Admiral is enjoying the addictive fantasy the Nexus provides. Can Picard persuade him to follow? Meanwhile, the Enterprise D must make an emergency landing on the planet below. While I liked some aspects of the movie, I found that it was very much like early Next Generation Episodes that was built up for an hour-and-a-half, and resolved in fifteen minutes. While the first third of the movie starts fine, it dissolves by the end of the first act, perhaps sooner. The story tries to be philosophical and introspective amidst some good action, but fails miserably. This is apparent with Picard's views on the issue that seemed like a badly-written forced speech instead of finding itself in subtle and believable dialog. Finally, except for Data, the Next Generation Crew seemed like props to push buttons and keep the Enterprise D in working action. And while Brent Spiner got to elaborate on Data's new found emotions, his uncontrollable laughter got annoying. Kirk's resolution was too quick and did not let him go out in a true blaze of glory. Of course, there were some good things about it. There was closure for Kirk and the Enterprise D. The Enterprise D and it's emergency landing made a much better action sequence that was far better and more intriguing. Also, Generations gives us a bridge for the old guard and the new guard. Seeing Picard and Kirk work and fight together is enjoyable. For the most part, this eliminates the uneasy competition between the original and the next generation, creating a cooperative synergy. This it not to say the picture is perfect or dynamic, because I still have my hesitations on a full recommendation. "},{"Title":"Star Trek Pseudo-science","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Most of the time it is easy to overlook Star Trek's pseudo-science because, relative to most sci-fi, Star Trek does make some effort to have some theoretical basis. ST usually does not require too big of a suspension of disbelief. However, the part about Dr. Soran wanting to extinguish the star with a nuclear inhibitor missile was just stupid and somewhat of an insult to the viewers' intelligence. To recap...Soran wanted to extinguish the star so that its gravitational pull would be changed and a particular planet would then be aligned into the path of the nexus.A star's gravitational pull depends on its mass, not on it being a burning ball of gas. Extinguishing the star would preserve its mass, and thus its gravitational pull. All the planets in orbit around it would still maintain their positions.Blowing up the star wouldn't work either, because the planets orbiting it would most likely be destroyed.Dr. Soran was obviously a man of intellect and resources. If he needed to get back to the nexus so bad, why not steal a small ship (like a shuttlecraft) and just fly into it? Oh, but then I guess we would not have had the climatic Kirk death scene on the planet. But then, I think it would have been more fitting for Kirk to die in space after a fierce battle on a starship, than on some out of the way rock orbiting some forgotten star. "},{"Title":"Unworthy exit for Kirk","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations is so aggressively lame that I'm almost fond of it. The direction is flat, the script is weak, the acting is wooden and there are only two or three good special effects (minus the one they stole from Star Trek VI). Yet, for some perverse reason, I felt compelled to buy it on DVD recently. It's oh-so-marginally better than I remembered from my initial 1994 viewing.It's still basically junk, of course. The film has many sins, but chief among them is its dismissive and flat death scene for Captain Kirk, the greatest heroic icon in the science fiction pantheon. (Well...except for Tom Baker's Doctor Who, in my book!) Spock got a wonderful and moving death scene in The Wrath of Khan, but here poor Kirk is forced to run around in the desert, looking fat and sweaty, as he trades punches with that hammy dude from A Clockwork Orange. It's a weird, undignified exit for Kirk, who has no purpose in the story and no opportunity to really shine as a starship captain.There was, I think, really no need to kill Kirk as part of a formalized baton-passing to the Next Generation crew. Why bother? As it transpires, Kirk is still more famous than Picard and company anyway, and will probably be the star character of the proposed Star Trek XI.Generations has other troubles besides the death of Kirk, though. Dr. Soran's plan to divert the Nexus ribbon strains credibility, as he somehow manages to calculate the precise effects that supernovas will have on a wriggly band of special effects energy! The Nexus itself is silly, too, since it's a rather underdeveloped concept that strikes me as an excuse - not a proper basis - for the plot.There's a distinct lack of thrilling spectacle as well, which just compounds the aura of lameness. Many of the sets and starship models are recycled from the Star Trek The Next Generation TV series, and frankly don't look good enough to appear in a feature film. Witness, too, the turgid battle scene between the Enterprise D and the Klingon Bird-of-Prey. It's an immense yawner. I suppose the moody lighting throughout the film is nice, though.The showpiece special effects sequence is the Enterprise saucer crashing, which looks either really great or really fake, depending on the individual shot you're looking at. Overall it's pretty good, but its status as a latter-day model shot means it already looks antiquated in this age of elaborate CGI.In the end, this is really just a tepid, slapdash attempt to shoehorn the two Star Trek crews together, without much thought put into really integrating them in an interesting fashion. The production team are clearly not half so talented and creative as the likes of Harve Bennett and Nicholas Meyer, who worked on the best films featuring the original crew.Thankfully, the next Star Trek movie would at least be exciting, and look something like a properly big-budget film! "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek VII Generations - Stardate 48650.1After not only the spectacular Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country and a great send off for The Next Generation crew (the final episode All Good Things . . . was a proper finale for the Next Generation TV Series), you would wonder how they could possibly get it wrong with the first feature for The Next Generation crew. But lo and behold, they hit that mark! This adventure was equal to an average Next Generation TV episode (All Good Things . . . would have made a better first feature). Again, since my focus is always on music, I will comment - while Dennis McCarthy the composer did a great job with the TV series, his score isn't filmic or memorable enough for a feature score. And I like many others I know was VERY disappointed what they did with the beloved Enterprise-D RIP. An okay 6 out of 10.Trivia note we see Data's cat Spot here as well as the emotion chip he decided not to use at the end of the TNG episode Descent. We also see the crew uniforms changing from the TNG era to DS9 era outfits. There's also a saucer separation that takes place (as it did in the TNG series). And, Lursa and B'Etor from the TNG series make an appearance. "},{"Title":"Rebuttal to Great Transitional Film","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I wonder if the other commenter and I saw the same movie. Maybe I just forgot to wear my rose tinted glasses.This film was NOT great. Transitional or otherwise. William Shatner was as hammy as he ever was in every series except for Boston Legal. I think he may have taken acting lessons to get the part. Patrick Stewart on the other hand is a talented performer in every role I've seen. A consummate actor and a true professional of his craft.There was very little transitioning since the TOS cast had minimal parts. This was more of a give up the ghost movie to tell them to get the hell out of the way. Not a proper ending for a group of people who impacted society the way they did.At best this seemed like a poor contract negotiation with Shatner given too much of a role.I gave this a 4/10 only for the FX. "},{"Title":"Basically it's Trainspotting in space","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The first and only Star Trek film to deal with the difficult subject of substance abuse - specifically heroin addiction. Before you start, look at this titanic body of fact and take off those rose tinted glasses. The film is essentially about attempting to find a permanent escape from deep rooted unhappiness. Dr.Soran is attempting to find a refuge from the trauma of loosing his family, Picard is also in mourning having heard that the family he vehemently disliked and saw about once every 20 years has burnt to death and Kirk - poor, sweet, rotund Kirk has lost his ship, his career and his purpose. All three find solace in the Nexus, an enormous metaphor plundering its way across space, destroying those who try and use it without understanding its nature. Soran's angst in the opening sequence is at having been briefly 'touched' by the nexus and he goes through an 80 year withdrawal, instantly addicted to its pleasure inducing side-effects. If you were left in any doubt that this was a film about drugs and hard ones at that then recall the scene in which Guinan describes the stream as being like 'wrapping yourself inside pure joy, as if joy were something tangible and you could wrap yourself up in it like a blanket'. Add an expletive and you could be quoting from an Irvine Welsh novel. Data is indirectly linked with the nexus but experiences a drug of his own in the form of his emotion chip, a device that inserted into his body produces random and uncontrolled emotions ranging from joy to anger to extreme fear. Sound familiar? Christ, I half expected the Happy Mondays to walk in at some point. Of course all the stuff about exploding suns, Klingons and time travel is a mere distraction - the fact is that when you peel back the layers you're looking at a movie in which an insane scientist is prepared to kill for a new hit, the Enterprise captains nearly succumb but endure the worst kind of cold turkey that causes their ship and their life to be destroyed respectively and the cat survives, presumably just long enough to give Data Toxal Plasmosis when he finally short circuits and conks out on the floor of his quarters. A scene that I imagine for cut to secure a child friendly rating.You want to talk technicalities? Fine. Star Trek Generations is a ever so slightly turgid instalment for this fine franchise. Its primary difficulty, aside from the controversial subject matter, is the fact that it suffers from very poor pacing and an excess of very slow scenes. I imagine this may be to do with the inexperience in making a movie by those behind the camera. David Carson directed many 1st rate episodes of the television series but in adapting to a movie schedule and the greater time this allowed for perfecting each scene, he seems to have followed the logic of slowing everything down - more methodical acting please, more pause for effect, everybody just take-your-time. No problem there except that this paradoxically makes the movie feel like a t.v episode and one inferior to the best the show had to offer. Its not framed particularly cinematic ally either, though credit must go to John A. Alonzo's excellent cinematography which certainly makes the whole thing look polished at the very least. It isn't much of a cross over either as its really a Next Generation movie with a little bit of the classic cast. It might have been better just to make it a purely 2nd generation affair and hopefully one that didn't include some of the T.V show weakest villains, namely the Duras sisters. I mean, c'mon, surely anyone would have been better - Denise Crosby's Romulan commander for example. Were I a cynic and I assure you I'm not...not really, then I'd say that the overused Klingons were only there to allow for the re-use of footage from the previous film, i.e. the destruction of the bird of prey and save a few quid. Surely Paramount didn't have to be so thrift, this was one of their major cash cows for God's sake. When they did give ILM a bit of money, presumably pried for an execs cold dead hand, then the effects house turn in some sterling work but scenes on old galley ships, 20th century looking living rooms and old Idaho wood cabins smack of cheapness and have no place in a big-budget sci-fi would be blockbuster. My advice? In future keep it purely space bound. Not very good then but peppered with some decent moments - though not up to the standard seen in the show's heyday, oh and a terrible and all too casual waste of the Enterprise we lovingly grew up with plus the poorly handled, throwaway death of a cultural icon makes for two colossal celluloid mistakes. Unforgivable! Now pass me that syringe would you please? "},{"Title":"Confusing silly scifi flik","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" THe nexus is described by whoopi goldberg as a place of PURE JOY. Makes you wonder how they're gonna portray that on screen. Well... Captain Picard gets tossed in there and it turns out to be a wife and six kids! Capt Kirk is sent there and for him it's a well-furnished kitchen and a riding horse!! The evil soren was there once and now wants to get back and is willing to blow up a star and kill millions to get there. SPOILER. Picard and Kirk must stop him and of course they do and kirk gets killed in the process and that's pretty much the story.Picard is pretty good but shatner is old and looks fat and as others have commented, his death was very unglorious for such a great character as kirk. The spock character was replaced by a twit called data, an android with an emotion chip implanted. He was awful. Spock had tremendous dignity and ability and you had to admire him, but data is just a doofus.About 15 minutes of the movie is devoted to picard and crew playing sailors on an old naval vessel from around 1750. What that had to do with anything is beyond me. "}{"Title":"Like watching a double length episode","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Although it is nice to see Patrick Stewart and Malcolm McDowell, even their monumental skill can't save this movie.  The problem was that the writing crew was engaged both in writing this and the final episode of Star Trek The Next Generation at the same time.  And something had to give.  Unfortunately, it was this movie.  This film's plot is nothing more than a contrivance to fill up the 90 minutes with what Paramount wanted on the screen.  They wanted a new set for the films, therefore this film destroys the TV Enterprise-D.  They wanted Shatner and Stewart to share screen time, so a time rift was created. They wanted Data's character to grow, so they give him an emotion chip. And, finally, they wanted us to be engaged in the story, so they put everyone's lives at risk.  Whereas the final episode of Next Generation was an excellent, engaging story with a character driven plot, and could have been a good movie, Generations is formulaic and would have been better as a decent episode.All in all, a beautiful waste of time.  Beautiful because no matter how contrived the story is, Stewart and McDowell make it believable.  A waste of time, however, because the film goes nowhere and does nothing. There is only one decent film featuring the Next Generation cast, and that is First Contact.  If you want to see a film worthy of the Next Generation TV show, watch that film, and ignore all others. "},{"Title":"Good but could have been better.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I thought kirk and picard working together should have been developed a bit more. Malcom Mcdowell was a cool villain, his obsession with the Nexus was very well acted.  The battle with the enerprise and klingon ship was very cool and dramatic, especially when the ship crashes on the planet.  The story was a bit flagwavey but at least it was original or at least a bit different.  And what a cool fight picard and kirk has with sorran at the end of the film. Overall it was pretty good.   "},{"Title":"Data finally gets some some emotions but to do it he takes the life out of the script","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This is the worst Star Trek film. They had an opportunity to unite both crews and do such a brilliant film, but the movie was doomed from the beginning.  This movie is just awful.  Leonard Nimoy refused to direct and star in the movie because the script was so bad.  He was right to do so this was a terrible script a terrible premise and terrible for a Star Trek in general.The movie starts with the Enterprise-B crew taking over and Captain Kirk, Scotty and Chekov are there to attend the first voyage.  The crew is woefully unprepared as is the ship.  A couple of things happen you will need to find out about yourself.  Then it goes to the new crew, and they have the Nexus to deal with and Tolian Soran and by the end this movie is a mess.It is still god for a Star Trek, but with the potential they had this was a wasted film.  The two crews could have been united in a great adventure but it was nothing more than a mediocre merging of the two crews.  Leonard Nimoy was going to direct the movie but after he saw the script not only did he pass on directing he would not star in the film either citing it was a terrible script.  Because Nimoy wouldn't do it Deforest Kelley who played McCoy wouldn't do the movie either.  After that the producers felt it would be good only to have two other original crewmembers in this movie, and the result is the badly written mess here.It is silly to me the producers quit the series in favor of doing movies and when they did the movie to say the least I would have rather seen them in the series.  This is so bad for Star Trek I can't help but wander how the writers could let Captain Kirk die in that way.  What an ending for an international legend.  This Star Trek is such a waste they had so many opportunities to do a great film here but they passed on it. In the next couple of films they could have brought both crews together in a good way but they can no longer as, sadly DeForest Kelley has died and they really can't do it the same way.  But here is to both crews of the Starship Enterprise whose five-year and continuing mission is to find decent scripts for it's films, and in this time they failed in their mission.  "},{"Title":"Despite Bad Press, Excellent Story in the Trek Saga","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has been given a log of flack for not being what a lot of people had hoped it to be.  After watching it again, I realized what an amazing movie this was.  It tied in so many thing and had so much in it.  It was a great send off for the new crew of the Enterprise in the movie industry.  As an avid fan of Star Trek, I would not have been happy had it not been as good as it was.  For those of you who slam it, I guess you are neither a fan, nor one who enjoys this genre, and if that is the case, I guess you shouldn't be watching it in the first place, because it was not meant for you. "},{"Title":"A painful experience.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Generations was a mistake from the start.  Without giving an in depth review, let us just say, it was bad.  Really bad.  Of all the Star Trek DVDs I own, this is the only missing from my collection - and I'm not sorry. Do yourself a favor and miss this one. "},{"Title":"Pretty poor","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  A mad alien called Soren (McDowell) threatens to destroy  an entire sun (and, of course, its planet system) in order to return to the Nexus (a place where time has no meaning, where all are bathed in joy), the two captains of the Enterprise join forces to stop him.  They can do this because they are in the Nexus, after Soren fulfils his plan.  There are some fun bits here --- oddly enough, most of them with Kirk and the gang; nostalgia is always fun.  But the script is very shabby on the whole.  A subplot involving Data with an emotion chip is played out very timorously, to the point that it puzzles rather than entertains.  And plot holes abound, from the niggling question of why Data's emotions crashed at just the wrong moment (never explained) to the rather larger question of why the captains didn't exit the Nexus at a better place to stop Soren, so they didn't have the odds stacked against them so.  And it's rather facile even on its own terms; obviously, Kirk and Picard's ideas of true joy aren't domestic bliss, they're adventure and travel and challenge.  That is what they'd find in the Nexus, and so they'd never leave.  Or --- why doesn't Soren leave the Nexus, since seemingly one can, at will, and stop the captains in turn?  And so on ad infinitum and absurdum.  A rather slip-shod guilty pleasure, this.  "},{"Title":"Feels more like a TV show than a movie","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Typically of a decent Star Trek movie, this is like a particularly good TV episode.  I must say that it has some triteness, but I could say that about 50% of any TNG episode.  Certainly acceptable.In this one, the acting rather than the story sticks with me... Patrick Stewart was particularly good, Brent Spiner deserves a nod, and Shatner delivers.Everyone would have preferred a lot more Kirk... maybe even a Kirk/Picard partnership throughout the whole movie, rather than just part. "},{"Title":"Oh my...","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Because I could tear this film apart from beginning to end, I'll strip my comments down to the essentials...Imagine some Paramount execs in a meeting. One of them says Hey, let's have a crossover between the generations. Another says Yeah, good idea, but let's only have Kirk meet Picard and let's kill him in a fifteen minute cameo. The Paramount guys throw their arms in the air with joy.Answer me this How do you kill off one of the biggest pop-culture heroes of all time and not upset everybody at the same time? It's simply impossible. Those idiots. "},{"Title":"Okay film","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Sadly, upon first viewing it, I did not consider it the best film of the series. It seemed to lack action and seemed more philosophical. On the plus side, Data getting emotions, the battle between the Enterprise-D and the Klingon Bird of Prey, and the teaming up of Capt. Picard and Capt. Kirk were great. Overall it was good. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile sci-fi film","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star Trek Generations serves as a good introductory film for the Next Generation cast. Not only does it give the impression that it is an epic story, it also manages to give us a thoughtful metaphysical story. Change, family and loss are its major themes, and they work within the context of this story as well as within the Star Trek franchise on the whole. I would give Generations 8 out of 10 and I would recommend it to anyone who likes science fiction with a good human element.  "}{"Title":"If you're not a trekkie, don't bother.","Date":"1 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The message I have about this film is simple if you're not a trekkie, don't bother. It requires way too much former knowledge. I guess you can try to view it in isolation, but you'll get very, very confused. Basically, extremely forgettable, maybe except for Kirk's death, which was particularly poignant, even for a non-trekkie like me. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A horrible, trashy and disrespectful mess of a film!","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations promised everything and delivered absolutely nothing. Marketed as the meeting point between TOS and TNG it should have been a rip-roaring space epic with classic characters aplenty.Unfortunately the reality is far from that vision. ST Generation is absolutely nothing more than an extended episode of Star Trek The Next Generation, and a very bad one at that. The whole thing feels like a television episode from it's cheap look to it's awful storyline.Trekkies are usually quite smart when it comes to science and engineering and can spot a plot hole or a physics mistake at a glance. TNG built it's reputation by including much more accurate tech talk which was praised by scientists. The plot here is absolutely absurd and so many things just stick out as that wouldn't work! Add to this that half the cast of TNG only have a few lines in the film and you can start to see how it is unbalanced character wise. Malcolm McDowell as Soron is about as TV episode bad guy as you can get. Even though he did command a rather sinister performance his physicality just wasn't there to make him stand out and is easily forgotten amongst the bland script.But the biggest blow must come from the absolute waste of William Shatner in this film, and the horribly tacky manner of the death of such an Iconic character. Shatner is on screen for barely 20 minutes and his death in some remote cheap looking hilltop somewhere in a desert is just insulting. Undoubtedly he best part of the film was at the start where we see Kirk take command of the new Enterprise during a crisis, again a horrible waste of James Doohan and Walter Koenig.In conclusion, the film is nothing more than a great idea with a terrible story and sloppy execution. Had this film been made a couple of years earlier with a better plot and could have included Leonard Nimoy and the Wonderful DeForest Kelly before his decline in health and had equal screen time for the characters then it could have been a winner. As it stands, it is a two hour advert for Rick Bermans Star Trek franchise that shamelessly exploits classic characters to excite interest and does not deliver.A deceptive and tacky mess. "},{"Title":"Can plots get any worse than this?","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I absolutely LOVE Star Trek ... and still I wouldn't pay five cents to see this movie again. It was just plain stupid.Stupid! Dumb! Asinine! Did I mention stupid?This isn't worth any other comments.Oh .. by the way ... it was STUPID! "},{"Title":"Good trek, but not a great film","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This was a very interesting story, although I think they could have integrated the two Enterprise crews a little better.  The imagery in the film was rather unique and intriguing, and I really enjoyed how the story brought out Picard's fears of being the last of his line (a fear that I have, as well).  Not the greatest Trek flick ever, but I did really enjoy the simplicity of it.  Better then both 'First Contact' and 'Insurrection' by my book. "},{"Title":"Shatner saves the movie","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, I liked this movie anyway, but I agree it could have been so much better. I just saw the ridiculous comment talking about how bad we all want to see Shatner go. Listen buddy, Shatner was the BEST thing about the movie! He stole every scene he was in, and also the movie was just plain more interesting when he was on the screen. There is something that a lot of people don't get, and it really bugs me. This movie's flaws had NOTHING to do with the original series cast members. It had to do with the writers Rick Berman, Brannon Braga, and Ronald D. Moore. Shatner didn't write the movie for Christ's sake! He was merely an actor. Think before saying stupid things like the movie was a vehicle for Shatner's ego!  "},{"Title":"The baton is dropped and picked up 80 years hence","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Lets see--Star Trek, the Next Generation takes place about 80 years in the future from the end of the original's series movies.  How do you provide continuity?--Why time travel, of course!  Jeeze, this has been done to death!  The writers of the TV series were much more original in bringing Scotty into the future with hi-tech mumbo jumbo about a rigged transporter.  I thought movie script writers were paid more money and could at least come up with something on par with TV, but alas No(sadly, the same thing could be said of the Star Trek movie writers in general).  And lets face it--Spock was supposedly still alive when STTNG occurred, so wouldn't he have liked to know his great friend was still alive?I know Nimoy did not take part in this movie, because he did not think the role was meaty enough and his absence was sorely felt.  It would have been very entertaining to see a match up between Data's machine logic and Spock's Vulcan logic. "},{"Title":"Doctor, I must confess, I do not understand why someone falling into freezing water is funny","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Of course, in the world of Generations, it isn't funny at all. I think it's a basic human right to be able to sit through a film without being painfully embarrassed by a lame, excruciatingly unfunny comedy moment. That right was stripped from me by Data's so-unfunny-you'll-want-to-die lifeforms song (complete with double-takes and mugging), plus the two Klingon women doing the oldest joke in the pulp SF universe with human females are so repulsive. Take me to sick bay and get my sides sewn back up.The major problem with Generations is it's arrogant assumption that the audience is familiar with the Next Generation crew. We first see them on the not-at-all-explained-for-casual-viewers Holodeck. Here Worf is forced to walk the plank, and I don't mean Marina Sirtis. The real flaw is that, taking the lead from the original crew, the new cast seem to feel they have to fill the loveable, comedic quota. Yet for the po-faced Next Generation crew, being loveable and comedic doesn't come easily, a factor that also dogged, to a far lesser extent, Insurrection. It's no surprise that the straight-played First Contact is the most successful movie outing for this crew. The Next Generation then Data's amateur dramatics with his emotion chip, the woodenness of Dr. Crusher and the charisma void that is Jonathan Frakes. Only Michael Dorn, Levar Burton, Whoopi Goldberg and, of course, Patrick Stewart, emerge with any dignity. Stewart's role is greatly extended at the expense of all others, a pity as he's given little of interest to do.The film's screening formed part of a Star Trek evening, following on from a broadcast of the original series episode Where No Man Has Gone Before. In the space of an advert break we'd gone from a young, dashing Shatner who really tried, to a podgy, decrepit actor who doesn't care any more. And neither did his wigmaker. Kirk's absence from 75 minutes of the film seriously weakens its framework, his tenuous link and involvement in the plot stretching it wafer-thin. I won't give away the end, but this is hardly a heroic tribute, his eventual action in the plot lasting no more than ten minutes. As the big baddie, Malcolm McDowell stays (just) the right side of ham, though his sloppy science plan of star destruction is a flimsy premise on which to hang a movie. And did I miss something, or do we never get to find out how Soran and Guinan were expelled from the Nexus in the first place?Kirk was the fourth original series character to make the jump into the world of the Next Generation. An aged McCoy had appeared in the pilot, while a near-ageless Spock had made the crossing for a two parter. Scotty had his own forty-five minutes after being frozen in time and revived by the new cast. This is another part of the problem. Where seeing convincing special effects was a novelty for the old crew, the state of the art graphics are nothing new for a television series that was averaging expenditure of $3 million an episode. Generations lacks the epic scale to convince us that this is a major motion picture, and not some knocked-up cast off that could have been used as a televisual double episode.The quality of the various Trek films is variable, though as a rough guide I would say they all hover somewhere between the 5-7 mark. This one, however, is by far my least favourite, the only one I actively dislike. Smug and barren, given all the elements at it's disposal it's amazing how it completely fails to utilise them. (4) "},{"Title":"Kirk dies and Data Laughs. That's it...","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Was excited to see that the two Captains were set to meet in this movie. The film opens up, not too terribly, and Kirk dies. Or does he? Then it flashes into the future and in the films best scene we see Worf being promoted to Lieutenant Commander, in a long overdue move up in rank which was delayed by Worf's slaying of Duras a few years before this.(Trivia fans) Then, we get to see an already seen in Kirk's time, Doctor Soran dementedly going on about having to get to the Nexus. The film is so so disorganized that it is sometimes hard to keep track of. Data decides to install his emotion chip. For some reason he ends up with it in the top of his head. In 'Brothers', an earlier episode of Next Gen, the chip was inserted into Lore's neck?? Anyway, Data sets off laughing at almost anything, in a stupidly written script for him. We get to see the Duras sisters for a while, just before their demise! Picard and a now alive Kirk battle it out with Soran on the planet and Kirk ends up dying reaching for a control device. A really dreadful end to one of Star Trek's greatest characters ever.We also get to see the way too early destruction of the Enterprise D. In one of the film's most touching scenes near the end we see Data crying at finding Spot, his beloved cat. In all Trek's worst movie. 'All Good Things', the TV series last episode was far far superior. And I thought Star Trek V was bad........ "},{"Title":"Actually, Captain, I am familiar with history. And if I'm not mistaken, you're dead.","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing Star Trek Generations in the theater back in 1994. At the time, I was so heavily into Star Trek The Next Generation that anything with Picard and Data was going appeal to me. Seeing it now, some 13 years later, the best word I can think of to describe the experience is silly. Oh, I enjoyed bits and pieces of the movie, but overall, Star Trek Generations has to be one of the silliest movies I can remember seeing recently. From an overweight and much too old William Shatner attempting to play an action hero to the incredibly annoying subplot involving Data and an emotion chip, it's all so silly. How in the world did I ever think this tripe was good? The plot involves a scientist named Soran (Malcolm McDowell) and his attempt to enter a mysterious energy ribbon called the Nexus. His plan, though, would require the destruction of the Enterprise and an entire planet. Captains Picard and Kirk must put a stop to the madman's plans.The best thing Star Trek Generations has going for it is McDowell. The man proves once again that regardless of the poorly written script and ridiculous plot, he's capable of giving a solid performance. In comparison, I'm really not shocked to see that most of the rest of the Star Trek cast has done very little of note since this movie. "},{"Title":"Bettering!","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" ST reaches a new levelan aesthetic,and an intellectual one.I grant ST 7 is not yet ST 9;but,fortunately,it is not ST 5 anymore! The flaws and deficiencies of the previous installments' plots are already taken over by a new,superior conception.If the fantasy in ST 7 still reminds the far-fetched and flippant schemes from ST 5,etc.,in exchange it already has a fine plastic accomplishment and an intelligent treatment of the theme,easiness and fluency,infinite charm,abundant fun.The intellectual and reasoning level improves steadily,gets better from one movie to another.The same is true for the plastic level (the first Star trek movies were,sometimes,slatternly,sleazy,worn down).The same theme (the quest for happiness,youth) appears first in ST 5,and it is a stupidity,done without any sense of concreteness;then,it will be retaken and treated in far better and more concrete in ST 7 and ST 9.ST 9 is delightful,clever and most appropriate in representing the theme.As the treatment of the theme progressively gains in value,from one installment to the other,the theme itself is more and more modified and modeled to fit the frame of humanity,by loosing the fantastical features.The search for a God very unmeaning conceived becomes the search for the Nexus (and McD. does a lot for giving this search the human density needed),then it becomes a peaceful planet of the youth,more tangible and falling under the senses.The conception's progress is obvious.First,a fake God (in ST 5);then,an illusory Heaven (in ST 7);then,an earthly Paradise (in ST 9).A show with no women is no fun.It simply can't do without women.Even if it is a show for boys,it doesn't mean women must lack.Star Trek excels in showing very womanly women.Mrs. Sirtis should have got more than this bit part.The Klingons from the Bird of prey behave very much as our present day humans would,it's almost like an irony (probably unintended) to see these sordid beings act the way the men of today do. It's a fact that soldiers,whether stellar or not,act just like the Klingons in this movie,and not like Picard & co..The scenes in which Kirk and Picard appear together are very powerful,moving and effective.Great performances from both Sh. and St.. "}{"Title":"Great transitional movie","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Being the last Star Trek feature-film with (some of) the original cast, I've always thought of this film as a good transitional film into The Next Generation. Kirk (Shatner) gets one last great performance in the story, and Picard (Stewart) gets to show a more dramatic side than is usually apparent in the series.Many humorous moments (like most Star Trek movies) appear, especially in the first scenes as Kirk is made to feel old (the captain of the new Enterprise mentions having read about Kirk in history books); and, of course, unexpected events occur on an unprepared ship with a minimal crew.The Next Generation cast performed quite well; Commander Data (Brent Spiner) got to go outside the usual Data role; Spiner's performance was exceptional in this particular film; this film helps one to appreciate how difficult the Data character must be to perform; playing a non-human character can at times be much more difficult than a human character -- at least for a human actor...All in all, a great story line, and a great transition for original Star Trek fans to get a feel for the Next Generation crew, how it all fits together in the time-line. Simply put, it's a great ending to the original cast's adventures and a great introduction to the Next Generation cast; seeing the two captains work together helps one to transition without feeling like something is lost (no need for debating who was better; they worked in different times, different circumstances). "},{"Title":"A movie that never should have been made","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Generations was a tired rehash of old Star Trek material used earlier and more effectively in the much-maligned but superior Star Trek V.  Soran is a watered-down and less sympathetic version of Sybok and the Nexus ribbon is no different than Sha Ka Ree.  It is also incredible that the long-awaited meeting of the captains was presented in a such a slow-moving, pedestrian vehicle.The story was far from epic, the villain nowhere near as grand as Khan or General Chang, and both captains emerged looking old and feeble.Finally, and most importantly, Captain Kirk should never have been killed off since he IS Star Trek.  I never understood the need for him to pass the torch to Picard, a captain whose series had just went off the air and whose tenure as a Star Trek hero was coming to an end as well.  But even if the producers did feel it was time for Kirk to go, he deserved a far more heroic death than he got.  It would have been better if Kirk had died at the end of Star Trek VI helping to forge universal peace with Spock and McCoy at his side. "},{"Title":"Perhaps The Best Of The Star Trek Movies","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"34 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" In my opinion, Generations is the best of the Star Trek movie series for a number of reasons. Although The Undiscovered Country represented a fitting ending for the original crew, this movie was a good way of blending original Trek with Next Generation Trek. Given almost 80 years difference in the generations, I though the solution for doing this was quite ingenious. 78 years apart, both Kirk (William Shatner) and Picard (Patrick Stewart) find themselves sucked into the Nexus - a huge energy ribbon in which time has no meaning - where they meet each other and join forces to defeat this instalment's villain - Dr. Soren (Malcolm McDowell, in what I thought was an excellent performance; he's one of the better villains to appear in the Star Trek movies.)James Doohan (Scotty) and Walter Koenig (Chekhov) both make appearances at the beginning of the movie (which opens in the era of the original cast) and - given the premise in which they appear (kind of an honorary visit to the Enterprise B as it prepares to launch for the first time) - their ages really don't matter that much. This was always a bit of a problem for me with the movies starring the original cast. They always seemed to be getting just too old to keep being sent on these emergency missions. Here, their presence on the Enterprise B makes sense. I thought that Alan Ruck (playing Captain Harriman of the Enterprise B) did quite a good job of playing a nervous young captain, a bit overwhelmed at the presence of the heroic and famous Kirk on his bridge. The Next Generation cast, having only recently ended the TV series, slipped into their roles without effort. Brent Spiner I thought was extremely good playing Data, who has recently added an emotion chip to his positronic brain, and is having to adjust to his new feelings while trying to do his duty.The movie revolved, though, around Stewart and Shatner. Interestingly enough, I thought this may have been Shatner's best outing as Kirk in the movies, perhaps because although he was still playing Kirk as the hero, he wasn't burdened with being the only star. Stewart was clearly playing that role (and Kirk was appropriately deferential to Picard - as he was to Harriman for that matter.) Shatner and Stewart seemed to work well together, giving Kirk and Picard a real chemistry. Flaws? Well, a few minor things. It bugged me that the transporter technician (speaking only on radio) referred to Commander LaForge and Mr. Data. Why not Commander Data? After all, Data outranks LaForge. Why honour LaForge with his rank, but not Data? No respect for android officers? That's a minor point, of course. I also thought that the connection between the two generations might have been even stronger if Leonard Nimoy had somehow been written into the story as Spock. Spock spanned both series, and a reunion of Kirk and Spock 80 years later might have been quite touching. But overall, minor weaknesses aside, this was an excellent movie with a good story and flow and interesting all the way through.8/10 "},{"Title":"Two Captains One Destiny in this epic Star Trek The Next Generation Film","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek The Next Generation prove itself to be a great successor to the original Star Trek and lasted seven seasons on TV becoming one of the greatest TV series to ever grace Television.Now in 1994 following the series finale we are presented with a brand new motion picture for Star Trek and it's the first film with The Next Generation crew. While some might have mix feelings about this movie I enjoy it very much since I first saw it in theaters with my family as a young child. It just one of those films I never forget what it was like in theater to watch this movie. Remains one of my favorite films I saw in theatersAll of the cast members from the TV show reprise their roles Patrick Stewart as Captain Picard, Jonathan Frakes as Commander Riker, Brent Spiner as Data,LeVar Burton as Geordi ,Michael Dorn as Worf, Gates McFadden as Dr.Beverly Crusher and Marian Sirtis as TroiIn this film we get to see how the characters develop from the TV show into the motion picture. Also as a bonus we get three of the original series cast members returning for the film William Shatner as Captain James T.Kirk, James Doohan as Scotty, and Walter Koenig as Chekov The film main antagonist is Dr.Soran played by Malcolm McDowell. Fans praise this character for how far he would go to accomplish his goals and Malcolm's performance helps complement that. His character had some of the best quotes of Star Trek. And the film is fill with great quotes from Picard, Riker and others.This film has that feel of The Next Generation TV show that's how I felt when I was in the theater it felt like watching a long episode of the series which isn't a bad thing at all because it complement what makes the Next Generation great for Star Trek fans. The film features some very well done acting as each actor brings something to the table, Patrick and Malcolm stole the show with their respected performances. All the others did a good job as well that's why I like this film is that the acting is pretty solid.The plot of the film is really good to me and I enjoy the story of the film.The music of course is top notch every score in this film is well deserved of respect you can appreciate the work that went into the music department. All the music here tells the story of the film.The special effects are perfect along with some of the most tense moments in the history of Star Trek it still impresses me how they created the Ships. This movie really does a impressive job with the effects and why Star Trek holds a lot of power to making strong effectsAction scenes in this film are some of the best I have seen in a movie and still gives me a rush of excitement that I had in theaters. The film also features some good comedy to help with the mood of the film While it might have been mix for most I still love this movie because it was the first Star Trek Film I saw in theaters and everything about this movie deserves a little more respect than it got it also one of the best films of Star Trek and one of my favorite films in general. With strong acting, tense action scenes, powerful music, intense plot and a movie that gives you that feel of Star Trek this is your filmI give Star Trek Generations an 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Commendably Thoughtful / Viciously Boring / Superfluous","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I tend to agree with those who are of the opinion that the Original Series Star Trek crew did not need to appear in this film. They had already had their send off, and a very fine one at that, in The Undiscovered Country. There was no need for their presence to be stretched out into Generations. That applies to Kirk more than to anyone else, of course. But here, he gets to take his final bow, of sorts. It could have been done better.At the same time, it could be argued that the Next Generation crew did not need to be in this film, either. It doesn't really do much to meaningfully develop them beyond what had already been done in their seven seasons on television. The subsequent film, First Contact, probably should have served as the lone Next Generation big screen-adventure.In any event, Generations is not a horrible film, but in practice it is a bit of a drag to watch, like one of those books that are hard to read without falling asleep. Some will argue that it is superfluous, and most would probably agree that it is exceedingly slow and frankly boring in spite of its decent screenplay and somewhat fresh plot.Speaking of which, the overall story (beyond the obvious 'Kirk meets Piccard, passes baton' gimmick) looks fairly cool on paper. A ribbon of energy writhing through space, which happens to be a portal to a hallucinogenic other-dimension called the Nexus, where time has no meaning? All right. Malcolm McDowell's Dr. Soren, a member of a long-lived species who has been trying to get back into the Nexus for decades, who collaborates with rogue Klingons, and who is willing to destroy an entire populated planet in the service of his obsession? Sure. A sequence in which the USS Enterprise-D suffers a warp-core breach, forcing the crew to evacuate to the saucer section, which then crashes into the forests of the planet below? Why not &#x96; that sounds exciting. Nothing like blowing up the Enterprise to create a spectacle.As mentioned before, however, it all unfolds at an excessively leisurely pace that challenges the attention span of all but the most dedicated of viewers, and neither Enterprise crew (the 'B' crew at the beginning, featuring the old guys, or the 'D' Next Generation crew) really gets much out of it in terms of character development. I do however have to note Jacqueline Kim's brief but excellent performance as Ensign Demora Sulu, i.e. Hikaru Sulu's grown-up daughter. She looks like a terrific captain in the making as she holds the helm in the opening sequence, and frankly I would rather watch a film about her than what the rest of Generations turns out to be.Two specific things dog all of the Next Generation-era films, and they both rear their heads here. The first and arguably the most annoying is the overestimation of Data's fascination quotient. Every single one of the four Next Generation films feels compelled to put significant focus on his character, and with the exception of First Contact, it all feels gratuitous to me. Yes, his search for humanity is interesting. But not this interesting, and his adventures in humor here are more obnoxious than charming (or actually funny). Instead of fixating on Data, I wish that a more involved role would have been written for Dr. Crusher, who I feel to have been neglected more than any other major crew member.The other issue is the hard truth that the Next Generation's tone and aesthetic sensibilities, while well-suited for television, are simply not big-screen cinematic, particularly in comparison to the Original Series elements with which they share screen time in Generations. The uniforms especially could have benefited from a more sophisticated re-design. The common criticism that Next Generation films are more like glorified television episodes is not entirely unwarranted, although to be fair, Generations does have some very nice sequences.Is this the worst Star Trek film? Goodness, no. It might not even be the worst Next Generation-era film, when you consider the respective issues present in Insurrection and Nemesis. If being boring is a crime, then both Insurrection and The Motion Picture have no doubt shared a cell with Generations. Ultimately, this is a decent film, but probably only of much interest to Star Trek enthusiasts, and even then more as a curiosity than anything else. "},{"Title":"Or, rather, 20% 1st generation, 80% 2nd","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The Enterprise is leaving orbit again. As an indication of the level of cheese in this, the first thing we see once out the opening credits sequence is a bottle being smashed against the vessel(...yes, in outer space), like they used to do with ships before their maiden voyage. Wow. Well, I guess that's what we should expect from the franchise, at least back then. Anyway, things seem to be going well. Kirk and two non-specific(OK, it's Scotty and Chekov... but it could have been anyone still alive from TOS) crew members are there, retired and not in an official capacity. Jim comments that it's good this has a Sulu(it's the daughter) at the helm(as long as he or she ain't the captain, eh, Shat?). On a rescue mission, they run into a big problem(I think it might be because they brought Goldstein along... seriously, her being in sci-fi means that someone near her is going to get it pretty bad)... oh, there's something about a nexus that destroys ships, but the more pressing issue is that the technology in Roddenberry's(R.I.P.) vision is so perfect that they have to think of reasons for why it can't get them out of the situation. In the first fifteen minutes, we get no less than three jokes about the convenience for the script of them having left Earth without several vital things. I guess no one(including the writers) learned from the 1979 film... when the danger comes from what our cast is flying in, it makes Starfleet seem incompetent. Anyway, Picard and Data(oh, and I *think* the rest of the folks from TNG are there, in the background, with no development of, or focus on, any of them) are sent, 80 years later, to deal with, well, the same thing, only reappearing. Don't expect this to tell you who anyone is or what they're like(then again, the show *had* been running for seven years when this came out... which makes is strange that this goes against the canon, and I also don't know why they felt the need to have Stewart miss his family, and Spiner strive to be human... while these themes are central to them, they're explored far better in the series; I know it is difficult in a feature film to give all the characters equal screen-time, still, that was what Next Gen was all about, and this feels pretty been there, done that). We get Brent having emotions, and it's creepy and annoying. I guess it's meant to be. The acting is great, everyone puts in a good performance. McDowell is enjoyable to watch as a madman(basically, he's certain that time will eventually make us all its bitch, and it bothers him... so he wants to never die). The philosophy is fine, if the execution leaves the audience a tad cold. This has pretty solid FX, and it is genuinely exciting, and at its best, engaging. If you're a stickler for realism and science that holds up, keep your magnifying glass a safe distance away from the plot. There is a little moderate language and mild violence in this. I recommend this to big fans of ST. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The passing of the torch from Kirk to Picard (spoilers)","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I first saw STAR TREK GENERATIONS in Maine, probably around 1996, and while I didn't think much of it at the time, I like it a lot more today. STAR TREK GENERATIONS is a very special STAR TREK movie for one reason and one reason only Kirk (William Shatner) dies in it. To be honest, I was disappointed with his death scene. I expected it to be bigger since it is pretty much the most important scene in STAR TREK movie history. I felt the scene could have been a tad bit better than it was. Ultimately, the death of Kirk symbolizes the passing of the torch from Kirk to Picard and while I certainly like Kirk better, Picard is great in his own right.Besides the mishandling of the Captain Kirk death scene, I have no other complaints about STAR TREK GENERATIONS. I loved it. Having Patrick Stewart and William Shatner on screen together is magic. They made a great duo. The rest of the cast also does a great job with their parts, but this movie is all about Stewart and Shatner, two of the coolest actors ever. Stewart went on to do other sci-fi flicks like X-MEN and its sequel while Shatner continued to take on Shatner-esque roles. Both men's careers are still going strong, which brings me home that one day there will be a STAR TREK movie that has Kirk  somehow coming back to life to reunite with Picard. I know it will never happen, but it would still be sweet.***1/2 "},{"Title":"Good Film!","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"      People have complained before that Star Trek Movies seem like two hour episodes in a movie theater. This one i'll agree with them. This does seem like a two hour episode and it sounded like one to. Dennis McCarthey's music score made this sound like an episode on TV because he did some of the episodes of The Next Generation. Other than that, the movie is good. Malcolm McDowell is a good villan as he always is and William Shatner returns as the Legendary Captain James T. Kirk and plays a good performance along with The Next Generation actors. My favorite is Data. (*SPOILERS*) There are two scenes where I just love Data's part. The first is on the Amargosa Station with Geordi and Data continually laughs like an idiot. The second is on the bridge with Riker asks Data to scan for life forms and Data plays the tune on the console. Those scenes are the best in the entire movie, aside from some of the action scenes. A good Star Trek film. A bit of a drag but Good. "},{"Title":"Nimoy You've Got Some Problems Here!","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Oh boy, was Leonard Nimoy right. The producers and writers had such a disregard for the original series characters, their growth and their story continuity. They ignored so much of what had happened previously. They even wrote (originally) having Sulu back in the navigator's chair. Nevermind that he's a captain of Starship Excelsior.(Spoilers ) 79 episodes! Five Trek movies! (Sorry...'Final Frontier' simply doesn't exist...my choice) Adds up to alot of hours of Kirk & Crew's adventures. So raise your hand if, after all that, your final image of Kirk is a lingering close-up of his lifeless eyes staring upwards with (painted) blood trickling out of the corner of his mouth. I'll pass! And so did Nimoy and Kelly. And Nichols and Takei; and they can't be blamed. As for Shatner, a 5 million dollar payday is hard to pass up.It's so obvious that Nimoy has a firm grasp on the spirit of what makes Star Trek endure (he proved that with #4 and #6 where he had creative control). It was an insult to approach him to direct 'Generations' AFTER a story was already concocted...then to squash all his suggestions to eliminate inconsistent continuities, plot holes and improvements. Just 'Shut Up & Direct'????? Nimoy did the honorable thing and passed. And it's easy to see why.This is 'Next Generation's movie all the way...as it should be. If they couldn't come up with a more believable gimmick to unite 'The Originals' with 'The Next Generation', then they should have skipped right over to 'First Contact' (excellent entry). At least that decision would have broken the odd number Trek curse.Opportunity lost forever because Stewart and Shatner have a wonderful on screen chemistry. It's too short lived. The characters deserved much more and a much better scenario.The acting is decent (including the always reliable Doohan and Koenig), the colors and effects are super. The suspense all but falls apart because of the poor foundation of the initial story. The best thing about the movie is the poster that promises; but fails to capitalize. There's still a lack of regard for 'Generation'(s) supporting characters; they don't really go beyond their robotic function of their ranks (except Data). And there's something very wrong when we're supposed to feel relieved that the tearful Data finds his cat, but no word of rememberance for Kirk and his sacrifice. You'd think they owe him that little bit...but noo-ooo! Let's just get RIGHT back to 'Next Generation'.(And if Alan Rickman's captain was the best guy for the job of commanding a new starship, ya gotta wonder what dumb shmoe is in charge of promoting these people. What's even scarier is that supposedly he was the best candidate for captain. After all, you're only in charge of hundreds of crew members (responsible for thousands of lives being that a starship is a protecting emblem in a planetary crisis). So what if it's a constant barrage of life & death situations.Given the decision to film this story, everyone does their job well (the actors, technicians, etc). It's just that the story is all wrong to begin with. Blame the writers and the producers who gave the go-a-head!6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A great television special, but with a bigger film stock","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, the problem with this one is, like all the Next Gen flicks, in the following1.  Every main character must have a five-minute sketch placed randomly in the midst of the main story.  It may or may not have anything to do with the main story, but as long as we have Crusher reporting the casualties, Worf reminding us he's a Klingon of the highest order, Riker shouting Red Alert and Troi mentioning something doesn't feel right,  they've fulfilled their contractual obligation and fan expectation.2.  Brent Spiner must have something important to do, but it should have NOTHING to do with the main story.  It must have to do with his Pinnochio Complex so the attention is on him.  In Generations, his bits are the WORST. I FELT LaForge's irritation and I would have used the phaser on him instead of Soran.3.  NOW, add a story that is hashed together from a one-hour episode.  Now that the first two items have eaten an hour of screen time, a smaller-scale main story can replace an epic vision that justifies moving from syndicated TV to a venue that charges $8 a head.Back in the seventies, as a kid, I looked forward to those great TV reunion specials.  Most were crap, but there were a few that honored the spirit of the source material without daring to be pretentious or derivative. Generations would have made a great summer replacement special on NBC or on the UPN, but the end of the Enterprise-D and the coolness of McDowell's Soran didn't make up for all Shatner's unneeded backstory, multiple death scenes or Data's pining for a missing kitty.Television fare on a bigger screen.  A disappointment or an insult to me as a fan?  Not sure yet.  Let's see how they do with the next few. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  One of the best Star Trek films, spectacular, it shows the contrast between new and old Star Trek characters, Kirk and Picard, and how they respond to each others very SIMILAR attitudes to the captains chair. There were no problems and it lived up to my expectation of the Star Trek francise. It also gives an idea of Gene Roddenberry's original idea, a fantastic tribute to the man!!!Live Long and Prosper "},{"Title":"Not the best Trek, but certainly not the worst","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Alright, admittedly this one's got a lot of problems, but it's still leagues ahead of Insurrection and the abominable Shatner-directed Final Frontier.Generations often has a rather rushed, slapped-together feel about it. The uniforms don't match. Because of sloppy editing, references are made to scenes that didn't make the final cut. And there are innumerable plot holes and inconsistencies why does Sorin need to go to such extravagant lengths to get into the Ribbon (beyond the producers' desire for plot contrivances, that is)? Picard says he can't fly into it, but that seemed to be working pretty well in the intro. So what if the ship got destroyed? Sorin was in the process of entering the Ribbon when he was beamed out, right?Stuff like this is all over the place, but you know what? I don't care. Shut your brain off for a couple hours and it makes for pretty decent B-movie entertainment. Picard and Data are great as always, and the rest of the cast is...the rest of the cast, I guess. The crew does pretty much what Next Generation viewers are used to them doing, which I guess is good or bad depending on how you look at it. But you've got Malcolm McDowell at his most Malcolm McDowell-ish as the antagonist, and that's really all the villain any movie needs.Yeah, the even-numbered Treks all have this one beat, and so do the Motion Picture and Search for Spock, but I find its clumsiness strangely endearing for some reason. And hey, it's not Phantom Menace. and that's always a good thing. "},{"Title":"Contrived but Entertaining","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  If one is willing to ignore logic, sense, and the preposterous situations and circumstances that occur during Star Trek Generations, then they will be effectively diverted.  This film, which sees the big screen debut of the crew of the Next Generation, has many problems which almost sink the whole experience.  The major plot device which is designed to (possible spoiler) bring Captain Kirk and Captain Picard together is barely plausible.  The villain Soran, played by Malcolm MacDowell, is OK but does not reach the level of past Star Trek villains.  The sub-plot concerning Lt. Commander Data almost ruins the movie, turning a likeable and popular character into an annoyance.  The various holes that emerge in the plot are glaring, and show how poorly thought out much of the scripting must have been.  But, despite all of these negatives, the movie succeeds in having some wonderfully engaging moments, and a rip-roaring visual effects sequence that has yet to be matched by any other film in the Star Trek franchise.  This seventh entry is still light years beyond Star Trek The Motion Picture and Star Trek V The Final Frontier.  Possessing high production values and reliable performances from the regulars of the series, Star Trek Generations is a good chapter, but far from one of the best.    "},{"Title":"Could've been way more","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Some people really like this movie, but I think it had the potential to be way bigger, and way better. As it is, the movie is at best entertaining and at its worst, almost indifferent to the original cast. As a Star Trek fan, the movie represents a series of missed opportunities and a small movie with the promise of a huge blockbuster. Sadly, that wasn't to be.The storyline involving the Nexus is filled with plotholes and contradictions, proving the writers were rushed during production and sparing the movie the attention it deserved. For example, the villain Soran is on the planet and explains that he's destroying the solar system because it's the only way to get into the Nexus, an energy ribbon in space that envelopes everyone in its path with unadulterated joy. Yet, he was in the Nexus earlier in the film precisely because his ship flew into it.Another big plot hole, and this one contains spoilers Why does Picard go back to the point in time when he does, putting himself at risk all over again? Had he gone back further back into the movie, he could've simply stuck Soran in jail. But then you wouldn't have much of a movie. And the fact that I can so easily point out this enormous plot hole should speak volumes about how poorly thought out this story was.The one thing the movie has going for it is the acting.  Patrick Stewart and Malcolm McDowell are fun to watch and give their roles a very nice variety of emotions. Brent Spiner as Data, who went on to become an increasingly annoying character in the subsequent movies, gives some nice comedic timing. William Shatner is brought to pass the torch, but that was essentially all he did aside from showing who really is the best captain. He delivers his best performance as Kirk since The Search for Spock.In the end, I came away feeling that the movie was rather empty.The following is a HUGE SPOILER if you don't know a thing about the movie, but common knowledge for Trek fansThe destruction of the Enterprise is the movie's strongest moment, giving the supporting cast the opportunity to act a little bit. But in the end, the loss of the ship was merely shrugged off. A far cry from the glorious end of the original Enterprise in III.Kirk couldn't have a more inappropriate death. Personally, I would've preferred Kirk die on the Enterprise-B or D. As it is, one has to give credit to Shatner for taking a lackluster death scene and turning it into something memorable.  "},{"Title":"Star Trek V is worse.","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  In the ST franchise, this one continues the tradition of the sub-par odd-numbered films into the NextGen series.  If you rank this one among the odd-numbers only, it's probably the second-best one to TMP.  However, as far as the TNG movies, First Contact is by far superior. "},{"Title":"All You Would Expect","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This movie came out in 1994. It's now 2002 and I still watch the movie from time to time. It's fun and the Next Generation cast strikes gold. The flim shows all the action and of course one big Ship-and-Ship fight scene. The cast feels the same as the TV show. They go through a few minor changes that effect the movie in a good way. Go see it. Please ignore all bad reviews. A great Star Trek film. "},{"Title":"not a bad try","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Generations should have been a good handover movie from the kirk enterprise crew to the next gen picard crew. The scene on the Enterprise B bridge showing kirk coming to terms with the fact that he is no longer the captain of the Enterprise was great but what happened to the cut sky diveing scene of kirk, scotty and chekov from the start of the film. I understand that the studio wanted to start the movie with the Enterprise scene but why has the cut scene not been put on the dvd release as this scene showed us more of the relationship of these three.The picard crew scenes are far to dark apart from the small amount of humor on the holodeck.However the scenes at the end of the movie with kirk and picard are great.Movie would have been better if Paramount had got all of kirks crew to star in the picture and a longer leadup to the Enterprise B scene.  "},{"Title":"pretty good","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  A decent movie as the baton is handed from Kirk's crew to Picard's as far as Star Trek Films go. Kirk and Picard unite to fight off a madman and Data finally gets his emotion chip and learns to cope with it. Trekkies might find something to like in it, and non-fans might too. Not too bad an entry.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Incredible Surround Movie, Great Special Effects!!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I have listened to alot of other reviewers on this movie and I simply cannot agree, I think this movie was incredible however they could have trimmed Data's emotion scenes as a first movie for The Next Generation crew it was a good one to pass the torch from the old series to the new oneThe space battle scenes and the special effects are great to watch on a Widescreen TV, I saw this movie theatrically twice, and I usually won't see movies more than once at the theatreI would place this movie in the middle of the three films being; Star Trek First Contact; Star Trek; Generations; and finally the Lackluster film; Star Trek; Insurrection8 Stars out of 10 "},{"Title":"Not bad for an odd-numbered Star Trek Film","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  OK so this wasn't the Wrath of Khan stuff, but I thought this was a watch-able outing for the crew of the Enterprise.  The Enterprise-B and the rather uncomfortable looking Jim Kirk were an excellent opener to a film which, OK, could have been better with a dusting with the Romulans, wasn't bad for a next-gen movie.The acting was good, Guinan's character was improved upon and, it didn't have the same continuity problems (i.e. if you weren't a Trekker you could follow the film) as Star Trek VI The undiscovered Country.All in all, not brilliant but it did the job of making First Contact look good. "}{"Title":"Underrated Trek","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Out of all the Star Trek films that i've seen, I would have to say that Generations is my absolute favorite and much better than what is said about it. It has great effects, good performances, a good plot, lots of action. What more could ya want?!!!POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!!3 members from the original t.v. series and Star Treks I-VI are invited to join the new crew of the enterprise on their first ride out. Things seem to be moving smoothely until they run into an energy belt that we soon learn is a portal into another dimension where anything is possible. The ship is almost taken in, but Captain Kirk comes to the rescue, but at the cost of his own life. Almost 80 years later we meet the crew from The Next Generation who are being threatened by Dr. Soran who wants to return to the belt forever. Captain Picard follows him and finds out that maybe Captain Kirk didn't really die and asks for his help. Together they battle Soran.Exciting, great story, and acting. **** out of *****.  "},{"Title":"A Moving and Thoughtful Film","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star Trek Generations surprised me, because it had everything. Drama, Action, Comedy, a great plot, good special effects, and great acting. I must give credit to the writers on this script. It's a great departure for Star Trek.The acting of this film was great. Patrick Stewart was touching, especially in the scene where he discusses the love for his family to Marina Sirtis. Malcolm McDowell gave a delicious performance as the villain obsessed with trying to get into the Nexus Ribbon. William Shatner wasn't even half-bad this go around. And Whoopi Goldberg was great in her small supporting role, and hopefully she will have more dramatic work in the future.The cinematography on this film was beautiful, and by far, the best of the Star Trek film series. I'm surprised that it was not nominated for an Oscar, as I was surprised for the art direction. This film's look was a little bit darker than most Star Trek films, but it was very realistic.If you are looking for a good drama with a thought out storyline, then you might want to try Star Trek Generations, because even if you're not a Star Trek fan, you might be surprised by it. "},{"Title":"Unfair attacking","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  For one, I loved Star Trek Generations (1994), even when I saw it in 1994. Frankly, this edition had as much to say in it as Star Trek II The Wrath of Khan (1982) and Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country (1991).Of course, I have the benefit of knowing exactly who Robert and Rene were, since they were in the Family episode that came directly after The Best of Both Worlds two-parter (when Picard was kidnapped by the Borg), so I felt Picard's pain. Moreover, you don't need to know who they were to really feel the anguish Patrick Stewart emotes, even when he just learns about it. When he tells Troi about it, he is at once subtle and outpouring in his grief.The one constant message of The Next Generation over the years -- and one of Braga's favorite concepts -- is the concept of NOW. Learning to live a lifetime within a moment (and shamefully overproduced in Star Trek Insurrection (1998).It's delightfully wicked for Soran to actually press Picard's buttons before we learn the exact nature of his pain. (They say TIME is the FIRE in which we BURN. We leave SO MUCH unfinished...) It is about losing your family that pains both Soran and Picard, as well.One of the most touching aspects is Picard's dream of a home, and his nephew Rene being alive. Seeing the miniature explosions within the Christmas decorations was a nice, dark touch to remind him of his real aspiration.All in all, Generations hardly deserves the viputeration it's being given in the comments, some by Trek haters who obviously have no clue -- such raving should have been directed at Star Trek Insurrection, which was a clone of a few episodes from the Series.And I'm glad Kirk's prediction of dying alone didn't come to pass. "},{"Title":"Good movie made even better by Shatners book series.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  includes Book spoilers I sorta didn't like this movie too much until William Shatner raised Kirk from the dead.  Then despite the special effects faults did I then Love this movie.  I now consider it my personal favourite out of all the Trek movies.  Many thanx to Shatner for bringing Kirk back.  Anyone have some imagination out there.  Go read some books. ;)     (I watch too much tv) "},{"Title":"If not the best Star Trek movie, then close.","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the better Star Trek movies. One of the reasons for this is it's extremely charming villain. If this was a Bond film he would be a close rival for Christopher Lee in The Man With The Golden Gun. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Not much good to say...","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  DONT READ THIS IF YOU DON'T WANT SPOILERS!! I have to admit, when I heard about the plan to kill Captain Kirk in this film, I instantly hated it. But, I went to see it and wished I hadn't. Nothing made sense. Not the silly cgi Nexus-thingy, nor the wasteful way in which Kirk was killed. And just whose idea was it to destroy the Enterprise anyway??? The whole movie was slow, dull and uninteresting. Even the acting was bad, except maybe for Brent Spiner's portrayal of Data discovering his emotions...  Skip it and watch First Contact instead... "},{"Title":"Scotty, Beam me back home PLEASE!!","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Well the cycle continues. The odd number trekkie films still fail to impress. Generations is no exception. This effort tries too hard trying to take on board the transition of old crew with new crew along with moving from tv show to movie house.And of course this film won't have any appeal to non-trekkies. The holodeck scene on the boat at the start will instantly confuse them along with Data's motion chip.  Its left to Stewart to pull the film through all the rough edges and deep glaring holes.Generations fails on so many counts. Why waste decent actors on a limp script based on a man above his station striving for the life-internal! Couldn't they have tried something a little different and a bit more ship-based? Why couldn't they have used the wonderful 'Q' again or a good old fashioned rumble with the Romulans.Generations probably turned off a lot of potential new trekkies whilst First Contact would have been a better choice for a starter. And Generations was a real embarrassment for the Kirk generation too. What a way to bow out....no respect.Forget Generations as a mistake. First Contact is THE film to impress anyone.Make it so.... "},{"Title":"There once was a boy named Jean-Luc Picard...","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  And he wanted to become the captain of a Starfleet ship.In the seventh Star Trek movie, we get to see how the famous Captain James T. Kirk dies - yes DIES - while Picard starts to cry like a child that is left alone in a dark forest. When seeing that scene, I remember I was laughing so hard that I couldn't speak for two minutes. So, when you try to give Picard any type of human emotions, this is the result! Same goes for Data, who - in my opinion - made a complete fool out of himself! The crash of the Enterprise-D and the dogfight with a Bird of Prey are purely added for action, but they seem a bit old fashioned. It would be far more interesting if the Enterprise suffered heavy damage - smoke coming out of the hull, etc. - than just crashing onto the surface of an unknown planet. The ONLY good moment of the movie was the beginning, in fact the whole story with the Enterprise-B. And did any one notice that Kirk - the hero, of course - insisted to go and fix the problem? What would have happened if Captain Harriman was blown into the Nexus?  "},{"Title":"OK movie","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I like the Star Trek movies. At least most of them. This is not the best Star Trek movie but not the worst. Star Trek 5 was worst. Anyway I liked this movie. The plot was OK. The last part of the movie was good. The only thing I hated about this movie is that Picard is a big sissy at the end. The other movies he wasn't, and on the TV series he wasn't, so why this. Other than that everything on the movie is good. I especially like the music. The ending was good. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes Star Trek.  "},{"Title":"STTNG is more than ready and able to carry the torch.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  As a loyal Star Trek fan, I was excited to see The Next Generation cast move to the big screen.  Then, after I saw the movie, I had mixed feelings about it.  First, Bravo to the smooth transition and blending of the original cast and the new one.  The interaction between Kirk and Picard was fun and necessary for the official handing of the baton, and the death of Kirk, although dramatic, was a fine way to say farewell to our old friend.  The Next Generation crew is more than ready and able to carry the torch, providing they are given good story-lines.This plot carried wonderful possibilities, but yet, had many loose ends.  (Ex If Picard could leave the Nexus and go back into time, to change things, then how come Soran didn't, when he went in with Picard?) The sub-plot with Data getting his emotions was a fun twist, but I missed seeing more of the others.  Great action, humor, and special effects helped carry this rather confusing story to a higher level.  This was a good film and I hope that this crew will stay together for lot's more adventures.   "}{"Title":"Mostly an excuse but not a bad movie.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I don't think this was necessary at all.  Don't get me wrong.  It was fun to see the original Captain meet his successor.  But it was pretty pointless. And how come fun actors like Malcolm McDowell does this stuff.  Ya know they're good actors but they don't pick the right movie quite often.  He did good here but, I don't know, he seems more like a guy who would do Q or Kahn type villains.  Anyway like I said fun, but that's it. "},{"Title":"Good Film in my perspective...","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This movie even though fell in the line of the odd Star Trek Movie numbers, is a good movie. I do not believe in that Odd bad, even good, philosophy. The only thing that I would have to complain about is the orange lighting in the Mess Hall. Other then that this movie had all the elements of Star Trek Exploration, and going where no man has gone before. Data's first emotion chip experience was very funny and I am glad they included that.  "},{"Title":"Very not bad","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The preconception that every odd-numbered Star Trek movie must be bad has given an unfairly sour reputation to this film. As for inconsistencies in character, plot and fictional science, at what point has Star Trek ever claimed to be 100% accurate? I concede that this is not the finest incarnation they have ever made, but any true fan must appreciate its significance, and the overall enjoyment of the ride. "},{"Title":"Loose Threads Left Hanging","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Generations was a great Trek movie (they all are!) but it was a bit loose in the plot department. Its continuity with stories that had gone before it in Trek history were only just barely able to be contained within Trek standards of story telling.The events of the next Gen crew occur in 2371 (Geodie refers to Farpoint mission circa 2364 as 7 years ago) and the events of the Enterprise B occurred 78 yr prior to this being 2293. Scotty is still in his original timeline in this film and yet he was in a sixth season episode Relics set in 2369 which had him trapped in a transporter for 75 years. This puts his transporter accident as happening in 2294 which JUST allows his appearance in this film to squeeze by unchecked.In 2370, 7th season TNG Lursa discovers that she is pregnant with child yet by Generations not only is she not pregnant nor holding a klingon infant, there's no mention of her son ....period. Surely ONE throw away line would have been nice for continuity's sake (it's not like the film was the final entry in Trek's captain's log is it?)Data's emotion chip had been mentioned several times over the 7 seasons of TNG but why does it appear here as a different size and shape from its last appearance (only 14 months prior) in Descent part 2?Picard's family died in a house fire? Aren't smoke detectors manadatory today? I know Robert was old fashioned but refusing to install them proved to be a fatal mistake. Additionally Picard didn't feel he had to add to the family line because Robert had Rene.   ..... excuse me but if rene survived and grew up gay wouldn't it STILL be up to Jean-Luc to pull the loins out of stasis for one more away mission?And Kirk, didn't he say he knew he'd die alone? Why did he look at Picard and say Oh my! then? It was a cheap way to hand over the torch to have one captain die in front of the other.On the other hand he lived on the bridge and he died on the bridge (or did he die with the bridge on him?).And as for the many sex changes of SPOT the cat ....don't even get me started!!!Additionally can anyone tell me why Whoopi Goldberg's name is not in the credits on film? It's not like she had a surprise cameo, she was in the trailers for god's sake!! She also had a fair ammount of dialogue in her scenes as well.On the plus side Data's emotions were funny and the saucer crash was excellent! Don't get me wrong I loved the movie it's just if I can spot the mistakes as a viewer how come proffessional screenwriters with 5 to 7 year histories on the show didn't? "},{"Title":"Underrated and misunderstood","Date":"4 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Like Star Trek III, Generations is an excellent movie which is let down by the fact it was rushed by a production team incapable of waiting to fully make a good movie.Of the three TNG movies, Generations is by far the most original of the three.  It does not re-visit worn out and watered-down ideals (see Insurrection which revisited the no-interference rule and did it in such an inconsequential way it ended up as beyond laughable).  Nor does it resort to relying on overly-popular monsters to draw crowds (First Contact).The worst part about the movie being rush, and the only bad part really, is the amount of continuity between TNG TV series and Generations, and even parts within Generations directly contradict -- for example Guinan tells Picard that getting into the Nexus is impossible.  But 2 minutes later she tells Picard that if he goes after Soran, he won't care about anything aside from saying in the phony reality the Nexus creates.  So Guinan knows Picard's gonna make it after all?  Whassup?  Rushed writing.  But unlike more recent trekkie movies, Generations gets a free pardon because it had very little time to be properly written and developed.Consider the good points* Mostly-Original plot.  A new type of time travel (and unlike 89000 of the 89002 methods of time travel devised by Trekdowm is believeable) caused by the Nexus.  It's not time travel in the strict sense as the Nexus merely lets one think that a person is in whatever time he desires, but time itself does not exist.  This Nexus was tied in somehow to the El Aurian species, of which Guinan is a member...* Guinan gets character depth and answers to her origins.  We already know she was a survivor of the Borg, but this new information is fun to learn.* Picard's ability to express emotion is increased.  About time, too. After 7 years of being one step away from being a Borg in terms of personality, it's nice to know that Picard has feelings which can be brought to the surface given enough pressure.  Most people will complain about this aspect in the movie but that's their problem.  This emotional aspect is crucial.* The Klingons.  After 4+ years of getting to know the Klingons more than I ever wanted to know (and DS9 quickly wears out the Klingons as a cool species, too) it's nice to know that we have the Duras sisters who want to reclaim the Empire, without 2 hours worth of pointless recap as to how Duras was eliminated, blah blah.  Their officers definitely were a nice change of pace as well from the stereotypic Klingon warrior.* Kirk gets another movie.  I've always been a big fan of Kirk.  Pity he dies, but at least Star trek finally does an un-Hollywoodish thing Kill off a major character.* Enterprise-D is destroyed.  OUCH!  I loved the new design (interior sets and exterior decals).  I was hoping the ship would get another movie or two. But it had to go since Paramount has a penchant for fiddling with costumes and designs for every movie or TV season...  The attack was done tastefully, from beginning to end and I actually cried at one point.  Although I dare say the production team looked to the series finale of Blake's 7 (1977-1981) for inspiration of the saucer crash...* Data gets emotion at last.  Although in seasons 1 and 2 it's obvious Data is expressing emotion at times I wish to be more human as wishing and envy are emotions, even Data says in Generations in a rather sad tone that by only trying the chip will he gain emotion.  That's Data from season 1. Without emotion but unwittingly can emulate emotion at times.* Season 2/3 feel.  Generations lacks the vomit-like blah we had to endure between seasons 5 and 6.  This movie has a 'feel' of awe to it.  This feel is best expressed in season 3, although previous seasons had a similar feel for their better episodes.* David Carson.  His direction is interesting, with overlapping speech between visual scenes.  His fast-zooms of certain people at certain times (e.g. close-ups of the Duras sisters as their ship is about to be bombarded by Enterprise torpedoes) are noteworthy.  The camerawork is also refreshing.* Denis McCarthy.  Awesome composer and in Generations he excels himself! Why did he not come back for the latter movies?On a different note, for those who prefer the latter two movies, the same production team had plenty of time to make First Contact and Insurrection and both of them are lame - from plot to production there's not much which is truly remarkable about them. "},{"Title":"Not James T. Kirk again!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Weak script with Jean-Luc Picard playing too much second fiddle to Kirk. Pretty sad movie, although Stewart's acting is still awesome, but without any powerful presence in the story at all. Not an inspiring movie at all. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you might think.","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  For some reason, this is regarded as an unworthy Trek movie; lacking in action, and so forth. I find it rather odd that Trek fans tend to glorify the action-fuelled Trek films, and slag the more cerebral, slow-paced entries. What made the two good Trek shows (TOS and TNG) good, was dialogue, character interaction, and surprisingly bold philosophical ideas. This film has all of that. (If you just want action, avoid this one.)Kirk's demise is tastefully and movingly handled. Many people feel he shouldn't be killed off, but then, Kirk always used to point out that he was only human, didn't he?  "},{"Title":"The final voyage of Captain Kirk and the beginning of a new era!","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this film a number of times and I believe it can be seen as one of the best. The film is quite imaginative in seeing the transition stage of the star trek torch being passes from one generation to another. But the most poignant bit of this film is in the action packed last 30 minutes where Captains Picard and his predecessor Kirk meet. The Kirk era is killed at the end of the film to the dismay of the audience. Good in its ideas but the next generation crew lacks the adventure that the original cast had for the last 30 years.   "},{"Title":"The best yet..","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  At first I was sheepish about admitting my love of this movie, but I think its the best yet.  I wasn't a Trek fan until The Next  Generation came along, as I can't stand Shatner, although he performs wonderfully in this film. The story is fantastic, the acting waaaay under-rated, the effects magnficent, and the ending bittersweet. It is true that this film is too technical at times, for the uninitiated, however despite this fact I think it is more accessible for non-Trek viewers, due in large part to the emotional subcontent.  I think there are many things taking place that don't need to, such as Worf's unique holodeck promotional ceremony and Data's mid-life crisis, however these elements add to the richness of the film.  A classic for all. "},{"Title":"A very good movie","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I think this movie is the second greatest trek movie, It has good special effects, acting and story, It might be hard for non-trekkers to get into it but I think it has quite a number of ingredients to keep the viewer busy, First Contact is better but only slightly. "}{"Title":"A pleasing change of pace...","Date":"20 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Much maligned as it is, I found Star Trek Generations to be one of the more human and well-acted of all the movies in the series.  Though it doesn't contain the high impact action and intriguing storylines that ensue in First Contact, it performs successfully as a bridge between the old and the new. The effects are at least as good as they are in the series (STTNG), though not quite as good as First Contact.  Humour is slight, but satisfying.  The characters are mature and believable.  Picard is hardly a sissy in this flick..he just indicates a more compassionate, and passionate, side than seen in First Contact. The loss of the Enterprise-D is wonderfully anti-climactic, and the crash is spectacular.  The orange lighting is far more pleasing than what is seen in the series and in First Contact, although I still prefer the sterile interior of the Enterprise-A. All in all, I have found Generations to be a very satisfying movie...one I enjoy watching the whole way  through, instead of certain sequences as is the case with First Contact. "},{"Title":"Finally, the two great captains meet!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This movie, up to 1994, has to be the best of all the Startrek movies.  The storyline was keen, the acting was supurb, the special effects awesome, and Data made me laugh so hard that I almost spilled my Coke all over the people in front of me! "},{"Title":"excellent movie.","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star trek generations is one of the most underrated star trek films if not one of the most underrated films in general. The mix of the original star trek characters with the next generation cast was amazing. This film starts off with three of the original star trek characters, James t. Kirk, Scotty and Chekov boarding the enterprise b. Just after the ship leaves spacedock, they get a distress call from a couple of spacecrafts caught on an energy ribbon and the enterprise b is the only ship in range. However it is not ready with a medical crew, tractor beam or weapons. They they close to the energy ribbon or the nexus as it is also called and rescue as many people from the spacecraft that they can and then use the deflector to break free from the energy ribbon. After they break free scotty tries to contact kirk but gets no response. He, and to other crew members go to the deck the deck to find him but find a chunk of the ship is missing and they believe he is dead. Then it fast forwards 78 years into the future showing the next generation cast. They are up against a mad man who is obsessed about getting back to the nexus, a place where time has no meaning, by destroying stars in order to change its course so he can get back into it. It is a must see. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies.","Date":"8 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" This movie, in my humble opinion, is the best Star Trek made.Basic story guide On the maiden voyage of the Enterprise-B, guests Scotty, Checkov, and James Kirk all arrive as special guests. While investigating an energy ribbon, James Kirk is killed. Seven decades later, Picard must stop Saron, a man so hell-bent on getting back into the said ribbon which is actually a temporal window into any point in history that the person wants to go. But to get back, Saron must destroy planetary stars in different sectors to alter the gravimetric forces in a sector to move the ribbon where he wants to go. A side effect (and i use the term lightly) of the destruction of these stars is a shock wave which destroys everything in a star system (ships, stations, planets, etc). Picard must stop him or 230 million people will die as a result, not including his own crew.(SPOILER ALERT!) if this movie guide interests you at all, read no further.The destruction of the Enterprise is really dramatic, gripping, and one hell of a ride. I can honestly say that most of the bad reviews for this movie are a direct result of people who are angry that Enterprise is destroyed, or for the fact that the James Kirk finally dies. They don't understand that this is a send off, and that this movie is where EVERYTHING changes.I suspect that some find this movie boring.Some may complain about the holes in the story line.But the movie itself is a lot better than Insurecction.Over all...9/10. it does have its flaws but overall it's worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Neither Original series not Next Gen the film ends up floundering","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The transition from the original series to the Next Generation involves a ripple in the fabric of time and space and how Captain Kirk is needed to make sure the universe remains in one piece.Good but not great film suffers in many ways thanks to its split nature of being both an original cast film and a Next Gen film. the problem is that the split nature doesn't allow the film really to be much of anything. Most glaring is the fact that the much maligned William Shatner is left to his own devices in this film, he's the only one to bridge to the future seems wildly out of place. Its rumored that he was never happy that Leonard Nimoy got to constant reprise Spock on the later series, but its clear from this film that his character just doesn't work out of the context of the original series.Worth a look if you like Trek. Others may want to take a pass. "},{"Title":"A Fusional Sci Fi Flick!","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Here's a Star Trek movie that combines action, drama, comedy, and science fiction rolled into one. Star Trek Generations is a next generation movie of the Star TrekTNG(The Next Generation) saga. Captain Jean-Luc Picard(Patrick Stewart) commands the crew of the USS Enterprise. during the battle against the Klingons, he is beamed down where a madman(Malcolm McDowell) decide to cause some galactic mayhem. The big help Picard gets is from a Enterprise Captain of the past Captain James T. Kirk(William Shatner). Kirk was allegedly killed during a battle years earlier, and the same man is there as well. So both Captains take action. The real kicker is when Lt. Commander Data(Brent Spiner) gets an emotion chip put in him, and begins to experience on being human. Data's actions really speak louder than words, and his long time of knowing what to feel really comes out. This movie is really corny in some spots, only a few of the original crew of the Enterprise were there. No Uhura, no Spock, no Bones(DeForest Kelly, he was retired from acting at the time) only the daughter of Sulu appeared. This one focused on the Next Generation crew. 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"comment","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I enjoyed Star Trek Generations , unlike some Trekkies didn't ) Malcolm Mcdowell was great as Dr, Soran , but I had envision Captain Kirk going out the way Captain Jack Sparrow did in Pirates of the Caribbean  Dead Man's Chest . But it was still a good death , too bad William Shatner won't be in the next Star Trek movie .The emotion chip in Data was good too , two of the best and my favorite characters are gone now ( Captain Kirk and DATA , Please Brent Spiner made Data a unique and different character and a special character , no other actor could even come close to being Data ; if you do make Data over , so to speak ; think about Jim Carrey as Data , he would come pretty close and Liv Tyler would be a good Deanna Troi but as far as I'm concerned only Battlestar Galactica has done a reimagining well , hope the new Star Trek is good at least , they only made two mistakes in the whole series , Star Trek 5 and Star Trek  Insurrection . The best Star Trek movie to date is still Wrath of Khan , Rkallao@aol.com "},{"Title":"Half and Half","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I just watched it again, for the first time in years. I think the first half is actually very good. It's probably the 3rd or 4th best Star Trek film...until the midpoint. The actual 'plot' involving Soran screams 'Hollywood' the bad guy has been planning to do X, and he just got the final piece for his weopon. Now, we have to stop him or the universe will die.The early scenes with Picard and Data are excellent. They each unfold in a very precise way, building on each previous scene as they go. Special praise must be given to the writers for delaying the revelation of the death of Picards brother and nephew. He learns of the news in his first scene in the film, and then several more follow where his interactions with the crew become more strained. Finally, he tells Troi of what has happened, and Stewart's acting skills deliver the scene will full emotional force.Data's scenes are hilarious, and while at first I thought this sub-plot was disconnected from the rest of the film, I now see it as running parallel to the main plot. Picard must let go of his attachment to his idealized future (with a heir to his family name), and Data must let go of his attachment to his pre-emotion chip 'good old days' when he didn't have the burden of humanity to contend with.Of course, all of this is shoved aside for about 40 minutes of silliness, involving Captain Kirk being recruited to help Picard PUNCH Soran only MINUTES before he can launch his missile (rather than hours, or days! Picard can go anywhere, anytime according to Guinan). The whole 'Nexus' sequence is effective, but pales next to similar sequences done throughout the Next Generation run (as well as Star Trek V The Final Frontier). Further, for the last 2/5 of the film, the remaining Next Generation crew are completely absent! Wouldn't the original idea of having Kirk join the Enterprise-D crew have been far more exciting, heroic, and not so low-key? The sequences on the planet with Soran and Picard look as if they're filmed on the same rocky formation used in the STTOS episode 'Arena', as well as Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey (and maybe they are, knowing the corners that are sometimes cut with this franchise). A space battle involving all the characters would have been far more satisfying...Kirk could've gone down with the back section, and the crashing of the saucer section could've been saved for the finale.To recap Kirk is recruited to PUNCH Soran. That's it. There is nothing else unique about what he adds to the mix. Not his cunning, not his notorious 'breaking the rules' (see Star Trek II), nothing!A very unsatisfying end for Captain Kirk, and a very awkward beginning for the film series by the Next Gen crew. Unfortunately, the quality of their movie outings would get far worse very soon.6/10 "},{"Title":"My thoughts on this Star Trek Movie","Date":"6 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Overall, Star Trek Generations was a good movie. The action was good, it had a plausible plot, and the acting was good. One aspect that I did not care for was Data's emotion chip. In the series, it was great that he could never have emotion, and he desired to be so human, but knew that he could never be. The emotion chip was brought on the series, but circumstances always delayed Data's opportunity to use it. When he finally does, it stinks. He provides some comedic relief in the film, but really, the whole emotion chip story should not have even been brought into it. Another problem of course is that the Enterprise D was destroyed. Seven years of falling in love with that ship and it is destroyed. I think that was a big mistake by the writers. The Enterprise-D was awesome, and destroying it was just not good for the whole Next-Gen series of movies anyways. I mean the Enterprise E that is brought into the next 3 movies, we hardly get to know. As an audience, we had 7 years to get acquainted with the intricacies of that ship, and they blew it up. Being a great fan of the franchise, I really hated that. Of course I have to mention the death of Captain Kirk. I think no one could be more upset than I was. I was 10 years old, sitting in the theater, and watched him die. I cried for days knowing that my hero was dead. He was given very little time on the screen and really made it an over glorified death. I think they should have left him and the entire original cast alone after the 6th movie. It was fine to see them all retire and ride off to the stars, that was a perfect ending for their 25 years of Star Trek. Generations would have been fine without the Kirk element. We all knew that the movie was going to be Next-Gen, and Next Generation had a huge fan base at the time, the series had been nominated for best drama in its seventh season, which was the same year this movie came out. I think everyone knew that The Next Generation was in its prime and didn't need the Original Cast to help them out or even pass the torch, it was already done. The Next Generation had its own fan base, both from the original series and just brand new. However, this movie was a good movie, just that it could have been much better without the presence of original series characters, and the Enterprise D did not have to be destroyed. "},{"Title":"The best thing since indoor plumbing","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I think what was great about Star Trek Generations was the way it had me laughing one minute and crying the next! That probably sounds weird, but if you haven't seen Picard have an emotional breakdown before, it's kind of unsettling. I think the way good and bad events seemed to go hand in hand sort of emphasized the whole theme of time waits for no one. Also, it was great to see the cast of the original Enterprise back in action, even if it's just Kirk, Chekov, and Scotty.In this movie, a lot of characters have revelations; Picard realizes (in a stroke of Jean-Luc brilliance) that he doesn't want what he thought he wanted his entire life, Captain Kirk faces once and for all what he's famous for escaping, and Data gets closer to humanity than he's ever been. Even though it's no surprise to see Data with emotions--having seen that in tons of episodes of TNG before--it's still entertaining.The ending was really sad for all of us Kirk fans, or for anyone who didn't want the Enterprise to get totaled. It was quite the ending, though! Guinan's innate wisdom saves the day again. "}{"Title":"ever inward","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" as a ST movie, I give Generations a 6. Star Trek fans come in 2 types, the ones who like wearing the costumes, and the ones who enjoy the exploration of the human condition thru science fiction. Generations, at it's heart, is a Star Trek movie. Beyond that, however, it is a story about addiction, and how we let ourselves become trapped in our pasts. This subject was explored by ST a bit better in the DS9 pilot episode ('the emissary'), but here it seems the franchise is actually questioning itself. Kirk it seems, must die because brute strength solutions are a thing of the past. So, the irony of going back to the past to punch Soren's lights out are accidentally humorous. Ultimately the message here is If Picard is to learn anything, it's how to rumble. On a musical note, this was one of the better scores for a ST film, the theme for 'the nexus' was hauntingly beautiful. "},{"Title":"The crossover is less than great, even less than good most of the time.","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star Trek is one of those franchises, like with the motion picture releases from Saturday Night Live, that isn't very consistent and relies on certain groups of fans for their pull. Whether or not you prefer the old Star Trek to The Next Generation or perhaps vice-versa may have an impact on accepting the 'transitional' film in the series. Although there is something about the original crew of the Enterprise, and the filmmakers that were behind their six films, that often inspired some awe for the genre, I'm not entirely out of the Next Generation loop. The only problem is, in the case of Star Trek Generations, the content doesn't really fit the aspirations.For those non-Trekkies that don't know how the torch got passed, here's the sum-up Kirk and a few of the old regulars are in the film for the better part of the first and third acts, and are otherwise over-shadowed by the Enterprise-D. Picard (Patrick Stewart, given a couple of effective scenes amid the plot schematics) and the crew are up against Soren (Malcolm McDowell), who wants to destroy stars in order to gain energy for 'the nexus'. In order to fight this mad scientist, Picard has to resurrect someone who's been dead for seventy-eight years. You guessed it, it's Kirk, at first reluctant to be enlisted for help. Along with this, a sub-plot follows Data (Brent Spiner) with an 'emotion chip' in his brain.On the technical side of things, it can be said that David Carson (mostly credited for TV shows and movies) and his crew do a competent job. The special effects are pretty standard if you've seen the Next Generation TV show, with one neat little feature being the Stellar Cartography bit. As well, the cinematographer John A. Alonzo brings some interesting hand-held moments and framing. The other better than expected element is McDowell as Soren, who is given some screen time to develop his character past the kind he might play on the TV show(s). But besides that, unless you're a die-hard Trek fan the film doesn't deliver up to even minimal expectations.Shatner, a pro at just looking the part of James T. Kirk, doesn't have the kinds of lines a fan or just admirer might want in his last outing. The Data sub-plot is under-cooked and poorly acted (maybe some will laugh). And while the on-set locations are filmed with an eye for detail, there isn't a whole lot of interest put into the story. Perhaps this is more to put on the blame of the screenwriters. In the end, 'Generations' is suitable to view if very interested in learning the chronology of the films. Overall, it's lackluster in the ways that count for a film as opposed to TV, as though it's just a TV-movie with guest stars such as McDowell and Whoppi Goldberg. C  "},{"Title":"Hooray! Yay! Woo-hoo!","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I can't exactly tell you why I chose those words for my summary, but if you've read my comments on anything to do with TOS, you'll have an idea of what I'm cheering about. This is the first TNG movie, and the last time we see the Enterprise D (I hope that isn't a spoiler). There's an El-Aurian who has gone into the Nexus and been pulled out thanks to Kirk (he's a pain for everybody, isn't he?), and now he wants back in. And nothing, not even a star will get in his way. If anything does, he destroys it. Literally. It's up to an emotional Picard whose just found out he's the last of his family to stop him.The storyline is very good, especially because Data's dream of having emotions is finally realized, albiet with some, shall we say, mishaps?Very funny in several parts, saying good-bye to some not-too-much-loved characters, and a big bang, this is extremely good. check it out. Go on, there's nothing standing in your way, is there? "},{"Title":"A Trek lover's dream?","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The prospect of seeing Kirk and Picard together salivated the mouths of sci-fi fans 9 years ago. Unfortunately the film was a relative disappointment for Paramount. Malcolm MacDowell, while a great actor, was given a stock villain to play. He does remarkably well considering the uninspired character given to him. Another annoying facet of this film is Whoopi Goldberg's Guinan. She is not exactly the most photogenic actress and the new age revelations she keeps spouting wore on my tolerance as well. Yet another problem I had with this film was the absence of too many of the old crew. To compensate Kirk and Picard were given disproportionately more screen time. The film then became not a crew of explorers encountering the unknown but more of a Batman and Robin (I am in no way knocking these two characters; I just think Star Trek has an altogether different dynamic) teaming up to stop Two-Face adventure. Unrealized potential, 6/10. "},{"Title":"The first film to feature the crew of the Next Generation!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This is the first film to feature the crew of the newer Next Generation series.It is a good film and it also features some of the original crew aswell.It has good effects,acting,and music. Its a welcomed addition though some Star Trek fans may find it sad and disappointing. "},{"Title":"More of a springboard above all else","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Here is a quick question Why did  they decided to make this chapter  as odd as they did? Sometimes, a  transition is not always the smoothest  thing, which makes this movie the  antithesis of such allegations.  Sometimes sloppy, sometimes poorly  put together, this movie was a solid  effort on a rather difficult subject. I can  only say this film was gateway of what  was to come. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  The movie had a decent idea.. Merge both generations of the Star Trek Universe for one to pass the torch to the other. However, after watching this, you are going to wish they stopped after The Undiscovered Country.You get to see part of the original cast (Kirk, Scotty and Chekov) for about 10 or so minutes at the beginning of the movie. The majority of the movie is set in the Next Gen time period, which is fine. There are some decent scenes here, nothing extraordinary, but good.We find Malcom Macdowell as the 'evil' doctor Soran who is trying to get into the Nexus, a place in the universe where time does not exist. To do this, however, he is going to destroy a star in a solar system we know nothing about. A backstory here might have been nice to help build tension, possible inhabitants, etc. None of that. So pretty much, who cares whether or not he does this.This movie almost seems as though that was the whole point, to kill the hero that has been the figure head of the Star Trek Universe since its creation. There was no climax in the movie, nothing.Do yourself a favor, save your time, money and strength. Skip over this one, you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Kirk inadvertantly drops the baton down a pit of fire","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Oh, the wonders of rushed production! Most Star Trek fans would have waited another year for this movie to come out if they knew that the script was going to be better.  That's exactly what could have happened if Piller and Berman were not the only two people with an opinion that matters.  Lenord Nimoy and other original cast members would have appeared in this movie if the changes to the scipt that Nimoy wanted could have been made, but Berman said, It's too late for that.  The special effects company etc. have already been booked.  We don't have time!  Those words were not actually a direct quote, but you get the point.So instead of waiting another year or however long it would have taken to finalize the tweaks to the script and produce a better movie, Berman decided to release this pile of pig fat, generally speaking since some redeemable qualites to the movie exist.Let's start with the cons.  1.) Shatner's attempts to play a realistic person--not a stereotype of himself--are now totally dead. 2.) Why was the Enterprise-D destroyed? So that its bridge could be replaced by a crappy re-fit version of the battle bridge, ofcourse!  The writers claimed that the bridge needed to be altered to one where people were in closer quarters because that's more dramatic on the big screen.  However, if they had taken a poll, they would have found an overwhelming opposition to the destruction of the ship.  3.) The campy fighting scene at the end was repulsive. 4.) The writers again succeeded in making a main character look like an idiot for one scene; this time Picard was the victim.  When he wants to leave the nexus and Guinan tells him that he can go anywhere, he says something similar to, Alright.  I know exactly where I want to go--to the moment before Soran activates the launchpad.  Yes, it would make more sense to go back to an event much earlier than that when stopping Soran would be easier, but then there wouldn't be a melo-dramatic fight scene at the end of the film, and I wouldn't meet Kirk.  5. Why give Data an emotion chip? To deprive him of what makes his character unique, clearly.  6.) One of the most noted lines(it's unfortunate that this line is noted) was lifted from the TNG episode Relics.  Scotty says, I don't need to be lectured by youLaforge.  I was out saving the universe while your grandfather was in diapers.  The writers had so much confidence in their abilities to come up with original lines for Kirk that they went and borrowed that semi-unamusing line.The pros are predictably not as lenghty. Some of Soran's lines such as the time stalker one were memorable.  Stewart's acting was actually better than in First Contacthe did not come across as melo-dramatic at all.  His mourning over his family member's death and his impatience and irritation with Soran at the beginning were superb scenes.  Also, the campy lines part of the fighting scene at the end can be justified by saying that Picard and Kirk really had no pressure to succeed, so they were allowed to make dumb jokes.  Why did they have no pressure?  Becuase they knew that if they failed to stop Soran, then the worst thing that could happen was that they would get sucked into the nexus again.  Then they could leave again and attempt to stymie Soran again.  They really had an infinite number of times to dispose of this weakling villian.The main problem with this movie is that it slowly becomes worse.  Turn it off after the Enterprise is destroyed in that horribly edited crashing scene. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good movie. I really liked how that whole thing where Picard can go back in time and such. I also loved how Shatner came back as Captain Kirk, but retired. It was great how Picard saw his family on Christmas, and how James T. Kirk saw his dog, who was dead. I really enjoyed this movie. I give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"A Sci-fi Buffet","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Is time our enemy or a companion? That conflict is at the core of Star Trek Generations. The first twist on this idea is when we see Captain Kirk and two of the original Enterprise crew. There is a sense of being cast aside, that time has been unfair to them. Captain Picard also feels the sting of time's passing. With the death of his nephew, he painfully realizes that he is the last of his family and that he does not have time to have children. A character named Soran believes that time is something to be subdued, conquered. And Generations provides a way to do it in a place called the Nexus. Soran will kill millions to get his way, to find this Nexus.This all plays out cleverly, intertwined with humor and subplots such as Commander Data, an android, who desires to be more human, two Klingons who want to get even with Star Fleet and an exciting crash landing by the Enterprise. The special effects involving exploding stars are quite beautiful. Patrick Stewart does a nice job as Picard. I especially liked the range of emotions and problems that his character experiences. It is not the typical macho role. There is also good support from Brent Spiner, Malcolm McDowell and Whoopie Goldberg. The only big drawback is William Shatner. He has some nice quiet moments but somehow he still thinks he is an action star. Considering his weight and age such heroics haven't made sense for him since Star Trek 3, in 1984. Time has taken its toll.                    Star Trek Generations is enjoyable because of its blend of heavy ideas (what is the purpose of life anyway?) woven together with humor and action. "}{"Title":"Not the best","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Not the best movie featuring the TNG cast, but worthwhile. It's nice to see Shatner playing Kirk again. The only downfall is the bad lighting of the Enterprise. Patrick Stewert, shines as Picard, who is dealing with the death of his brother and nephew, and his slow decisions are the result of this tragedy. I recommend it to Star Trek fans, but don't watch it expecting a perfect movie. It gives what it set out to do, to tell the story of the Nexus. If you look at it in that light, the movie shines.  "},{"Title":"The big Star Trek event movie","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" And what an event it was. The first pairing of (parts of) the original crew with the Next Generation characters was hyped beyond belief in 1994 and most fans were pretty excited in advance. However, this excitement faded somewhat when the film came out, with many people insisting that the plot was stupid, too many story elements were lifted from episodes of the series, and that all in all this felt too much like a made-for-TV movie.Well yes, the plot is stupid, but then again this movie is all about the collaboration of Kirk and Picard and emotionally charged themes such as the toll of aging and the importance of taking responsibility for one's life. The plot here is just a convenient device to string all these things together and pack them into a movie that makes a little bit of sense, though perhaps no more than a typical Jerry Bruckheimer production.So while the writing attempts to cram almost everything that can ever possibly be in a Star Trek movie into the screenplay and was perhaps not such a good starting point to begin with, everyone involved did a wonderful job of turning this somewhat messy script into a movie that, while still being somewhat uneven, is all-around entertaining and never misses a beat (save for some of the Nexus sequences, where the gratuitous horseback riding was apparently mostly inserted to stroke Shatner's ego and not because it benefited the movie in any way).A beautiful cinematography with lots of picturesque darkness and deeply saturated colors needs to be counted among the movie's virtues, but also a rousing score by Dennis McCarthy, and finally top-notch acting, especially by Stewart who portrays a wide range of emotions between regret and boundless joy with absolute believability, similar to his performance in such highly regarded episodes of the series such as The Inner Light. The movie also has a nicely quirky sense of humor but at the same time knows to integrate its funny moments seamlessly with the action sequences, a skill which has unfortunately atrophied somewhat in the later Next Generation installments.While this film may have its weaknesses, it is in my view saved by its unending interest in the emotional lives of its characters, its attention to detail (watch the almost operatic way in which the actors and the camera move sometimes) and the sheer energy and conviction that the filmmakers obviously had to make this one the most engaging Trek of all. While they did not entirely succeed, I think one cannot fault them for trying. "},{"Title":"Good but not great Star Trek adventure","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star Trek Generations marked the big screen debut of the cast from Star Trek The Next Generation. And the result is a good but not great adventure; their weakest so far. It's not real bad, but this film is overlong and runs a little slow at times. I just like their next two films in the series (First Contact and Insurrection) better. However I did find much to like about Generations. The film begins with the christening of a new Enterprise ship. Old timers Kirk (William Shatner), Scotty (James Doohan), and Chekov (Walter Koenig) are the guests of honor at the event. The ship soon heads out into space and shortly thereafter into trouble. A solar ribbon called the Nexus nearly destroys the ship but the damage it does causes one major casualty. The film then zips ahead 78 years later to the current crew of the Starship Enterprise headed by Capt. Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart). Their introduced in a most awkward way (on a boat that looks like something from the past but has futuristic elements). Then they get up into their real ship (the U.S.S. Enterprise, of course), and discover that the same ribbon that appears at the beginning of the film (the Nexus) is about to pass by again. The villainous Dr. Soran (Malcolm McDowell), who was rescued from that earlier disaster, has a plan to destroy a star and get into the Nexus which is like being inside joy. This plot is kind of silly and it's made sillier by McDowell's performance. This is not one of the best villains in the series. But the special effects are very good, the music score is excellent, and there are many entertaining moments throughout. Stewart is good as Picard and would be even better in First Contact and Insurrection. Jonathan Frakes (Riker), Brent Spiner (Data), LeVar Burton (LaForge), Michael Dorn (Worf), Gates McFadden (Crusher), and Marina Sirtis (Troi) all do an acceptable job in their first big screen outing (and, like Stewart, would get better in the next two films). Star Trek Generations is a sci-fi/adventure that runs hot and cold but there's enough good things in it for me to recommend the film. A mild thumbs up.*** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Ambitious and High-Concept Sci-Fi (for Grown-Ups only)","Date":"4 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I can certainly see WHY some don't like Generations or don't 'get' it Generations has some (apparent) plot holes and some things aren't spelled-out or explained very well (So what? Doesn't mystery intrinsically come with the territory of space adventure?); plus the story is just plain convoluted.Regardless, I feel Generations is ambitious, high-concept sci-fi of the highest order; it leaves the viewer with many interesting questions to ponder long afterwards. Although the Nexus has been criticized as a mere gimmick to get Kirk and Picard together, I find the concept utterly fascinating No matter how much we want it, an illusory paradise is just that -- an illusion. As far as I'm concerned, the concept of the Nexus and its implementation into the storyline is nothing short of brilliant. Who created the Nexus? Why, who else but the Talosians, the 'antagonists' of Trek's very first episode, The Cage! Think about it.Besides this, there are an incredible number of highlights The usual Trek humor, Data's amusing experiences with the emotion chip, Malcolm McDowell's outstanding performance as the mad Soran, Soran's believable obsession and justifications, B'Etor & Lursa and their wild bunch Klingons, the startling obliteration of them and their vessel, the thrilling crash-landing of the Enterprise-D, the meeting of Kirk and Picard in the Nexus, the final showdown with Soran and Kirk's death (disregarding the lame Oh my). Needless to say, Generations does far more than offer mere juvenile space battles.BIGGEST PLOT HOLE (OR MAYBE NOT) Picard's purpose in leaving the Nexus is to stop Soran from annihilating the Enerprise-D crew and the entire Veridian solar system, including the 230 million people that live on Veridian IV. Since Picard can leave the Nexus and go anywhere any time, as Guinan pointed out earlier, why go to Veridian III about A MINUTE before Soran launches his rocket? Why not go back to when Soran was a guest on the Enterprise-D and apprehend him then and there? Writer Ronald D. Moore defended Picard's decision on the grounds that he didn't want to risk the dangerous and unexpected consequences that can occur when tampering with the timeline; hence, his journey back in time from the Nexus is only a matter of a minute or so. Hmmm, it's a good explanation and I accept it.SECOND BIGGEST PLOT HOLE If Soran's rocket-probe is powerful enough to effect a quantum implosion of the Veridian Star, would it not cause quite a bit more damage on Veridian III when it explodes? Surely both Picard (who merely hides behind a rock outcropping) and Kirk would have been utterly obliterated along with the entire immediate surroundings of the planet? EXPLANATION Some have criticized the fact that Guinan is simultaneously present in the real world and in the Nexus. How could this be? It's simple It is repeatedly established that the reality experienced in the Nexus is not real; one experiences what they desire in the Nexus, not what is real. For instance, Picard has no children in the real world, but because he DESIRED to have them he was able to experience them in the Nexus. Hence, the 'Guinan' portrayed in the Nexus may walk, talk and act precisely like Guinan, but she's not real. She's only there because Picard desires her to be there for the purpose of explaining the nature of the Nexus. Capeesh? COMMENTARY ON THE NEXUS Although the Nexus should simply be taken at face value as a strange space phenomenon, one can also regard it as an analogy. At first glance one might get the impression that the Nexus is a type of heaven, but this can't be so since it is repeatedly emphasized in the film that the people and events experienced in the Nexus are NOT real. 'Heaven,' a term theologians and ministers traditionally use to refer to the eternal abode of the redeemed (technically referred to as the new heavens and new earth in the bible ~ 2 Peter 313), is -- by contrast -- always depicted as real in the bible, not an illusory paradise. If the Nexus is not analogous of heaven, what could it be a type of? The Nexus corresponds to any addiction a person tastes and embraces to escape reality (e.g. drugs, alcohol, computer games, TV, porn, fishing, shopping, golf, etc.) Some, like Soran, are unable to flee its clutches and waste their lives and talents OBSESSED by it. Others, like Picard and Kirk, are able to see the truth and escape; they therefore make a difference in real life.BOTTOM LINE This passing-of-the-torch installment requires an attention span and an appreciation for high-concept sci-fi; it will bore to tears those for whom Star Trek only means neato spacecrafts and superficial space dogfights (don't get me wrong, they each have their place in Star Trek). Generations has the courage to make bold changes -- killing off a major iconic character, and fairly prominent support characters as well, not to mention destroying the Enterprise-D. In short, Generations is science-fiction for grown-ups and youth with advanced cerebral development. All others should stick with Star Wars and Zathura (giggle).GRADE A "},{"Title":"Star Trek Generations","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" With the original cast moving on to other things, and in some cases sadly passing away, this was the first of four films (who knows if they'll be more) to introduce the cast of The Next Generation, and it's not a bad one. The film opens with original and retired Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner), with old favourites Capt. Montgomery Scotty Scott (James Doohan) and Commander Pavel Chekov (Walter Koenig), overlooking the new Enterprise before it is handed over, and disaster leads the Captain to his death. Seventy-eight years later, we see the new Captain, Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) and his crew given a mission to help out members of an attacked satellite, including Dr. Tolian Soran (A Clockwork Orange's Malcolm McDowell). Soon enough Dr. Soran shows his true colours when he starts putting his plan into action, with the help of some Klingons, other survivor Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg) knows that the renegade scientist wants to use his technology to return to what is know as the Nexus. To do this he needs to destroy a star system, so he has prepared a missile to do just that, and his plan is successful, and he takes Picard with him. In the Nexus, time is not a limit, whatever you have wanted and any memories that are your most treasured will be what you experience, in Picard's case, it's having a family with a wife and four children at Christmas time. He knows though that it is not real, and with the help of another man living in the Nexus, Captain Kirk, they make their way out to the moment before the missile is fired. In the end, the villain is defeated, the world returns to normal, and sadly Kirk dies once again in the battle, but Picard buries the great man. Also in the story, we see android Lt. Commander Data (Independence Day's Brent Spiner) experimenting with learning human emotions by placing a new advanced silicon chip in his head. Also starring Jonathan Frakes as Commander William T. Riker, LeVar Burton as Lt. Commander Geordi La Forge, Michael Dorn as Lt. Commander Worf, Gates McFadden as Doctor Beverly Crusher and Marina Sirtis as Counselor Deanna Troi. Stewart proves to be just as admirable as Shatner was, Spiner is both funny and moving with his newfound emotions, and I will say that McDowell could be a bit nastier, but he does okay, with some good moments of actions, special effects, and a clever idea bringing the two Captains together, a good science-fiction adventure. Very good! "},{"Title":"Generation Pap","Date":"21 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" The Death of Kirk! You know these filmmakers are going to hell for this, right?STAR TREK GENERATIONS was meant to showcase the TREK TV spin off, THE NEXT GENERATION; instead, the singular event on all our minds is how Kirk is going to eat it. The legacy itself defeats the movie. But if it were not for the legacy, Kirk's downfall would be even less of an anticlimax than it already is. Captain James T. Kirk is but a minor tangential character in this mix of annoying and innocuous characters. Meanwhile, there's a bad movie going on...Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) of the 24th Century and Admiral James T. Kirk (William Shatner) of the 23rd Century join forces to battle a scientist named Soren (Malcolm McDowell), who is destroying stars and planets to catch an energy ribbon called The Nexus, buzzing through the universe and destroying everything in its path, while transporting the people it kills to their personal fantasy realms - you know, like the Catholic version of Heaven. Movie opens with Chekov (Walter Koenig), Scotty (James Doohan) and Kirk attending the maiden launch of Enterprise-B. Crowded by paparazzi on the bridge, in a strange mix of art-imitating-life, they meet unseasoned Captain Harriman (Alan Ruck - Cameron from FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF; hope he doesn't do to the Enterprise what he did to his dad's Ferrari...).Almost immediately, Enterprise-B must rescue two ships caught in splashy special effects - The Nexus. After beaming refugees aboard, Harriman has no idea how to outrun the Nexus (which is why he left all the planning to Ferris) and abdicates command to Kirk, who plants his ever-widening girth in the Captain's seat with a dopey grin on his face, before he begrudgingly gives it back to Harriman and reverts to his Action Hero idiom to save the day. Exactly like Spock's death in STAR TREK II, Kirk is killed by a McGuffin he runs downstairs to Do Something Jargony To Some Jargony Thingy - and is blown into space...78 Years Later...We meet the crew of THE NEXT GENERATION (TNG) in a tiresome sailing ship sequence that only TNG fans' mothers could love. Then Captain Picard leads Riker (smug Jonathan Frakes), Data (silvery Brent Spiner), Geordi (visored LeVar Burton), Crusher (insipid Gates McFadden) and other passengers, on a rescue mission to a dead space station, where they pick up a scientist named Soren, who immediately causes trouble with his devious Nexus plans and British accent. Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg) appears with a funny hat any time Picard needs information about the Nexus. She explains that if you fall into it, you're not going to care about anything and not going to want to come back. But it's the old SUPERMAN II argument You'll lose your powers forever - until he wants them back, at which point, he goes and gets them. So too, when Picard finds himself in the Nexus as the father of five kids from a Charles Dickens novel, he retains all his faculties and decides to leave.Guinan actually appears in the Nexus with Picard, driving the movie further into B-Movie dipping sauce with each idiotic line, I am onboard the Enterprise, but I'm also here... Think of me as an echo of the person you know. Then she tells Picard he can simply leave... to any point in time he chooses! So when ships are caught in the Nexus and destroyed, we know for a fact they ARE going to be all right - so what's all the fuss? It isn't Real, says Kirk later. But what IS real after Death? Would a robe and wings do it for you?Meanwhile, unimportant subplots seem to be happening in another movie Data (TNG's emotionless Vulcan analog) implants an emotion chip and becomes almost as annoying as Jar Jar Binks; ugly Klingon bitches with large ta-tas ally with Soren, kidnap Geordi and blow up Picard's Enterprise, which crash-lands with all the NEXT GEN overactors. 78 years later, and still not a seatbelt in sight.The crashed Enterprise is sucked into the Nexus, portrayed as a horrible, explosive death - but Funny Hat Exposition Lady just said it was Paradise... If you have the power to go anywhere in time, Jean-Luc, go back to when you first picked up Soren - and don't. Why go back to the moment of desperation as seconds tick away, trying to stop Soren firing a missile into the heart of a star? If you can pick up Kirk to help you, why not pick up your whole crew? Picard leaves his Dickens Thanksgiving and meets the Priceline Negotiator in the Nexus, convincing him to help stop Soren; whereupon Kirk and Picard stop Soren through the technological method of fisticuffs. Even Leonard Nimoy would call Kirk's death gratuitous. An unnecessary marketing ploy, which ruined an otherwise mediocre movie. Innocuous demise aside, let me get this straight if Kirk had NOT died, would he have lived out the rest of his life in the 24th century alongside THE NEXT GENERATION? In his book, Star Trek Movie Memories, Shatner tells of the tear-jerking moment he felt his torch was being passed when replying to Picard asking for his help, Who am I to argue with the Captain of the Enterprise? STAR TREK VI THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY was undoubtedly the best of the Original Cast Treks, and if we could boldly go and call STAR TREK GENERATIONS an Original Cast Trek (for its inclusion of merely three Original Cast), then it is surely the worst. Nonetheless, Kirk's dying words sum up the odysseys of STAR TREK Compleat It was fun.And who are we to argue with the Captain of the Enterprise?--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"TNG the final episode","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Literally... this was the final episode to the series. However, execs at Paramount felt it too long and too effects laden to make for television.The opening 20 minutes could have been so much better, maybe if they left the deleted scenes intact. The TNG part of it made for a cool two part episode, but then came the ending.With a scene deemed too graphic a death by test audiences, Shatner was dropped off a bridge and pronounced dead. Yeah, guys saves the Universe a few times over... meets big wussy death.So many places to have gone, so few actual writing ideas at Paramount. As the series finale, it works, as a step in the film series... eh. "},{"Title":"Nothing to write home about","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" I'm a huge Star Trek fan. Let me just get that out the way. And I've seen every episode of Star Trek The Next Generation. But I'm not one of these obsessive Star Trek nerds who consider the series equal to the word of the Lord. No it has its flaws. And its had its share of bad episodes, just like any TV series.When TNG kicked off in 1987, it was a series that seemed a little unsure of itself. It wasn't quite hitting its stride. Some of the early episodes are downright awful. Even embarrassing when watched in the company of others. The first two seasons, roughly made up of about 45 episodes altogether has only a handful of really good stories. The rest are either mediocre or completely dire.But when Star Trek The Next Generation moved into its third season (which is arguably the best of the series' seven year run), something quite remarkable happened. The series started to get good. One good thing you can say about the dry run of Seasons 1&2 was that it allowed the writers to identify the flaws plaguing the series. Such as killing off one of the main characters (in the first season no less!) and shifting another character into the same role who was more suited to it.It also dispensed with messagey stories and began to concentrate on harder science-fiction. The cast were clearly much more comfortable in their roles, they began to work as a team, and by the end of Season 3, TNG had really come into its own. This was a series that had come out of its rut and was now firing on all cylinders. TNG had found its voice, and never lost it.Barely had TNG ended in 1994 than the crew's first feature film was mandated. Star Trek Generations is quite frankly a bit pointless. The problem I have with it is the fact that it gives the impression the original crew are passing the torch onto the Next Generation crew, to continue to boldly go where no one has gone before. Even though TNG has come to an end. Its a sentiment that has come far too late.And besides, Star Trek Generations is a pretty stodgy story at best. The idea of the Nexus, a virtual wonderland that can give you your heart's desire is hardly thrilling. Not when you compare it to some of TNG's barnstorming two-parters, like The Best of Both Worlds, an epic story of Captain Picard's assimilation by the Borg. That was thrilling! Or the dizzying narrative structure of All Good Things, a fantastical journey between past, present and future. That's the type of story Generations wants to be but isn't.Its a shame that the TNG cast are placed in such an underwhelming story. Only a few of them get moments to shine. Patrick Stewart slides back into Captain Picard's chair with total ease. But the supporting cast are given criminally little to do. Out of them all, Brent Spiner's Data is given the biggest story arc.Fitted with an emotion chip, he gets to embody quite a range of feelings. Brent Spiner is a marvellous actor. Whenever he got to play multiple roles in TNG they were always a highlight. His performances in episodes like Masks and Brothers were nothing short of a tour-de-force. He's just as good as Peter Sellers or Alec Guinness. But I was a little disappointed that Data's emotional growth is reduced to hackneyed mush. The scene where he cracks inane jokes is cringeworthy. Only to be topped by an even sillier scene when he plays his control console like a musical instrument. An actor of Spiner's talents deserved better.In regards to the villain of the piece, Malcolm McDowell fits the bill quite nicely as Soran, a madman willing to commit genocide to enter the Nexus. Its a fairly basic part, but McDowell chews on the scenery with glee, and some of his lines of dialogue are even hauntingThey say time is the fire in which we burn!Of course the one thing everyone wanted to see in Star Trek Generations was to see if the rumours were true. If Captain Kirk was going to die in this film. And the answer is...yes!No one could ever accuse William Shatner of being a fantastic actor. Galaxy Quest did an exemplary job deconstructing Shatner's failings and egotism. And as he's moved into middle age, he's played into the role people expect of him. A gloryhound who hogs the spotlight all for himself. And its something he does with entertaining regard. And that's what he does here.He's only in the film for about half an hour, but its quite a memorable 30 minutes. He looks like he's having a whale of a time (maybe because he finally gets to kill off the role that type-casted him), and although his death scene is not all that moving, it is affecting in an understated way.Generations also looks a bit shabby on the big screen. It stays too closely to its TV origins. Its only in a few scenes that it opens up onto the big screen with pride. The destruction and crash-landing of the Enterprise-D is pretty astonishing, and so is the explosion of Veridian III. But elsewhere, its a film that's too stagebound for the big screen.Director David Carson directed some fine TNG episodes, in particular Yesterday's Enterprise and The Next Phase, but he looks quite lost on an A-list budget. Even Kirk and Soran's fistfight is clumsy. Its shot by somebody who clearly doesn't know anything about choreographing fight scenes.Star Trek Generations is a lacklustre TNG maiden voyage. It has its moments here and there but it doesn't stay in the memory for long. You'd be a lot better off checking out the TNG two-parters I mentioned. Now they're entertainment! "},{"Title":"Vintage Prestone","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  OK, I will admit that I liked this installment of the Never Ending Story. The story plays nicely with the different personal styles of the Enterprise commanders, although Captain Kirk is emotionally much toned down from his television persona. And I will admit to being a big fan of the original television series and not so much of the variants which followed. I really only wanted to state one quibble (ok, two quibbles) with the effects. Once again, sound is made to travel in a vacuum. But this film has put me off drinking. I was horrified, watching as the opening titles rolled, as a vintage bottle of Dom Perignon champaigne slowly revealed itself, flipping end over end before a star-filled backdrop only to realize that the bottle was actually filled with vintage antifreeze as the bottle smashes into the hull of the Enterprise and liquid splatters across the prow of the mighty ship. I guess the wine business won't be what it is today.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Space Romp - Yet Inglorious Ending for Kirk","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Star Trek  Generations is the transition film from the old Star Trek films with Shatner, Nimoy, and Kelley to the Next Generation Star Trek crew led by Patrick Stewart.  It is a Next Generation film all the way.  I must confess that my heart lies with the old Enterprise and its crew, but this was a decent film with a typical Star Trek type of story.  It is not the most original story as a man tries to find a place where time never changes and all your desires are fulfilled for you.  The way Kirk is interwoven into the story is done fairly nicely, yet I thought Kirk's fate was rather ingloriously executed.  James T. Kirk deserved a bit of a better fate.  Shatner does his typical acting by the seat of his pants to Stewart's Shakespearean style.  Both are credible and enjoyable in the film.  All the Next Generation regulars perform nicely, and in the beginning of the film we are allowed one last glimpse at Scotty and Chekov.  In some ways the film was a sad reminder that the old crew of the SS Enterprise will never sail on a new voyage. "}{"Title":"not entertaining at all","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  Well I couldn't what this movie when I herd about it. I thought it would be neat to see The Next Generation crew get a shot at the big screen. There was all this hype then the movie came out and it was a pain to watch. The story was weak, Picard is sad the hole movie, and Kirk dies. The only up side to this flop is the return of the Duras sisters who where in The Next Generation episodes Redemption Parts 1 & 2, and Firstborn. "},{"Title":"Stupid writing makes a stupid story.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the infamous odd numbered Star Trek films, so it is traditionally not one of the best.  But in this case, it was far worse than most.  The acting, cinematography and direction were fine, but the story is seriously lacking.  I won't give the plot, but suffice it say that the weak story advances and concludes the way it does only by making all the normally intelligent characters inexplicably stupid.  It should be eliminated from the history of Star Trek and completely ignored by intelligent viewers. Skip this one (#7), and go right to the next one in the series, First Contact which is an action packed story and one of Star Trek's finest hours. "},{"Title":"Star Wars Freak comment","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  This is the first one of this series I've seen and I must say it's pretty good. I'd given it a 7 if the story wouldn't have been so lame (nexus crap!!!????). It is pretty entertaining though and sometimes funny, yet, I can see that no boundaries have been broken here, it's basically the same as the TV show, with that, pointy eared Spock. Well, beam me up Scotty!A BIG (6,444) 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Of all the Trek's, this one had the most going for it.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  How could one be so careless?  The teaming up of Picard and Kirk could have been the single most important event in Trekker history!  The audience members were expecting a 'Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid' team up, instead they get a two people meet 2/3 of the way through the movie and decide to join forces.   Brent Spiner is the only one who gets to really show off his character, while Picard's emotions seem to take away the drama from the destruction of the Entreprise.  Weak script, great special effects, but bad plot full of holes.  This isn't the worst of the Trek's but it is one of the least satisfying, and most disappointing. "},{"Title":"Okay sci-fi film","Date":"14 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was an okay movie, way above par in its genre, just not one of the best Star Trek movies. If you're a sci-fi fan it's worth a watch. Maybe you won't notice that they break 'Star Trek' rules, as I didn't, and don't care that they did. Only hokey thing about it was the Kirk/Picard meeting.6/10 from me 8) "},{"Title":"under-rated Trek","Date":"12 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations was a lot of fun to see in the theater and it's still a fun experience despite not feeling quite epic enough to justify the burden placed on it &#150; resolving the character arc of Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner) from the original series of films and passing the torch to the new crew from the TV series Star Trek The Next Generation and their captain, Picard (Patrick Stewart). I think the film has been somewhat unfairly dismissed by some of the old-school Trek fans and people should consider taking another look at it without that burden weighing so heavily on the film.Granted there are some problems with the execution of the story. There are a lot of loopholes here depending on how demanding a viewer you are. For instance, if Kirk and Picard had failed to stop Soren, the Nexus would still have swept them up and taken them back and they could simply have tried again at least until they were both killed. The Klingon ship that we see early in the story is destroyed much too quickly &#150; yes it is an older ship that can't match up to the Enterprise but here, just like in ST VI, it's a bit too much to ask the audience that one shot destroys it. A much bigger problem actually IMHO is the fact that we have Guinan (Whoopi Goldberg) talking the Nexus up so much (once you're there, you're not going to care about anything&#133;. All you will want is to stay in the Nexus) and we have McDowell at his usual creepy pitch selling us on how obsessed he is with the Nexus, so it's very underwhelming to see the place. Picard's version of the Nexus looks like a throwaway scene from a Dickens novel, and it's much too easy for he and Kirk to decide to leave the Nexus. It's not real says Kirk &#150; so why does it feel so real for Guinan and Soren? So IMHO the Nexus was a great idea and a great motivation for Soren but is undermined by poor execution &#150; in the end we don't see any reason to think it's any more tempting than the holodeck.However it's all pretty forgivable when you consider how nicely all the themes from Soren, Picard and Kirk coincide in the concept of the Nexus. Time is the fire in which we burn says Soren &#150; and it resonates for us because we know that Picard and Kirk have both been preoccupied with their legacy, in Picard's case a deep sadness due to the death of his brother and nephew. Stewart's acting in the scene he shares with Troi (Marina Sirtis) is fantastic, some of the best you will ever see in a sci-fi movie (though not subtle). I thought the theme was powerful enough that it would have made this a top Trek movie if the execution of the Nexus and the final battle was just a bit better.The secondary story involving Data using the emotion chip was interesting but also could have been handled better in some ways. I think some people don't understand that Data's horrible jokes are supposed to be horrible, and are only funny because they're so bad. But even so, I think they went a bit too far with it. I did think the scene with Data and Geordy on the space station when Data began to malfunction was handled very well, and I laughed at Data's first experience with alcohol.Unfortunately most of the supporting characters just don't have a lot to do in this one, which is one of the problems generally speaking that undermined the Next Generation series when it went to film. On television the series was groundbreaking, its multi-episode character arcs leading the way for shows like X-Files and Buffy that would come later. But none of this is possible with film &#150; I do respect the decision to try to develop Data with the emotion chip, but it's simply impossible to have every member of this crew do something memorable or important. Beverly Crusher (Gates McFadden) gets thrown in the water 15 minutes in and then virtually disappears. The rest of the crew crashland (nice FX with the miniature work on this scene) on some other planet and never become involved in the action for the last 30 minutes of the film.But heck &#150; Stewart and Shatner are great together and the scenes with the 2 of them are a Trekkie dream come true. I like how Kirk's death was handled &#150; the desert planet reminds you of great episodes of the original show that were shot in the desert&#133;. Trek fans will forgive me for not remembering the name of the episode but there was that one with Kirk fighting the green lizard guy in the desert. His last words (&#133;. Oh my&#133;..) are 1,000,000 times better than some dignified speech. And it's fitting that Picard is the only witness to his death and the only mourner at his funeral. McDowell is one of the stronger villains in the series, second only to Montalban's Khan and Pullman's Chang. Sometimes in the later years McDowell played victims too ham-fisted (i.e. Blake Edward's Sunset), but here there's something exciting and compelling in his eyes &#150; it's as if he's searching desperately for something that he knows he will never find. I liked it better than any of the subsequent TrekTNG films because it was the most cinematic and original, had very good music and effects, and you can't beat Picard and Kirk as a screen hero duo. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, fun Trek movie!","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Mystery","Review":" Star Trek Generations is the first of 4 Star Trek movies starring the crew of The Next Generation. It also stars a few familiar faces from the past, such as Scotty, Chekov, and even good ole' Captain Kirk! In my opinion, most of the movie is very enjoyable. It follows a slightly different style than TNG did, but it's defiantely as good. Data finally inserts that emotion chip he got from his creator, but soon encounters problems with it. Dr. Tolian Soran is a great villain, and poses a great threat as many Star Trek enemies do. ProsTense, exciting storyline - Brilliant, extremely tense scene where the Enterprise D is destroyed and the saucer section crashes on a planet's surface - The characters haven't changed a bit! - It's Star Trek! DConsFor some odd reason, the colours of the character's uniforms keep inverting throughout the movie - The sets have changed slightly, the bridge being most noticeable (the adding of science decks on the port and starboard of the bridge, and stairs just behind the helm) - Kirk doesn't die in the best of ways...but in the long run, he did die honourably. - The story repeats elements of Star Trek VI The Undiscovered Country (most notably the scene where the Enterprise D destroys the Klingon Bird of Prey, and Picard getting trapped on the planet then inside the Nexus, like Kirk and McCoy did on Rurapente).Despite the thorns in its' side, it's still an excellent movie and is very much underrated. A must see, not just for Trek fans, but anyone looking for some good sci-fi action! "}]