[{"Title":"Endearing comedy","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is an endearing comedy which, as a Brit who knows precious little about baseball, I enjoyed a lot.  The main reason is the performance of Brendan Fraser as the emotionally immature prodigy, Steve Nebraska.  There are elements of his later role as George Of The Jungle here, although George was never this vulnerable or unpredictable.  Dianne Wiest makes for a sympathetic psychiatrist and Albert Brooks is an affable rogue of a talent scout. "},{"Title":"Damn Yankees!","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Poor Al Percolo, he is a man that has brought shame to the Yankees by recommending prospects to the team that don't work out. The team's general manager, Ron Wilson, wants to punish him by sending him deep into Mexico to scout new talent. When Al sees Steven Nebraska pitch in a Mexican league ball game, he realizes this is going to be his redemption. Not only is he a great pitcher, but can that man belt home runs out of the ball park!As Al stages a test to show the different major league teams what Steve can do, Steve Nebraska proves to be the man they all have been waiting for. He is signed for an awful lot of money, but he must pass a sanity test in order to join the team. No sweat! Al gets the name of a psychiatrist out of the Yellow Pages, who turns out to be Al's worst nightmare. Dr. Aaron discovers Steve is an abused child that has a lot to deal with.Michael Ritchie directed this funny comedy. Albert Brooks contributed to the screen play he co-wrote with Andrew Bregman and Monica Johnson. Mr. Brooks plays Al Percolo, the scout of the title with his usual style that makes him one of the best actors working in comedies these days. Brendan Fraser is Steve Nebraska, a complex man who loves to play baseball, but has too many unresolved issues to deal with. The amazing Dianne Wiest plays Dr. Aaron, who injects a shot of reality into the movie. There are some funny moments in the film. One of the best involves Tony Bennett, who is performing in a night club where Steve and Al have been invited by the Yankee management. When Tony Bennett introduces young Steve Nebraska as the next Yankee star, the young man takes a bout and decides to lead the house in a rendition of I Left my Heart in San Francisco. The other great moment occurs when Mr. Bennett shows up to sing the National Anthem at the start of a World Series game and he sees Steve, and he asks him is he is going to have the whole stadium sing.There have been other great baseball pictures. This one doesn't try to be one of them. It's just a light movie done for laughs and the mistake most viewers make is to expect it to be what it never intended to be. "},{"Title":"Great Baseball Movie","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I think sometimes people take some movies too seriously, and this is an example of one of them.  This is a fantasy baseball movie, not something that would actually happen.  Does anyone think that The Natural was realistic?  Brendan Frasier is great in his role as a child trapped in an adult's body due to an abusive childhood, but who is one of the greatest baseball players ever.  Albert Brooks is also great as the scout whose bad luck suddenly changes when he discovers him in the middle of Mexico, and is so excited about his talent that he ignores the mental problems that Frasier's character has.  However, Im disappointed we never learned more of what was actually wrong with him. "},{"Title":"Cute movie.","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  As someone who knows absolutely nothing about baseball, and therefore can view the movie without that particular bias, I'd have to say it was cute. Light humor interspersed with bizarre, bratlike antics on the part of all characters. It'd almost be a good kids movie if they could have left out the swearing.  "},{"Title":"Scouting for another baseball movie? This one might do for an evening","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Al (Albert Brooks) is, at the moment, a hapless scout for the New York Yankees. His last sure thing pitcher tossed his cookies on the mound in front of the huge crowd, just before he bolted for the turnpike. Al is sent to Mexico this time and not in any known territory. Unbelievably, in the Mexican hinterland, an American named Steve Nebraska is just waiting for Al to discover him. And, what a discovery! Steve can pitch at 106 miles an hour and hit a baseball over 600 feet, even if he is a bit weird. Al brings Steve back to NY and the Yankees, most impressed, sign him on one condition. Nebraska must pass a psychological examination! Can he do it? Will the shrink dandily named H. Aaron help? The premise of this movie, along with Albert Brooks' fine performance, are enough to sustain this movie to the end. Fraser, also, does another fine turn as the freaky kid on the block. But, one can not help but say what if. There are several loose ends that just never get tied and the result is a good movie but not a great one. Bull Durham, Major League, and It Happens Every Spring, now these are fine baseball movies. This one just doesn't measure up. Still, if you are a baseball movie fan, you will want to see this one, sure. This film is loaded with good ideas that are worth exploring and jabbering about. Stock up on hotdogs and colas and invite the baseball buddies over for a screening. "},{"Title":"Not Quite Major League","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  The Scout is an underrated comedy, which though never quite hitting the heights gives good value in the funny-sentimental entertainment stakes and benefits from two excellent performances (Albert Brooks - in a role Seinfeld's Jason Alexander would probably over-play on television - and Brendan Fraser). The hidden depths of the film - the young player's childhood abuse for instance - remain hidden (the movie seems shy about going there) but as old-style, far-fetched shtick the picture works very nicely.      "},{"Title":"Albert Brooks at his best","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is really an underrated gem in its own way. It's important to mention that this movie was released during the infamous baseball strike and unfortunately not many people wanted to go see a movie about baseball because they were so upset with the way things were being handled. It's really too bad because this is a very good movie.The best thing about this movie is the way director/star Albert Brooks blends his own unique style of humor with a deep underlying current of the father/son relationship and how psychological problems can effect and athlete's performance. There are some very big laughs as well as many scenes that are funny in an Albert Brooks sort of way; scenes that make you smile and chuckle rather than belly laugh. The best crafted scenes in the film however come from the way Steve Nebraska (Fraser) looks up to Al (Brooks) as the father figure he never had. Some of these scenes are very emotional and deeply touching as well.The only thing I didn't love about the movie is the ending. It's a little too neat and tidy for my taste, but let's face it Brooks is trying to make a funny and touching movie that makes you happy and uplifted when its over, and for that I say a good well done. "},{"Title":"What a Fun Movie!","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" If you ever had dreams of being a big-league star, in any sport, then you have to watch this flick. It's classic Albert Brooks. But, it is like watching a Rocky comedy. Tears come to my eyes evewn after the 10th viewing. Fraser is great. You don't need to be a sports fan to like the movie, it is good regardless. As a baseball fan, it was nice seeing Yankee Stadium. I went there in the last year of the original stadium. It was an historical stadium. Though, I hated paying $9 for a beer, but it was nice being able to take the subway to get there. Other baseball flicks that are good are It Happens Every Spring and naturally, Bang the Drum Slowly. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Really The Scout is a sort of dumb comedy, but that can be good. It is rather silly and that is the point. It's plot is implausible. The plot twists are odd and somewhat predictable. But I liked it and watched it more than once. So don't write it off because it doesn't fall into what the ideal of a baseball movie should be. If you write it off do it because it does not live up to its cheesy comedy roots, and frankly it odes that. If I had a VCR here I'd be running out to the Blockbuster now. "},{"Title":"this movie doesnt quite make the grade","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Albert Brooks stars as a down on his luck desperate baseball scout who finds a golden arm (Brendan Fraser) while in Mexico. Unfortunately he is a little bit eccentric. Has some good bits dealing with the fish out of water plot but overall it doesnt build up any steam and just kind of fizzles itself away.. on a scale of one to ten.. 5 "}{"Title":"One from the mind of a child...","Date":"17 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Sent on a route through the deepest parts of Mexico because of a big screw-up, New York Yankees talent scout, Brooks, finds the pitcher of the century in Fraser a top-notch pitcher and a very good hitter, too.  The only problem is that Fraser has the mind of a pre-adolescent teen, whose goals are simple, but his temper and emotional needs get in the way.The movie has a good premise, and the stars of the baseball diamond appear in many cameos (including Yankees mogul Steinbrenner) have a nice touch.  The actors try to do a good job, but they just don't pull this movie off.  There is no believability to it!  I just don't buy it!The only good scene where Fraser demonstrates his child-like anger is when he tells the photographer to, stop taking pictures of me...weren't the first thirty-four enough?  His emotional attachment to Brooks is found early on, but the therapist's theory of possible homocidal tendencies towards Brooks is not brought out enough in the movie.  There is no substance to this film.  If you're a Fraser fan, you might enjoy this film, but I found little else of any value and no credibility in this film. "},{"Title":"Sleazy Brooks and crazy Fraser","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Al Percolo (Albert Brooks) is a scout for the Yankees. He bends the rules and lies to get the latest phenomena Tommy Lacy (Michael Rapaport). However Lacy turns out to be a complete flop and runs away. Al is punished to scout deep in Mexico. He stumbles across Steve Nebraska (Brendan Fraser). Yankee boss Ron Wilson (Lane Smith) fires him. He decides to bring Steve back to the States himself. The Yankees bids $55M for him to pitch but they need a psychiatrist's letter. Al picks Dr. Aaron (Dianne Wiest) out of the phone book.Albert Brooks is annoyingly sleazy. He's really off-putting and has none of the likability of 'Broadcast News'. The movie doesn't actually need to show all the ugliness. It needs to get to Brendan Fraser much earlier. The first part is not as funny as the filmmaker thinks it is. Director Michael Ritchie made one of my favorite comedy 'The Bad News Bears', but his resume is inconsistent. If this has any hope for this movie, it's the chemistry between Brooks and Fraser but it's not funny enough. The baseball stuff is ridiculous. Brooks is like fingernails on the chalkboard. It's simply not good no matter how crazy Fraser acts. "},{"Title":"Two films for the price of one","Date":"30 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" After seeing THE SCOUT again on TV, I've come to accept that the main problem with the film is that it's actually two completely different films smashed together. On the one hand you've got the comedy surrounding Albert Brooks and his hunt for that one baseball player who will save his scouting career. As one of our great comic screen writers, Brooks delivers some witty lines now and then, particularly in the first part of the film. However, the second film is a half-written drama dealing with the emotional/mental problems of Steve Nebraska, Brendan Frasier's character. There's next to know explanation and/or resolution to his emotional storyline, and although the wonderful Diane Wiest as his psychiatrist is on the team, she barely makes it to the warm-up spot and pretty much fades out without much ado. Screenwriter Brooks keeps tossing tantalizing hints into Frasier's emotional mix - the laundry concerns, for example -- but then does nothing with them. By the last inning, THE SCOUT can't decide whether it's FEAR STRIKES OUT or MAJOR LEAGUE. "},{"Title":"Good enough for me. . .","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" It was fun watching Brooks do his bit. Given most movies that I've seen on the TV as of late, to include the offerings on Pay per View, HBO and Starz, this one was a welcome change. I've read some reviews that say the ending was less than acceptable. Well, such is life. A story doesn't have to have a transcendental message to be enjoyed. For those who think that's essential, I suggest they watch the movie up to the final fifteen minutes, turn off the TV and make up their own ending. As for me, I can live with it just the way it was. One clear measure that I have that it was a movie worth watching? Well, my wife actually stayed awake through most of it! "},{"Title":"Bizarre","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie starts out great, especially the scenes with Brendan in Mexico, but turns for the worse once his personality is fully revealed. A bizarre film that is a drama bookended by comedy. Wiest does her part very well, and The Boss is his jerk self. Not enough baseball scenes. It's a like a sports-themed The Cable Guy, in that it's supposed to be funny, but Fraser is downright psychotic in some scenes. It of course wraps it up too quickly in the end. A dream World Series matchup though; Yankees-Cardinals.4/10 "},{"Title":"Another hilarious performance by Albert Brooks!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I guess Albert Brooks' comedy is not for everybody.  His sense of humor is based on being loud, antisocial, sarcastic and incredibly neurotic.  And that's why our senses of humor are on par with one another.  I love that type of humor!  And what's more amusing about his comedy is he almost never cracks a smile.  Some comic actors feel the need be goofy in order to be funny.  I don't believe comedy works that way.  I believe the more serious you are in a scene, the funnier you are.  As a matter of fact, comic actors need to be more serious in scene than dramatic actors.  And Brooks is dead serious in portraying his characters.  It's the fact that he's ranting and raving like a maniac, while keeping a straight face, that makes the scenes incredibly hilarious.  So for everyone who's a fan of his comedy, you should feel right at home.  There's tons of hilarious lines and tons of hilarious gags.  Of course the story is predictable, like most sports movies, so don't expect any big surprises.  And I felt Brendan Fraser's character was underwritten.  But just see the movie for Albert Brooks.  You should have a wonderful time!  I can't wait to see his next movie, The Wedding Party, where he co-stars with Michael Douglas.  I just saw the trailer this weekend. My score  8 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Could have been something, but unfortunately wasn't","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Considering that this film had the screenwriting and acting talent of Albert Brooks, one of the funnier writers in the industry, and the acting of Brendan Fraser (don't laugh, I actually think he's a pretty good actor), it was very disappointing to see it fizzle the way it did.  It starts off great, with Brooks being banished to Mexico, and the Fraser character is amusing for a little while.  Unfortunately, we get bogged down in the emotional trauma of Fraser's eccentric ballplayer, when we should be enjoying the silly antics we all came to see.  Let's face it, the Fraser character should have been a wacky, yet lovable idiot, but instead is a whining, depressed, troubled person.  This really doesn't work, since the story would easily have lent itself to a comedy, and Brooks still seems to think he's acting in one.  I don't really know where this went wrong, I have a feeling that there were some conflicting ideas on the writing end, but this movie is best left on the shelf.  If you want a great Albert Brooks film, see Defending Your Life. "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot; a light-hearted movie that keeps you guessing till the last second as to how the movie will end; I will gladly watch this movie with my grandchildren; I love Brendan Fraser's character and","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a hoot. If you want to sit down and be entertained and not run for the mute button if your grandkids come over, you'll love this flick.But not to worry, this is not a chick-flick, too many well baseball players. Good clean fun, except a few cuss words, but nothing the don't allow on broadcast television. A perfect 10 in the fluff category, and don't we all need a little of that once in a while! Cameos of such TV celebrity as Bob Costas, Joe Torrey and Ozzie Smith. It starts in New York and travels to Mexico and back to New York. No gratuitous sex scenes, but if you're a guy that loves baseball, you probably will forgive the film makers. Ben Hur and Lawrence of Arabia it's not but who cares, because if it makes me laugh and chuckle, I will always rate it a ten)  "},{"Title":"This movie could have been very good.","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  The Scout is one of those sports movies that gets it right in enough ways to make it watchable, but gets it wrong enough to make you cringe in more spots than you'd like. Brendan Fraser is really terrific as the dopey, wide-eyed innocent of a pitcher who becomes the subject of a massive game of tug of war at first between teams to see who signs him, and then between his love of baseball and his fear of failure. His career has flourished thanks to roles like this, the downy innocent amid a swamp of leaches.  This part of the movie is really good. The huge, over-exaggerated bidding war between baseball clubs for his service, it all is real enough to be familiar, and satirical enough to really make fun of and kind of predict baseball's current situation, in which money has become more and more the driving force behind the game.  The movie also has a bevvie of terrific cameos like Bret Saberhagen, Keith Hernandez, who oddly seem mistcast as Mets stars in a movie that circles around the Yankees, and of course, a small but prominant role for Yankee owner George Steinbrenner.  But in the end all of this winds into a ridiculous debut outing in the first game of the World Series. Let's start with the fact that you can't just join the roster in the World Series. It doesn't work that way. No matter how touted you are, no team will carry a pitcher on their post-season roster (and no, if you're not on that roster the whole way, you cannot join it) who won't pitch unless you get the Series.  It doesn't work that way. And his 81 pitch, 81 strike perfect game is ludicrous.  I mean completely preposterous.  This is a movie that gets so much right in its satire of the game's economics (the Yankees winning the bidding war here is a nice little nod to the current situation where the Yankees are hated throughout the baseball world for their tossing around of money as if it were the fake paper stuff you get with a Monopoly board) and gets so much wrong in the baseball sense. In how good Steve Nebraska (Fraser) is, all sense of realism is throw horribly out the window, and the movie becomes little more than a silly baseball movie. As a Yankee fan, and a fan of the game itself, i expect better of a baseball movie. "},{"Title":"Make some effort, please.","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  First of all, let's deal with the fact that this movie isn't at all about baseball.  Not in any real sense of the sport - it's more of a wry comedy that Albert Brooks specializes in. Brendan Fraser stars in the type of role he'd spend the next few years of his career perfecting - the lovable doofus who doesn't quite have a clue but is impossible to truly dislike.  He's Steve Nebraska - uber-prospect baseball pitcher who has found his life and career derailed and ends up pitching semipro baseball in Mexico.  Brooks is a baseball scout on the downside of his career, in purgatory south of the border when he discovers the immensely talented - but quite immature - Nebraska.  He sees this as his ticket back to the bigtime and shops his pitching prospect around the majors, eventually signing with the Yankees where Nebraska makes his debut in the World Series.Now is when this film careens towards the edge and drives off a cliff. It's not about baseball, fine. But it involves baseball to a heavy degree, even including several major leaguers and baseball people in cameos.  The climactic scene takes place in Yankee Stadium during the World Series. It may not be a sports movie, but it owes its entire premise to the sport of baseball, and as a result, owes that game a semblance of respect. What it ends up doing is shafting the game so completely and making such a mockery of baseball that it ruins whatever it had built up through the rest of the film.There is simply no excuse for building Steve Nebraska as the greatest pitcher ever - a guy who not only throws 110 mph and knocks over his catcher AND the umpire with pitches, but also hits like Barry Bonds.  A guy whose first ever major league appearance is in Game One of the World Series - not only a ludicrous prospect for dramatic purposes, but completely impossible in real life (the rules of baseball don't allow this, discussion ends there).  A guy whose debut game consists of throwing 81 straight fastballs past major league hitters - none of whom even so much as make contact - and who throws all of them at 110 mph.  (Infamous point - the last pitch is FASTER than the first pitch).  Physics dictate a guy like this would completely shred his rotator cuff, labrum muscles, and probably destroy every ligament in his elbow.  Not to mention any major league lineup worth its salt (for instance, one playing in the World Series) would sit on this guy's fastball and absolutely torch him the second time through the order.Is this nitpicking? I don't think so.  The Scout may be better judged as a comedy than a baseball movie, but it can't totally remove itself from the sporting aspect. I think that any movie that involves baseball as heavily as The Scout does owe it to its audience  - as well as its subject matter - to make some slightest bit of effort to craft something that doesn't insult fans of the game.  You can make sentimental stories that use baseball as a backdrop - and involve legendarily talented players - that don't mock the game and flip it the middle finger.  The Natural comes to mind.As a comedy, it's average.  As a baseball movie, it's completely insulting and awful.   "}{"Title":"Ridiculously bad movie","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" This is definitely one of the worst sports movies of all-time. The writers made little to no effort in creating a decent plot. Albert Brooks plays a scout for the New York Yankees who thinks he finds the next great pitcher, but the guy can't handle pitching in front of large crowds and ends up puking on the mound. When Brooks travels down to Mexico, he discovers a phenom who is a fan favorite named Steve Nebraska (played by Brendan Fraser). When he tries to convince the Yankees GM that he's found an outstanding pitcher, he's told he isn't bringing anyone up and ends up getting fired. I'm a huge baseball fan, but I found this movie appalling, especially near the end when Nebraska pitches in a World Series game. He throws 81 pitches, all strikes, and no hitter even makes contact. Who ends up with the only run of the game? Nebraska, of course, with a home run. Imagine that. They obviously thought no one would see the flaws in that game. For one thing, being in an American League park, they would be using a DH. The pitcher would not be hitting. Another, how did he end up with only 1 at-bat the whole game if he pitched the whole game? This movie was very predictable and, therefore, very boring. I would not recommend this movie to my worst enemy. I wonder if even Fraser looks back on this movie and wonders why he made the mistake of agreeing to do it. It's not Fraser's fault though. No matter who was picked to star in this movie, it would have been bad simply because of the plot. I found Little Big League to be more realistic than this and that was about a little kid managing a major league team. "},{"Title":"Thin comedy has silly plot saved by some amusing moments...","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" BRENDAN FRASER seems to specialize in playing dumb--or at least that's the impression I had after watching him emote as a child-like baseball player who happens to have a great pitching arm in THE SCOUT. He does get laughs with his dumb act, so I suppose that's why he was chosen for this particular role.But most of the laughs come from the fact that ALBERT BROOKS is his co-star, a man who can say a funny line without ever giving a hint that he thinks it's funny. And sometimes, the result is hilarious--particularly in the knife scene in which Brooks is trying to hide all his kitchen knives from Fraser who wants to cut something.None of the humor is particularly subtle, but DIANNE WIEST is a welcome addition as Dr. Aarons, the psychiatrist who determines that Fraser might have his dangerous moments after subjecting him to a series of tests with photos. But the baseball scenes at the finish are too over-the-top, straining credulity to the limits.The Tony Bennett nightclub sequence is also guaranteed to have you squirming in discomfort as Fraser sings an off-key version of I Left My Heart in San Francisco, much to Bennett's chagrin.Summing up With a wittier script and a different approach, could have been a very winning comedy. "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot; a light-hearted movie that keeps you guessing till the last second as to how the movie will end; I will gladly watch this movie with my grandchildren; I love Brendan Fraser's character and","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a hoot. If you want to sit down and be entertained and not run for the mute button if your grandkids come over, you'll love this flick.But not to worry, this is not a chick-flick, too many well baseball players. Good clean fun, except a few cuss words, but nothing the don't allow on broadcast television. A perfect 10 in the fluff category, and don't we all need a little of that once in a while! Cameos of such TV celebrity as Bob Costas, Joe Torrey and Ozzie Smith. It starts in New York and travels to Mexico and back to New York. No gratuitous sex scenes, but if you're a guy that loves baseball, you probably will forgive the film makers. Ben Hur and Lawrence of Arabia it's not but who cares, because if it makes me laugh and chuckle, I will always rate it a ten)  "},{"Title":"good baseball fantasy","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  It seemed like baseball fantasies in the mid 90's were a very popular type style.This time It's about a pitcher steve nebraska who is in mexico and a scout albert brooks finds him.From then on he lives in new york city gets paid millions,and plays for the yankees.The relationship between brooks and fraser is like a father and son relationship,but in some scenes fraser has serious mental problems. "},{"Title":"Pretty good Brooks fare","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  If I'm not mistaken, this movie was based on George Plimpton's SI article about the mythical pitcher Sidd Finch, which is why Fraser's character throws a perfect game with 81 strikes, etc.  It wasn't meant to be a realistic baseball movie.That said, it's hilarious in spots and a little frustrating in others. Brooks is well worth watching as usual. "},{"Title":"Some good one-liners in asinine comic set-up","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Albert Brooks co-wrote and stars in this sometimes-bright but terribly unsubtle comedy about a talent scout for the New York Yankees who loses his reputation after getting a skittish college Freshman signed to the team (the Yankees apparently scheduled the kid to pitch in a televised game without any training or pre-game publicity whatsoever, so don't they get what they deserve?); Brooks is banished to South Central Mexico to find talent, and yet when he comes up with another promising pitcher, he's fired over the telephone (in one of those excruciating sitcom developments the movie occasionally falls prey to). The new pitcher (Brendan Fraser, still in Encino Man mode) is a child in a young man's body, thereby linking the scout and the player on an emotionally-needy basis (not solid ground for laugh-out-loud comedy). Brooks as an actor is very ingratiating--he always has been--but this material, despite some very amusing one-liners, is stale, highly concocted, and immature. Many real-life sports luminaries appear in cameos...perhaps they should have been allowed to strengthen the script. ** from **** "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot; a light-hearted movie that keeps you guessing till the last second as to how the movie will end; I will gladly watch this movie with my grandchildren; I love Brendan Fraser's character and","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a hoot. If you want to sit down and be entertained and not run for the mute button if your grandkids come over, you'll love this flick.But not to worry, this is not a chick-flick, too many well baseball players. Good clean fun, except a few cuss words, but nothing the don't allow on broadcast television. A perfect 10 in the fluff category, and don't we all need a little of that once in a while! Cameos of such TV celebrity as Bob Costas, Joe Torrey and Ozzie Smith. It starts in New York and travels to Mexico and back to New York. No gratuitous sex scenes, but if you're a guy that loves baseball, you probably will forgive the film makers. Ben Hur and Lawrence of Arabia it's not but who cares, because if it makes me laugh and chuckle, I will always rate it a ten)  "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot; a light-hearted movie that keeps you guessing till the last second as to how the movie will end; I will gladly watch this movie with my grandchildren; I love Brendan Fraser's character and","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a hoot. If you want to sit down and be entertained and not run for the mute button if your grandkids come over, you'll love this flick.But not to worry, this is not a chick-flick, too many well baseball players. Good clean fun, except a few cuss words, but nothing the don't allow on broadcast television. A perfect 10 in the fluff category, and don't we all need a little of that once in a while! Cameos of such TV celebrity as Bob Costas, Joe Torrey and Ozzie Smith. It starts in New York and travels to Mexico and back to New York. No gratuitous sex scenes, but if you're a guy that loves baseball, you probably will forgive the film makers. Ben Hur and Lawrence of Arabia it's not but who cares, because if it makes me laugh and chuckle, I will always rate it a ten)  "},{"Title":"Goofy Brendan Frasier comedy disguised as a Baseball movie...","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I enjoy the movie. I've probably seen it about 10 times, and it never fails to entertain me and give me some good laughs here and there. It's your typical goofy Brendan Frasier comedy, although something tells me that's not what exactly what it was going for. I didn't buy into any of the dramatic elements of the movie... Brendan Frasier's character(his goofy behavior), as well as some of the plot elements made it very hard for me to take the movie completely seriously. The fact that Steve Nebraska (Frasier) was supposedly the greatest player to ever live and his ability to strike every batter out with 100+ MPH fastballs and even the ability to hit a home run every time at bat seemed a little ridiculous to me. Also, the conflict that arose towards the middle of the movie (about Nebraska's mysterious past/his family) should have been delved into a little more. But Other than those complaints, I'll say that I enjoyed The Scout for what it was, which was an above average baseball comedy with enough laughs and plenty of entertainment to keep me watching for 2 hours.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre baseball movie","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Brendan Fraser and Albert Brooks star in this fair movie about a pitching phenom. Albert Brooks is a washed up scout on a nowhere trip in Mexico when he comes across Fraser's Steve Nebraska pitching in a Mexican game. Steve's the real thing, and Brooks convinces him to come to America where his services are won in a bid by the Yankees. Before the contract becomes official Steve has to be examined by a shrink and this is where you learn that all is not completely right with the boy wonder. Everything is set up to the big game finale which is okay, but nothing spectacular in terms of baseball sequences. "}{"Title":"I liked it a lot; a light-hearted movie that keeps you guessing till the last second as to how the movie will end; I will gladly watch this movie with my grandchildren; I love Brendan Fraser's character and","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a hoot. If you want to sit down and be entertained and not run for the mute button if your grandkids come over, you'll love this flick.But not to worry, this is not a chick-flick, too many well baseball players. Good clean fun, except a few cuss words, but nothing the don't allow on broadcast television. A perfect 10 in the fluff category, and don't we all need a little of that once in a while! Cameos of such TV celebrity as Bob Costas, Joe Torrey and Ozzie Smith. It starts in New York and travels to Mexico and back to New York. No gratuitous sex scenes, but if you're a guy that loves baseball, you probably will forgive the film makers. Ben Hur and Lawrence of Arabia it's not but who cares, because if it makes me laugh and chuckle, I will always rate it a ten)  "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  Someone please explain to me what the point of half the plot of the movie was.  You have this mysterious guy down in Mexico, you learn absolutely nothing about him, such as where he's from, whatever.  You keep expecting to learn some deep dark secret, and then the movie ends with NOTHING.  Not only that, the end  baseball scenes were the cheesiest scenes I've ever seen. Bowling over the catcher and umpire with a 110 mph fastball?  Ozzie Smith a dangerous and feared hitter?  And I think they beat those scoreboard effects to death.  Whoever got the idea that Albert Brooks is a funny man and decided to let him make comedies needs to be shot in the head.  "},{"Title":"Worst sports movie of all time","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" The acting wasn't bad but they completely butchered any semblance of reality with regards to baseball. Let's just recap all that was wrong just with the final game (Game 1 of the World Series)1) A player can't make his first appearance in the World Series--he'd have to be on roster before then 2) Since Steve Nebraska was playing in Yankee stadium, the DH rule was in effect. Meaning he couldn't have batted. 3) In order for Nebraska to have used his 81st pitch to strike out Ozzie Smith, that means that the Cardinals put The Wizard batting 9th in the order. Yeah, right. 4) Before the game, Costas makes some comment about how many are predicting a perfect game from Steve Nebraska. Seeing as how there have only been 17 perfect games in history, one would highly doubt a 1st ever start would be a perfect game. 5) 81 strikes in a row...nobody even hit a ball? A World Series caliber team can't ONCE key in to a 110 mile per hour fastball to make even accidental contact once?Most idiotic movie regarding baseball of all time. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"21 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  I made the grievous error of seeing this movie in the theater.  And it has been scorched into my memory as one of the worst I've ever seen.  It was billed as a comedy, and I think I may have laughed once?  Maybe?  It was played as a drama, but without the drama.  The ending was so anti-climactic and predictable as to have made the movie even worse than it already was.  Brendan Frasier does his standard job of sub-standard acting playing the typical confused, out-of-place character he played in Encino Man, George of the Jungle, the Mummy series, etc.  Making matters worse, the writers hint at a possible direction in the story that may make the movie interesting, and they simply drop it in the middle leaving you hanging, but not wanting more.Don't bother, it isn't worth the time. "},{"Title":"Wasted time and energy","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  After drafting two consecutive lemons into the Yankees at great cost and having them flop to great embarrassment, scout Al Percolo is banished to scout in Mexico where the standard of baseball is a lot lower &#150; try watching a goat play on third base!  However there he finds an American player, Steve Nebraska, who can pitch like the wind and bat like a monster.  He drafts him to the Yankees but has to get a physiologist to treat him to ensure he doesn't flop in the same way as the others.I like Albert Brooks.  He has never set the world on fire here in the UK but his films can usually be witty and well written if never hilarious.  Here however he hits a real bum note with a misguided and unfunny script that he fails to make better in production and delivery.  The film starts promisingly enough, with the illusion of being bright and breezy.  The introduction of Nebraska appears to deliver more of the same but no &#150; it doesn't.  The tone becomes heavier as Nebraska's psyche is probed and I expected it to go deeper.  However it does neither.  It is never well explained why he is the way he is, or what he's working on &#150; instead he just goes moody.  Add to this the usual fun of sports movies is gone but nothing replaces it.The end result is that it is a drag to watch with nothing explaining enough for you to care what's going on.  When the sports action does return in the final 10 minutes it is so unlikely (in fact impossible by official rules and biological reason) and badly shot that it adds nothing to the film.  It's a shame cause Brooks could have mixed comedy with the deeper issues raised by Nebraska &#150; instead he loses the plot with them both and delivers neither well.Brooks is actually OK but has no real witty lines to deliver after the first 15 minutes.  Also, because of a lazy script, he has to become the character that everyone watching will know he shouldn't become &#150; but it sets up the finale&#133;lazy!  Fraser is somewhere between playing a goofy guy we love and being `a good actor'&#153;, however here he is just annoying and is neither.  Wiest is wasted but it's interesting to see a young Rapaport.  Sadly the baseball cameos were wasted on this little Irish lad and I may have missed jokes as a result.Overall this is a wasted chance to mix witty comedy with deeper issues as told through Nebraska.  The film starts well but soon the deeper issues suck all the fun out of it but aren't developed well enough to replace them with anything else.  Well worth missing. "},{"Title":"What a putrid movie!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":"  This is another of those baseball movies that were fashionable during a three year period, 1994-96. And by far, this is the worst of the entire lot! A movie that goes far enough to try and add realism with George Steinbrenner in the cast and then climaxes with the hero throwing 81 pitches, which were 81 strikes, 27 strike-outs and a perfect game!! What a piece of drivel. Any baseball purist or even the casual fan would have to be repulsed by this plot! How terrible can this be? I call it one of the worst 10 I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Another Fraser Film For the Dust Bin","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" Why do they let Brendan Fraser keep on making movies? He's not funny, he's hideously deformed and his antics get on my nerves like you wouldn't believe.A scout for the Yankees, after finding prospects in the past who flake out, is sent to Mexico where he finds Steve Nebraska (Fraser), the greatest ball player that ever lived. But after a mandatory psych exam, Nebraska begins to flake out, too.The general plot is decent, and the idea of a perfect ballplayer is a fun one (though hardly original, especially after I just watched The Natural). But Fraser is not a likable character for me, and I was really hoping he would be hit by a bus. The film is thoroughly predictable with no twists or surprises at all, and an ending that still leaves some key issues unexplained (again like The Natural it ends rather abruptly). I can't say what they issues are at the risk of writing spoilers, although I don't know how you can spoil a film this simple.In the beginning of the film, the scout brings in Michael Rapaport as his star player (before Rapaport flakes out). Now, if he had brought in Fraser and then later on had Rapaport playing Fraser's part, this film might have been one of the better baseball movies ever made. But whoever did the casting clearly has no idea that Fraser is utterly worthless as an actor. A few cheap laughs in Bedazzled and Encino Man do not a great comedian make. "},{"Title":"Tony Award!","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sport","Review":" I'm a big Tony Bennett fan, but the rest of the movie was childish. Did I mention Tony is a class act? Seriously I could find no reason why this obviously American born person would be hiding away, south of the border, the part with him hanging out up in the rafters of the stadium trying to make up his mind to play or not was so frustrating for me, I found myself trying to decide if I wanted to destroy my VCR or not. I felt very uncomfortable for Mr. Bennett in the scene where he was upstaged on his I Left My Heart In San Francisco segment of his show. I don't want to seem to harp on this particular part, but it is what stands out in my mind when I think of this film.. "}]