[{"Title":"A means to an end...no more no less!","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"44 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A few reviewers here need to chill out. 'Tis true, Hyams is no Kubrick, even an infusion of the great man's DNA wouldn't guarantee his next flick would rise above plebian mediocrity. So what?  Does Hyams aspire to creative brilliance? or does he just make films at his own pace and at his own level of artistic creativity, which after all is his right to do. If there are those who look down from their own lofty pedestals frowning upon what they see as ungilded simplicity well - whoopy do, go shoot your own celestial Heart of Darkness - make your point that way!For my money, TIMECOP achieved exactly what it set out to achieve...value for your $12.95 whatever. Certainly no cerebral rush, but honest entertainment nonetheless. I rather doubt the Van Damme brigade were looking for some kinda kick-ass Yoda with nunchukas. Hyams delivered his requisite quota of high kicks per dollar and exploding blood capsules per reel.The imdb rating for this film is laughable...it rates a minimum of 6.6! "},{"Title":"A Step Above Most Of  VanDamme Flicks","Date":"30 August 2006","Score":"43 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought this was a notch above the normal no-brainer kick-boxer action flicks which star men like Jean-Claude VanDamme, Steven Segal, Chuck Norris, Jackie Chan, etc. because of the interesting and somewhat complex tale with time travel as the main theme. The story also has some good twists and humor.THE GOOD - Kudos to the four s's in here Silver, suspense, special-effects and sound - all of them are very good. There is something about Ron Silver's looks that spell sleazy and rotten before he even opens his mouth! When he speaks, his accent and profanity quickly verifies those suspicions. The special- effects - at least when this came out in the mid '90s - were very cool when the time travelers reached their destinations and appear out of this wall of near- transparent plastic. The story can be a bit confusing at times but is fun at most times, especially near the end when doubles of all the characters are on the screen at onceTHE BAD - The bad part of the film is the credibility, especially with Silver who plays a politician. No politician, no matter what party or where, would be this much of low-life. In fact, the story is full of unlikable and untrustworthy characters, too many of them. There also is too much Rambo-mentality and the final action goes on way too long. The time travel ange of the story may be intelligent but the dialog in this movie is just plain dumb and too juvenile.Overall, this is one of the best of a small group of well-done Van Damme movies. "},{"Title":"Mainstream Van-Damage.","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Timecop is probably remembered as his last good movie before he got into a rut of mediocre(though successful) action flicks.Its also the most mainstream picture he was ever in for my money.In 1994 Time-travel has become a possible reality.Washington decides that it needs to be policed from criminal activity and the paradox's of undoing life as we know it.Cut to 2004Enter Van Damme as Walker the on-the-rocks time-cop who uncovers a plot to swindle the presidency by a corrupt Senator McComb played by Ron Silver,who actually engineered the murder of Walkers-wife(Mia Sara).Can Max stop McComb?Can he go back and save his wife?After some decent gunfights and roundhouses you'll have to find out.Timecop benefits from having a talented director Like Peter Hyams behind the wheel for this one.He stages everything well,Keeps the action and plot flowing,Special FX are engaging,and gets a very good performance by Van Damme.Who comes off vulnerable and like a real person.The production values are very good here too.It is also pretty decent political backdrop/Sci-fi combo.Ron Silver is a great Bad Guy here as McComb.He gets to shoot, beat people up,Snarls And looks frankly maniacal at times.Mia Sara is engaging and looks beautiful as ever.Bruce McGill has some funny bits as Van Dammes Boss.The very sexy Gloria Ruben also shows up as Walkers new partner.Timecop is not the greatest when it comes to plot-holes.But unlike the recent version of HG Wells Time machine, it is a very fun movie.And one of Van Dammes best. "},{"Title":"It's a Tapert/Raimi film - what's not to like?","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Timecop is a pretty hilarious movie, and it has all the trademarks of aTapert/Raimi film (i.e., the guys who brought you Evil Dead, Hercules,Xena, Jack of All Trades...). It's definitely a big-screen movie, but they have some fun, even including dialogue that pokes fun at Jean-Claude's at times unintelligible accent. There are some decent martial arts set pieces, they don't spend too long on the time travel aspects (which is about par for the course for the guys who did time travel in Evil Dead, Hercules, and Xena...). Ron Silver makes a suitably sinister villain, but Bruce McGill steals the show as the protagonist's somewhat befuddled but loyal boss. There are the usual holes that accompany any time travel story, and a weird ending. With the feel-good ending, no one seems to realize that Max won't recall the last 10 years of his married life and time raising his kid!  Still, it's a pretty good, not too deep, enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"turn back the clock before van damme's career was history","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" kicks? check punches? check signature semi-nude van damme splits? checkvan damme playing multiple roles? check 'Pete' from MacGyver? checktime travel police going back in time wearing futuristic uniforms labeling themselves as Time Enforcement Commission officers indicating to those in the past that time travel will one day be possible even though TEC code 40.8 subsection 9 strictly forbids time travel with intent to alter the future as a crime punishable by death? checkVan Damme takes a break from his usual tournament-style fare to bring us a movie based around a story rather than a series of jump kicks. I won't repeat the synopsis you can read on IMDb. What I will say is that this is honestly the single best movie of Van Damme's career. It made a solid attempt at a story, it had decent special effects and sound effects, the acting was as good as van damme gets, and the action was good. Perhaps if he had made a few more of this caliber he might have become a more stable box office draw rather than the queen of straight to video punch-and-kick drivel. "},{"Title":"Van Damme at his Best!","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Forgot how good this movie actually was! Definitely one of Van Dammes best and one of the better action movies in the 90's! Also Ron Silver is great as the bad guy You can forget about being my Chief of Staff, if slamming your head into the sideboard turns you into a Snivelling Weasel D ... give it a watch you wont be disappointed! "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Action/Sci-Fi Films Ever Made In My Opinion, With A Kick Ass Story And 2 Amazing Performances From Van Damme And Mia Sara!","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is one of the best Action/Sci-Fi films ever made in my opinion with a kick ass story and 2 amazing performances from Van Damme and Mia Sara!. All the characters are wonderful, and i think this is Van Damme's 3rd best, plus Van Damme(as usual) and Mia Sara are simply amazing in this!. The effects were just awesome and one of the coolest scenes for me is when The future Van Damme confronts his wife it was rather tense and very moving, plus Ron Silver is extremely menacing as the main villain!. I thought Van Damme's acting was fantastic, and he and Mia Sara had amazing chemistry together, plus the opening is quite disturbing and very memorable. It's quite original and it had a fantastic all around cast, plus it's exciting throughout!. The finale is one of the best ever and, i thought the ending was really neat and quite emotional, plus It had some great fight scenes as well!. It's one of Van Damme's best performances, and i thought it was extremely well written and made as well, plus i can't believe this only has a 5.5 rating as it should be much much higher in my opinion!.It really is a brilliant film, and i just loved the whole concept of time traveling!, plus it's very imaginative and creative as well!. All the characters are very likable, and i really hope they make a true sequel to this with both Van Damme and Mia Sara back together!, plus it has quite a few shocking and disturbing scenes as well. Van Damme once again has a cool look,and i thought the scene where Van Damme visits Sarah Fielding in the hospital, was really moving and tense, plus the locations were also awesome!.There were also quite a few harsh jokes throwin' at Van Damme and he took them extremely well This is one of the best Action/Sc-Fi films ever made in my opinion with a kick ass story and 2 amazing performances from Van Damme and Mia Sara, and if you haven't seen it do so immediately!, you won't regret it's one of Van Damme's absolute best!.The Direction is amazing!.Peter Hyams does an amazing job here with wonderful camera work, fantastic angles, some great close up shots, great use of colors and he kept the film at an extremely fast pace!.There is a little bit of blood and violence. We get some bloody gunshot wounds, harsh beatings, a bloody broken nose,gunshot wounds to the head with blood and brains spurting,wicked shattering arm,graphic fall victims, cool scar transformations, and other minor stuff.The Acting is amazing!. Jean Claude Van Damme is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, fantastic in the acting department, had amazing chemistry with Mia Sara, gives one of his best performances, had tons of charisma, had a lot of character, and just did an amazing job overall!. (Van Damme Rules!!!!!!!!, he is the man!). Mia Sara is also AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, she is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, was fantastic in the acting department had amazing chemistry with Van Damme, had a great smile, and was especially good in the finale!, she is one of my favorite actresses. (Mia Sara rules!!!!). Ron Silver is wonderful as the evil Senator McComb, he had some awesome one liners, had some great scenes with Van Damme, was extremely menacing and just did a wonderful job overall!. (Silver Rules). Bruce McGill is great in his role, he was very likable and did a great job i liked him lots. Gloria Reuben is hot, and did excellent with what she had to do, although i wished she had more screen time. Rest of the cast do great.Overall if you haven't seen this do so immediately you won't regret it it's one of the best Action-Sci-Fi films ever made, and Van Damme's 3rd best. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"good if violent","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was actually a decent film. If you can get past the gratuitous violence (a virtual requirement for Van Damme films), you might like this movie. Van Damme plays the title character who needs to stop a crooked politician from changing history while trying to decide whether to save his murdered wife. I liked this. Silver is good as the bad guy, and Van Damme is watchable. See it if you get the chance! *** out of **** "},{"Title":"The future of law enforcement is back in the past which is the alternative future of the past's future (or past)","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've only ever seen this film while drunk, so bear with me ...Awful Belgian 'actor' John Claude Van Damme grows an emergency mullet in order to go back in time and rescue Ferris Bueller's girlfriend. While in the past he runs into that chap out of the Kirstie Alley sitcom (the one about underwear where she's put on a lot of weight).Meanwhile, back in the future, the guy with the moustache who's been in loads of stuff gets killed by the future version of the guy from the Kirstie Alley sitcom. In retaliation, John Claude Van Damme kills the Kirstie Alley guy by throwing another version of the Kirstie Alley guy at him - the two sort of moulding together in a bubbling, bad special effects mess on the carpet. John Claude Van Damme then finds out he's had a kid in the future and that the guy with the moustache who was killed by the Kirstie Alley guy isn't dead after all. So that's alright then. "},{"Title":"This movie should be remembered for some time to come...","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Timecop' probably represents Jean-Claude Van Damme at his very best - this movie demonstrates his ability...The movie itself is slick and some thought has obviously gone into it - some time-travel movies do fail on grounds concerning plausibility, though 'Timecop' is intelligent as it is enjoyable...The complexity of the film really finds the viewer respecting Van Damme a lot more, it simply isn't an action movie, though Van Damme shows that he still retains his amazing physical talents...I recently saw this movie on NBC, and though not seeing it from the start, it brought back memories of the entire film, and what a great film it is - I had originally thought about giving this a 6/10, then thought maybe 7 or 8/10...I opted for 8/10...(maybe leaning more towards nine)...) "}{"Title":"Quick Reviews!!","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably Van Damme's last big hit, Timecop is a mix of action, sci-fi, time-travel, and revenge with the usual roundhouse kicking fun. The big budget is clear to see with a myriad of special effects and explosions every few minutes. What makes Timecop better though is a decent story, even though it follows the usual revenge theme, a good script, and s decent cast to back up Van Damme.Van Damme stars as Max, a cop with a difference in the future. Time Travelling has been near-perfected, and Max is a Timecop- an elite crime fighter with the special authority to travel through time to stop criminals. Only a few people are authorised to use this technology, but naturally some bad guys get there hands on it and plan to change the past. A few years earlier Max's wife had been murdered. When Max learns of a sinister plot involving Senator McComb, who plans to become President by going back in time, Max takes the law into his own hands and goes back to stop him. This leads to further trouble of course, and Max soon sets out to save his wife as well.The time travelling stuff is handled to an average degree, certainly not as good as in Back to the Future or The Terminator, but it's adequate. Van Damme has enough star quality now to carry the film but Silver and Sara provide strong support. The effects are mostly very good, the action scenes are exciting and there is some honour and a few good one-liners. Probably a good one to watch for people coming to Van Damme movies for the first time as it delivers what it promises and doesn't try to be special.7.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A well rounded sci-fi action movie","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Time travel is always a neat concept when it comes to movies. It also can be quite confusing. And because there are these too extremes to using this idea, only some people can use it wisely enough and not have the film involve too much time travel. Director Peter Hyams displays that he's one of those people who can handle this kind of situation. From start to finish, I was thoroughly sure I knew where and what was going on. I wasn't confused once. This shows Hyams had control of how much time travel was used in one instance.Timecop is actually a generalization for the people who do the job, but focuses on the story of Max Walker (Jean-Claude Van Damme), a man who belongs to an institution of individuals who police time, based on a popular Dark Horse comic. As stated, time travel was discovered in 1994 and now there are people needed to prevent the past from being altered. One thing I didn't understand was that throughout the entire film, I only saw about two or three timecops. Where's everyone else? However, I only noticed this after the film had ended. I was too busy focusing on what was currently happening on screen.Going back to Van Damme, I was somewhat skeptical about his performance, but in the end, I had much appreciation for it. However, my only complaint is that he reminds me of other actors. His voice sounds a little like Antonio Banderas, his fighting techniques and flexibility, which are impressive, look too much like Jackie Chan's style, and lastly he sports this Peter Weller hair-do as if he were playing Alex Murphy from RoboCop (1987) and not a timecop. I'm not saying this is bad but I was hoping Van Damme would come out as his own actor and not like someone else. Like I said though, Van Damme is cool when he's fighting and he also has some comical moments too. I liked the character of Max Walker, I just thought he'd be somewhat more original and not a knock- off of some other character.Playing the villain, Aaron McComb, is Ron Silver, a corrupt politician who will do anything to make sure he's sitting in the president's chair by the end of the election. Even Silver has some unique moments where he lashes out at characters and then abruptly simmers down. This shows good characterization because it reveals what a loose cannon McComb is and why he's not fit for a president. Mia Sara portrays Max Walker's wife, Melissa Walker. I also think that the two actors made a good couple; too bad it wasn't real. Melissa definitely may not be a physically strong character, but she has a hardy spirit. As the film came to its finale, I had a fondness for her bravery.The special effects are also fair game. There wasn't anything that seemed to be overloaded with CGI and the idea of matter occupying two spaces at one time is also another visual treat to see. The part where the film shows how the police go back in time was intriguing as well. It recalled what it was like to first watch Back to the Future (1985), with a speeding vehicle hurtling towards some wall and then suddenly disappearing with track marks ablaze. Mark Isham composed the score to this film. Sadly, I did not feel a whole lot from it but and maybe that's because there was no theme song to it. But it definitely was a soundtrack, because it wasn't noise like Keith Emerson's score from Nighthawks (1981). What a mess that was!Peter Hyams' direction on the Dark Horse comic of a time traveling police officer not only boasts visuals, but also has a great story line. The characters are nicely acted and the action scenes are well played. "},{"Title":"VERY GOOD Movie even for non die hard Van Damme fans!","Date":"21 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is well written , has an interesting plot, of course as with any time-travel film- you can find plot holes if you really try! But this film is very good. Great acting by Ron Silver, nothing cheesy...The action is superb A+ and the special FX are great for its time (1994 release. I believe this is one of JCVDs highest grossing films!It looks good, is well paced, had great characters, and keeps you interested. It is far from mindless junk...a smart/dramatic action/ sci-fi thriller!I have seen it thousands of times and am never bored. I am a big Van Damme fan but must admit that not all of his films a fun to watch...This one is a gem!!! Van Damm at the top of his acting and action game! "},{"Title":"Paging Doc Emmett Brown...","Date":"24 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reading through their IMDb pages just now, I noticed that director Peter Hyams and action star Jean-Claude Van Damme will soon collaborate again on a thriller named Enemies Closer. I think that's particularly good news for Van Damme, as it's my own personal and humble opinion that he accomplished his best films working with Hyams. Seemingly Hyams was the only director who brought a proper balance between demonstrating his martial arts skills and actually giving the opportunity to try and act! Sudden Death is a straightforward but extremely competent action flick set in a limited arena (Die Hard in a hockey stadium, in fact) and this Timecop is a more ambitious and polished Sci-Fi thriller revolving around time traveling. Hyams is more of an expert in the domain of Sci-Fi (with other semi-classic titles on his repertoire such as Capricorn One, Outland and the hate-it-or-love-it cult movie 2010) and that clearly shows during the impressively staged time-catapulting sequences and the overall ease with which the convoluted and paradoxical subject matter is handled. On the other hand, the supposedly hi-tech futuristic gadgets and advanced technology looks incredibly banal and clichéd in my opinion, like for example the voice-operated cars and televisions in 2004. The plot is actually very similar to that of Back to the Future, Part II except &#x96; of course &#x96; with karate and gunfire instead of DeLoreans. It's all about Van Damme, as Time Enforcement Corps agent Max Walker, traveling back and forth in time to prevent naughty people from meddling with the future before it occurs. The sleazy Senator McComb teleports himself back from 2004 to 1994 to prevent his younger self from making the wrong financial decisions that will cost him the Presidential elections and, during the attempt to stop him, Max Walker discover the exact reasons why his wife got murdered that same year. Although he'll never win any Oscars, I really think Van Damme gives an adequate performance in Timecop, with a word of thanks to the script and the supportive cast including Mia Sara and Bruce McGill. Best performance comes (as all too often in action movies) from the villain, with Ron Silver depicting a gloriously hateful corrupt politician. It's never made clear what happens to the time-traveling vehicles when arriving in the past. At least the DeLorean in Back to the Future always stayed with its passengers. "},{"Title":"Van Damme and Sci-Fi","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is pretty run-of-the-mill as far as sci-fi goes, and Van-Damme's acting wasn't any better than it was in his other films - contrary to popular opinion - but Peter Hyams' competent direction keeps the thing moving forward at a brisk pace, and Ron Silver makes for a wicked baddie that rivals his work in Blue Steel. If only the action were more exciting. Most of it consists of Walker staying in one position shooting at another guy, and vice-versa until somebody goes down for good. The shootouts lack energy and a sense of life for the most part. The fight scenes are......okay, but nothing that can compete with what I've seen in other actioners from that era. Oh yeah, and what was up with the villain's death scene? That was some frighteningly terrible CGI. I guess they were trying to rival the liquid metal effects in T2 and failed miserably. In fact, the entire finale was way too dark, like pitch black. I remember catching the finale on TV back in the day and noticed it was excessively dark then, too, but Blu-ray doesn't seem to have corrected the problem. Well, flaws aside, this is still one of Van Damme's better films, with some amusing moments here and there. "},{"Title":"Great Enjoyable Fun But Far From Perfect","Date":"17 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the exception of The Terminator series, the time travel sci-fi story has been on the brink of obscurity Sure there's been movies about time-travel, but not with combined action and awesome effects. I mean Somewhere in Time is more like a romance than an action flick and the brilliantly executed 12 Monkeys doesn't quite qualify as an action flick. Sure Nick Meyer's Time After Time was excellent in action but it's a shame that it didn't garner much publicity. And that leaves us with Peter Hyams' 1994 classic Timecop which to me goes ways beyond the spectrum of a Jean-Claude van Damme film, but for those action junkies who love the Belgian behemoth it's still all is well.Science-fiction fans be advised the tight factor of Robert Heinlein's early works like By His Bootstraps and All You Zombies is very absent. Mr Hyams and his scriptwriting duo of Mark Richardson and Mark Verheiden (who also collaborated with the Dark Horse comic this film is adapted from) was loosely taken from Poul Anderson's Time Patrol series. Largely due to the plot, a physically legit time traveling is in tact but it's also customized to rewrite the past. And what comes with the package are few antagonists around to foil things for their own evil intentions. Therefore, some time-travel cops join the fray to maintain the real timestream.This is where Van Damme steps into the the thick of things. And in the film he's up against Ron Silver who was in fine form as a Senator who has aspirations to become President determined so much to be in that position that he will break every rule in the book just to get there.In spite of the whole excitement of time-traveling, there are still some issues that remain indecipherable. Like for instance what's the deal with people blowing up whenever they encounter their earlier or later versions of themselves? The whole concept behind that is utterly ridiculous. Sure I wasn't expecting anything logical by far, but still it's never fully explained.But in spite of the irrational implausibilities, if you can get over it in some way, you'll be quite pleased with the craft put into it and and the dramatic factors implemented into the script works out quite subliminally. And even if you don't like Van Damme, who really gives a damn? I think those who have chastised Van Damme over the years have never seen this movie or never seen his previous work when he first started out. Sure he's no James Stewart or anything like that, but he's not as terrible as the mass have panned him out to be. "},{"Title":"The Top 10% get richer, the rest can emigrate to Mexico","Date":"26 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Rather Prophetic regarding 2012 for a moovie made in 1994.This Dark Horse Comics movie has Van Damme, using his skills in a character driven role, rather than being a dead guy reanimated or playing against his twin self and beating himself up.I love Van Damme actually, and in this film he gets to act as well as do a few interesting personal injuries to various large thugs.In True Comic Book Fashion, this movie has several scenes of prequel - First, they show a scene taking place in the Civil War where a bandit- I think it's Callum Kieth Rennie - steals Confederate Gold. Then in the present day a group of senators meet and create an oversight committee for a law enforcement unit designed to protect the timeline. Then it's 1929 and the depression is starting, but one guy is doing well- Based on information he brought back from 2004! But then Van Damme shows up, kicks the guys bodyguards asses, and brings him back to the future as they tumble out of a 20th story window. Guy names who sent him back - But will not testify to it - And they return the crook to the same fall Van Damme saved him from, and S P L A T .And then there is a fourth scene which shows JCVD and his wife Mia Sara - This one a little longer than the others, in which he has just gotten a new job as a Timecop, gets called in, Crooks show up and try to kill him but kill his wife, Van Damme sees main crook Ron Silver, and Then It Blew Up.It is like, we had to read 4 Prequel Comic Books just to get to the beginning of the story. But That is OK by Me, cos I love Comic Books and most of the moovies made from them, even the original Captain American moovie made in the 80's.Peter Hyams does his usual job at directing a well thought out movie, written by the actual guys who made the comics. This was 1994, Jean-Luc Picard Van Damme still looked pretty good, and although by today's standards, the special effects might be labeled cheesy - for 1994 they were state of the art, and actually cool. Hyams never stretched beyond what he was able to do, always made good use of available techs. He was able to fake us out in several very Paul Verhooven-ish style violence scenes- Crook getting frozen and then breaking in half, Electrocutions, shootings, disintegrations, etc.The plot follows Van Damme and Bruce McGill (Jack Dalton from MacGuver) through several nightmare permutations of events in time- Until finally Van Damme helps Van Damme.And the ending is your typical Please God, Make it Never Happened thing.Seeing how this moovie actually is rated around 7/10 in the IMDb scale, that means it fared well with most people who see it.It's a good moovie, if you like moovies, the locations are great, the LOOK of the movie is interesting, the gadgets do not look like props stolen from Star Trek or purchased at Radio Shack, and there are a few very cool special effects. Plus, it is NON STOP action from practically the beginning. There is always something happening - As opposed to people sitting on couches talking like about 90% of the scenes in Star Wars eps I through III.I loved this moovie when it came out and I love it now. Trying to find it on at least DVD. "},{"Title":"'I saw Tyson beat Sphinx on TV'.....","Date":"10 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Absolutely wonderful high concept movie from start to finish. The story and the narrative hardly make any sense, but it's just the filming style and the performances from the rest of the cast that make it such fun to watch.Van Damme plays the titular character, arresting people who go back in time for profit. A senator is employing people to do this so that he can win in an election. What Van Damme doesn't know, is that because of his meddling, he sent back some bad guys ten years later to kill him and his wife. He got away, you can guess the rest.so after some trusty brainwaves and other strange stuff that really makes no sense, Van Damme goes back in time to try and save his wife, and not distress her by showing her his new mullet.The film is very clever, sometimes too clever for it's own good. There are so many good things about the story, in so many points in the film, it's a shame that the narrative let's the side down a little.In my opinion, Van Damme has never been better in this film (not counting JCVD), and is very well supported by thew rest of the cast. Silver is very slimy as the villain and deserves a good kicking whenever on screen, and Van Damme doesn't fail to deliver in the action stakes.The set pieces are well thought out and filmed expertly, never making a dull moment in the film. The explanations about the time travel in this film are kept to bare minimum, which is good, as the plot holes are gaping at points.The effects are not much to write home about, especially at the end.It's a great movie, which never get5s boring.well worth catching if you are a sci-fi fan. don't be too proud and avoid this because of the star, you are missing a treat. "},{"Title":"Time travelling butt kicker.","Date":"2 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Time travel is now a reality and with that comes opportunities for criminals to exploit to the maximum. The government sets up a special police force (T.E.C.) to ensure the new technology isn't abused. Enter Max Walker, a Timecop who upon learning of a corrupt politician's plot to become president, sets about doing all he can to stop him.Timecop did exactly what I wanted it to do, namely give me Jean-Claude Van Damme administering brutal violence in a sci-fi haze. It's a nice central premise with it's time travel plot, the sound and effects are fine within the genre, and Ron Silver on villain duties does a nice take in sleazy, corrupt politician verve. It's all set up for explosions, kills and a chance for Van Damme to show off his excellent line in splits, kicks and body punching tricks. Some weak acting exists of course, and only a fool could not know how it's all going to turn out in the end. But really, in the context of the genres it belongs too, and the leading man's career overview, Timecop delivers all it promised to do in the first place.I'm off to see if I can change the past right now. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Synchronise  Your Alarm Clock With The DVD","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, it's a Jean Claude Van-Damme movie, which is as much to say that it's crap.The 'Let's Go Back In Time And Meddle With History' concept has been tried so often as to be little more than hokum by now. From HG Wells' excellent 'Time Machine' (OK, he went forward), to the no less excellent 'Terminator' and 'Back To The Future'. At the turkey end of the spectrum we've had 'The Time Tunnel', the 'Time Machine' remake, and of course - this. In between, there's been our beloved and perennial 'Dr Who', 'Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure' and Gilliam's 'Time Bandits'. Screwing around in the past is big business for Hollywood.Van Damme is the ubiquitous cop with a grudge. His love interest got wasted by the villains. So now it's personal (surprise, surprise). I am trying to think of anyone or anything with less charisma than the Damn Van, and so far the only item that comes to mind is an 'Ikea' hat-stand that was vanquished to my local charity shop. A variety of other unmemorable B-movie players wander about in vague anticipation of their pay-cheques, coyly nibble their scripts, and steadfastly avoid outshining the 'star'. That's something they all accomplish with innate aplomb.This movie is a perfect vehicle for his abilities. It is shallow, simplistic, monosyllabic in script, and unimaginative in concept. As I say, time travel is such a well-worn idea that you've seen almost all of this movie piece-mealed before, and much better, in other features. There is absolutely nothing new here.In order to get through time, the travellers are shut into a sort of jet-on-rails that is accelerated through a big magnet-type-thing, at which point it vanishes into the past. Curiously, it doesn't accompany them there. They are disgorged spontaneously into ponds and other props (unfortunately, never anything hard) where they get about on foot. Yet somehow, when they return, they come back in the jet. Non of this is explained. Or if it is, perhaps I slept through the explanation. Neither is it made clear how their return is expedited, there being no big magnet-type-thing where they've gone. Presumably, the makers of this pap do not consider that those it might entertain would understand, benefit from, or need any explanation. There is Mr Van Damme, plenty of violence, some serious baddies, and a bit of sex. Sorted.I've given it 4 stars because there are some nicely constructed set-pieces and the sound engineers have done their work. So it's a pat on the back for the people we can't see, and a big raspberry for those we can.I don'y think there's much point in discussing it further. If you like it you'll probably be indifferent to objective evaluation. Whereas if you watch with a critical eye, you'll soon find that organ closing. Some commentators have claimed that it's Van Damme's best movie. Perhaps it is; but how do you tell? His stuff is so bad it makes Steven Segal seem like a thinking man's hero.Definitely not recommended - unless you have an alarm clock. "}{"Title":"Goofy Fun","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I love time travel movies.  This one is great fun. With the exception of Hard Target this is Jean-Claude's only decent film.  He is a better actor than Segal, which isn't saying much. But this is pure fun. Decent direction and cool effects. Besides, how can you not like a movie Produced by Raimi and Tapert! "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What's amazing is that the producers decided to go ahead with making this movie. The one consolation is that I have now vowed never to watch anything with Jean-Claude van Spam in it ever again. 1/10 (Mia Sara sex scene warrants several points, otherwise this could have been a negative score) "},{"Title":"A highly enjoyable sci fi actioner","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I first saw this a couple of years ago and thought it was just a routine action film but when i saw it again i thought it was a highly enjoyable sci fi actioner like Sudden Death and Hard Target its on a bigger budget and is of a much higher quality than most van damme films. Its not that i don't enjoy some of his other stuff because i do its just its nice to see action vehicles with a brain, a talented supporting cast and better special effects. The story is based around Max Walker a cop who works for a special unit who police time, Walker is trying to catch a crooked senator named mcomb while at the same time goes back 10 years to save his wife from being murdered. Timecop is great fun boasting some fantastic fights and special effects and  a great bad guy played superbly by Ron Silver he has some great 1 liners and steals a lot of the scenes hes in. I've noticed people saying how violent it is i'm denying its violent but its not a heavy 18 and its mainly just punch ups and guns this really does make me wonder if you think this is violent how are you going to stomach Robocop. "},{"Title":"Fun action fluff","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Great little no-brainer for a rainy day. Van Damme is just fine as a future cop trying to undo the murder of his wife. Has some good time-travel effects and logic gimmicks. I also personally think that running the classic 60s song Time Won't Let Me by The Outsiders over the closing credits is the best single cinematic use of a familiar pop tune in years. "},{"Title":"The Jean Claude Van Damme movie for those that hate him.","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sure, Jean Claude isn't going to be seen at the Academy Awards any time soon - but this film is good enough to get past him.Excellent time travel flick - it would come up more points ahead if they had put a bit more historic emphasis on the movie.  As it stands, though - it is quite good.  If you've seen the TV show and figured that it is bad enough to keep you from seeing the movie it was based on - give 'em a break and watch the original movie.Great blend of sci-fi and action with a pretty decent story line.  Even Jean Claude does good enough to forget he's in it. )Unlimited plot possibilities could have brought several unrelated sequels - it is a shame the TV show didn't live up to it. "},{"Title":"Great mix of Sci-fi, Action. Van Damme does a great job","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one great movie. This is a movie I would watch every time it came on HBO. Van Damme does great work here, many people tend to pan his acting as too wooden. Number one, who goes to a Van Damme movie to watch his acting skills? Number two, I think he does act better than most people give him credit for (relatively speaking of course, you wouldn't catch me saying this about him in Street Fighter). His problem is that hellacious accent he has to overcome!The story is compelling. the special effects are wonderful (just where does the time machine go when they arrive in the past?). Ron Silver does a good job as the evil smart ass presidential wannabe. All in all good entertainment "},{"Title":"Ten to Ten","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Simply put, I dig this cop. A friend of mine wrote this film, before his death. Based on a comic book following. I think, even with the regular mode of acting that Mr. Van Damme has, this was on the level as well as an over the edge thriller! The story I loved, with the turn in plot etc, etc, but I found this as many times as I have seen it is still a movie that can glue me to my seat. It is always a wild ride, with one Hell of a punch! I like the fact that our hero loves his wife and family, (in the end with the family). He is a solid character to lean on. He is honest and true to his work and dealing with the criminal element. This was and still is a hard driving story, that's why it was in 1994, Number One at the Box Office. Again however, Peter Hyams, the director and visionary-creative force, has a way with his characters, in shooting scenes, the way the light is brought about from the foreground and the back drop and everything in between. I passed on a chance to meet Mr.Hyams, at a friends house, in Summerland Ca, back in 1994. What an idiot I was! I don't believe too much time goes by that I don't want to kick myself in my own ass for passing up the chance to meet a master craftsman, in the arena of Hollywood film. This action drama doesn't let down! It is a knock-down drag-out festival of action maneuvering and intellectual willing against a stronger more powerful force than himself(Max). I fully enjoyed Bruce McGill as commander Matuzak, the lead guy in charge. I thought that was a different pick then I would have cast in the beginning, but he was actually better than I imagined! He seems to have an air of craziness, and civility together that works out in the part that he is playing. Max Walker, (Van Damme) was a likable guy I think and that's what gives the film more appeal to the masses. He is someone you want to root for, again and again.I recommend this thriller action drama, for action and good twisted plot- lovers.(****) "},{"Title":"Very good action/Scifi movie.","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I do not agree that those two scenes make some sort of porn. Neither do make they problem to young fans. It is pretty mild nudity/romantic and are no problem for everybody. I personally watched it with my two teenager boys and did not find any shame. Only narrow-minded puritans find that little amount of nudity/sexuality as PORN and harmful. (Are there any open-minded puritans? Rhetoric question).Other then arguing with other comments, I can provide some arguments for this movie. First of all, this is very nicely done plot. Secondly, very good acting. Thirdly, wonderful final. Fourthly, very good action scenes. Fifth,... "},{"Title":"one of the classic movies van damme made which gave him box office credibility","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  TIMECOP and HARD TARGET are two films that redefined jean Claude Van Damme. TIMECOP is essentially a action adventure love story about a man tied to a time travel police force who must violate orders against changing the past to save his wife. The film works in a science fiction and action adventure genre belief suspension..in other words the audience did not walk out. TIMECOP was a hit at the box office and became extremely popular on home video. The films appeal was the CITY ON THE EDGE OF FOREVER style story mixed with action and adventure. The film uses technological time travel via a machine to get the main character from the future to the past to stop a time traveling villian. Other films have used a supernatural or remote viewing style mind warp which does not often work for audiences the way it did in SOMEWHERE IN TIME. Audiences generally have a hard time swallowing time travel stories without a physical machine. Real life attempts at spiritualism time warps are daffy and stupid and require a exorcist. In fiction anything goes I guess. The problem with tv shows and movies doing spiritualism time warps is that the spiritualism affects the mind and memories..there is no matter/anti matter transference there for...time travel is impossible except in fiction and is doubly impossible and unprofitable nine times out of ten if you don't have a machine in the yarn. (the exception being somewhere in time) TIMECOP is by no stretch a academy award winning movie yet, was aimed at action audiences and science ficition fans. With high production and story telling values the subject matter is handled with expert care and craft. The title character was played by vandamme with a charisma not usually seen in a action movie. Instead of being forgetable this film becomes memorable. Fans of action will like this film enough and want to buy or rent it.  "},{"Title":"Second time around this film is better.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was not to crazy when I saw this film the first time.  Wow the second time I found the time travel cool.  This film is cool when one looks at the plot twists.  Not the greatest of action flicks, but a lot better then most. Watch it twice if you rent it and you will catch a few extra things. "}{"Title":"Cool","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a kick ass good movie. Van Damme doesn't suck at all, he does a great role!!! This movie has the action the humour and the science fiction. This video you got to owe. I am not going to write more about it cause others have. But if you want good action, dont wait go buy it now!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"a very good movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Van Damme doing the splitz on the frig has 2 be 1 of the best action scenes he has ever done. Anyway, VD'S wife is killed & in the future there is a way 2 go back in time so he goes into the future trying 2 save her. He crosses paths with bad guy-R. Silver. Great action & there is a sex scene too-geez. The ending is cool with the 2 *. ******'s. Its directed  byPeter Hymas(END OF DAYS, THE RELIC & SUDDEN DEATH). Maybe he should re-team with VD 2 make a horror movie. that would b a change but it would b cool 2 see VD in a horror movie. "},{"Title":"Van Damn this movie...","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There isn't much to say about TIMECOP that hasn't been said before.  I must admit that this film has devised the most pragmatic situation (to date) that allows Van Damme to perform his famed splits.  I never thought I would see a film where it was not gratuitously blatant or forced.  I am speaking, of course, of the fight sequence in the kitchen, where he avoids electrocution by the means detailed above; it is simply exceptional work.  Kudos to Michael Richardson who wrote the screenplay and to Peter Hyams for his powerful direction of this scene.  A special credit goes to Jean-Claude Van Damme, who has remained limber enough after years of opulent living, still able to position his legs at a straight angle for all the world to ponder.  Truly, poetry in motion.The scene where Van Damme does the splits real good like 10/10; the incredulous film overall 3/10.  "},{"Title":"My favourite film of all-time!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't ask me why, but this is my favourite film of all-time.  The story is excellent, as is Jean-Claude's acting.  I've always been interested in what would happen if you had a made a different choice in certain situations, this film tackles that brilliantly.  What more can I say - EXCELLENT!!! "},{"Title":"All-Encompassing","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Peter Hyams has been making notable film ever since 1978, by notable I mean films pertaining to a particular genre which he has stuck to ever since.  My review here is less a meditation of Timecop and more a look at how Hyams' work is never original and often winds up being poor imitations or self-referential.Capricorn One introduces us to the whole paranoid conspiracy plot with many holes in the script and some pretty bad casting.  It also attempts to make a statement about the use of technology in faking history.  These elements are all present in Timecop.Outland and 2010 further his attempt in futuristic actions.  While the 2004 presented in Timecop is certainly far from the 2004 we know, it does bear many similarities to Hyams' prior hardware-obsession films.  For the record, True Lies and Blackhawk Down are also hardware movies--soulless.  It's also interesting how, before James Cameron, Hyams was trying to create the contemporary sci-fi film without the intervention of the space opera element.  Needless to say, he's not as sophisticated as Cameron--if you want to label him as such.End of Days, the Relic, and the Musketeer all further in Hyams' rather self-destructive course into less and less intelligent film (if he was ever intelligent to start with) and I can guarantee his next works will be bargain-bin only material.  He is making the same movie over and over and only tries to make difference by recasting and swapping elements.Timecop not only infuses the techie aspects of the Back to the Future and Terminator movies, but strips itself of the human elements that made the other two series better.  JC-VD is not an expressive actor since his only asset is physical control.  Bruce Lee knew he was an inferior actor so he stuck to his moves, Van Damme doesn't.Overall, this is Hyams where he should stay, the low-budget sci-fi/action field, because he can't rise to anything else.  As a filmmaker all around, I give him 2 out of 5 stars.  Same for this movie.   "},{"Title":"Van Damme as we want to see Him","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't at all a bad movie, though the plot has some minor faults.The acting is quite decent actually.This movie is about a cop travelling in time to wipe out the ever increasing problem of time crime. It's a very emotional movie where a lot of scenes moved me to tears.Go see this movie if you want sci-fi packed with drama and action. I highly recommend it to anyone. Don't rent it, buy it. "},{"Title":"Good comic book fun","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of those full-speed films in which Van Damme's wooden acting has no chance to get in the way. Really good science fiction effort, with good time travel twists and turns, and few of the grotesque plot holes that movies like this are subject to. Other than two entirely gratuitous sex scenes, this would be a great choice for young sf fans -- but those two scenes (both early in the film) turn a comic book into porn. A real shame.  "},{"Title":"Sneak Peek at the bottom of the barrel","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as Van Damme movies go, this isn't that bad.  When he doesn't have to actually act too much (like Bloodsport), he's watchable.As far as movies about time travel go, this movie ranks right down there with the bottom.  Not only is it less feasible then other movies like Terminator and even Back to the Future, the movie contradicts itself too many times considering how short it is.As far as all movies go, don't waste your money, unless you're a huge Van Damme fan.  The action is good.  But a so-so plot, sub-par acting, and amateur directing make this movie very forgettable. "},{"Title":"the Van Damme splits","Date":"4 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Time travel is invented. Going forward is impossible but going back can be catastrophic. The government creates the Time Enforcement Commission to police time travel. Someone has already got back to steal gold from the Confederacy in 1863. Senator McComb (Ron Silver) volunteers to be the oversight. Policeman Max Walker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is attacked at home and his wife Melissa (Mia Sara) is caught when their house explodes. Ten years later, he travels back to 1929 to apprehend his ex-partner Lyle Atwood trying to cash in on the market. Atwood tells him that McComb is the organizer trying to get money for his run for the Presidency. Matuzak (Bruce McGill) is his supervisor. Sarah Fielding (Gloria Reuben) from internal affairs is assigned his new partner.There is something wrong with the plot but my head hurts trying to figure it out. It is more ambitious writing than Van Damme's other movies. It is not quite sharp enough. The things that we love Van Damme for is the fights. There are plenty of his splits and his kicks. At times, I would rather have a simpler movie and concentrate on Van Damme's strengths.I think the problem starts with Matuzak saying that Max's word isn't enough and yet somehow with Sarah, that's enough to put McComb in prison. And why would Sarah flip on McComb? Wouldn't it be easier to kill Max when he was born? I'm sure McComb could find Max's birth certificate. It's not the logic of time travel that bugs me but the logic of characters' actions that are more problematic. "},{"Title":"Nevermind, it's awesome.","Date":"27 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you exert any mental effort on the (quantum) mechanics of Timecop, you're asking for trouble. Hell, on the movie as a whole. The fight scenes are iffy, and it's got more holes than a donut shop. And the one-liners are so tacky (except for Ron Silver's; that psycho owns his dialogue).And yet . . .I totally dig this movie, very much in that caught it last night on cable sort of way. All of its foibles seem to work in glorious spite of themselves. I found myself invested in Van Damme's storyline and I love how he solves problems by doing the splits. And his European ubermensch somehow fits in with a scifi/political paranoia actioner. This shouldn't work nearly as well as it does, and I can only hope that time doesn't change that.7/10 And hellooooo, Mia Sara. "}{"Title":"TImecop","Date":"13 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A cohesive story line, a well-developed plot, and an often naked Jean-Claude Van Damm; well, I guess one for three isn't a total waste. Actually, it almost is when the one achieved you could find copies of in a magazine and hardly need to watch a film to see. I had high hopes for Timecop based on friends who spoke excitedly of the film. Not knowing what to expect, having never seen a Van Damm flick, I took their word for it; and yes, I am evaluating my friendships. What could have been a fun innovative story line turned out to be a forgettable disappointment that is Timecop.Our story begins, just for moments, in the familiar old west as we see a time traveler vaporize union soldiers transporting gold, which gives us a hint of just how long this time traveling device has been in effect. Obviously time travel has been perfected and used however a society sees fit. That's where our hero comes in, working for a security agency who exploits time travel to go back in time and prevent crimes from being committed. Criminals have become adept in their illegal conquests and often use time travel to alter the time line to further enhance their criminal activity. When Walker (Van Damm) is told by a former co-worker that the Senator (Ron Silver) in charge of the Time Enforcement Commission is abusing power and time travel for his own game, he begins keeping an eye on him. One evening, after a night in with his wife, and just before she tells him some big news, Melissa (Mia Sara) Walker is called away to work and upon him heading out, his wife is killed, and his house bombed to the ground. Spending the next 10 years grieving, and watching Senator McComb, Walker attempts to arrange the perfect plan to thwart his wife's killing and save the future.Where does one begin with a critique for this film? For one thing, the movie's established method of time travel is heavily flawed. In this film's world, one cannot explore the future because it hasn't happened yet, characters can only travel into the past. The problem with this is, however, that once the individual leaves their present for the past, the present becomes the future. Since the present turns into the future, this should mean that once the individual is in the past, they would have no way to return to their present. Another problem with the film is molecular biology. According to the plot, the same matter cannot occupy the same space-which becomes very important later in the film. The problem is, even the same person from two different dimensions of time, is not composed of the same matter they were years in the past. The human body is largely made up of water, which is constantly replaced, cell repair that is continuously taking place, with the functioning of the human body there would exist none of the same matter creating an obvious plot hole. Anyway, enough plot holes in the film to make it look like one of the walls shot up on screen, I surely won't be seeing it again anytime soon.I'm not sure who to recommend this film to. I'm sure action fans will like it, if they have a bent for sci-fi works as well. Fans of Jean-Claude Van Damm would certainly find the film enjoyable. There is always a suspension of disbelief that goes along with watching a film; Timecop requires not just a suspension of disbelief, but a suspension of memory and intelligence as well. It's difficult for one to keep up with a film that is constantly changing its own premise, and that is not an exercise I wish to perfect. "},{"Title":"Best Van Damme Sci-Fi-Action comic book classic film!","Date":"30 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Disclaimer If you are a viewer that mainly prefers art-house-type movies, then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able to take a few sci-fi leaps of faith, ignore this review, as well. We'll both be better off.Timecop (1994) is my favorite Van Damme action sci-fi classic! Just Like Sylvester Stallone's Judge Dredd, Van Damme's Timecop is very Underrated action sci-fi flick ever. One of my favorite and serious Van Damme's roles in this film. Great travel time, great action, great villains and great story. I love the fighting sequences as well. One of my favorite action movie flicks till this days. It was directed from Peter Hyams who become a good friend with Van Damme and a year later he directed Sudden Death with Van Damme. He was the only one of the directors who come visit Van Damme in hospital after he got injured. His son years later directed two Universal Soldier film sequels. I love this movie to death and it is my 6th favorite best Van Damme movie.What I meant in the top written to take a few sci-fi leaps of faith This movie involves time travel about a cop who travels from 2004 to 1994 and try's to prevent the death of his wife and change the future. It does involve travel into the past, so it immediately presents a time-travel paradox which can't really be resolved. Timecop (1994) is very underrated film, there was a sequel and a short-lived ABC series. I watched the sequel without Van Damme in it and the sequel sucked. In here you have nice realistic martial arts and action. You have a lot of explosions and it also involves conspiracy. Ron Silver did an excellent joy playing a villain in this movie as Senator McComb. Mia Sara was absolutely wonderful as Max's (Van Damme's) wife Melissa.Timecop is more classic. Half-n-half sci-fi/action films get lost beneath pure action and pure sci-fi but Timecop is top shelf. This was another childhood movie. I actually rented on a VHS tape in the 90's my parents paid me for the VHS tape so I could watch this movie. I like this movie a lot. I have it on Blu-ray in my Van Damme collection. I have grew up with this movie and it was a hit in 1994 when it was released out. Today I love it so much. The film is a lot smarter than people give it credit for. I also think Van Damme definitely deserves some credit for his non-action scenes in this film, but I suppose his performance in this film will always be remembered for that splits scene. The movie it self has a good look, action and effects and very good acting performance by Van Damme, you really feel bad for him and want to see him kick bad guys asses. Also I think that this movie has Van Damme's best hairstyle. That mullet Is the best he ever had, not the one in Hard Target. And yes, this movie, like many other Van Damme classics deserves a special edition.Not only this movie is my favorite best Van Damme movie, it is one of those movies that you watch over and over again and never gets tiring﻿. A lot of my friends that I know in real life, loves this movie. Someone said it is even the best one. Honestly this is the third time Van Damme played in a science fiction movie. The first time was in cyborg (1989) and the second time was in Universal Soldier. I never really liked Cyborg, but I absolutely love this movie. The action sequences where amazing, the fight scenes and Van Damme martial arts where very realistic. I always enjoy watching Timecop. I enjoy the story, the concept and the action. I think this film is beginning, to get a bad wrap from the general audience. like oh it is cheesy. oh its a guilty pleasure at best that's stupid! This film deserves a special edition in some way.Timecop is a 1994 science fiction action film that is an adaptation of a Dark Horse Comics graphic novel series. Set in the then-future year of 2004 where the power of time travel has been discovered, the film stars Jean-Claude Van Damme as a government agent working for the Time Enforcement Commission, an American law enforcement agency that must utilize this newfound science to catch criminals who have gone into the past to commit crimes. The film was directed by Peter Hyams, who would also direct Van Damme in 1995's Sudden Death. The film would spawn a DTV sequel as well as a short-lived ABC series.That is the more or less basic plot, In order to even try watching this movie, you MUST LOOK PAST THE PARADOX. If you don't, this movie has zero credibility, and is not worth your time. The paradox in leap faith of this movie is also that works so well and fits with the story. Jean-Claude Van Damme was great. In my opinion, this was one of his best performances. I also liked the opening scene and the scene in which he goes back to 1929 to arrest his partner.10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio Universal Pictures, Warner Home Video, Largo Entertainment JVC Entertainment, Dark Horse Entertainment, Renaissance Pictures Starring Jean-Claude Van Damme, Mia Sara, Ron Silver, Bruce McGill, Gloria Reuben, Scott Bellis, Jason Schombing, Scott Lawrence, Kenneth Welsh, Brad Loree, Kevin McNulty, Gabrielle Rose, Steven Lambert Director Peter Hyams Producers Moshe Diamant, Sam Raimi, Robert Tapert Screenplay Mark Verheiden Story by Mike Richardson, Mark Verheiden Based on Timecop by Mike Richardson, Mark Verheiden Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 38 Mins. Budget $27.000.000 Box Office $101,646,581 "},{"Title":"Loved it!!!!!","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my all time favorite time travel movie. it is a little confusing, hard to keep up with at certain times, but still a great time travel movie. Ron Silverman is great as the all time bad guy and the action scenes are really good. I love time travel movies anyway but this one is a great one, in my opinion. One of the things that do not make any sense is why Van Damme did not go back in time sooner to save his wife - that part i don't understand and the movie does not really address that. But anyway if you love time travel movies - this one is a good one to watch. Van Damme gets his revenge in the end with the demise of all of the bad guys and i love the parts where he kicks the S out of all of them and blows them away. Well worth watching. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"23 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's a rare occurrence, but once in a while, a film is made that is way ahead of it's time, too far ahead of it's time, and Timecop is one of those films. Had it been made in the error of CGI, this film would have been so much better. The story is strong, a lot stronger than the performances, and the use of some crazy special effects would have taken it over the top, but those weren't available in 1994. The result is a slightly above average film, with a really cool plot, and not much else. The story follows Max Walker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) whose job is to stop people from using illegal time travel technology, in order to change the past. Changing the past can drastically change the present, and is often abused by criminals trying to get wealth and power. One of those men is U.S. Senator McComb (Ron Silver), who has his eye on the Presidency. Walker must go back in time to stop McComb and expose him, before he can reshape the country in his own image. I love time oriented Science Fiction, as the story can take you on a magical trip all throughout history, like nothing else can. In this film, they didn't travel as much as they should have, and the technology and effects behind time travel were so basic, that it's hard to buy that this could ever work. Jean-Claude Van Damme stars and we all know that I see him as one of these brawn over brains guys, that only get work because of their looks and their fancy movies. Van Damme wasn't bad, but this is a film that had real potential, and simply using an average star, contributes to the overall sentiment of the film. Timecop is a great story, and in my opinion is something that could really work if it is re-made properly. It's not because the film is bad, it's just not a good as it should have been. If you're a Sci-Fi fan, I definitely recommend it, but if it's not your favorite genre, you might want to skip this one. "},{"Title":"Classic Van Damme action scenes!","Date":"22 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the future year of 2004, time travel is possible. But since the future has not happened yet, travelers can only go back in time. Because baddies want to go back in time to commit crimes, a new government agency, the Time Enforcement Commission, is formed to prevent and police criminal actions by people who travel in time. Max Walker (Van Damme) is chosen to be part of the TEC team. But since a bunch of thugs attacked and killed his beloved wife Melissa (Sara), Walker has hit the bottle and is living in the past, lamenting his lost love. But it hasn't prevented him from being a top timecop, and his incorruptible nature has caught the ire of a very formidable foe, Senator McComb (Silver). McComb has his eye on the presidency, and all the millions of dollars it takes to get there, and is willing to do anything to achieve his power-hungry goals. When Fielding (Reuben) enters the picture, things get even more complicated. Can Walker stop McComb, other time-baddies, and possibly even time-rescue his wife in the process? Find out today&#x85; It's really no surprise as to why Timecop is one of the most popular and well-known Van Damme titles. It's a completely mainstream, professionally-made product that contains thought-provoking ideas as well as classic Van Damme action scenes. JCVD gets all the best lines (90's one-liners at their best), and the movie is as solid a piece of entertainment as you're likely to find. Director Peter Hyams would re-team with Van Damme the next year for Sudden Death (1995), and is the father of John Hyams, who is a brilliant director in his own right, known for working with JCVD in Universal Soldier Regeneration (2009), Universal Soldier Day of Reckoning (2012), and Dragon Eyes (2012). So the bloodline continues.Timecop also qualifies as one of our favorite items, a movie that takes place in the future which is now the past, in this case 2004. Max Walker's powerful mullet must have been reassuring for viewers in 1994 to see, knowing they would still be fashionable ten years into the future. But were they fashionable in 1994? Regardless, Walker is the type of guy who tells purse-snatchers to read between the lines on his boot, and that's good enough for us. Of course, Van Damme does more than one split, including one that saves his life, in an attempt to show viewers that they ARE necessary to constantly do, dammit.This also qualifies as one of many movies in which there are two Van Dammes. As we always say, it must have been in his contract. The great Ron Silver was perfectly cast as the smug politician/baddie (hey, aren't they one and the same?) His car even has the license plate SENATE, thus broadcasting to the world he's an evil megalomaniac to be reckoned with. Add to Silver and Van Damme the beautiful Mia Sara, some sax on the soundtrack, the time-honored warehouse fight, and the fact that the special effects are all wonderfully pre-CGI, and you have a winner that trumps the lackluster competitor Stargate (1994) in just about every way. And it wouldn't be a 90's sci-fi movie without at least a little bit of VR. VR was huge in the 90's. It found its way into movies like this, which don't even really deal with VR. In the 90's, VR was the future.Also slated to be the future back then were minidisc players, and surely Timecop must be one of the only movies in history to feature one. Speaking of music, songs on the soundtrack include Does Anybody Really Know What Time It Is and Time Won't Let Me, in that case covered by The Smithereens, and multiple shots of clocks get the viewers' minds in the right space to appreciate the time-y goings-on.In all, Timecop is a very well-written, well-directed, and just all-around well-made film. You've probably already seen it, but it certainly stands up to repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"It's about Damme time!!!","Date":"29 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1994, a bespectacled dude proposes the creation of a covert time travel agency to a committee of senators. He explains the complexities of time travel in a way you have likely never considered. It turns out if you go back in time and you change something, it's serious! It's like throwing a stone in the water, causing ripples. Only the ripples are in time. Is your mind blown yet? The senator's response, How much is this gonna cost? The economy is bad right now. Ten years later, we're in the ultra-futuristic era of 2004, where we have smart cars, a prominent white supremacy party and the automated voices on answering machines are more sultry and sexy than ever. But not as sexy as Van Damme flexing his ass cheeks on a kitchen counter while he evades a super high-tech tazer gun. Van Damme plays Walker Time Ranger, a mulletman with a broken heart who is tasked with going after self-proclaimed Harvard visionary villain McComb. McComb is a time bandit with a penchant for talking to himself. If you haven't seen the movie yet, you won't realize that's a joke. Things go bang, things go boom and a bad guy's arm gets shattered a la T-1000 in Terminator 2. Walker's in a fight against time. And if there's anyone who can kick a clock's ass, you can bet it's Van Damme. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable Van Damme vehicle.","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ever likable Jean-Claude Van Damme high kicks his way through this twisty and interesting futuristic sci-fi action thriller. He plays Max Walker, a cop who becomes part of an elite security force that polices time travel, which has become a reality. As can be expected, there are extremely unscrupulous types who seek nothing more than self gain when it comes to time travel, and typifying this behaviour is rotten, nasty, greedy S.o.B. senator Aaron McComb (Ron Silver, every bit the slick sleaze ball). Some interesting concepts here, and enough opportunity for Van Damme to show off his abilities, although the action is actually in service of the plot for once, the story being based on a comic book series. Director Peter Hyams (who would reunite with Van Damme for the following years' Sudden Death) often lights scenes in his typical not-particularly-well-lit fashion, but he and a first rate crew still keep this movie racing forward quite effectively. With Van Dammes' character having to deal with a tragedy he would like to prevent, this adds some pathos to his character and allows him the chance to stretch himself more than usual. Silver is perfectly cast as his dapper nemesis, even if the role is pretty one-note and not exactly subtle. Mia Sara, probably best known as the title characters' girlfriend in Ferris Bueller's Day Off, looks lovely and is quite appealing. Gloria Reuben is sexy in a key supporting role, while solid character players like Bruce McGill and Kenneth Welsh have their moments. The story, much like any that deals with the whole idea of time travel, probably wouldn't hold up to much scrutiny, but the movie is a good entertainment that features some very impressive special effects, stunts, and sets, appropriately thuggish henchmen for our bad guy to employ and for our good guy to tussle with, and some highly amusing moments (such as a thug getting his arm frozen and then smashed to bits). Oh, and the viewers are treated to the sight of Van Damme doing the splits to avoid electrocution. Atmospherics are palpable; important scenes take place in the rain so there's often that feel of real gloom. A fun diversion from start to finish. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi/Action Flick!","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jean-Claude Van Damme, Ron Silver, Mia Sara, Gloria Reuben and Bruce McGill star in this 1994 sci-fi/action film based on the Dark Horse comics. Van Damme (Bloodsport) plays future cop, Max Walker who lost his murdered wife, Melissa (Sara) 10 years ago. He's also part of a time-travel program, T.E.C. (Time Enforcement Commission) ran by his friend & captain, Eugene Matuzak (McGill). Max learns that a corrupt senator, Aaron McComb (Silver) is using the program to make money for his campaign. Max also learns that McComb is behind Melissa's death and is now planning to go back in time to kill him. Max travels to the past to stop him and also tries to save Melissa from repeating death. Reuben (ER) plays Internal Affairs agent, Sarah Fielding who works with Max. Van Damme is great in this, I think it's one of his best and Silver was a good villain as usual. I recommend this good sci-fi/action flick. "},{"Title":"Ron Silver is a great villain!","Date":"4 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ron Silver is a great villain, he always is and this movie is maybe the best example of how he can look like a scummy sleaze bag villain without even having to say anything.It is a typical Van Damme movie in many ways with decent fight scenes and a thin unbelievable plot, of course like in most time travel type movies there are a ton of plot holes you could drive a time travelling car through.Van Damme is good and I expected this to be a terrible movie but as far as Van Damme movies go it is probably one of the best and most fun. Not gonna win any awards or anything but definitely a decent way to waste a couple of hours, Ron Silver is amazing. "},{"Title":"Van Damme's best? Highly disagree!","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" As far as Van Damme movies go this one is supposed to be one of his very best. And his most successful at the box office. But I always considered it to be quite overrated. Director Peter Hyams does an okay job here but I preferred his film with Van Damme the following year - SUDDEN DEATH. C'mon! DIE HARD in a hockey arena! What's not to love?! Anything that even remotely is associated with DIE HARD is automatic success in my book. But here we have time travel. Which, while perhaps an interesting concept (if done right, which it's not in this case), is not quite as exciting as a DIE HARD scenario - where a lone hero takes down a slew of mercs headed by Powers Boothe and even beats up an 8-foot Penguin in the process.Anyhoo, back to this story. Time travel is always a tricky subject to tackle and plot holes are bound to be aplenty. But in this movie the plot holes are soooooo huge that you could fly a jumbo jet through. A film about time travel that I really liked and that actually had me thinking about it long after the film finished was Tony Scott's DEJA VU. But TIMECOP is not that film. Here it's just a plot device where the main focus is for Jean-Claude to cause as much Van-Damage as possible to the baddies. The film has some entertainment value but it's middle-of-the-pack Van Damme as far as I'm concerned. Believe it or not I actually had more fun with DOUBLE TEAM. Crazy, I know. Also DOUBLE IMPACT, UNIVERSAL SOLDIER, DEATH WARRANT, MAXIMUM RISK, and HARD TARGET I thought were superior.I did enjoy Ron Silver's performance as the villain though. He had a bit of a psychotic streak coursing through him. A powerful politician who tends to have psychotic breakouts from time to time. I love the scene where he's riding in his futuristic limo (?) and his adviser questions one of his decisions which prompts Silver to grab the man's head and slam it against the wall of the limo, causing the man's face to get all bloody. Then Silver just calmly resumes munching on his pistachios. Funny stuff!! "}{"Title":"Beam Me Up, Jean-Claude!!!","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A slick but shallow science fiction saga about time travel, Time Cop casts European kickboxing sensation Jean-Claude Van Dame as the eponymous hero. He finds himself locked into a life and death struggle with a corrupt politician who wants to be president by stealing gold from the past to fund his future. Running Scared director Peter Hyams endows this actionner with a modicum of sophistication that it would not otherwise possess. The transitions between the different times and places that our hero visits in the past is handled with some finesse. These transitions appear like literally a watery ripple in time. One neat feat is having our hero materialize on a highway just as an 18-wheeler rampages over him. The American Civil War prologue, set in Gainesville, Georgia in 1863, gets things off to a brisk start. A lone individual armed with those laser-sighted, sub-machine pistols halts a Confederate gold detail and invites them to give him gold destined for General Lee. The outcome of the confrontation is cool! Afterward, Hyams and Timecop comic book creator Mark Verheiden take us to the Great Wall Street Crash of 1929 and then they confine the standard-issue action to a ten year period. Since the film was released in 1994, they have leaped the action about a decade ahead with some of the ugliest looking futuristic cars in the world. Production designer Phillip Harrison doesn't make any of the technology look interesting, and this weakens Timecop. Mind you,this Dark House comic adaptation is nothing but formula with Van Damme lending his agile physical presence, while Ron Silver makes a worthwhile adversary with a ring of formidable henchmen at his disposal. Nobel Laureate Dr. Hans Kleindast, who helped the country during the space program, has perfected time travel, and a Senate committee is tasked with supervising it and keeping it sealed in secrecy. Senator McComb (Ron Silver of Silent Rage) volunteers to head the committee. Afterward,he promptly takes advantage of time travel to finance his presidential campaign. Along the way, McComb and his thuggish ruffians kill Melissa (Mia Sara of Ferris Bueller's Day Off), the wife of T.E.C cop Max Walker (Jean-Claude Van Damme of Universal Soldier) and then blow his house to smithereens. Talk about a spectacular fireball explosion! The bad guys kick him to a pulp and then blast him twice in the chest at point blank range. Of course, Max recovers because he was wearing a bullet-proof vest. Of course, Hyams and Verheiden have to brief us on the parameters of time travel, and they don't depart drastically from the usual formula. Presidential adviser Spoda (Scott Lawrence of Ruby) provides the basics about time travel and the threat the such technology poses to America. Now, you can't go forward, because the future hasn't happened yet. However, you can go back and that's where things get real tricky. Turns out, if you go back and change something, it's serious. It could be catastrophic. Like throwing a stone in a lake, and it causes ripples in the water. Only,they're ripples in time. So you can't go back and kill Hitler, must as we'd like to, because for all we known it could cause a chain reaction of events that could alter or else destroy mankind. Director Peter Hyams explores similar ground later in his film A Sound of Thunder, based on the classic Ray Bradbury short story. Later, we learn that unless you approach yourself in the same time setting and actually touch yourself, you can survive being in the same place. The fear that the U.S. President has is that terrorists will use time travel as a portal to commit murder and sabotage the past. The clash between a lowly cop and an aspiring presidential candidate seems like pretty low stakes. Perhaps this is all that the budget could accommodate. Evil Dead helmer Sam Raimi is listed as one of the producers. Van Damme makes a believable and often vulnerable hero. Sara stands around looks sexy but helpless. Van Damme and she share a steamy bedroom sex scene. The fights aren't anything to write home about, but the Muscles from Brussels performs his signature butt-split posture to avoid being electrocuted by a villain. Hyams served as his own cinematographer and he lenses the action so that it looks very polished. Composer Mark Ishim provides a powerful orchestral score that enhances the sometimes abrasive action. Character actor Bruce McGill plays Van Damme's sympathetic boss. Gloria Reuben plays another Timecop and she bears a strong resemblance to Rae Dawn Chong. Altogether, as a sci-fi crime melodrama, Timecop qualifies as strictly average. The use of the Chicago hit song Does Anybody Know What Time It is in the first modern scene is imaginative. "},{"Title":"A Memorable Entertainer from the mid 90's...","Date":"17 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Peter Hyams has always been a decent storyteller and his body of work proves that. 'Timecop' makes it up as his finest work so far, it's entertainment at it's best! Van Damme ruled then and it's always a pleasure watching the movies of his long-gone 'Heyday'! 'Timecop' is a science fiction thriller, that promises escapism and delivers it in abundance. Don't look for logic in this Time-Travel fare and I assure you you'll have a correct blast! The film has a crispy script that has been executed well, the climax, especially, is excellent.Van Damme is a legend when it comes to Stunts & Grace. 'Timecop' would've have flopped if it had any-other guy playing the part he did. Van Damme is the biggest reason behind the major-success of the film, oh man what a treat he was to watch! There is not much left to review, I sum up by saying If you haven't watched 'Timecop' yet, then watch as soon as possible. And for those who think Van Damme never deserved the stardom, watch this film and you'll get a good enough answer. Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Van time trivial","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just saw this, and I didn't like it. One day it could be funny to watch all the Van Damme movies, and this is surely another episode in his oeuvre but it was pretty weak and pretty much a waste of time. It seems like Van Damme strayed from the pure path of Budo and martial arts, and movies such as this one does not use his potential in a good way. The new JCVD says a lot about Van Damme and who he really is, and to be quite frank, he was just wasting his time to make movies like Time Cop. It's OK to watch if you are a Van Damme fan, just to see him, but there's really no other reason to watch it. I thought it was pretty stupid actually. "},{"Title":"(Very) stupid, but nifty and fun.","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my first introduction to Jean Claude Van Damme. What I saw in Timecop was a pretty face, who can't officially act, but he can do his own stunts and kick butt convincingly. Van Damme is probably the only thing special in this other wise not so special sci-fi/action flick.Any tough critic will dismiss this as just a sloppy scientifically absurd rip off of Terminator, Robocop, and Total Recall. As absurd as it is, (and it is very much so), A combination of nifty moves, Good 90's special effects, and a performance from Van Damme which is loose enough to deliver a bunch of one liners convincingly makes Timecop a good watch. It's not the kind of film that you would want to run out and get, but if you catch it on the sci-fi channel, might as well check it out, although it is not a movie I'd recommend to Schwarzenegger fans. "},{"Title":"Another time showing off his big muscular buttocks.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, this film has an awful script, and it's not funny, the film seems to serious as if it were a well-written film with a great proposal, I mean the film is not stupid -at least not too much- but I think is too, too simple, too much. Of course Mr. Jean Claude Van Damme, the super great-muscled-bottomed action hero, saves the film from being a complete boring failure, all his action scenes and movements are amazing, and his sex scenes too -there is another extra sex scene with other characters that is great too-, so all this great scenes and the good Peter Hyams direction make the film entertaining and saves it. But I think the script is a shame.I wonder if Jean Claude Van Damme is a show off, if he is he does a great job showing off his big muscular buttocks in the action scenes and sex scenes.My rating ** , 5/10, So-so film. "},{"Title":"A Van Damme classic.","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lets face it, Jean-Claude Van Damme hasn't starred in exactly some classic movies throughout his career but out of all his movies this is probably his best known one, along with Universal Soldier and for a good reason. Timecop is simply a good (enough) and entertaining movie.The movie its script is filled with some plot holes, questions and things that don't make sense due to some lazy writing. But oh well, that's the sort of stuff you can expect from such a movie as this one and is something you just have to take for granted and look past it. Fore otherwise, the movie its script really isn't that bad. It features a nice concept, that is maybe not handled in the best or most clever way but works out effective nevertheless.The concept alone is already enough to provide the movie with some nice and original themes and moments. It's based upon a Dark Horse comic books series, that focuses on time traveling, its consequences and the power and possibilities of it all. No, like I said before it doesn't all get handled in the most clever or perhaps most intriguing way but its this concept that alone already makes this movie worth watching. You can see it as a mix of The Time Machine and Minority Report, with some typical Jean-Claude Van Damme action added to it.It has been ages since I had seen a Jean-Claude Van Damme flick and I was actually shocked by him. His accent is truly horrible and the fight sequences by him also already start to look outdated. but of course he also adds a certain level of entertainment to the movie. He's of course a real cult-actor, with a steady group of still growing fans. Luckily the movie also does feature some actors who can truly act. Ron Silver plays a classy villain, that is really in order in a this type of movie. Also Bruce McGill makes an appearance in this movie, who is like one of the most underrated current working movie actors.I was surprised by the movie its overall look and quality. The movie might be a B-movie by name and reputation but it's simply a fine directed- and looking movie. Director Peter Hyams simply did a great job with it all. Hyams is also the director of my all time favorite Van Damme flick Sudden Death, which they did together one year after this movie. The action direction and the visual style of it all is done with class and not as sloppy and horrendous looking as usual is the case with a B-movie of this type.For 1994 standards it also definitely has some good and convincing looking special effects. In some sequences on 'older' Ron Silver meets the younger Ron Silver and the older Jean-Claude Van Damme meets the younger Jean-Claude Van Damme. They are really interacting together in those sequences and walking around each other. Good stuff!Simply a fine and also well made entertaining movie, despite its very obvious gaping plot holes.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"a 6.6 on the Van Damage scale of high kickin fun","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" My vote was a 7 but this is a 6.5. I enjoyed this film and thats all its about.Considering that this is a typical revenge story and its all too predictable, TCop manages to keep our interest and tells a story while kickin its wayc through plenty of well choreographed mayhem! Its a fun romp with plenty of decent effects and martial arts for the action freak and a decent story which is nice because the two don't always go hand in hand.Id seen this years ago and watched it again recently and it still holds up which says to me its better done than a lot of action films today which will still seem thin and silly years from now.Break out the popcorn and enjoy. This is probably the last good film JC VD did and it should appeal to action and scifi fans alike. "},{"Title":"A pretty good Van Damme flick...with a great message","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Timecop was released in 1994, and it reflects the future of 2004. Apparently, this film was wrong about that. But in no means necessary does it make it a crappy film.This movie is about a man named Max Walker, who works for the TEC, otherwise known as a Time Enforcement Commission Agent. In the movie, his wife Melissa Walker gets murdered. The name of the killer is Aaron McComb. A U.S. senator (not a good one, if I might add). A greedy, money-thirsty villain.Max Walker has a plan, to go back in time and save his wife. But things are not always as they seem. In this movie, there are some twists and turns, which aren't very hard to understand. The special effects aren't too great as well, some are very cheaply done.Perhaps the best part of this film is the message that it conveys. Don't go back in time, or 1 simple mistake that you make, can change the entire course of history.And that about wraps it up, I would strongly recommend the viewing of this film. It contains some great action, great plot, and decent acting. But rent this film first.9/10 Overall. "},{"Title":"Excellent piece of work","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Timecop is definitely a must see for several reasons. It is one of Van Damne's best films. There is something about it that was lacking. Walker's part, Atwood, should have been shown in scenes when they were partners prior to him going back to alter the future after the stock market crash of 1929. The only problem with Timecop is that the length of this film is under 120 minutes. A movie such as this should have been produced to last more than that. The best thing about Timecop is that next year is 2004, so it will be scary to see how the upcoming year looks in the United States.  "},{"Title":"Blade Runner This is Not.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What is with Jean-Claude's hair in this movie?! It looks AWFUL, like a hippy cop or something, and it totally spoiled the film for me. Go figure. Everyone knows cops have short hair. Well, it was more than that really, but the hair was the icing on the cake. First you've got the really over-the-top cheesy dialogue, there is never e-nouf time too sat-isfy a wo-man between Van Damme and Sara's characters. Then you've got a whole bundle of clichés i.e. Van Damme hangs from the roof with one arm, holding his wife with the other; a ridiculous amount of rain to heap on drama to climatic scenes; a typical happy ending. Aaarrrgh! The list goes on. It's slow too. Ron Silver was great as the bad guy though, but still, for me this is one of Van Damme's most boring films. However, most of the dialogue is good fun and the time travel story is intriguing and done well even though the ripples theory isn't really used to proper effect e.g. we failed to see how destroying McComb's business affected him. Anyway, the plot was still plausible and enjoyable for the most part. One bit I was disappointed about was the sub-plot of Walker missing his wife, it should have been a central part of the movie, NOT a brief sub-plot hiding around the main theme of stop the bad guy, yawn... Of course, Van Damme's dull acting skills didn't help, but still, it could have been much better. I give this 5/10 stars. "}{"Title":"If Jean-Claude could act....","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If Jean-Claude could act this film might have half a chance of having a story line. With his lousey attempt at acting it ruined any chance of there being a decent film to watch.  "},{"Title":"it's not terrible, it's not very good, it's... MID 90'S JCVD!","Date":"2 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jean-Claude Van Damme in his hey-day (I put quotes since we never can tell after his latest JCVD if he might stage a comeback of some kind) was a star but not at the caliber of Schwarzenegger. Nor was he relegated to the forever-never-ending slew of straight-to-video crap like Dolph Lundgren. For a short while Van Damme mattered as something of a big deal in action movies, if only for an occasional sizable paycheck (he pocketed 6 mil for Street Fighter). As an action hero he is reasonably incredible, if that can be a description. Compared to Segal he's certainly the better actor by far, even if at times fairly wooden. He's as hard-working a foreign import as can be imagined and is able to take his role seriously, which is a big boost for the camp factor that can be found in his pictures. His ability is best described as pure physical agility (if you can figure out exactly when and where he has a stunt double I got a cookie for you) with OK acting chops.Which is just fine for a movie like Timecop since its only requirement is that you turn your damn brain off and not think too much about things like, you know, time travel. We all know how convoluted it can get (i.e. Back to the Future) and in the case of Timecop it takes the idea of a government controlled time-travel scenario used as a political ploy by a dastardly senator (Ron Silver delivering the badness as a slimy and snotty politico, not hard to do but fun when in the frame with another Ron Silver), and also a revenge plot, sort of. Sort of in that the character Van Damme plays loses his wife to a huge explosion perpetrated by Silver's character, and then goes back in time to try and correct it, only getting embroiled in other shenanigans like the senator's plot to erase Van Damme altogether.Why a time cop should bother a presidential nominee so much is almost beyond me, but within the context of watching the movie it works as dumb, juicy-cum-meaty pulp. And when it comes time to do the action director/cinematographer Peter Hyams keeps the controls steady like a basic practitioner of the conventions don't get TOO out of control and it should be violent enough to please Van Damme's kick-boxer fan-base while appealing to sci-fi fans. While as a sci-fi film it has weak points, many weak points, certainly in logic and in the supporting performances (exception being Bruce McGill since, as always, he's just Bruce McGill), it's a decent actioneer that provides a few choice moments of unintentional hilarity (or intentional, it's Sam Raimi producing after all), and with a sturdy lead.Don't expect much, sit back perhaps with a beer after midnight, and it will do its expected numbers job. You could do worse than Timecop, but to say you could also do better is an understatement; Total Recall would probably be the best fit as far as pairing on a double bill with Van Damme specifically going first. "},{"Title":"Traveling Time to Stop Ron Silver","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Jean Claude VanDamme falls in that same category as Steven Seagal. You see one of his movies and you have pretty much seen them all, I think. I could be wrong. But I will say that if I'm right then Timecop is the exception.Another caveat like other time travel films I have reviewed (Lake House and Frequency, for example) you will have to suspend your rational thought during this movie. If you think about it too much, you'll find several plot holes and continuity errors. But ignore those and remind yourself that Sam Raimi produced this before he went mainstream.JC is a time-traveling cop who fights evil in the past (or more exactly, people from the present who try to profit in the past). His wife, Mia Sara (Ferris Bueller's Day Off) is his inspiration and won an award for her role in this film, I guess.The ultimate evil? Ron Silver, who is evil in both real life and on the screen. I can prove it, watch Heat Vision and Jack. And he's menacing in this film.Anyway, for some butt-kicking and an interesting interpretation of time travel, see this film. It also features JC's butt, which is supposed to be a good thing for some reason (though I hardly noticed it while being distracted by Mia Sara). "},{"Title":"Nifty Sci-Fi Tale, Directed by Peter Hyams...","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While it is easy to poke fun at Jean-Claude Van Damme (The Muscles from Brussels), and lump his films with Steven Seagal's as mindless action films by non-actors, the assessment isn't really fair. Van Damme has worked with some of the finest action directors of the past two decades (Roland Emmerich, John Woo, Hark Tsui, John G. Avildsen), and his films with Peter Hyams (TIMECOP, SUDDEN DEATH) are well-crafted, fast-paced adventures.Hyams, an old pro at science fiction (CAPRICORN 1, OUTLAND, 2010) takes on time travel and the danger of altering the future by changing the past in TIMECOP, based on the comic series by Mike Richardson and Mark Verheiden. Van Damme is Walker, a Washington, D.C. cop in the 'present', newly recruited into a secret time enforcement agency, whose life is shattered when his beautiful young wife (Mia Sara), is brutally murdered, and his home destroyed, by a mysterious group of thugs carrying exotic weapons. Jumping about ten years into the future, Walker is the best 'temporal agent' around, but the timecops are being phased out by cuts in funding, directed by a committee headed by Senator/Presidential candidate McComb (the wonderfully sarcastic Ron Silver). Walker, and his harried boss, Matuzak (Bruce McGill), mistrust McComb, and suspect he might be 'using' time to his own advantage. Jumping to the past, Walker finds evidence that confirms it...but upon his return, the world has changed, completely, 'President' McComb is running things, and his own past is about to be erased!While every time travel story has basic logic problems (the old What came first? The chicken or the egg? riddle), TIMECOP maintains such a fast pace that the viewer can easily ignore them, and enjoy the film as a dazzling adventure. Van Damme is quite good in the lead, combining his signature martial arts moves with a characterization of some depth and feeling, and future E.R. star Gloria Reuben has a starmaking supporting role, as a cop with an agenda of her own. TIMECOP may not be the 'definitive' time travel movie, but compared to Steven Spielberg's recent foray into the same themes, MINORITY REPORT, Peter Hyams' production manages to be FAR more entertaining, on a much smaller budget!  "},{"Title":"Action is never better than that","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The one of the greatest flicks of the Belgian hero (Jean Claude Van Damme). He has proved every thing at his peak in this film . Its a shame he didn't got the Sequel of it. The film was great with special effects and action stunts ( when Max jumps out of the hospital ). Max Walker looks perfect as the (TEC) cop. Peter Hyams has proved to be a good action director.I will rate it as a A+ grade Movie Must watch it. "},{"Title":"Average B Sci-Fi Movie","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Average B grade Scifi Action movie that fairly entertains fans of this specific genre and would definitely turn on most devoted fans of the lead actor.Average production that could have used better quality action choreography and directing.There were too many low quality action sequences that simply ruined the movies flow.Only for those who can tolerate B movies of this genre and big fans of the lead actors........  "},{"Title":"I love time-travel movies!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While I am not a real Van Damme fan, I like him in this movie. The movie has several clever plot twists I enjoy. I think the movie was fairly well made, with realistic devices. The only thing I really don't like is Ron Silver. What I don't know is whether I REALLY don't like him, or he plays his characters so well that I have transferred my dislike of his characters to him. (I have heard of movie stars getting assaulted in real life because a fan hated their character!) Fortunately I have a better grasp on reality than that.  "},{"Title":"good time travel yarn","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A cop goes back and forth in time, working lots of overtime. Get it? Overtime? Anyway, a group of bad guys causes him and his family a lot of trouble. He uses the time machine to help  solve his problems. I liked this one, but I am a sucker for time travel pictures. To keep from getting confused you must watch closely all the time. Time. Get it? "},{"Title":"Meh.","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I know this is considered kind of a classic in the time travel genre, but honestly I still am unimpressed. I've tried to watch it twice (really, truly I have) but I just can't get into it. I'm sure a lot of it has to do with the fact that I find Mr. Van Damme kind of wooden in his acting. The plot is OK. I guess maybe considering the age of the movie, the idea for it is somewhat original. The cinematography isn't mind blowing exactly, but it also isn't detracting so much. Sorry all the fans out there, I really want to show some solidarity, but if you only have the patience to watch a certain amount of time travel movies in your lifetime, I think you can safely skip this one... "},{"Title":"Best Film Ever!!!","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is without doubt the greatest film i have ever had the pleasure of viewing. Van Damme is at his brilliant best throughout and treats the viewer to an ensemble of astounding scenes that leave you in awe. Most notably being the scene where he does the naked splits!! This is a scene that Van Damme alone could pull off. Afterall, he does have the worlds biggest johnson!! His delivery of dialogue is timed to perfection and he offers the viewer a cinematic experience that they will never forget. Unfortunately, as Van Damme states There is never enough time, to satisfy a woman so i better get going.Everyone must see this film. 10 out of 10.Yours sincerely, Jean-Claude "}{"Title":"Van Damme at his Sci-Fi best","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jean-Claude made quite a doozy with this  one, quite possibly his best film ever. Sure,  Lionheart ranks pretty high up there, but this  one not only had good special effects, the  story was actually respectable. But the downfall  of most of Van Damme's movie is the fact  he tries to be an actor. If Van Damme just  kicked kung-fu butt all the time, his movies  would rank up there with the best fo the  genre. Anyway, a cool movie and certainly  worth watching. "},{"Title":"A NO-BRAINER...","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" ...movie, suitable for younger viewers. As for me, I simply love movies dealing with time-traveling, but this one had so many holes in the script, that I was surprised, when i saw that it wasn't directed by Van Damme itself. The story is pathetically boring and too predictable, acting is way belove average and the action-fighting scenes are nothing special. Is there something in it that saves this one? Well, some humorous scenes (some, not many) and the fact, that there are even worse movies on the market involved in time-traveling (pathetic Time Machine, 2002). That's why a still high grade for this one3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One of Van Damme's better efforts (which isn't saying much...)","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  About what I expect from a Van Damme movie cheezy action, horrid special effects, worse dialogue, useless scenes, cardboard acting, and did I mention a disjointed and choppy plot? To start with, most action films will get science fiction dead wrong. Well, I was pleasantly surprised with this film, as I couldn't tell if it was scientifically correct or not because nothing was ever explained. Well that at least saves me the trouble of rolling my eyes every ten seconds. The only beef I have about the time travel in this film (really awful effects aside...) was the fact that as the past kept changing, not only did there seem to be no major effect on the future (if a bunch of gold gets stolen from the past, that would effect lord knows how much of the future economy, as *everything* that was bought with that gold would be completely wiped out), but nobody involved seemed to have their memories altered. If I go into the past and change something directly affecting me, my memories should constantly shift to reflect that. As well, if I go back into the past and meet my wife, she should remember that meeting in the future. Oh wait, I guess my only beef was pretty much the centrepoint of the film. Tsk-tsk. That aside, let's talk about the ripoff element. Aside from the obvious Back to the Future swipes (the car being the most obvious...) how much of Batman can be stolen in a bloody time travel film? A lot, apparently. From the music (especially in the final showdown scene) to the roof scene (oh look, Batman...I mean *Van Damme* and Kim Basinger...I mean *Mia Sara* are hanging off the rooftop. Oh look, he's holding her with one arm, while his other hand holding him aloft is being stepped on by the Jok...er...the bad guy...). As well, there was the predictable bad dialogue (Here's a hint, JC, when Arnie does it it's *funny*...) and worse acting (why did Gloria Reuben do this film again?), and as for the martial arts...well I know JC's no Jet Li, but could he at least make it look *almost* real? I hold you, I punch you, you stand completely still watching me until I make contact, you react, you hold me, you punch me, *I* stand completely still all the while until you make contact, etc. An essential part of what makes a good martial arts fight good, is that both fighters are constantly moving and reacting. It's textbook film fighting...I mean come on, even Chuck Norris knows *that* much! And the plot? 'What plot' you ask? Well, there was indeed a plot. But it was so fragmented that although I knew *what* was happening. I could barely make out *why* it was happening. There was absolutely NO explanation of what was going on. The audience is just supposed to accept everything at face value, and assume that the massive rifts and holes in the plot make sense on some unknown level. But hey, that's a cheezy action film for you. But tell me, did it need the horribly gratuitous sex scenes? Two scenes that served absolutely no purpose except to show off skin. And granted, Mia Sara's not ugly, but this isn't exactly a film that needs bared breasts to make money...or maybe it is. But still, it ruins the film. And seeing Jean Claude's butt doesn't exactly send chills down my spine...well it does, but the wrong kind of chills (I'm still a little queasy, and it's been a couple of hours...;) And to make matters worse, this has every element of a textbook action film, every cliche and stereotype imaginable, from slo-mo to timed explosives. All in all? At least it's short. Fast-paced. And the plot is amusing enough to keep me from turning the TV off. 4/10. "},{"Title":"Another excuse to put Van Damme's curves on screen.","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think the only good things of this film are the sex scenes (they are unconventional) an a pair of action scenes (the typical sci-fi macho-action, but J.C.'s movements make them worth seeing), the rest are so predictable... and awful!Timecop. If you're vouyerist, a  sci-fi fan or just you are a GREAT J.C. Van Damme's fanatic, don't miss it. Maybe you don't love it, but you'll have something to say... or scream.*1/2 "},{"Title":"Very respectable time travel sci-fi that's also Van Damme's best work. 'The same matter can't occupy the same space twice'. (9/10)","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Similarly to its spin off comic by Mike Richardson and Mark Verheiden, TimeCop(1994), the original movie, makes very respectable sci-fi. B-grade sequel by Gary Thompson notwithstanding, Verheiden's screenplay draws you in with a time-travel story full of socially relevant scientific nuggets.Director/DoP Peter Hyams (Running Scared(1986), A Sound of Thunder(2004)), rightfully claims his movie isn't really science-fiction, but 'futuristic drama' that 'unfolds on many levels romance, action, mystery, and drama'. The action, delivered on a shoestring budget, flits comfortably between centuries.The provocative opening scene is set in Gainesville GA, 1863. 15mins later we're on Wall St, 1929, having visited a 1994 Washington Senate Oversight Committee in between. The story continues in 1929, establishing the period with marvelous Art Deco detail, and frank depictions of Depression-Era Wall St jumpers. Set Decorators Annmarie Corbett & Rose Marie McSherry, Art Director Richard Hudolin (gigging on 'Stargate-SG1' since its inception) and a small army of set dressers ensured that TimeCop(1994) avoided that 'staged' feel.Similar in tone to the RoboCop franchise, TimeCop(1994) is utterly 1990s in its critique of 1980s (Reaganite) greed.The story revolves around a 2004-vintage megalomaniac politician, Senator Aaron McComb (played by the forever after typecast Ron Silver). McComb is abusing his position as head of the same T(ime) E(nforcement) C(omission) Oversight Committee we glimpsed earlier, in order to grab the insider-trading 'opportunity' of time travel. Under the pretext of a politician fiscally opposed to publicly funded time travel, his stolen prototype would in fact ensure McComb's private and clandestine monopoly over the technology. So the film becomes a timely reminder of some notorious insider-traders in the real 2004.Silver's characterisation of McComb is that of an arrogant bully wantonly violent with even his own people. By 2004 he's running for President, needing money to buy his way in, since he has no intention of being representative. It should surprise no-one that McComb appeals to 'the Pro-Life/Pro-Death Coalition' (fatuous extremists).His gross but transparent noxiousness, and consequent ridicule at the TEC (where his visage is set to dartboards), serves to undermine his credibility as a Washington politician for the audience as well. Fans have complained about the over-the-top nature of McComb, but Hyams seems satisfied with Silver's portrayal, commenting that '(Silver) treads the fine line between viciousness and humour.....wonderfully'. After all, the franchise had to be easily transferable from film to comics.One of McComb's dartboarders, an otherwise nondescript TEC cop named Max Walker (Jean-Claude Van Damme), turns reluctant hero when his partner Lyle Atwood (Jason Schombing) is corrupted by McComb. Atwood absconds, forcing Max to recapture him in 1929. TEC justice being swift, Atwood is quickly sentenced to death, and is conveniently allowed to continue jumping to his death in 1929, but not before naming Senator McComb to Max.Somehow, McComb sniffs out exactly who knows too much about him, and acquires an abiding interest in Agent Walker. Their thinly veiled verbal jousting during McComb's TEC tour-of-inspection becomes the turning point for Agent Walker.His boss, and the first-ever appointee Director of the TEC, Eugene Matuzak (Bruce McGill), is now Max's only friend. Walker is not only distrusted by his colleagues for collaring his own partner, but he's still guiltily grieving for his innocent wife (Ferris Bueller(1986)'s Mia Sara). TimeCop(1994)'s plot is full of acting opportunities for its hero cop, whose professional problems instead found his pregnant wife at home. Max, our obsessed hero, has become terrible company. When he's saddled with a partner from Internal Affairs, his resentment of Agent Fielding (ER 'resident' Gloria Reuben) threatens to overwhelm the plot.Haunted cops are well personified by a frequently uncomfortable and surprisingly effective Van Damme--he's streets ahead of the embarrassing, alternately wooden or grimacing Jason Scott Lee, starring in the 2003 sequel. TimeCop(1994) may, instead, be the best acting role of Van Damme's career. A year later he again starred for Hyams in Sudden Death(1995), but there wasn't enough emotional scope in that actioner for Van Damme to match his apparent acting chops from TimeCop(1994).The best 'bit' belongs to a genuinely funny and avuncular Bruce McGill as Matuzak, who with one flick of the wrist smacks his V/R dweeb Ricky (Scott Bellis) with his own visor when he catches the dweeb literally abusing the equipment.Working for the TEC isn't always fun, however. Rule No1 is that 'no-one goes back', except to fix someone else's 'disturbance'. Walker, not surprisingly, decides that if the rules forbid him, a cop, from going back to save his wife, then McComb's scummy profiteering is not gonna happen.The unique digital effects of time-travel involve some eye-popping 'drop propagation'-CGI, mimicking a surface-tension breach as an organic depiction of 'time insertion'. It was devised by Visual Effects Supervisor Greg McMurry and director Hyams himself, who conceived of 'a very liquid optical distortion', which then had to be coded by McMurry's Video Image programmers. (The only remaining logic problem is where the pod went after 'insertion'.)In addition to the time-travel pods and their hardware/software, the props department fashioned an iPod-type hand-held computer, a working prop roadcar and interior, various 'pulse' weapons, and Microsoft's upcoming 'talking house' technology.Without an expensive soundtrack, the budget could be better spent on the overall look, set designs, and costumes. Steven Kemper's careful editing implies whole time periods with just a few well-chosen scenes. Timecop(1994)'s editing and sets represent the very best in 'economical' production values.The director granted Van Damme several clever martial arts scenes. In the most famous one the hero avoids electrocution by doing the splits over some benchtops; while his battles with 1929-vintage security are enjoyably one-sided. Unfortunately, his mall kickboxing is woeful J-C's opponent only had to grab 'Mr Dialogue's boot, pivot it away, and just walk off.....Despite such imperfections, TimeCop(1994) remains a solid entry in the time-travel genre, followed 9yrs later by a confused, wooden, shlocky, and deliberately Asianised sequel that threatens to ruin the franchise. Any further entries will need to match Peter Hyams' original high bar of 'futuristic drama'.(9/10)  "},{"Title":"Solid film, not great but one of Van Damme's best","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Years after his near-fatal shooting and the murder of his wife, ex-cop, Max Walker has become part of a special unit that polices time travel to prevent criminals going back in time to use it to their advantage in the present.  On one such job, Max captures a fellow officer dealing in stocks in the 1920's and learns that Senator McComb is using time travel to get rich enough to fund his presidency run.  With no evidence Walker goes out to prove McComb is guilty &#150; a battle that occurs in the present as well as the past.For those of you used to the level of logic and plotting that is inherent in Van Damme films (Knock Off anyone?) then Timecop probably stands out as one of his stronger films in terms of plot.  However in comparison to other films to do with time travel then it is still very flawed and has lots of things that don't make a lot of sense if you think about it at any length.  Happily then, this is a film that doesn't require your thoughts &#150; just accept the basic plot details and you'll be set.As such this stands out as one of my favourite Van Damme films.  The plot is more developed and thought through than some of his stuff I have seen lately.  The film allows plenty of basic action scenes that, while not edge of seat stuff, are better than average.  The film manages to build excitement into the basic plot so that it isn't a feeling of stop/start as we wait for the next fight.  True it's not that advanced but it is all quite good.  In addition to this it has a very well pitched sense of humour that works well.  There are plenty of knowing jokes directed at Van Damme that he takes well (`can he read my mind?' `with your english what choice does he have!?'), these add to the enjoyment value of the film.Van Damme is not great but he does have character and he is probably as good as he has ever been here.  Ron Silver is a very good bad guy and is as greasy as I'd hoped he would be.  McGill and Reuben in support provide a few other well known faces but mostly Van Damme carries the film (never thought I'd be able to say that!).Overall this is not a fantastic film but it does stand as one of Van Damme's better films.  A workable plot, good sense of excitement with solid action scenes, a nice streak of wit running through it results in a film that is miles above the `straight to video' stuff he has been doing of late. "},{"Title":"incredibly flawed science","Date":"16 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I only made it through the first few minutes, for good reasons.At the beginning, there's a meeting where the guy says it's impossible to go forward in time because it hasn't happened yet - not true - hasn't he heard of Eintstein's theory of relativity? He then says you can go back in time 'because it's already happened' (which isn't an explanation of anything) - furthermore, backwards time travel is as doubtful now in 2008 as it was in 1994 when the film was made. Then he contradicts himself by claiming someone jumped forward in time to buy arms with gold bullion.He says the age of the gold bullion was determined by carbon dating. Firstly if something jumped forward in time, then the process of carbon isotope decay would be skipped. Secondly, there isn't an awful lot of carbon in gold! I am willing to suspend belief when I watch science fiction, but it needs to come up with an explanation that is just a little bit plausible or keep it pure fantasy and miss out so-called scientific explanations. If the writer can't be bothered to do some basic research, then I'm not interested in anything else this idiot has to say. "},{"Title":"I got a feeling about the future.","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been so long since I last saw this flick that I forgot Van Damme was in it. Goes to show what an impression the film made the first time around. The time travel concept here is treated very loosely, because if you think about it, there are a lot of inconsistencies in the story. I think the first movies dealing with the idea used one of the themes here that says the same person could not meet up with him or herself in another era because it would cause themselves to self destruct. Matter/anti-matter, something along those lines, but then you have more current films like Looper that throw that whole idea out the window.Well I guess you're not supposed to think too deeply about those kinds of things with film entertainment. Even if that's the case, I'm pretty sure the phrase 'Sh-t happens would not have been used by Wall Street traders in 1929. Or have the house that just blew up twice in the same picture wind up good as new at the end of the story. Aside from that - what about that knife fight between Walker (Van Damme) and the Japanese guy in the kitchen? - who in their right mind would stick to sword fight principles instead of just trying to stick it to the other guy?Other reviewers on this board bring up a whole bunch of other goofy and implausible instances found in the movie so no sense trying to engage them all in my little effort here. Suffice it to say that what you have here is a neat little diversion for a little over an hour and a half that's entertaining enough if you don't get too wrapped up and try to make any sense out of it. All those questions will be answered some day when we have time travel for real. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable But Needlessly Confusing","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Van Damme Fans Consider this One of His Best. It is a Rich Film with a lot of Set Pieces that Impress and while they are Short, Fun, and Look Great it only makes the rest of the Movie kind of Bland by Comparison.The Film is Filled to the Brim with many Scenes that Required more Attention than an Average Kick-Butt, Martial Arts Vehicle with one of the Many Stars that were Making the Rounds in the 80's and 90's. Director/Cinematographer Hyams Films always seem to Fall just Short of being Excellent for some Intangible Reason. He does make Movies that are, for the most part, Entertaining to a Point but Never seem to Ascend to Exalted Status.Here He again Makes a Film that is Enjoyable but Needlessly Confusing. It is the Action Scenes that are the Best with a Number of Cliffhangers. Ron Silver is Along as a Political Villain and does His Sneering Bit quite well. Overall, Certainly Worth a Watch for Action Fans and B-Movie Lovers and is Probably One of Only a Few Van Damme Films that can be Recommended Without Apology. "},{"Title":"did you see timecop?","Date":"12 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have watched Timecop at least three times, I do not remember much. I have read the synopsis of the movie on the IMDb site and none of it helps. Here is Timecop as best I know- JCVD does the spinning roundhouse kick thing, also there is a mall, i think a lot of the movie is in a mall. A lady is in the movie but I'm not sure if there is any nudity, classy. I mean I can read that Ron Silver is in the movie but I don't remember seeing him and you know he had a big role. Explosions occur but outside of the narrative, so that I remember that things explode in this movie but I cant recall why they blow up or what gets blown up, its a real mystery. I don't remember why he has to go back in time anyway, maybe its on accident or maybe on purpose, I don't remember his reason for time travel to be integral to the plot. "}{"Title":"In the future according to this movie near mullets will be the rage.","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I see from the box office total that this was a fairly successful film especially considering the star of the film. However, it did not really work for me. I am not a big fan of Van Damme and that is most likely why I do not rate this one high. I am just not a fan of his at all, not to say all his movies are awful or anything a couple of them were okay such as Blood Sport and Universal Soldier had its moments, but for the most part I find his films lacking. This one had an interesting premise, but unfortunately with time traveling films with relatively small budgets the film never really 'wows'. Most of the time traveling is like one week earlier or something to that effect rather than going back to the old west or some other period of time where many sets must be made. Van Damme is a time cop in this one and he must battle a person using said device for their benefit. Which for some reason they try to make this political. Seriously? Was that necessary? How about you just make your movie and make it a fun shoot em' up where at the end they go through many times and do battle, kind of the way they did in Waxwork II. Though I did like the way the film ended as I was afraid they would never show us what happened when a person touched them self in the past. "},{"Title":"Everything you can like about B-movies","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Whenever the average movie-goer discusses how much he looks down on Jean-Claude Van Damme, I'm always left with very few counterarguments. Here's one though he was in Timecop damn it! Sure, Timecop isn't really much more than a poor man's Terminator-movie, but is there anything wrong with that? It's a cool movie, filled with all kinds of hard-hitting action and some pretty inventive special effects. And given that an action movie is only as good as its villain, this one ranks pretty high by getting Ron Silver for the role. No one in the world is more evil than Ron Silver looks, so well-done in that department. Van Damme is also kinda good in this movie, come to think about it, at least to his standards. Overall this is a pretty great movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant start - a clever conceit and a lot of fun.Very good.","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somewhere,deep in the bowels of the Physics department at a world famous University,sits a Time Machine.It isn't called that,of course,it,s called a matter transporter and consists of two microwave oven - like contraptions at opposite ends of the lab.One contains a lump of pig iron. When this machine is switched on the pig iron is instantly transported from one oven to the other,i.e. it ceases to exist in one and materialises in the other at the same time.A few years ago the machine was tweaked to such an extent that the pig iron went from one machine to the other and then back instantaneously.The ultimate result of this experiment occurred when the piece of iron returned to the original oven before it had been sent across in the first place thus creating the sort of paradox featured in Timecopwhen the same person occupies two spaces in time at once.Impossible,they say,but it has happened.I understand that shortly after the decidedly odd result,funding was withdrawn,but I wouldn't bet against some shadowy Government Dept hiding the costs somewhere in its budget one day soon. And then where will Monsieur Van Damme be?In an old people's home? I certainly hope not because policing of the Time Barrier will be deadly serious stuff,not just some random guy trying to fast forward to Sunday to get the Lottery numbers. After a terrifically atmospheric start,Timecop keeps up the momentum in a wise attempt to hornswoggle the viewer by the sheer speed of action and complexity of plot.Never mind the quality - feel the manipulation. A bit like a supercharged Quantum Leap with Sam Beckett on steroids,the movie drives remorselessly and with a strange logic to its conclusion. Yes,it's silly,no,it doesn't make much sense,but by golly it's a lot of fun and Mr Van Damme is clearly the wrong man to upset. A word of warning - if you are at home trying to do the splits on the back of a couple of kitchen chairs make sure you keep your mobile within easy reach. "},{"Title":"Good Action Flick. Now go out and find Time Patrol by Poul Anderson.","Date":"27 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I haven't seen too many Van Damme movies, but this was a good one to while away the evening on AMC. It has some good special effects and the storyline is somewhat consistent about the possible paradoxes of time travel, although if you can't travel to the future (as explained in the movie), how do you get back to where you started? Also, the part about two bodies occupying the same space seems more of a plot device to enable one to dispatch the villain in a most spectacular manner than anything else. I was also sorry that the credits were cut off so I couldn't hear the final tune, Time Won't Let Me, a song from my distant past. Still in all, a good enough flick.Now, if you want to see where the writers probably got their inspiration, go look for a copy of Time Patrol by Poul Anderson. It's a collection of short stories and novellas about the Time Patrol, which, like the TEC, polices Time. It's not quite as heavy on the action as a Van Damme film would be, but you will be deeply immersed in several historical periods, including some that the protagonist has to go back in time and terminate to set the time-line aright. It's well worth reading when the next big storm knocks out your power and cable. -) "},{"Title":"Good One","Date":"24 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most posts for this movie are on the lines of comparing this to other films in JCVD's repertoire, his accent, the time travel plot holes, the fighting. For one, I'm not a big VD fan, I vaguely recall some of his other films and last seen he was doing self-parody on the TV show Vegas. His acting and accent are no problem, could be a Quebecker for all I know, but I guess a Max Walker should talk 'murrican. I don't think the time travel plot holes are too large, if you think them through there can be an explanation - ie it could have been a wooden box that was carbon-dated not the gold itself, etc. etc. and let's face it, there is no authority on tt, almost anything goes. As for fighting, no need to expect reality, it would probably look like MMA/UFC brawling otherwise. Good action, good pacing and story development, good FX, bad future cars, some yuks, not all intended. Saw it on AMC so no bedroom seen. I'd say give it a go. "},{"Title":"One of the better Van Damme flicks.","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's 1994, when Max Walker (Jean Claude Van Damme) is a police officer. Who's been selected to start secret new job at the Time Enforcement Commission (TEC). Which Walker could travel only in the past to stop any criminals from changing the past. Before he start the new job, his wife (Mia Sara) was mysteriously murdered by a group of thugs. Now in 2004, Max is one of the top officers at TEC is trying to solve the cast that involves dirty money from the past and a corrupted politician Senator Aaron McComb (Ron Silver). Which this Senator wants to be the next President of the United States in the present future. When Max finds himself in danger from being nearly killed by McComb's men but he can't prove it. When Max's next mission along with a new partner (Gloria Reuban) travels back to 1994 from changing the past but also on the same day from the past, his wife was murdered. Now it is only chance he has to change his past to save his wife and the criminals he has stop as well.Directed by Peter Hyams (2010The Year We Make Contact, The Relic, A Sound of Thunder) made an watchable entertaining sci-fi/action/thriller. Van Damme is actually quite good in the movie and it is also one of his best films from the 1990's. The premise while familiar does have some smart ideas and some visually clever moments as well. Silver does his best with his underwritten role as the villain, it's certainly a hoot seeing Silver playing both characters from the past and future in a couple of scenes. This was the highest grossing Van Damme feature in North America.Since the previous 1998 DVD was only in Full Screen. Which Hyams' use of Widescreen probably looked good in theaters. But the DVD was Full Frame, which make it tough to enjoy half of the time. Now with the recent Quadrulpe Feature Van Damme Fight Pack. It's a two disc set that includes this movie, Hard Target, Street Fighter and The Quest. Timecop is presented for the first time on DVD on a anamorphic widescreen presentation. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (It does have some scenes in the movie are grainy at times) and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound.It almost made me forgot how dark the cinematography was at times, especially in the first half. Since the director himself does his own lighting in his movies. Timecop isn't a perfect movie, the script does have its problems, some dated CGI effects and the future wasn't really changed since 2004. Timecop is actually based on a comic book series created by Mike Richardson and Mark Verheiden (The Mask, My Name is Bruce) from Dark House. They also wrote the story together, while Verheiden wrote the screenplay. But it's still a fun movie with some outrageous moments. Director Hyams and actor Van Damme reunited for the enjoyable but wildly unintentional action campy fest Sudden Death. Sam Raimi (Evil Dead Trilogy, Spider-Man Trilogy, A Simple Plan) and Robert Tapert (Boogeyman, The Grudge 2004, 30 Days of Night) are among the producers. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Enjoyable JCVD sci-fi action flick.","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Timecop starts in Washington during 1994 where cop Max Walker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) & his wife Melissa (Mia Sara) are attacked, Max is badly beaten & Melissa is killed. Meanwhile at the same time Governemnt agent George Spota (Scott Lawrence) tells a private Senate committee that time travel is a reality & that he proposes the formation of an agency called the Time Enforcement Commission to police time travel & prevent people changing the future by altering the past. Jump forward to the future year of 2004(!) where Max Walker is now one of the TEC's top agents but his partner Lyle Atwood (Jason Schombing) has turned dirty & is altering history in 1920's New York, when caught Lyle implicates Presidential candidate Senator Aaron McComb (Ron Silver). Max sets out to prove McComb is going back in time to make money in order to buy himself into the White House & soon finds himself dodging bullets in an attempt to stay alive...This American Japanese co-production was directed by Peter Hyams who as usual also was the director of photography & one has to say that Timecop is a throughly entertaining sci-fi action thriller that passes 100 odd minutes with the minimum of fuss. The script was by Mark Verheiden who co-created the Dark Horse comic book along with Mike Richardson on which the film is based & is a good solid time travelling action film, it's not in the same league as The Terminator (1984) since it's nowhere near as thoughtful or exciting but I liked it all the same. The time travel aspects make you think on occasion, some of the paradox's & plot holes churn around in your head a little bit but it just about works. For instance a character claims they carbon dated some gold bullion stolen from the seventeenth century, well you can't carbon date anything that didn't have living cells amongst other issues. I liked the way JCVD's character by the halfway stage of the film didn't belong to any sort of time line at all, he didn't belong in the past since his younger self already existed there & didn't belong in the future since McComb had changed the future so much. I also liked the cynicism of the script & plot, the way that the makers thought anyone with access to time travel would go back simply to make money which in reality would surely be most people's motive, it would certainly be mine! The character's are pretty good, JCVD's burnt out bitter cop is par for the course, Ron Silver's villain is OK but if all he wanted was money why not go back & place some heavy bets on the horses or other sporting events? Why not go back & give his earlier self the lottery numbers for several huge jackpots?Director Hymans & JCVD team up for the first time & would go on to make the even better Die Hard (1988) clone Sudden Death (1995) the following year. I like how the action is varied, the fights are extremely well choreographed from your typical JCVD martial arts moves to the more basic brutal pub brawl type fights, there are the expected shoot-outs with futuristic weaponry, an exploding house, JCVD does the splits twice & he almost gets run over by a huge truck. The makers concept of time travel seems quite good as well with the whole ripples in time idea being used both thematically with the consequences of time travel described as ripples in a pond & visually with the actual appearance of what time travel looks like as JCVD walks through ripples in thin air. The special effects are good, they aren't overdone & are there for story purposes rather than just for the hell of it.With a supposed budget of about $28,000,000 Timecop had a decent amount of money spent on it, the production values are good & it's well made although it has dated a little bit since it's idea of the year 2004 is, or rather was way off with some particularly silly looking cars. Filmed largely in Canada. The acting is alright, JCVD at least tries & Ron Silver makes for a suitably slimy bad guy.Timecop is an entertaining sci-fi time travel action thriller that isn't up there with the likes of The Terminator but isn't too far behind, I liked it & it's as simple & straight forward as that. Followed by the direct to DVD sequel Timecop The Berlin Decision (2003) with Jason Scott Lee taking over from JCVD & a Timecop (1997 - 1998) TV series was made which ran for one season & nine episodes. "},{"Title":"Good setup makes shortcomings more disappointing","Date":"29 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Still, I did not regret watching this again recently. For me the good and bad points all have to do with the story and the way it is toldGood The film does not take forever to ramp up, it just explains a few basics about the TEC setup, and then fast-forwards in the middle of the action, showing the rest on the go.Bad The main bad point I see is that Walker has no plan for solving the McComb problem after Sarah Fielding dies, so the eventual resolution was just luck (from the in-film view) or bad writing (from the outside view). Also, his plan for saving his wife did not make sense.A good plan that the plot was pointing at would have been to disable the prototype time travel installation (which, OTOH, would have posed the question which the TEC has not done this much earlier).OK, Walker's lack of good plans might be explained by his stupidity, which he also shows when he tells McComb that he knows he is the villain. But that still makes the solution a lucky deus-ex-machina.There are a number of other plot-holesWhat was the purpose of the original raid on the Walkers, and why did they go after Melissa and blow up the house? And why do the thugs appear in the shopping mall.Why is Commander Matuzak no longer a friend of Walker after he returns from 1994. Walker still works for the TEC, and Matuzak still knows him, so why wouldn't they still be friends?Getting a blood sample of Sarah Fielding would not help if McComb completely erased Fielding from existence; the blood sample would then vanish, too. BTW, what did he do instead? Fielding still exists, so McComb apparently has only eliminated her from the staff of the TEC.BTW, this variant of time-travel logic, where any changes instantly affect the future, including persons who have come back from the future, except that they remember the pre-change future, is quite problematic as far as plot-holes are concerned (already the fact that the memory of the time traveler is not affected can be seen as a plot-hole). I wonder why authors choose to go this way (It's also used in Back to the Future) rather than one of the other variants; I guess this variant is more dramatic, because the characters are directly and instantly affected by changes; the memory is necessary, otherwise the character could not pull a plan through.Some not so bad onesIncreasing your wealth by buying in 1929 requires that you have funds in 1929 (not that much, but still). Also, I think that it is easier and has less effect on history if you buy later (say, after the 1987 and after the 2001 stock crashes, or at the Google or Red Hat IPOs). Still, the 1929 setting was used for good effect with the contemporary execution of the death penalty.Killing one of the founders of a startup (in this case Parker) is likely to make the startup fail, and McComb could have avoided this murder. "},{"Title":"Jean-Claude Van Damme Film Festival","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OK, I have to confess two bias at the start of this review. First, I love time-travel movies. I always like to see the interactions/reactions of people out of their element. At the same time, I hate Ron Silver. I hate his politics and I love it when he gets what he deserves in the movies. Thatsaid, this movie has both - time travel and Ron Silver getting it. What more could I ask for.It's a typical Van Damme in the respect that he still can't act his way out of a wet Kleenex without benefit of a katyusha rocket. It is even worse that he plays a sappy role as a loving husband who mourns for his wife who was killed 10 years ago and he wishes he could break the rules and go back and save her.That is basically what the movie is about. While he agonizes over this, the evil Senator (Silver) is planning to go back and rig the elections. Is that what Karl Rove did? Hmmm? Director Peter Hyams keeps the story moving and seems to cut away just when things start to get a little unbelievable. "},{"Title":"Time out","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" A cop from the future tangles with a corrupt senator who uses time travel to buy the presidency. Of course our future cop still pines for his gorgeous and leggy wife (Who can blame him?) and wakes up almost every morning to fight knife wielding assassins. However when one past tense event causes a ripple in the senator's favor, the cop goes back one more time to fix this gap and save his wife. I must admit I expected a Terminator rip off and was indeed shocked at how imaginative and enjoyable this movie was. Jean-Claude in a mullet is tough to take and there are many plot holes that get in the way of the action but most of the way through this effective genre fodder. Also Jean-Claude Van Damme is somewhat appealing and shares good chemistry with Mia Sara.* *1/2 out of 4-(Pretty good) "}{"Title":"Van Damme's finest moment, although that says little","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" SPOILERS Jean Claude Van Damme, 'The Muscles From Brussels', could be viewed as yet another of those random actors who plays himself over and over again. Like a Belgian Steven Seagal, Van Damme is a mediocre action star with little going for him. In 1994's Timecop, Van Damme gives his finest performance in this inconsistent, impassioned comedy. Saying it is his finest work, sadly doesn't mean that much.As an officer for the time travel regulation authorities, Max Walker (Van Damme) is beginning to undercover a mammoth plot to make a Senator (Ron Silver) rich and powerful. Travelling through time to stop his enemy, Walker's past is going to come back to haunt him.Occasionally you come across a film which has potential but quickly gives it up. Starting with a lively enough trip to the 1930s, Timecop starts well enough. Once events return to normal time however, the story quickly drops off the pace and we begin to grow tired of events. Perking up occasionally when Ron Silver is on screen, the story altogether is just far too inconsistent and mediocre.The story isn't helped by the obscure sub-story involving Van Damme's partner Fielding (Gloria Reuben) and the complete irrelevance of it all.This might be Van Damme's best film, containing easily enough action and violence to keep people happy, but overall it's a very inconsistent turgid affair with little going for it. There are worse actors out there, but not many. For decent action, watch Die Hard instead. "},{"Title":"View of VanDamme","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The whole concept of time travel, and the mechanics of it in this film, deserves a rating of 6. This is scientific possibility at its best. On top of that, the view of VanDamme's solid body in the bedroom scene was VERY stimulating. What a quality mass of muscle!! Would that I could run my hands over every inch of him. In any case, the movie gets you thinking about the complications of changes made as a result of time travel. It is not surprising to learn that greed will inspire scientific investment in the future. The ripples in time are dramatized well. You have to pay great attention to detail in the film when such a ripple is initiated. "},{"Title":"* * OUT OF FIVE","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Jean-Claude Van Damme stars as Max Walker a TEC(Time Enforcement Cop) who takes on a corrupt senator Aaron McComb (Ron Silver) who maybe responsible for the death of Walker's wife in this stupid yet harmless actioner. Jean-Claude Van Damme kicks a lot of people in the head, but mainly it's Ron Silver who steals the show. "},{"Title":"Van Damme & Hyams Best","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To most movie goers, Van Damme just make action movies, and audiences will only go for the kung-fu action sequences, this is not true for the movie Timecop.After the action expo Universal Soldier, this was the second Van Damme film that I saw it in the cinema. Knowing that this is a Van Damme flicker, I turn away from the prejudices of his low quality acting, and the B-Grade plot.Well! B-Grade it isn't, this film impressed me from the moment of the first time travel ripple, I wasn't expecting any morphing in a Van Damme film, remember this was back in 1994 when I saw it, and back then, morphing was a new gismo since T2. So it was then I start think that this movie should not disappoint me. Well it did not, as this has to be one of Van Damme's best story, equal to Maximum Risk, and not as lean as Nowhere to Run. The visual effect on the scar on Ron Silver's face is one of my favorite scene in the movie. For director Peter Hayms, this also happens to be one of his best film as well, although I have not yet seen The Musketeer, his best effort is Outland, Narrow Margin, The Star Chamber and Capricorn One. Others like End of Days, The Relic, and The Presidio were disappointing.There is a defect in the editing to this film, near the ending where Walker is in the dark attic and made a surprise attack, you could almost see the a flash of Van Damme's double, which looks almost like Robert Patrick from T2 and X-Files. And I notice it back when I saw it in the cinema, I remember it because, the scene had confuse me on who was attacking who&#133; Oh! That was a stunt double, can't Van Damme do things in the dark or was it his day off from the shoot.Good performance goes to Mia Sara who is too beautiful for Van Damme and Ron Silver delivers the Alan Rickman &#150; Die Hard like villain.   "},{"Title":"the best van damme movie front to back","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is Jean Claude-Van Damme best movie to this point. Some of his other martial arts laden films have better fight sequences but in terms of quality of a motion picture, Timecop is the best.There is a fairly engaging story behind it, and its good enough that van damme's distinct wooden delivery of his lines and the fact that he has only some control over the english language doesn't get in the way or bother the viewer as much as it normally would. It will come as a great surprise to me if van Damme ever becomes a really good actor - so this is the best one can hope for from him.Ron Silver has made a career out of being a slimeball creep bad guy and does his best here. The special effects are good and hold up today and the plot is genuinely engaging. Also, the Mia Sara nude scene in the beginning is nothing to shake a stick at.6/10 - the best grade for a Van Damme movie I have given other than Bloodsport, which I gave a 7. (its technically not a better movie but c'mon people, classics are classics)  "},{"Title":"Not great, but a little better than I thought it would be.","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Timecop isn't a great movie, but it's a little better than I thought it would be. The plot makes little sense, but it's quite fun. Van Damme's one-liners didn't really work, but it didn't hurt the film too bad. Overall, a pretty good movie thats a little better than I thought it would be. **1/2 (out of four)    "},{"Title":"good... for an action movie","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As a lad Jean was one of my favorite actors, though that doesn't say much because my other favorites were Sylvester and Arnold. If I were to go back and re-watch all of Jean's movies, I think 'Time Cop' is the only one I would be able to complete. Disregarding the gratuitous violence, it actually has somewhat of an interesting plot. I knew it would be different from the first scene a bunch of six shooter carrying gold transferers getting hyjacked by a man with an automatic, infared sighted weapon. Though this is all based on vague memory, I stick by my sticking by this movie, somewhat. 7 of 10.    "},{"Title":"not bad...","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is pretty good but does have a lot of boring parts to it. Jean Claude does a pretty good job and Mia Sara does a small sex scene so that's always good. The action is pretty good and the storylines isn't bad either so everybody should see this film.  "},{"Title":"A pathetic movie that goes nowhere towards meeting its potential","Date":"21 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somebody described this movie as being Terminator III. I take that as being a huge insult against James Cameron (not that I particularly care about James Cameron movies anymore). This movie just is not exciting. It is about time travel but seriously, that don't take it to its full potential. All we have is a guy jumping between the year 2004 and 1994 with a couple of forays into 1929 and 1863. This aspect of the movie could have been one aspect made better. The next thing is the future toys. The cars look pathetic and the guns are normal guns with heavy things added to them to actually make them look futuristic.Time travel has recently been invented and to stop people jumping back and forth interfering with time, the TEC, Time Enforcement Commission, is established to police this new frontier. A senator needs to be in place to manage this commission, so one McCloud takes the opportunity to use it to gain power simply for himself. There is possibility with the plot but that is all.As is typical with movies, they like to create their own laws of physicals. One of them is that the same matter cannot occupy the same space at the same time. I think that is stupid. Different matter cannot occupy the same space at the same time, how many times have you tried walking through a wall. And the whole point of this is to create to flashy effect to kill the bad guy in the end. Seriously dull I reckon.And then there is Van Damme. Well, he is a little better in this movie, but he is really only shown for his martial arts skill, of which there is very little. I think Van Damme should give up movies because Wesley Snipes and Patrick Swayze seem far better than him, and they aren't even martial artists. The only decent movie with Van Damme strutting his stuff is Bloodsport. Seriously, this movie can be missed. It is only good for the die hard Van Damme fans. "},{"Title":"Not quite as bad as I thought at first but still poor (possible spoilers)->","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story isn't as messy as it seemed to me at first but I still think Timecop is not very entertaining. One thing that bothered me at first and still bothers me is some ridiculous rule about time travel which hardly used except for the end (and to force the story into the right direction when necessary and probably as an attempt to create some excitement) where it is used as an easy way to get rid of the bad guy. Why I even let this bother me about the movie? Even though the movie tries to be fun it seems to take itself a little to seriously at times. 4/10 points. "}{"Title":"Great Preview,great Action!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When i saw the preview i was  so excited about the film! It contains great action Van Damme is a great Actionhero! "},{"Title":"A mess","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When you make a movie about time traveling you have to think about a lot of things, or keep the story small. 'Back to the Future' knew how to do that, and where it failed to do that it had some other elements that elevated the movie. 'Timecop' has not thought about anything, only the things to keep the plot moving. Not that I hated the movie. Without thinking too much I was able to enjoy it.I don't want to say too much about the plot that kept on going. Some things are important. The present, according to the movie, is 2004. A senator is running for president and uses the time traveling to collect his campaign money. He does this by changing things back in 1994. Van Damme is a timecop. Because changing things in the past with the intention to change the future is illegal they have to be there. The time traveling itself is legal. Van Damme also travels back to 1994 to solve the problem. A nice bonus for him; his wife was killed in the same year around the same time, so he must be able to fix that while he is at it.To describe all the impossible things, the things the movie didn't think about and the things the movie did think about but made no sense is almost as stupid as the sentence I am writing now. For some very mindless action, for some funny one-liners and a lot of stupid ones and for Jean-Claude van Damme if you happen to be a fan. "},{"Title":"A mess->","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story was such a mess that I hardly cared about what was going on. The only thing that kept this movie from scoring a one was the mindless action which kept it from being completely boring and uninteresting. The lowest rating I gave until now was a 3 for Airspeed, at least you could follow what was going on. This movie gets a 2/10. "},{"Title":"A mess->","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story was such a mess that I hardly cared about what was going on. The only thing that kept this movie from scoring a one was the mindless action which kept it from being completely boring and uninteresting. The lowest rating I gave until now was a 3 for Airspeed, at least you could follow what was going on. This movie gets a 2/10. "},{"Title":"A mess->","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The story was such a mess that hardly cared about what was going on. The only thing that kept this movie from scoring a one was the mindless action which kept it from being completely boring and uninteresting. The lowest rating I gave until now was a 3 for Airspeed, at least you could follow what was going on. This movie gets a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Jean Claude van DAYUMMM","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review is brought to you by that oh-so potent drug, Nostalgia.1994 was eventful year for old Massey_456 for several reasons.1. My dad fell off a roof, breaking his spine in several places. He was hospitalised for some time. 2. Timecop was released. 3. My little brother was born. Whilst I could probably jot down a few thoughts about the two bookend events, I am here to talk about the midmost one. For it has brought me the greatest amount of joy. Don't be fooled by its nona-centric release date, this is very much an 80's Film. 'Slander!' I hear you cry. 'How dare you make such accusations!... PROOF!' You demand.Much like the jury of a dearly-loved Australian,wobble-board playing artist and television presenter who stands accused of a misdemeanour which would ruin childhoods everywhere should said allegation be true, you want hardcore evidence before you go and condemn this innocent dear of such a horrific crime. Well, it's called Timecop. It's about time travel. There's a character whose credited name is 'Rollerblades'. It stars Jean Claude van Damme. GUILTY! Ah, Jean Claude van Damme. With his Germanic looks and Dutchy-Frenchy name, he is somewhat of an enigma wrapped in a riddle. He's good looking, but not sexy. He's an actor, but he cannot. He's trained in martial arts. Yet he is neither a marshal nor an artist. Though on this final point we must rest. As our protagonist of the hour, JCvD uses this movie to bust a few martial arts moves. Karate chops, splits, roundhouse kicks &#x96; you name it, he did it. No doubt the execs at MGM were holding their portly bellies and laughing heartily when they found out JCvD was willing to throw in all his best Kung-fu moves for his role. 'Just think of the female viewership!' they must have laughed. 'They'll be flocking for miles to see this action; we'll be raking it in!' Well, this action may appeal to some, but it isn't really my cup of tea. I've always thought there was something a bit gay about a man doing the splits. Call me a sexist homophobe (or splitophobe?), but a split man just looks wrong. Timecop has given us one of the greatest lines ever to be uttered in a time-travel movie 'Obviously we can't go to the future, because it hasn't happened yet.' Obviously, Low-budget Morgan Freeman. Obviously.The worst thing is, the bloke's got a point. But if the logical observances of Discount Mo-Free aren't selling it to you, know this The entire movie is worth watching just to see 1994's idea of a future car. Like every single Hollywood prediction of the to-come, it is ridiculous. One theory I have is that the set designers were a dry-humoured bunch of rascals who, upon being asked to design a 'futuristic car', decided to see just how stupid they could make it before the studio drew the line. No line was drawn. I say this because it's hard to believe that people of the nineties actually envisioned the automobile industry entering style de-evolution, where boxy, unnecessarily large, unshapely monstrosities of vehicles were actually all the rage. Then again, if you've seen the latest mini-cooper model, it wasn't actually a discreditable prediction.I watched this movie circa six months ago, and I was unsure whether to do a review after so much time has passed. Would I still recall the plot? Would my review be impeded by the details I'd have surely forgotten? Then I realised I had no idea what was going on even when I was watching the damn movie, so time will have been no impeder on the quality of my review. For it was never going to be good.Look, I don't know what this film is about. I never have done and I never will do. It's an 80's throwback for goodness sake! Or perhaps&#x85;just perhaps&#x85;I was wrong. Maybe this movie is not an 80's film, but a tribute to them. It was created two years after the explosive, game-changing release of Reservoir Dogs &#x96; a movie which signalled the dawn of a new era in filmmaking. The nineties had arrived, bringing story lines which were both complex but also completely plausible, and characters with depth and personality. Whilst most revelled in this evolution, it's easy to sympathise with those who harked back for the simple bygone days of Goody v Baddie feuds, car chases, renegade cops and extreme vigilantism. It is all so clear now Timecop is a love letter to that wonderful, ridiculous decade. And if Timecop is an homage to the 80's, this review, in turn, is a concomitant salute. 1980-1989 You made us laugh, you made us sigh. It's been a blast. Thanks for the memories. "},{"Title":"Excellent premise, OK realization","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" TIMECOP Aspect ratio 2.391 (Anamorphic)Sound format DTSOK, I'll admit it - I like Jean-Claude Van Damme!! He's sleek, he's sexy, and he isn't the least bit pretentious about his art or abilities. And, contrary to popular belief, he has made some good movies, of which TIMECOP is a prime example. Based on the comic series by Mark Verheiden (also the screenwriter) and Mike Richardson, and opening with a truly arresting sequence in which a group of Confederate soldiers are mown down by a *machine gun* during the American Civil War (!), the film's oh-so-clever premise casts Van Damme as a futuristic policeman assigned to pursue criminals who are exploiting mankind's newfound ability to travel through time. His major nemesis turns out to be a slimy presidential candidate (Ron Silver, enjoying himself immensely) who has already used the time portal to stage an attempt on Van Damme's life in 1994 - *before* he became a timecop - only to kill our hero's beloved wife (Mia Sara) by mistake. The stage is set, as they say, for fireworks.Verheiden's script plays fast and loose with its time travel premise, but director Peter Hyams - a dab hand at this sort of thing (cf. THE RELIC, SUDDEN DEATH, etc.) - keeps the pot boiling nicely throughout, and the bone-crunching action scenes are choreographed to perfection, including an extended climax in which Van Damme seizes an opportunity to go back and prevent his wife's death. Technical credits are ultra-professional. But the major questions one always asks of a J-CVD movie is Does he get his shirt off? Yes, he does, twice (yay!). And does he flash his butt? Yes, briefly, and in close-up, too (yay, again!). After all, a Van Damme movie wouldn't be complete without a glimpse of those mighty, meaty, MAGNIFICENT globes, now would it? Great fun, highly recommended.NB. Though the film's anamorphic photography is often attributed to Panavision, the actual format isn't listed in the on-screen credits. "},{"Title":"Standard stuff, in a slightly original package","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While the theme and basic idea behind this film is somewhat original, the film itself is just the typical Van Damme action cliché-fest. They just threw in some science fiction and time-traveling to make it seem fresh and new. The idea of criminals committing crimes in the past is kind of good, but the futuristic science fiction aspects of the film don't hold water. It's not just because we are now actually in 2004, which is where the movie takes place, since, being made ten years ago, I guess they thought it wasn't entirely impossible for this time to be so developed, no, it's more the fact that we're expected to believe that virtually every single crime being committed(every major one, at least) is being with one intent and purpose, and organized by one man. Of course, I won't reveal neither the purpose nor the person here; wouldn't want to spoil the story for someone who actually *does* care about it; I can't say that I did. The plot is the typical predictable out-to-avenge-a-wronging action plot. It's decently paced. The acting is laughable at best, with Van Damme having the exact same facial expression for the entirety of the 90-minute runtime. The characters are for the most part clichés and stereotypes. The action is pretty good, but nothing you haven't seen in all of Van Damme's other action flicks. The special effects are poor. The writing is simple. The dialog is often cringe-worthy rather than funny or exciting. The science fiction aspects are poorly done with (apparently) little to no actual thought put into it. All in all, the film is just the typical Van Damme flick. Not really anything that sets it apart from the rest of his films. I recommend it mainly to Van Damme fans, though I will say that you could do worse than this for a Van Damme film(Double Impact, for example). 5/10  "},{"Title":"Timecop is incredible...","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  bad! I'm watching the movie for the second time right now, and I  must say I don't like it. One of Van Dammes first line, is to a bag-snatcher This bag doesn't look good one you. And the rest of the movie is just as bad as that line. I know that time-traveling is a hard subject to discuss, but the way the handle it in this movie, is some of the worst ever. Compared to Back to the Future and Terminator, Timecop's time-traveling aspect looks ridiculous. It can't be defended philosophical.To summon up The acting is not that good, the plot is very bad, but their is some decent fighting scenes. I'll rate it 4 out of 10Skeloboy "},{"Title":"Decent action film","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Van Damme made one of his last good movies in the form of Timecop. The film has plenty of action and martial arts to please fans of both worlds. Mia Sara has a great looking body and the love story in the film will attract female viewrs. I give it *** out of ****. "}{"Title":"Paradoxical, of course","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot is full of holes, but since I guess the rules of time travel aren't known, you have some freedom as to how you resolve (or don't) the inevitable paradoxes. Jean-Claude Van Damme was, well, Jean-Claude Van Damme. Ron Silver was reliably villainous. Gloria Reuben was good, and Laura Murdoch was pretty hot in her brief scene. One thing grated on me in the very first scene, the Civil War scene. A word of advice to all Yankees. If you want to sound Southern, do not misuse the word y'all. Y'all is plural. You never say it to just one guy. (In the rare cases you do, it is understood to include others not present.) Think of y'all as the equivalent of youse guys and you won't be caught out in a ridiculous mistake.Overall the film at least held to being much more of a science fiction film and didn't sink into becoming a martial arts film. (Although it came close a couple of times.) I wouldn't spend any money on this movie, but if it comes on cable, and you're bored, it might be worth sitting in front of. Grade C- "},{"Title":"Convoluted.","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Van Damme's most ambitious films obviously, he is trying to follow the footsteps of Schwarzenegger, whose Total Recall and Terminator 2 were both box-office triumphs. It's a respectable job, with some fine (and pretty violent) fight sequences, adequate effects, a great one-liner for the villain (Never interrupt me when I'm talking to myself) and a fair Van Damme performance - although he is less appealing than usual. However, the plot is way too convoluted and full of contradictions. "},{"Title":"A commercial success due to clever sci-fi angle","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Van Damme's finest efforts, bested only by Bloodsport and possibly Universal Soldier and Hard Target.  The most original plot he's ever been a part of, Van Damme's lack of emotion is fairly well explained.  Good effects and nice concept.  Does not fall prey to the classic time travel catch-ups. Silver and Sara do decent jobs working off Van Damme and the action is entertaining too. Worth watching, especially for Jean-Claude fans. "},{"Title":"Not Much Cop","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had a problem with the plot that states because the future is unwritten it`s impossible to go forward in time . Okay fair enough but if your able to go back in time surely that would affect the present which hasn`t happened yet ? Confused ? Well let me put it like this if you`re in 1929 and have a modern firearm and shoot someone in 1929 wouldn`t that have a bearing on 1939 or 1945 or 1963 or on events well into the future ? And wasn`t today yesterday`s tomorrow ? So you see TIMECOP  doesn`t really have the intellect of the original TERMINATOR movie and I`m really confused as to how it`d be impossible to kill Hitler as stated here . Another thing that confused me is how Jean Claude Van Damme`s character`s name is the anglo sounding Max Walker but he has a foreign accent! , especially when his wife tells him his english isn`t very good . And since it`s a Van Damme star vehicle don`t expect much in the way of decent acting , and as one one the bad guys said  Save your high kicks for broadway  , now that is being able to tell the future !The one thing I did hate about this movie is the way it telegraphs the ending with the line about matter being unable to occupy the same place at the same time in a film where everyone seems a little too keen to go back in time to meet themselves   "},{"Title":"Timecop","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you think of Back to the Future (time travel) mixed with The Terminator (not with a robot, but the idea of changing the future), then this film from director Peter Hyams (Sudden Death) is probably what comes to mind. Basically in 1994, someone managed to successfully travel through time, and cop Max Walker (Jean-Claude Van Damme) lost his wife Melissa (Mia Sara) in a house explosion. Ten years later, the cops have created a time machine to prevent other crooks and traitors from making their fortune, i.e. taking back valuable things. On one particular mission, Max tries to prevent greedy Senator Aaron McComb (Ron Silver) seeing himself to stop him giving to charity. Not too long later Max finds his wife's blood sample, and finds out she was pregnant, oh, and (I can't remember how you find out) the Senator may have been involved in her death. So now he is taking matters into his own hands and going back to 1994 to tell his wife to tell past Max about the baby, and also stop the Senator from getting his fortune. Also starring Bruce McGill as Commander Eugene Matuzak, Gloria Reuben as Sarah Fielding, Scott Bellis as Ricky, Jason Schombing as Lyle Atwood, Scott Lawrence as George Spota, Kenneth Welsh as Senator Utley and Brent Woolsey as Shotgun. Van Damme is pretty good, the special effects are quite good, you may have to remind yourself of what has been and what will be, but a good action film nonetheless. Worth watching! "}]