[{"Title":"Underrated Crime-Courtroom Story","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":" More often that not, I'll call a movie overrated, but this one, I think, is underrated. It features solid acting and a very involving story. There isn't as much violence as most modern-day crime movies and that's fine because this story doesn't need it. The profanity is also lower-than-normal. All that's missing is better cinematography.Joanne Whalley-Kilmer, Armand Assante, Gabirel Byrne and William Hurt all make this interesting and provide good performances. This is a good attention-diverting movie that is a good date movie, too. It's tense without a ton of the usual overdone violence and profanity. "},{"Title":"Doesn't totally convince but is better than The Juror!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pirone (Armand Assante) is a mob boss being brought to trial by DA Graham (Gabriel Bryne). When the star witness is whacked Graham replaces him with another mob boss. Pirone targets once of the jury, a single mother Valerie (Joanne Whalley-Kilmer) using dirty ex-cop Vesey (William Hurt) to get close to her. Valerie must hang the jury or risk her and her son being killed.This is a solid mob courtroom thriller with a edge. The story is interesting because you're not sure how Whalley-Kilmer will deal with the situations she is put in - it is quite tense for most of the movie. The actors are all good, Hurt especially plays against type with his shady dirty cop, Bryne does well but Whalley-Kilmer is not that good. Given the demands of the lead character Valerie it may have benefited from a better actress - that said she carries off the innocent single mother role convincingly. All the mob roles are played by actors who you'll see in lots of other gangster flicks including Goodfellas, The Sopranos etc. Some other interesting faces appear - William R. Moses of Perry Mason TVM fame appears as a jury, while David Cronenberg has a walk-on part as a film director.While Whalley-Kilmer doesn't totally convince in Valerie's character change towards the films conclusion the majority of the plot holds together well. If you've seen Demi Moore in The Juror then this is similar in plot but Trial by Jury is a much stronger film. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Film","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is so much better than The Juror. William Hurt is outstanding as a conflicted man, Kathleen Quinlan is amazingly creepy in her role, the tension between Joanne Whalley-Kilmer and the others, Armand Assante in particular, is emotional and well done. You will feel her isolation and fear. You will feel Gabriel Byrne's frustration as he tries to catch the mob boss and and work within the law only to have the legal system perverted by the influence of that mob. You will see how his character, who grew up with the mobster (Assante) could easily have gone in that direction. It has a great supporting cast with people like Joe Santos, Ed Lauter and Margaret Whitton. The film is also done in a film noir style. If you like classy films, you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been a Great Film-Noir","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":" In New York, Valerie Alston (Joanne Whalley-Kilmer) is a single woman, who has a small son and is the owner of a store of clothes. She is convoked to participate of the jury of the trial of the mobster Rusty Pirone (Armand Assante), who will be judged for several murders. In the eve, the key witness of the prosecutor Daniel Graham (Gabriel Byrne) was executed with the four police officers that were protecting him by Pirone's men. Meanwhile, the ex-cop Tommy Vesey (William Hurt), who also works for Pirone, threatens Valerie, menacing to kill her son if she does not claim that Pirone is not guilty. Trial by Jury is not a bad movie, but it could have been a great film-noir. The first three-quarters of the story are indeed excellent. But there are two weaknesses in this film the first one is the performance of Joanne Whalley-Kilmer. The character of Valerie lives a terrible dramatic dilemma and a very conflictive situation between her consciousness and the request of the mobster, and demanded a more expressive actress. Unfortunately, Joanne Whalley-Kilmer keeps the same expression in the most different situations along the story. The second weak point is the conclusion of the story, which is too much Hollywoodian to be credible. Anyway, this film is a good entertainment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Tribunal Sob Suspeita (Tribunal Under Suspicion) "},{"Title":"Hated and feared","Date":"20 March 2016","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joanne Whalley-Kilmer plays your average single mom raising her young son Bryan Shillowich who gets picked for jury duty. But what a case, it's of mob boss Armand Assante who is a hands-on kind of guy, likes to be in on his hits as he gets some jollies out of it.In real life this jury would be sequestered, but Assante has had no problems getting to Whalley-Kilmer whom he has singled out as the weak link on the jury to possibly get them to acquit or even hang it at least. One of the people doing his bidding is a corrupt ex-cop played by William Hurt. As bad as he is Hurt does have a bit of a soft spot for Whalley-Kilmer.Trial By Jury is a rather overwrought drama with a cast that gives it their best, but is defeated by a most improbable story. Some of the courtroom scenes are pretty good though with Gabriel Byrne as the Assistant District Attorney. He's gotten a nice collection of jailhouse witnesses who even if they weren't getting cut some good deals to convict Assante might just do it on their own. Assante is feared, but he's hated just as much.For fans of the principal cast members, especially William Hurt. "},{"Title":">Several viewings good<","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":" I discovered this film while searching for laserdiscs. It's a good way to find forgotten gems. TBJ is a crime film that never becomes tiresome mostly due to the fantastic emotionally alluring portrayal of a single mom by Joanne Whalley. She's your average girl stuck in a mess with a megalomaniac king pin. Fortunately for the viewer her body is not average, giving her character that added, I don't know I'm sexy vibe. Armand Assante turns in a great performance as he easily puts out charm and terror with a simple stoic glance. The root of the film which is the two worlds colliding, gets delivered with believability. The real gritty hoots of the film are William Hurt playing a twisted x cop that still has remnants of good in him and the ever delectable Kathleen Quinlan as a quirky sot. I really liked the script. The seedy undercurrent feel that the film has is captured with words that give an inner chuckle and a solid outer grimace. Some courtroom antics are quite stagey but those scenes can be muscled through if you like the genre. TBJ is not a routine crime thriller and throws some very interesting entertainment punches. "},{"Title":"very slow but well worth the rental fee","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Trial By Jury is one of the better psychological thrillers I have seen because it sucks the viewer in with each scene. As I began to watch this film I noticed that it had elements of 12 Angry Men and The Juror, both of which were great movies, therefore I knew this would be of the same caliber.The film stars Gabriel Byrne, Armand Assante, Joanne Whalley-Kilmer and William Hurt. They all bring a style to the film that can only be matched by the brilliant ways of making it believable. I found all the actors were playing a different from what they were accustomed to, which was a real treat because if actors play the same thing over and over it gets boring.This a legal thriller that plays around with the mind and when movies do this you can only hang on for the ride. Kilmer delivers an awesome performance as the terrified juror. It made me sit up and take a look at how talented she is. For example, in the climax of the movie she is at her best, but you will have to see the movie. Speaking of performances, the one turned in by Gabriel Byrne made me a fan of his work because he showed that he has a passion making movies and making them good. In Trial By Jury he never let up in his pursuit of justice.Trial By Jury was a very slow movie but it is well worth the wait. I hope everyone likes it as much as I did.  "},{"Title":"A rare and believable psychological thriller","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Nothing like the main-stream Hollywood thriller. The characters are actually notably changed by the shocking experiences they experience, and not just enraged.It is a rarely nuanced look into female psychology. Comparable to Bound in that sence. They don't kick ass they have other priorities, different goals, different drivers - but not so different methods...It's realistic, surprising and entertaining. The actors shows a depth which I miss in most Hollywood productions. Joanne Whalley-Kilmer and William Hurt are great - much better than their main-stream appearances.Take your time to see it. It won't change the way films are made, not break any records, but you are likely to come out with a different view on women.(Make sure to watch in 'Scope -)Excuse my English.  "},{"Title":"familiar? maybe a spoiler.","Date":"23 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Am I the only person that thinks this movie is waaaaay to similar to The Juror with Demi Moore? Let's see, let's start with jury intimidation, young son threatened, rape. I always thought this movie was a very good movie but I'm amazed that there is not a stronger association of the two movies in IMDB. "},{"Title":"Part court drama, part thriller.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":" Trial By Jury isn't a bad movie or anything but it's fairly predictable and isn't really a must see. The best thing about the movie is Joane Whaley in the lead role.The similarities to The Juror have been noted here so I won't get into that. This movie is part court drama part wanna be thriller. I say wanna be because it's not that original. I'm not saying the movie doesn't scare because it does. I mean there are some genuinely creepy moments. But it's that try to scare type of fear, the type where you kind of respond automatically. I saw it on television and it does hold your Attention so it's not a bad pick for a lazy Sunday.Trial By Jury also, at least to me, felt a bit like a movie one would find on the lifetime network. (Not that I'm putting down the lifetime channel-I actually dig many of their movies.) But it has that feel. The acting is actually quite good and Whaley brings a Special something to the role. She's a very CLASSY actress and that does kind of elevate the movie. Her being in the lead role is definitely a strong point of the movie.The movie Trial By Jury is not a must see.(I'd rate it about a 5.5) but not unwatchable and good for watching on a rainy day or if you like courtroom dramas. "}{"Title":"Overdone courtroom drama with a boilerplate mobster twist","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A antique shop-owner in NYC, played by Joanne Whalley(Valerie Alston)gets put on a US District Court jury, on a trial of a known Mafioso Armand Asante(Rusty Pirone), and most of this very slow-paced film revolves around attempts of Pirone attempting to get Whalley to acquit him of murder, by threatening to kill her son, and herself. Much action ensues, involving gruesome mob-rub outs, interspread with Willam Hurt as the go-between. Much of this silly, disjointed mess surrounds Hurt and Asante's obsession with Whalley, courtroom scenes that we've all seen time and again, and an ending that is unbelievable. 3/10 is probably going easy on this waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Film badly miscast but still good","Date":"10 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought the movie was good, but felt all the leading characters (with the exception of Armand Assante as the mob boss) were badly miscast. One of the essential elements of the plot was the mob boss's obsession for the juror, because he had a thing for classy women who looked like movie stars from the 1940s. Although Joanne Whalley is an excellent actress and always a beautiful on-screen presence, I don't feel she fit the 1940s mold, and didn't seem to have much on-screen chemistry with Assante. Another actress such as Kim Basinger (in a pre-LA Confidential Veronica Lake type of performance) might have made that plot element more believable. William Hurt was also miscast as the crooked cop. After seeing Tom Berenger in Breaking Point he would have been a much better choice. Gabriel Byrne and Kathleen Quinlan's roles could have been played by Treat Williams and Kelly Preston. Other than the casting of the lead actors, I liked the look of the film (photography, set design, costumes, etc.) and enjoyed watching it. I thought it was a much better film than The Juror (with Demi Moore and Alec Baldwin) that had a similar theme and was released the same year. "},{"Title":"this film is funny","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  TRIAL BY JURY is an example of a movie that doesn't realize how funny it is. Take the scene where Joann Whalley-Kilmer is seduced by Armand Assante, although he is leering at her sleazily the whole time Assante is on trial.(she is a jury member, see) Then things get real silly with all the plot twists, and a real hammy slow-burn performance by Gabriel Byrne. I caught the film one day on pay cable, and once again recently on TNT, and the funniest thing was, the actors kept a straight face the whole time.Which brings me to Whalley-Kilmer. Who gave her this Ashley Judd part? Not to say that Whalley-Kilmer isn't game in her part as the dumbest-smartest jury member in the world. But Judd is much better at making these unbelievable legal thrillers bareable(i.e. DOUBLE JEAPORDY). I love when Hollywood makes a film that it doesn't know is as funny as it is. "},{"Title":"The Juror Meets Twelve Angry Men","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This improbable thriller about a woman juror (Whaley) who is kidnapped (and worse) in order to coerce her into voting to acquit a mob boss (Assante) who is on trial for murder, was better than I expected it to be.  The plot is preposterous but the performances are excellent, particularly Hurt's as an alcoholic ex-cop who does part time work for the mobster.  The appropriate time to watch this movie would be Saturday morning.  Nevertheless, it is all right.  I gave it a 6. "},{"Title":"The remake is better.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Two years after this movie was made, The Juror came out. Don't waste your time on this one. See The Juror instead. The Juror is essentially the same story as Trial By Jury, with better acting, better directing and a far more gripping aura about it. William Hurt was not believable as a cop-gone-bad, and Armand Assante couldn't be more unlike a mob boss if they had dressed him in a clown outfit. You didn't become involved enough with Joann Whalley's character to be that upset by what was happening to her. Also, the way in which she interacted with the jury wasn't compelling or interesting in any way. Kathleen Quinlan's role as a hooker/killer wasn't fleshed out enough and quite frankly was unnecessary for to the plot.  "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Thriller, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It´s long time that I and my wife didn´t see such a boring thriller. It´s definitively NOT a gripping story and it is paced so slowly that we nearly fell asleep. This could be instead a very low budget TV crime series. There are some ridiculous scenes like the one where mafia boss Pirano wants to see the jury lady in a red clothes or another mafioso cannot stop to think about her and so on. Okay perhaps this should have been a romantic thriller but believe me you really don´t miss anything. We gave 4/10. "}]