[{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"33 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Due to a computer error Alex (Lara Flynn Boyle) accidently gets assigned the same dorm rooms as two guys, Stuart (Stephen Baldwin) and Eddy (Josh Charles). Stuart a sex crazed drunk frat boy is in lust with Alex, however Alex is in love with Eddy and Eddy in turn thinks he may be in love with Stuart! Considering the title and the premise one would not expect to see a smart film that never bashes its characters, but instead fully develops them in an a thoughtful, original manner. This film manages to do just this. Lara Flynn Boyle is both sexy and extremely funny. Josh Charles turns in a tender, compassionate performance. Film could have just easily come off as gratitous, but instead it is sexy and fun.Rated R; Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"For its time, groundbreaking","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Due to a computer mix up female Alex (Lara Flynn Boyle) has to share a dorm apartment with two men--sex-obsessed Stuart (Stephen Baldwin) and nice, quiet Eddy (Josh Charles). She begins to fall in love with Eddy but he reveals to her that he's gay--maybe (he's still a virgin). They all become fast friends and make a pact NOT to have sex with each other. But Alex is still in love with Eddy--and Eddy is very attracted to hunky Stuart...Almost perfect comedy/drama. For its time, this was groundbreaking. This was a rare Hollywood film that brought up gay characters and issues and did NOT ignore them or miraculously make the character straight. SPOILER ALERT!!!!! It is revealed that Eddy IS gay and is happily with a boyfriend at the end of the movie! I remember seeing this in a theatre and being stunned in 1994. NO Hollywood film had ever done that before (letting a gay character stay gay AND be happy). Even today that's a rare occurrence--back in 1994 it was unheard of. For this alone this movie should be better known. END SPOILER ALERT!!!Sexual politics aside it's also a damn funny movie. The characters are believable, the dialogue is frank and VERY adult (this is NOT for kids) and the movie moves quickly--never a dull moment. Boyle was young (24) when she made this. Her performance is great and she looks incredible (unlike now where she looks seriously anorexic); Charles is letter perfect as Eddy--you see has pain and conflict as he comes to terms with his sexuality; even Baldwin is good! His character is an obnoxious jerk but he has his sweet moments and really pulls them off. But it's his character that prevents me from giving this movie a 10. His character IS a real jerk and his sick jokes and comments really wore me down. Also there is a scene between him and Charles which is just bristling with homo eroticism--and the film stops it. I can accept that though--back in 1994 a mainstream audience couldn't have dealt with two guys going at it.Sadly this film bombed in 1994 (a bad ad campaign didn't help matters). This Definitely deserves rediscovery. Exceptional film that deals honestly with college kids and sexual politics. Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Less exploitation, more reflection","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Now that movieland seems to avoid anything that might feature just a touch of intelligence, this movie follows the opposite formula  less exploitation, more reflexion. It is funny, understanding, believable, exploring what, for some, would be dark sides of friendship, love and sex, but in a light and amiable way. The I-word strikes again in its deep sensitivity for what human relationships are like and, most of all, there is no morality tacked on at the end. In a different way, it reminded me of the superb French movie Le péril jeune, which dwelt on a bunch of adolescents at the end of the sixties. Check it out . "},{"Title":"a great, much under-appreciated movie","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in high school, liked it a lot at the time, and have continued to like it a lot. I think it was a much under-appreciated film that, in its own, pop-culture way, is even very brave. Josh Charles and Lara Flynn Boyle, both actors I always enjoy, give strong, genuine performances and Stephen Baldwin does his best acting outside of THE USUAL SUSPECTS. The best thing about the film, however, is Andrew Flemming's screenplay, which is highly literate, witty, extremely aware of itself, it's situation and the nature of its characters, and is studded with some beautiful little gems of sensitivity, understanding and wisdom. Though some people might dismiss it as fluff, the issues of sexuality, confusion and desire being presented are extremely well-handled, and Flemming is very good at addressing them intelligently, through his characters, without ever abandoning believability- especially in regards to how college kids talk and think. Also, a gold star for the portrayal of a gay man who is not flamboyant, dying or AIDS, or stupidly following the heroine around playing confidante; another for exploring the darker, stranger side of the woman-male homosexual relationship so often glamorized in Hollywood; a third for addressing that taboo subject so often dropped from teenage and twenty-something sex comedies guilt. All in all, a fun, enjoyable movie- with a nice, thought provoking kick in the stomach to make it really worth your time.  "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic comedies I have seen.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie almost 10 years ago already for the second time and I liked it as much as before. The three main characters develop such a funny and friendly relationship throughout the movie that you just have to like them. Especially Josh Charles as Eddy (formerly admired as Mr. Knox Overstreet in Dead Poets Society) is a hell of a performer. He has something very special in his acting and I simply think he is remarkable. Lara Flynn Boile is no doubt a goddess with respectable acting abilities and even Will Baldwin, who plays a very flat but funny character, pleases the audience. As a group they even go beyond and the result is a romantic comedy with lots of sex appeal, laughing, friendship and even some seriousness. The script is very good and I can recommend this film to anyone over 16. My tip though Don't watch it alone. It's much more fun with company. Have fun! "},{"Title":"this sums up sexuality in an hour and 40 minutes","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  the chemistry between the characters on screen is amazing. The realiztation of homosexuality is touching, and also, the fond descriptions that eddy gives throughout the movie is so sweet, verging on bittersweet towards the end. But while i go on about its senitmentality, i have not even begun to express the blatant exploration of sexuality and the funny ways in which all the characters can pull them off. You'll never look at garden gnomes in the same way i can tell you. The ending is so inexplicably satisfying that the only words the need to express after watching this monumental summarization of 90's sexuality is Let's go back to college!  "},{"Title":"An Honest Film.","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Risky even for its release date, THREESOME nevertheless manages to stay fairly true to its material without going too far or restraining itself too much, but staying in a comfortable middle. This can be either its validation or its weak point, because even when the three main characters wind up in bed together and apparently break the friendship bond and consummate their sexual tension, that we aren't allowed to see it and experience it is the only moment when it seems to cheat and retrace its steps cautiously. Because of course, one of the men is Stephen Baldwin, and it would be compromising if he had kissed his co-star Josh Charles, so we only will see him have sex with Lara Flynn Boyle. However, the material is well done, the characters are well drawn -- except for having Alexis Arquette as a more flamboyant gay college student in for laughs than as an actual person -- and the viewing experience translates at times quite poignantly through Charles' voice-overs as he wistfully looks back at those college days that are now gone by. "},{"Title":"College Escapades","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Few movies about college life have the respect for reality that this movie has.  Andrew Fleming's screenplay is a near perfect one; so good, in fact, that it would be a terrific play. I had similar experiences in college coming out as a gay man and exploring the tangled web of sex and romance. Fleming gets it so right! You cringe at most teen and college movies that Hollywood passes off these days, but this film is an independent gesture at delving into relationships and characters. It was under appreciated in 1994.  On DVD it plays like a masterwork.I must also praise Josh Charles, whose work in this film is also completely right and real. An underated actor, he makes Eddie's dilemmas heartbreaking and humorous at the same time. He should be doing alot more movies!!! Steven Baldwin is a bit over the top at times, but he creates an endearing jock who has moments of sincerity that are rarely seen in this character type. You've got to love his sheer exuberance in the part! And Lara Flynn Boyle gives a multi-textured performance of such nuance that it is a constant marvel watching her in this film.Perhaps the greatest compliment I can give this movie, is that it almost seems totally improvised; it's natural, fun, and a very true slice of college life. It's also a great coming of age/coming out movie that refreshingly has a gay protagonist who isn't a queen, dying of AIDS, or singing musicals!!!  HALLELUJAH!  "},{"Title":"Interesting concept, clever writing and all-round pretty entertaining","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I think what makes this film work is the chemistry between the three main characters. You like these characters, feel with them and believe that they would get along in real life like they do in the movie. The concept is clearly quite controversial, and I guess that's why it's so unpopular. I like the way it isn't really all resolved in the end... there is always a tiny degree of imperfection. The plot at times appears to have been written with the primary intention of being controversial rather than entirely realistic, emotionally or otherwise. I'm not sure if that's true, or it just seems that way. The pacing is pretty good. You're rarely bored. The clever dialog and script keeps your interest as well as consistently making you laugh. The film somehow makes you care about these characters, despite their many shortcomings and flaws. Maybe it's because they're human... we can identify with them, more than usually with American films(that are often shallow). The direction is pretty good. The film pretty much belongs in the 'good, but not entirely sure why' category. You like what you see, but you can't pin-point exactly why. All in all, a pretty good romance-comedy that should be seen by anyone open-minded enough to enjoy it. I recommend this to anyone who isn't offended by the topic(and not easily offended in general) but particularly to those who are fans of one or more of the main actors. 7/10 "},{"Title":"amusing","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a pretty good little movie about very close roommates.  It's got a good deal of humor and easy charm but at the end I had a bit of a so what feeling about it.  Also shows you of how hot Lara was before she turned into Skeletor. "}{"Title":"One of the better college-movies","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  In the past there have been made many movies about students in college, some of them drama's, other comedies. This is one of those, and I though a pretty good one. It's about two guys, Stuart and Eddy, who have to share their apartment with Alex, a girl, due to bureaucratic failure. In first they don't like this idea, but they manage to get along, and even to become close friends. But all three of them seem to want more out of this strange relationship....Lara Flynn Boyle (Alex), Stephen Baldwin (Stuart) and Josh Charles (Eddy) did a good job as the three main characters, and overall this is a nice comedy about relationships, feelings and coming out of the closet. Together with films like With Honors and St. Elmo's Fire this is one of the better movies about college-escapades. "},{"Title":"3Some is Grrrrrrrrr-eat!","Date":"12 December 2003","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  One girl. Two guys. Three possibilities.I really loved this movie. The plot is simple enough, basically just leading up to the threesome of the title, and the ending isn't as promising as it could have been. Nevertheless, the three leads, the sharp dialog, the great late-80's/early-90's soundtrack (Tears 4 Fears, Duran Duran), and the undeniably provocative tone make for a thoroughly enjoyable 90 minutes. Lots to enjoy, whether your gay or straight! "},{"Title":"A very well-scripted and enjoyable film.","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film happened to come on on the late show on one of the local channels, and I ended up watching it. I was expecting a rather cheesy film in which we see all the predictable sexual quandries you might expect out of a comedy like this. I wasn't entirely wrong, but I was rather pleasantly surprised, as well.Eddy (Josh Charles) is sexually ambiguous - ie. homosexual, as he eventually admits, although he is a virgin and not entirely sure. Alex (Lara Flynn Boyle) has a huge crush on him. And his somewhat misogynistic and lustful roommate, Stuart (Stephen Baldwin) lusts after Alex, while Eddy lusts after him. They make a vow to be just friends. Of course, this all backfires.What pleasantly surprised me was the conclusion to the film, and the tender and delicate nature with which they handled the sexual issues that cropped up. It was also extremely funny at times, especially when the dorm supervisors (Alexis Arquette, Martha Gehman) start spying on the three of them and wondering what the hell is going on.The directing is standard for a film of this nature - essentially a romantic comedy with a twist. The lead roles were all extremely well played, especially Josh Charles as the narrator and most crucial role of the film. The sex in the film was erotic when it needed to be, tender when it needed to be, and animalistic when it needed to be, and never overwhelming or out of context.It also was one of the most realistic and intelligent commentaries I've ever seen on the reality of college life - at least, undergraduate life. How I've experienced it, at any rate. The dialogue, so crucial to a film like this, is extremely appropriate and well-done, and the actors deliver it with perfection. It's a film that is almost entirely about dialogue - despite the sexual nature of the film, there's little nudity and certainly never anything that could be considered gratuitous. It's not the greatest film I've seen, but it's among the most well-written films I've seen in the past few years.A pleasant and amusing film. I was surprised by how much I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Threesome is poorly titled. period. It is not a skinamax movie but an exploration on dating and the new 90s style of gay or straight. Josh Charles, who would later become an anchor on the tragically short lived Sports Night, stars as the narrator and one-third of the title. His performance suggests that somebody in Hollywood doesn't know pure talent when they see it. The writing is near perfect and the sex jokes are more than plentiful enough to please those that rented it for the title.  "},{"Title":"A sexy, funny flick about sex, sexual identity, and friends.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is a great college flick--as opposed to a teen flick. Three hot actors (one female, two male) who want to get it on in a slightly twisted love triangle. I saw this movie on a first date...let's just say it went very well after that. Just don't expect a prude to react so well. Made me laugh too, but not Dumb & Dumber style. Makes you appreciate the experiences one can (usually) only have at college. "},{"Title":"A very fun movie.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  For those who love '80s flicks, this is a great pick. It has all the carefree fun of the '80s teen-romps, but with the early '90s college set.  It does a great job of bringing me back to my days of sleeping in, skipping class, getting wrecked with the most important people in the world, and thinking every little relationship was some grand new front of interpersonal contact no one had ever seen before.  However, it's a lot more thought provoking (if you let yourself think) than your average '80s teen-romp flick... it has a few twists of drama to it, too.  Overall, a great movie if you're more of a Weird Science than The English Patient type. One of my favorites. "},{"Title":"Ahhh....College....","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This fine gem recalls the trials and tribulations of 3 protagonists (Steven Baldwin, Lara Flynn Boyle currently the DA in The Practice, and Josh Charles) inadvertently thrown together and forced to coexist....until they break the bonds and rules that separate their lives and exist as one spirit....hey, it happened to me....see the movie to figure it out for yourself....  "},{"Title":"watch it, quote it, buy it (maybe)","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Great acting by Josh Charles and Lara Flynn Boyle.  Great directing.  The title does not tell all.  Although this movie is consumed with sex, it also has a lot to say about how rarely we realize what a great time we're having until we reflect upon it later.  A must see for L.F.B. fans. "},{"Title":"Very Good","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Each time I watch this movie, it strikes me. It is a deep discussion on an important subject the human sexuality. It can even change someone opinion about homosexuals, because it shows that we can do little or nothing to change it. Good actors, good direction, good plot. It hasn't got a happy end, but we are not children, and we have already known how the life goes on. "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie!","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  The movie hit me the first time I had watched it. I soon realised that for every situation in every-day life, there's an according quote in this movie. OK, it's really not a high culture stuff, but at least it's very Hollywood-unlike. That's probably the reason why many people don't seem to like it. And as for the sex scenes - I think that even if (or rather just because) they are not hardcore, they emerge very naturally from the movie's story. This is one of my favourite movies of all times, and that's (I guess) why I watched it 40 times so far. "}{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I was once in a similar situation, and it hit home.  The title suggests that it would be really different then it turned out to be.  Instead of a hot, kinky film, it was a romantic, emotional roller-coaster.  Threesome is true to life, you really can't help who you fall in love with or how anything will turn out.  The actors in this movie were great and lived up to their parts. This was an excellent movie, I recommend it to anyone who has gone into something, expecting one thing but left on a completely different note. "},{"Title":"Great romance comedy","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie a lot, because it's real and it shows you that we must not make changes about our sexual feelings, although it may effect our relationship.  "},{"Title":"Yeah, I thought this was pretty funny.","Date":"30 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film wasn't drop dead hilarious but it was very funny.  I couldn't help but laugh at Stephen Baldwin through out the entire film.  He's such a pervert but the funny thing is, what he says in this film is what most men are thinking but too shy to say out loud, or maybe I'm just sick in the head.......It was a little bit on the typically over-acted college life side, but once you get past that, it's just good old sex jokes and everything else that most of the world is offended by.  Again, I loved it.  "},{"Title":"satisfying","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Threesome is one of those movies which make you so involved with the characters you don't want it to end.  A wonderfully exciting film.  The viewer leaves satisfied and thought provoked.  It is the story of three lives which everyone secretly wishes they could be.  "},{"Title":"Really Odd...","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  it was a film with a strange perspective. Something that gives you a strong impression, but takes time to find why. The cast is almost perfect for that film, with no exceptions. Gives a sad filling in the end, but is not really a sad story. Definitely not a happy comedy. "},{"Title":"College roommates explore friendship, themselves, and sex","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" A university bureaucratic snafu causes a woman to share a dormitory suite with 2 men. The three of them develop friendships and there are interesting sexual desires/relationships between some of the characters.Overall, this was a funny and at times moving film. However, parts of the movie were difficult to believe, which made the entire movie a little difficult to relate to.The character who narrates a few scenes, Eddie, is the most believable and he is an easy character to relate to. Stuart is almost believable, but this is borderline. He almost belongs in Animal House, although he is not that extreme. Finally, the woman, Alex, is the least believable as she is can be very sexually aggressive. The other tough part of this movie it moves too quickly for the relationships to develop. The characters' public displays of friendship are amusing, but surprising because it happens relatively abruptly. In another scene Eddie has a theory about Stuart and refers to several things that Stuart said to support his theory. However, we never saw the original scenes where Stuart made these statements. I suspect they were edited out. Despite everything I wrote, I am glad I saw the movie. College friendships happen quickly and can be very serious very quickly. They can also be amusing. Each of the main characters was likable and the movie was entertaining. "},{"Title":"It's a goodish film..","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I wouldn't call it the best bisexual movie I've seen to be honest because I felt the character development among the three stooges were all over the place. Eddie is meant to like guys right and then suddenly backs them away to prove that he isn't gay. After all the complaining of being too closeted, he has sex with Stuart and Alex. I just felt like there should've been more thought when Andrew Fleming created the character. It's like he just wants him to be a whiny boy who in the end, never has gotten a partner all along. On the positive side, the sex scene's were really hot and romantic. I actually would've loved to have seen more instead of a few times because yknow it is a romantic bisexual movie all along!I would say this is a good chick flick movie and entertaining I guess. Maybe if I was watching this with a crowd of people, then I would've given this a 9 rating... "},{"Title":"Interesting, thought provoking, enjoyable and well paced.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I thought Threesome was an interesting, thought provoking and enjoyable film. The depth of each character isn't really explored thoroughly, we know very little about them at the beginning and not much more at the end, but in a way we don't have to because the story line moves at just the right pace. "},{"Title":"Skip the last 5 minutes","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  A friend of mine owns this video and we watched it on a lazySunday night.  I was loving it until it was almost over at which pointshe promptly turned it off.  There were five minutes left but before Icould complain she insisted that she refuses to see the end of themovie.  She told me I could borrow the tape and watch it on myown time.  Confused, I took the tape home and went to bed,thinking that it had been a very good movie.  Later that week I wentback and watched the last five minutes and I now understand whyshe insisted on turning it off.  The ending is TERRIBLE.  It's like thedirector made a great movie and then in the ending he felt guiltyand decided that he had to throw some morals in.  It ruined themovie.  So watch this movie, enjoy it, think about all the wildhedonistic adventures you had in college, and then turn it offbefore it goes bad. "},{"Title":"All time Fave!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie in High School and at the time my two best friends were guys and the three of us went everywhere together.  There was no threesome but I did date both guys at some point but the point so I really related to this movie.  The title makes you think SEX...but it is a rather discreet movie only once are nipples exposed and that isn't even by a main character.  I think that is a positive point, it's very sexy without being graphic. But the sexual nature is just a cover to get your attention the movie is actually a deep look at life.  I think there is at least one, probably many issues dealt with in this movie that will hit home with everyone.  It plainly exposes the complexity of friendships, relationships, sexuality, college, and how much of an impact your decisions can have on your life. I cry whenever I watch this movie (as well as laugh) it just hits home so deep on so many levels. I have said deep so often here but it's also hilarious!  I have watched this movie over 50 times and love to get friends to watch it, you can quote it 24/7, they are just priceless!  There is a scene when Alex is just fed up with her life and her monologue there is so great!  I don't know how many times I've repeated it! Watch this movie, you won't regret it, but remember to look at the deeper meaning if you want the full effect, but even if you don't the lines flying back and fourth will keep you rolling, however, if you are looking for a porno you're in the wrong place! "}{"Title":"Earnest, with no camp","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Timid tale of a love triangle between a just-beginning-to figure-out-I'm-gay guy, a straight woman and a slightly ambiguous straight man. It's all a bit too genteel for my taste, but it's nice to see a gay character (played sweetly by Josh Charles) presented without the standard stereotypes.  "},{"Title":"One of my all time faves","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This is one seriously underrated movie. The humor is very clever and mature (compared to say, a Will Farrell style college movie). I love the narration by the Eddy character, it makes this movie so much more. He makes you really feel what he's feeling. All three characters take you on their journey of self discovery, a bit of sexual experimentation that often occurs while in college, and most of all - the painful truth about How can someone be such a necessary part of one's life one moment, and simply vanish the next? How true is that?! One should also note the amazing original score by Thomas Newman. He's composed music for a ton of other movies too such as American Beauty, Pay It Forward, Erin Brockovich - just to scratch the surface. I recently became obsessed with finding this music, that is NOT included on the Threesome soundtrack (although the non-original music on that CD is a great compilation, including U2's Dancing Barefoot - a phenomenal song). I found it just this week if anyone else has been going crazy trying to find this music. It's on the American Buffalo soundtrack. The first half of the CD the score for American Buffalo score (which is pretty mediocre), and the last half is the original score to Threesome! Anyway, I think all three characters are VERY well played by the actors, even Stephen Baldwin - although I'm sure the role of the obnoxious, sex-obsessed roommate was tailor-made for the guy at that time. I love his and all the characters, and wouldn't change a thing about how they contribute to the three-way relationship that's formed as well as the story line.This movie is also very believable, a quality I love and a quality that keeps me from watching overly melodramatic classics like Gone With the Wind. I just don't believe the characters in those types of movies! So if you saw Threesome before and only thought it was so-so, give it another chance. Try to see it with new eyes, and for the love of God, listen to the original music when you can catch it. If you haven't seen it, rent it. You'll be pleasantly surprised. The DVD offers a couple of alternate endings, but I like the one they ultimately chose best. So it's not the happiest of endings, it's an extremely realistic ending. I was left completely satisfied. "},{"Title":"Great sex romp film featuring 3 of Hollywoods yet unsigned talents","Date":"13 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie! From start to finish it had me laughing as Stephen Baldwin's character of Stuart as the obnoxious sex-crazed horny frat-boy from Hell makes this movie. Too bad 2 yrs later he let Pauly Shore talk him into doing the movie Bio-Dome which basically relegated his career to straight-to-video releases. But in this film he showed he had a great comedic timing and he works excellently with the always talented Lara Flynn Boyle who plays the sexually repressed character of Alex, the girl who because of her uni-sex name is forced to live with 2 guys on campus as the other guy played by,  the great bascially still not very known actor Josh Charles, has her hot under the pantyline as he won't go out with her or make any moves on her, as he is trying to figure out why he'd rather look at Stephen Baldwin than Ms Flynn. In otherwords ***** SPOILER****** he's GAY! Hilarious scenes follow as Mr Baldwin's character, once he finds out about Josh Charles's gayness starts giving him advice on how to woo a person but it's all advice on how to woo a girl into bed rather than a gay-on - gay relationship. Also, very funny stuff, Ms Boyle's character trying to seduce Mr Charles, as he is trying to read big words in the library & she's so hot for him saying a word with more than 3 or 4 words in it gets her off like a bottle rocket. Very steamy film! ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Seen for the 3rd time and still very funny","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Yesterday i´ve seen this movie on the german TV for the 3rd time and i have still been entertained very well.Andrew Fleming did a good job, and the actors left a good impression. Lara Flynn Boyle as Alex, who gets a room in a students house together with two boys, falls in love with one of the guys, Josh Charles, which acting as the sensitive and sexually undecided part is very good too. And there is Stephen Baldwin, a Stifler-like character, who´s meaning of life is getting as much women as possible. I guess this is the most easy part to play for an actor, but nevertheless Baldwin did a good job too. So Alex loves Eddy, Eddy loves Stuart and Stuart loves Alex. Any questions left? This is a pretty good situation for many crazy things to happen ... and they do happen!So if you like funny Student/Teen-Comedy with a little bit more story and depth than most movies in this Genre, you can´t do anything wrong.Along with Analyze this and the American Pies, one of my favorite comedy, 8 out of 10 points.P.S. This movie is available on DVD in Germany. Released as Einsam, Zweisam, Dreisam! "},{"Title":"Titilating Comedy","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  When Alex (a female) is accidently assigned a room with two guys (one gay, one straight) all hell breaks loose when the messed-up menage-a-trois start falling for the other two roommates.Unfortuantely, although the movie has it's moments, it isn't particularly interesting. Sure, Alex (Lara Flyn Boyle)'s library-table antics and the fake sex in the back of the car are funny, but that's not enough to hold an entire movie.The only interesting character is Stuart, played enthusiastically by Stephen Baldwin. Sorry, but this movie won't ever be one of my favorites! 3/10 "},{"Title":"My Coming-Out-Movie","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Watching this Movie something twisted in my mind and I certainly knew Something in my personality is like this Eddy, the guy discovering he is gay. If there were more movies like this, there wouldn't be so many young gay men commiting suicide. "},{"Title":"This is one of the best films I have EVER seen.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  What I love about Threesome, other than the obvious content and sexual situations, is the depth behind such a simple movie. Let me explain As you know, movies can be (and are often used) as coping devices. This is a fun story about college kids, experimenting with sex, and emotions - it's almost a guideline for some kids. After I saw this film I was so excited about going to college and meeting new people. Threesome is funny, deep, inspirational and even a bit therapeutic for some kids. Plus it touches a very controversial topic. The over-all plot will be considered weak by most, but look for the complete meaning and think back to when you were that age. You will probably enjoy the movie a lot more. If you aren't expecting a masterpiece, you will be rewarded. "},{"Title":"A 10!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Okay, the movie is not a 10! if grading was solely based on the technical aspects of the movie.  Judging by those standards, the movie would be a 7 or 8.  I am very partial to this movie, however because it made me deal with my own homosexuality, then largely under wraps, in a positive way.Very smart cast and dialogue, it is good entertainment and an even better educational tool for those trying to find their way. "},{"Title":"odd","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I got into this movie expecting a hot, sexual adventure - I got it, but the sex seemed a little tacked on, especially the titular Threesome. Instead, I found a movie on its way to deep, introspective surmisings on the nature of human relationships.  It never really clicked for me, but it was an interesting film. "},{"Title":"A Seriously Neglected and Underrated Movie!","Date":"19 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This movie is a charmer. I suspect you have to be American, or have an American sensibility, to fully appreciate this film. I can easily see Europeans wondering what there is to be conflicted about, and I can see people from developing countries finding it a depiction of something that could never happen. Believe me, it can and does. The three young actors, all now much better known for other roles, play characters who will seem very real to you--especially if you can remember back to the sturm and drang of your college years.The dialog is as sharp and clever as anything you will hear anywhere. There is a scene where a naive girl, who has been brought to a threesome dinner party by one of the boys, flees the room in tears. Alex (Lara Flynn Boyle) gives a raucous, malicious laugh and then says dryly, I like her. It's a stunning moment, and drop dead funny.I hope this film eventually gets the attention it deserves. It is seriously neglected, certainly one of the most entertaining movies of its decade. In the gay community, this movie seems pretty much unknown. Which is a shame, because a gay audience would really get this movie. "}{"Title":"IMDB'S rating is pretty accurate.","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I will admit threesome is not half as sleezy as the title implies. It was obviously written with a level of maturity and explores themes quite familiar to many kids and it does it in a surprisingly mature way. That said, I did not become involved in this at all. To me, the movie just never picked up steam  and although it was far from bad watching this was a bit of an impersonal movie experience, it didn't bore me, as much as leave me with a feeling of detachment. As welldone as the movie was, the characters didn't reach out from the screen and leave me with a feeling of involvment in the storyline. I think the rating here(5.9) is pretty much on the money. I have nothing really bad to say about it except for the fact that it didn't get me involved in the storyline all that much. On the plus side, the movie was surprisingly mature in alot of places. On the minus side, I just wasn't all that interested in the characters. This is one of those movies that I can appreciate while not truely liking very much. "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"27 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" one of nice films about high school in easy manner. good looking actors, sentimental chaotic existence, an error and the pieces of strong friendship. nothing original but a smart script and few not bad actors are pillars for a comedy who could be good choice for an evening Sunday. the confusion as basis of the events, the levels of love, the life of characters as bricks of same circle, the hilarious situations and the realistic characteristics of heroes are interesting details for not a great film but surely a seductive one. the gay impulse does the story different by many films from same genre and Josh Charles is an inspired option for the role of Eddy. in same measure,the rude Stuart by Stephen Baldwin is realistic and almost soul of story. "},{"Title":"Heart warming and honest","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I started off watching this film with little hope of it being very good, but as the film went on, I found myself getting further sucked into the plot and relating with the characters. I usually hate romantic comedies but this film is different to the usual film from the genre - the characters were well developed - I felt like I really knew them and recognised them in people I actually know. The pacing was perfect - not too fast and I was able to get a real sense of what was going on. The plot completely believable too because of how it was presented, the themes of friendship and sexuality were well portrayed and not too rushed.The amount of comedy was perfect and I just generally really liked this film! However I would have liked to have seen more development of Eddy's character if I am brutally honest as I feel that him being gay should have played a bigger part in the film. Although, considering the time it was produced and released, it's safe to say that the film was pretty risky. I would love to see a more modern interpretation or remake. "},{"Title":"A very, very rare gem that never gets old and keeps on shining!","Date":"3 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" 'Threesome' is one such film that you simply cannot overlook or avoid. Films like this are very rare to witness these days where the plot is very simplified and revolves around just three college friends and their self discoveries. Very, in fact very rare films focus on college life in such a close manner and this film is much more than just three college friends in a room. In brief, 'Threesome' is the perfect example of a simplified cinema with a neat and perfect execution in every sense, from the precise direction by Andrew Fleming to the brilliant performances by Josh Charles, Lara Boyle and Stephen Baldwin.Charles, Boyle and Baldwin deliver one of their very best performances here, easily giving you the impression that you are just witnessing three friends and not the actors. The chemistry between these three is very touching and strong enough to keep your eyes glued to the screen, making you a part of their journey throughout the film. Its a film that gets better and better on repeated viewings, trust me you will never get enough of it, its really a ride. A 9.9 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Threesome","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" (spoiler alert) Not that I actually think I'm going to reveal anything this time around, but this is my first review in awhile and I've just discovered that IMDb insists that you put a warning up here.Of all the movies I've seen, of all the films that I love, this would seem to be the one that's most misunderstood on here.For some reason a lot of people (even Stephen Baldwin, one of the stars in the thing who's since gotten religion, and is now disavowing the film) think this is some kind of soft-porn film. It isn't, not at all.So half the people, the ones that wanted it to be a porn film, are disappointed, and the other half, without even having bothered seeing the film, say that it's immoral.This isn't a porn film at all. It's about friendship. It's one of the most on-the-mark movies about friendship that I've ever seen.Is there sex involved? Yes, of course. In case you've never noticed, we (and every other critter on the planet) are sexual beings, it's an urge in all of us.And if anyone would actually watch the film and just pay attention, it isn't all about overcoming inhibitions and setting free your desires; by the end of the film it becomes apparent that there are prices to be paid. (Well, I guess that was a spoiler, of sorts. But what's with this spoiler thing, anyway? There isn't a film book in the world that discusses, say, Psycho without giving away the ending! Since when has it become so important to not say anything about the movie? Hell, Threesome is about two guys and a girl...SHHH!!! You're spoiling it for me! LOL) Anyway, it has a very witty yet believable script and wonderful performances by all the actors (including, I must add, one of the most erotic scenes I've ever seen in my life, the one in the library. This might not be porn, but Lara was hot as hell back then!) And, by the end (if you're paying attention, and not assuming or hoping that it was a porn film) you're left on this terribly moving bittersweet note. Times change, people move on.This was a wonderful movie (if misunderstood), much better than its immediate rival that came out around the same time, Reality Bites. In the end, the thing that the film is truly about is how ephemeral things can be. It can't show you, vividly, how things can fall apart, it can't make you feel for them or what will happen to and between them without spending the first 80 or so minutes putting them together. After all of that, you realize the tragedy and frailty of friendships and loves.And, in the end, that is truly what the movie is about.And, in the end, that's what life is all about. "},{"Title":"Better Than You'd Expect","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Threesome (1994)*** (out of 4) Surprisingly effective comedy/drama about roommates Stuart (Stephen Baldwin) and Eddy (Josh Charles) whose lives turn upside down when Alex (Lara Flynn Boyle) moves into their dorm room. At first the three don't hit it off but that quickly changes and soon Alex likes Eddy, Stuart likes Alex and Eddy like Stuart. I remember watching this thing when it first came out and while this viewing didn't live up to what I remembered, I was still surprised at how well it did hold up all these years later. I think the film, unlike many, tried to be serious about it's subject matter and the three relationships that eventually evolve over the running time. For the most part the film doesn't hit any false moments as you will really feel as if you are watching three different characters come into their own while at college when sex is running free. The screenplay by director Fleming does a nice job at developing all three characters and their relationships with one another. I think the film doesn't shy away from its subject and in the end we're greeting to quite a few dramatic moments as well as some very funny ones. I think the running joke about all the pizza being eaten could have been left out but I don't fault the film too much for this. The performances by the three leads are quite effective with both Boyle and Charles really shining in their roles. Both of them handles their roles perfectly well with Boyle nailing the confusion and frustration of her character and Charles really coming off well as someone who doesn't know who he is. Baldwin adds a lot of laughter as the sex hungry male. "},{"Title":"Unlikely goings=on","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I found the situations so highly unlikely. I also found that what was supposed to pass for senstitivity on the part of these three characters was often not senstivity at all; it was cruelty. It left a bad taste in my mouth. "},{"Title":"Cool movie","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I saw this movie a second time last night and I must say it really has something about it. I love how natural it treats the topic of sexuality. It doesn't make a big deal out of it whether somebody prefers men or women and it's much about the feelings people have. The actors portray their characters very real  and they are all very likeable. Stephen Baldwin is very funny in this one, I had to laugh so much about him!! Josh Charles plays his character very sensitive and very believable.The end was a little sad but realistic. It would have been quite difficult to put a happier ending to this, however, I'm the happy end kind of person so it would have been nice but again, the ending is not unhappy, just a little sad. Give Threesome a try, I don't think any open-minded person would be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Mindless Meaderings","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I knew what to expect going into this movie...and I got every bit of what I thought I was going to. The actual plot and storyline itself wasn't bad. The acting wasn't bad. I got a little sick of Stuart, played by Steven Baldwin, but that is about my only complaint. What I didn't get, was the point that all the sex had to do with everything. And I know that makes me sound really bright. But, without it, this was a nice story. One that I would watch again. Steven Baldwins sexual escapades (and I mean that in every sense of the word, right down to the actual threesome) where over the top for me.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you stumble across on HBO, and walk away glad that you watched it.I'm not sure exactly what made this movie so great. I think because it was funny, it had a great story line, it gave the characters an extreme sense of sexuality, it reminded me of myself at times, and lastly.......it hinted on what and what NOT to do with women if you want to be successful.It's one of those movies that I agree, is not for young kids, and not for people over 35. I just really got a feel for the characters, and it kept my attention the entire movie.Overall, I'd say that this movie felt real to me. I felt I could relate to the characters, and nothing about this movie was far fetched. It's just one of those movies that you have to see to understand why it's captivating. And see why and how women are attracted to men that they can't have, or create a challenge.  "}{"Title":"Not as open-minded a film as it would like to think it is.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I rented this movie 'cos I love Josh Charles and on that level I wasn't disappointed because he was awesome. I loved him in this movie, and, honestly, his acting was wonderful. But, and not to sound like a *total* obsessive, if it's a movie where the main character is gay, shouldn't we see him kiss oh I don't know...another BOY? And not only do we not get to see any boy smoochies, he actually makes out with a girl twice? And that's after he's realized that he's gay, so he's not just confused or in denial or anything. I just felt that it was kinda obvious that the guy who wrote the film was uncomfortable with showing two men kissing, so why did he bother making the lead- and not just the lead, but the *narrator*- gay? It just felt very phony to me.  "},{"Title":"Out of the ordinary, but in the ordinary","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I first watched this movie when it came out, and then low and behold I was in the video shop looking for that free older movie, and I saw threesome - remembered it was interesting, so I picked it up.  It's a very sexual movie, there's no doubt about that - but the sex is what draws people into it. The sex is just the surface of the film - it goes so much furthur into the human heart and mind.  It touches on our real emotions and doubts, and thoughts, and hopes, and dreams.  This was an excellent film which you leave feeling, maybe not satisfied, but understanding - congrats to all involved - it was an interesting moment in movie history "},{"Title":"A review Threesome (1994)","Date":"4 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" Threesome (1994) *** out of **** Directed by Andrew Fleming With Josh Charles, Lara Flynn Boyle, Stephen Baldwin Great comedy drama about three friends who share the room Baldwin wants Boyle, Boyle wants Charles, Charles wants Baldwin. Strong, decent comedy about friendship, unrequited love and sex. Full of life and well executed. Is not excellent and nothing from another world, of course, but is nothing pretentious as much others. Spectacular performances by all. "},{"Title":"It's okay...","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I have one thing against this film Too much sex! Sex was the plot, sex was the main point, and it made me sex-sick for awhile. Egh!The acting was somewhat good, the music was good, the plot was stupid, but nonetheless, it was an okay movie.Threesome 5/10 "},{"Title":"Somebody's having a bad (hair) day","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  This film is a mess. There is no other way to put.How sympathetic I found the idea of a film discussing the confusion of sexual identity, the frustration of falling in love with a dear friend and the debating on friendship versus falling in love, there is very little sympathetic about this movie.I had hoped for a funny delighted adventure in the lives of these college students. And it starts off well but turn into a mess since it does not want to show us the characters as intelligent people with a friendship and understanding on a deeper level than sex. It simply does not answer the questions, it want to ask. It doesn't even try!And for the actors Stephen Baldwin, who tends to star in kinky movies, has a really bad hair cut. Despise that, this might be his finest work. It's not good, but.... ya know what I'm saying. Lara Flynn Boyle gives us the usual I can be Marilyn looks and seems to overkill her character because her acting is sort of over the top. Josh Charles is great as ever. Why don't we see him some more. He is indeed talented and great, a versatile actor.This movie is - well, a mess. You might like it though. I think I does not.3/10 "},{"Title":"Below average","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" All in all, a below average watch. There is no touch with reality - whether from a relationship perspective, college life, friendships, or anything else.The acting is atrocious, as far as Baldwin and Boyle go. Charles redeems it a bit - but only a BIT. The situations are simply ridiculous. Statements are made, and then left hanging without culmination. Friendships are portrayed with an emptiness around them that is difficult to understand.Considering the writer is the director (Fleming), not much more could've been expected since the story itself is so awful.I saw the movie 'coz the actors are from my era, and I thought it would be nostalgic. Hardly - avoid it if you can. "},{"Title":"Average film","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" This movie isn't TERRIBLE, it's just quite average. The acting isn't too crash hot, and although it tries for the profound it never seems to come up with anything original. Sadly another average mass-produced film churned out by Hollywood.  3/10 "},{"Title":"A not even remotely interesting exploration of adolescent sexuality and relationships.","Date":"22 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" I savor entertainment that explores relationships realistically, I delight in work that succeeds in portraying a group of friends who really look like they care for one another, I even feast on featherlight relationship comedies (if they appear sincere and heartfelt, which doesn't occur that often). What I don't indulge in are pointless, pretentious pieces of 'art', that consist of a contrived script and an excruciatingly bad acting ensemble. Unfortunately, the latter is what best summarizes this drivel involving one-dimensional cardboard characters twaddling about nothing at all. In many ways a relationship between three people is endlessly more interesting than the classic pair. Unfortunately for myself and all other viewers victim of witnessing this movie, the writer leaves all the intriguing and intelligent parts out and what we are left with is a pretty formulaic comedy about people who want what they can't have. Been there, seen that...utterly boring.I'd skip this one if I were you. "},{"Title":"An excuse for showing a sex-scene containing 3 people?","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":"  I found myself in front of the T.V. in my girlfriend's brothers' room. On a Swedish cable-channel called ZTV it was this film, Threesome. It wasn't anything else on so we started watching. Pretty soon you got to know that you knew the persons who played the main-characters called Eddy, Alex and Stuart. Eddy I recognized from Dead Poet's Society. Alex was played by Lara Flynn Boyle (Wayne's World, Twin Peaks, Happiness) and she over did in this film so much. I didn't even like her character in Happiness. But this was even worse. And then there was Stuart played by Stephen Baldwin who hasn't got much but B-Movies like Half Baked and Bio-Dome on his conscious, with the exception of The Usual Suspects. Anyways, they play three friends who live together. And a lot of problems come with that. I don't really know if Threesome is suppose to be a comedy. It was the first impression, even though I didn't laugh more than a couple of times. They try to mix it with dramatic and somewhat controversial issues such as bisexuality and sexual threesome. A lot of the film wasn't more than a stupid excuse to show this threesome. It's a typical, early-/mid 90's film if you look at the colors and the clothes they wear and the music. The theme of the film isn't that unusual. Threesome is about finding out who you are and all that. And finding out who your friends are, and what they are. They've spiced it up a little with Eddy's voice-over. A classic way of making it all a bit more sentimental. But it has all been done before, and those guys or girls have done it better. This time a threesome supposed to be the special thing about this film. And I guess they were trying to make the scene beautiful. But it failed. Later on the director made Dick with Kirsten Dunst. "},{"Title":"Threesome-Ad Nauseum *","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance, Drama","Review":" If this is what your college experience is supposed to be like, forget it. These type of films have nothing whatsoever to do with such an experience. To say that they have missed the true meaning of the college years is to put it mildly.Thank the Lord that Josh Charles grew up, matured and has landed the prime role of Will Gardner in The Good Wife.This picture, to put it mildly, is the pits. What are we supposed to say, that it's the sexual coming out of a menage a trois? The whole concept was ridiculous at best. I think that the film would have been better off had Ms. Boyle not entered the film and the movie dealt with the exploits of two guys sharing a room, both of whom had absolutely nothing in common with each other.When will they make a movie that shows you the difficulty of college life insofar as academics? "}]