[{"Title":"Modern version of the Most Dangerous Game, where a human is hunted for sport.","Date":"6 August 1998","Score":"20 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Entertaining movie, especially for the fans of the short story, The Most  Dangerous Game.  Rapper/Actor Ice-T (Richochet, New Jack City) is a  homeless man hired by a bunch of rich people to help them in their hunt.   Soon he realizes that he is the prey.  The rich hunters are led by Rutger  Hauer (Nighthawks, Mr. Stich).  The hunters are equipped with different  types of guns and smaller vehicles, while Ice-T is forced to use his street  smarts to beat them in the secluded wilderness.  The other hunters include  Gary Busey (Point Break, Lost Highway), F. Murray Abraham (Amadeus, Mimic),  Charles S. Dutton (Rudy, Alien 3), and John McGilney (The Rock, Nothing To  Lose).  This is a fast paced movie, although the first half hour is mainly  character development for Ice-T.  It is very entertaining, the script's  dialogue is fairly poor, but who cares in an action movie.  Ice-T does a  good job at making you want him to win.  Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton,  F. Murray Abraham are all good at being evil, but the best performance of  the bad guys is John McGilney who has an extra reason to want to kill a  homeless man.  The movie is a solid hour and a half of entertainment, but  don't be expecting anything more. "},{"Title":"It's Mason!","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I like this movie, it's not the best action movie, but is very good. The movie doesn't have the best acting and the writing and the beginning is so-so, but it picks up and gets a lot better as the movie goes on. If you ever feel like watching a solid action movie, I say pick this one up. Or if you just want to watch crazy Gary Busey act like Gary Busey.This movie is about a homeless man (ICE T) that loses everything twice. Then takes a job with some business men (Rutger Hauer and Charles S. Dutton) to help hunt in a isolated place. Ice T soon finds out that they are hunting a deadlier game...This movie is well worth the rental fee. You might surprise yourself and like it. "},{"Title":"Good action film with a perfect cast","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  There are a few effective concepts in action films which are used over and over again. Surviving the Game uses one which was over 60 years old when the movie was made and still works like a charm. Made in 1932, The Most Dangerous Game is a movie about a group of people who are hunted for sport. Over the years this concept has been successfully used in big films like John Woo's Hard Target (which premiered less than a year before this film) as well as in DTV-films like the Lorenzo Lamas-actioner Final Round.The formula works. Although these films rarely offer anything new (you pretty much know the ending before the film has even started), they are very entertaining if the hero is someone who you want to win and the villains are suitably evil. Surviving the Game fills this order and throws in some energetic action sequences directed by Ernest R. Dickerson (I also enjoyed his Bulletproof a lot).Ice-T is the hero here. When the film starts, he has no money, no family, no friends and is ready to kill himself. But when he receives a job as a hunting guide from a wealthy businessman (played by Rutger Hauer), he wants to put his life in order again. But after a good meal where Ice meets the rest of the hunters (including Gary Busey and Charles Dutton), the hunt begins and he suddenly realizes that he's the prey. Now, he must use all his strength and wit to survive.The cast is perfect. While there are no huge stars, these people know the genre and obviously had a great time filming this movie. And there isn't any fault in the production values either. There are beautiful sceneries, a good score by Stewart Copeland and some neat stunts. The script by Eric Bernt (Virtuosity, Romeo Must Die) creates some quite interesting villains and the dialogue, while not perfect, works reasonably well. Luckily Bernt knows that he's writing an action film and doesn't even try to include any deep relationships or hidden meanings in his script.At the end of the day, this is a good action film which is guaranteed to entertain a fan of this genre for 90 minutes. It's not the best action film ever but it's definitely above-average. This one gets an 8. "},{"Title":"Good Movie, But Could Have Done Better","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was New Line Cinema's 1994 response to Universal Picture's 'Hard Target'(1993).  Though the character development and plot played out much better and the movie reviews prove this is the better movie to watch, it is no doubt that it is very close in story line to the Van Damme film.A Seattle strung out alley man, down on his last stroke of will is given an opportunity to bring his life around in finance and come out on top for once.  The catch is he is to be in the company of a group of poachers on a trip away from the mainland.  The Seattle man agrees and is greeted with mostly open arms at a private cabin somewhere in the open Pacific wilderness.  He finds out the next day he's to run for his life or end up as a formaldehyde trophy head.The action is quite intense and brings into play thoughts of what a person might try to do if they were put into the same position. Using an excellent cast and a decent story development this movie is definitely one worth renting a few times or even adding to your video collection. "},{"Title":"The ultimate survival movie?","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Now I won't go as far as saying that it is the ultimate in survival-action (I think DELIVERANCE still ranks at number 1), but damn this movie rocks! I personally think it kicks more ass than RAMBO FIRST BLOOD. As a matter of fact, wouldn't it be fun to have John Rambo an Jack Mason test their survival skills and see who wins? I haven't seen HARD TARGET yet (I'm not much of a Van Damme fan even though I'm from Belgium), but it can't get much better than this, no? I'll spare you the plot, everybody seems to know it anyway.I remember when going into this movie the first fifteen minutes (regardless the intercut scenes of a man being killed in the woods) I was thinking What's this? Another lame getho-drama with Ice-T playing a homeless bum? You gotta be kiddin' me! Then Rutger Hauer comes in, playing it cool, doing the proposal. Interesting. Five minutes later the seven man are in the cabin in the woods eating porc. Amusing. Another five minutes later the hunt begins, ergo, the fun and violence start! Dear people, when you watch this (type of) movie, please forget about minor unrealistic details like Why does a city-boy like Jack Mason take the job as a hunting-guide in the first place? (Heck, I'll even give you an answer The man's got nothing to lose!) or This type of shotgun is not able to cut down a tree that size (I even asked myself that question for a second. Maybe it's got altered bullets. Who knows what these crazy man-hunting psycho's cooked up for the hunt?). Anyway, my point is you don't ask yourself these kind of questions for this type of movie.The fast-paced action and the violent killings are all above average and the hunt itself is competently shot, but what makes this movie even more pleasant to watch, are the actors and their fine performances. Ice-t is fun to watch, delivering his lines in that well-known nigga-slang of his. And the torment the poor man goes through makes you really want him to win the game. Then there's Rutger Hauer. I tell you He's the man! He injects his role with such a cold-hearted sadistic pleasure which I haven't seen him do since THE HITCHER. Excellent! (On a personal note If they can make Arnold Schwarzenegger a governor, then Rutger Hauer should be made president. The man played a philosophizing replica in BLADE RUNNER and a peace-bringing cyborg in OMEGA DOOM, for Christ's sake, so eat it, Arnie). And what about Gary Busey playing the tough talking' Doc. When he told the story about the dog when he was a boy, I mean, you just got to love 'em 100% Gary Busey doing his thing. All the other actors did a good job too (I sure had some fun watching John C. McGinley as the asthma-puffin' over-determined hunting rich-boy on the verge of a nervous breakdown).By giving the hunters background stories and meaningful lines to say, the scriptwriters made the characters interesting and real. Something you don't expect from an action-flick.My favorite death-scene Charles S. Dutton gets blown to pieces. Hauer kneels down by his dying remains and puts his hands on Charles' head, saying something along the lines of It's time to go to sleep now.... Harsh, man, harsh!To wrap it all up, we have a good musical score by Stewart Copeland and a solid & clever ending. So, if you're a fan of any of the actors mentioned above, this film is a must see! If you're not a fan of the actors mentioned above, then why did you read this in the first place? "},{"Title":"Crazy action fun on the run","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This was a movie I fell in favor of instantly, seeing a man on the run for his life from a band of sadistic hunters whose prey are humans rather than animals.  It was so very amazing to see Ice-T as the man on the run who gave the hunters more than what they had all bargained for.  Even the collection of hunters involved, headed up by Rutger Hauer and featuring the likes of an esoteric cast such as Charles S. Dutton, John C. McGinley, William McNamara (an actually unwilling participant in this ordeal), Gary Busey and F. Murray Abraham make for a band of human flesh hunters enough to make anybody run for cover.  All-in-all, the type of movie for anyone to see for an idea of how the human mind can extend to the point of insanity with regard to whose life is important versus whose life is not.  As the slogan of the movie goes, Never underestimate a man--or a woman(!)--who has nothing to lose.    "},{"Title":"One of the Most Underrated Action Films of the 90s","Date":"20 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is an interesting film all right. The story takes it's inspiration from the Richard Connell 1924 short story 'Suriving the Game'. It's not a new idea, but it's one of the best takes on it.Anyway, on to the meat of the story. The main character is the homeless Jack Mason (Ice-T) who quickly decided that he's sick of life. However, he's saved in the nick of time by a seemingly well-meaning man named Cole (playerd by the incomparable Charles S. Dutton). Cole managed to convince Mason to give life another try by offering him a job. The stories a little slow in the beginning, but things start picking up when Mason goes for the interview and meets the man he'll be working for, Burns (Rutger Hauer of Ladyhawk fame.) Mason manages to land the job and a few scenes later he's in the wilderness. This is where the story really starts rolling- we get to meet the remaining four characters of the story. The group includes nut-job Doc Hawkins, played by Gary Busy. Wolfe Sr. (F. Murray Abraham) a wall street cutthroat, and his naive son Wolfe Jr.. The last person we get to meet is Griphon (John C. McGinley, Dr. Cox from 'Scrubs')who seems ready to flip out at any moment.Well, dinner commences and everyone get to know each other, and Mason goes to bed... Only to wake up with gun in his face. We knew this would happen, but it's just as fun to see him tossed out into the wilderness amidst threats and jeers from everyone (save for Jr- who's freaking out). Mason is left with little choice but to run like hell as the hunters have breakfast.What I like about this story is that each of the hunters aren't 2D killers- they've all got complex back stories and both their's and Mason's are woven into the story as it progresses... Hawkins and Griphon argue over who'll get Mason first while Wolfe browbeats his son into going along (He's a homeless piece of trash. Nothing... less then nothing!) The group sets out on ATVs and motorcycles, brandishing everything from automatic shotguns to crossbows.However, like the novella, the prey turns out to be a little better than they expected. Cole and Burns smile (in their own subtext riddled way)- declaring that Mason's doubled back to the cabin... something that's never happened before.Sufice to say, the group burst into the Cabin. Hawkins and Wolfe Sr. rush inside just as Burns realizes it's a trap. The cabin explodes (thanks to a trap set by Mason)as the hunters narrowly gets out... There's a great moment where Hawkins tries to kill Mason. I like my meat rare! Only to have things turned on him as he's thrown back into the cabin as Mason utters try well done! However, as the men take note of the situation, they discover that Hawkins has been killed. Burns smiles and remarks This is where it gets good. ...And it does! The remaining men set after Mason. Jr continues to try and get the hell out of this situation, but his father is set on making a man out of him (You're not going to embarrass me.)They start splitting up when they get a whiff of Mason, only to fall for another trick. This time, it's Griphon who get's waylaid by Mason.The hunters continue after Mason. Burns makes it clear that he's more concerned with getting Mason then rescuing Griphon. Eventually, Griphon returns, remarking that he was let go but has no idea where Mason went (now armed with HIS Shotgun. Griphon want's out- he's ready to get his act together and leave. But Burns lets Cole shoot him- who's grinning the whole time! Jr flips out at this point and his father attempts to calm him down- trying to pin both deaths on Mason's shoulders! A potshot at the group tips Burns and Cole off to Mason's whereabouts. The three of them had been trading insults (over little headsets) back in forth amusingly, till Cole gets feat up with it and hops onto his ATV- triggering one of the raddest deaths on screen. (Mason had jimmied with the thing earlier)Cole's death sets off Burns, who'd been having a ball up till that moment. He's tired of the game- he want's Mason dead.There's a nice exchange between Sr and Jr. ...It wasn't supposed to be like this. How the F*ck was it supposed to be?! The two of them follow Burns more out of fear then any desire to hunt.For the entire film, the music has been solid, the editing great, and the shooting set to vivid cephia tones and arrays of greens. But the visuals get really cool when night falls (by this point, a trap had killed Jr and Wolfe openly remarks after we kill Mason, I'm going to settle things with you. Burns just grins at this and welcomes the death challenge). Everything is set in strong blacks and dark blues as the two men wait for Mason to come after them...And he does! Wolfe, starts freaking out even more and throws his gun away- challenging Mason to a fight. The bit where he turns around in time to see Ice-T's ghostly face point blank is brilliant! ...The movie should have ended in the woods. With it down to Burns and Mason, the confrontation would have been more then enough. This is really the biggest weakness of the film is the '2nd ending' aspect. Abraham has an academy award, but overacts in a couple of scenes (one of them critical to his character!) The cave scene is rather silly, but forgivable. Still, it's a good movie for the most part and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Solid, entertaining thriller, but for action fans only","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The brilliant short story The Most Dangerous Game has inspired and spawned so many movies that there ought to be an official sub-genre for it - maybe something like MDG movies or MO-DA. There must be dozens out there the original The Most Dangerous Game, The Hunted, Mean Guns, Bloodlust, etc. Among the most energetic and involving in the genre are John Woo's update, Hard Target, and this movie, Surviving The Game, which also capitalizes on the idea of hunting homeless people for sport. STG was my first introduction to Ice T as an actor, and I have to admit that I was impressed. He plays his role with a nice mixture of toughness, sadness, misery, and humor, and he does it with hardly a false or unconvincing note in the entire movie. Some of the credit may go to the screenplay, because he was pretty stiff in Mean Guns, but he holds center stage here like a natural.The rest of the cast is also quite strong, with Rutger Hauer and Charles Dutton especially giving convincing, memorable performances. The characters they play are human monsters, but they enjoy themselves so much, take such glee in their roles as mighty hunters, that the repulsiveness and ugliness of what they are doing almost takes a back seat to the strategy and tactics war games they play with their prey. Almost. But it takes a special talent to invest these yuppie scum with energy and charisma to keep them interesting, and the director and actors all deserve kudos for what they pull off here. Here's the strength of the screenplay - You come to understand that Ice T's character is actually quite shrewd and resourceful and is a born survivor, but he also out of his element and heavily outnumbered; while the hunting party is complacent and smug, but they are completely ruthless, vastly more experienced at this game. AND they have all the guns. Ice T is no martial arts superman, (like JCVD in Hard Target), and his opponents are not professional killers, so the odds are far more even, but the stakes are just as high. It's a very nice balancing of tension vs. hope, and determination and wits against numbers and skill. Of course, if the movie looked bad, or sounded crappy, much of the impact would be lost. I'm a big fan of Copeland's soundtracks, and he comes through here with his usual ringing, chiming, supple and plangent atmospheric backgrounds that are worth listening to for their own sake. And the cinematography in the woods of Oregon is heartbreakingly beautiful - even as the tension and danger mount, the eye is captured by the light and the scenery and the colors. There are a couple weak spots in the movie, of course. John McGinty's character is completely stupid (although he plays him well), and the scene in the cave where T and McGinty reveal their back-stories to each other is completely uninspired and by-the-numbers. The shifting of momentum between the hunter and the hunted doesn't quite work - you have to kind of suspend disbelief at a couple of points near the end where Murray Abraham's character starts to lose it. And I have a hard time believing that Hauer's character, once he returns to the city, doesn't simply go to ground and lay a clever ambush for T instead of packing everything to flee the city and start over elsewhere. (Of course, it could be argued that he tried setting a trap in the final scene set in the woods, and it didn't work then.) But as action-adventure movies go, and as 'MGD' movies go, this is a keeper that holds up to repeating viewings. I bought it used on DVD several years ago after my initial rental, and I have watched it and enjoyed it at least half-a-dozen times since then. "},{"Title":"Seen it all before, but we still want MORE!","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The manhunt action/suspense premise may perhaps be nearly as old as cinema itself, but it's also one that practically always guarantees a bloody good time! I've seen several film versions of the hunting-humans concept and loved them all; except for one (the abominable 60's bore Bloodlust!). Irving Pichel and Ernest B. Schoedsack's original 30's classic The Most Dangerous Game undoubtedly remains the greatest version, but I particularly love how there exist numerous variations on the theme, like an excessively violent one set on a futuristic prison island (Blood Camp Thatcher) or a super-sleazy one where they exclusively hunt scarcely dressed girls (Eddie Romero's The Woman Hunt). Surviving the Game is a rather rudimentary re-working of the premise, but nonetheless a very effective one with a downright awesome cast listing and a handful of genuine shocks. Jack Mason is an embittered and suicidal homeless man who loses his last will to live when both his dog and best friend in one day. The sly businessman Thomas Burns lures Mason to the wilderness with a false job promise, but instead he and his maniacal rich friends simply intend to hunt down Mason like an animal and kill him for sports. Mason may be suicidal, but he still wants to decide for himself when he dies, and so he successfully fights back. Surviving the Game is quite a gruesome and nihilistic-toned film; definitely not for people with vulnerable stomachs. The violence is pretty gratuitous and served without any form of morality, but what else do you expect from a B-movie. As indicated above, the film's main trump is the cast and particularly because each and every cool actor depicts a marvelously eccentric character. I can't even pick a favorite performance between F. Murray Abraham (as a sinister Wall Street big shot), Gary Busey (as an out-and-out deranged FBI psychiatrist), the overacting John C. McGinley (as a frustrated hunter with a vengeance) or of course Rutger Hauer as the mega-bastard. Ernest Dickerson &#150; formerly a skilled cinematographer &#150; does an admirable job directing his first long feature and he went on making the vastly entertaining Tales from the Crypt movie Demon Knight. The forestry filming locations are impressive, the story doesn't contain any dull or unnecessary padding sequences and the level of suspense is continuously kept high. I don't know about you but that's everything I look for in an action movie. "},{"Title":"Don't Mess With the Homeless","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Beverage guy Ice T plays a down and out bum that is given a job to help a group of guys at a hunting lodge...or so he thinks.  In reality, he is to be the prey.  Surviving the Game is a reworking of the timeless classic story by Richard Connell The Most Dangerous Game.  Ice T ends up running from this group of selfish, arrogant, and sadistic killers that feel no remorse or shame for killing this man because he is a homeless vagrant.  He matches wits with his opponents and then some.  This film can best be described as entertainment.  It isn't full of great acting..the acting is acceptable with a few good performances out of Rutger Hauer(Man this guy can be scary) and Charles Dutton.  The rest are merely adequate...a means to develop the plot and move things along.  The story is pretty good but has some flaws, but the film is full of action and suspense.   "}{"Title":"An enjoyable slice of steaming 90's cheese","Date":"6 May 2012","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In one of our local video store chains, if a movie was considered morally objectionable it was emblazoned with a huge yellow sticker which proclaimed that it was 'Strictly over 18's'. To me, as a youngster, this was like showing a light bulb to a moth. By the time 'Surviving the Game' was released, I was already a seasoned Ice-T and Bodycount fan and so would happily devour any of the nonsensical films which he would associate himself with (a trait which still exists to a certain degree, albeit somewhat diminished at this stage &#x96; thanks a lot 'Leprechaun In Da Hood'). Those yellow stickers never failed me; they drew me to movies such as the Tom Savini remake of Night of the Living Dead (1990), Body Melt (1993) and Bad Taste (1987). The peculiar thing about 'Surviving the Game' was that it was only classified with a 15 certificate in the UK, but as I was growing up in Ireland and they had just introduced their own film classification system (one which still prohibits the release of many, many titles today*) one can only assume that they were being extra vigilant.Such vigilance, however, was not displayed by any staff members at any of my frequented VHS rental outlets and so I was pretty much free to choose whatever I wanted and on one fine day I took the afternoon off school and retreated to my abode to wallow in some Ice-T based goodness.I regret none of those actions and this all came flooding back when I re-watched STG last week. The first thing that struck me was the plethora of character actors on show, Charles S. Dutton, Ernest R. Dickerson, F. Murray Abraham, Gary Busey, Jack Mason, John C. 'Dr Cox' McGinley and Rutger Hauer all come out in force as a group of hunters in pursuit of the deadliest game of all&#x85;man.The man in question is Jack Mason (Ice-T) a man battling his demons to the extent that he has lost everything, his wife, his child, his home. Now living rough on the streets of Seattle, he even loses his best friend when his dog is run over by a careless taxi driver in the first few minutes of the movie. The altercation with the driver brings Mason to the attention of Walter Cole (Dutton), a man posing as a charity worker, but who is in reality a recruitment officer for Thomas Burns (Hauer), an entrepreneur who facilitates the immoral bloodlusts of the rich and ethically vacuous Mason is brought to Burns' offices whereupon he is offered a job (with very little details provided), he reluctantly accepts and before he knows it, he's held up in a remote cabin in the wilderness with half a dozen of the most peculiar characters you're likely to see share a dinner together. It doesn't take long before their motives are made clear and Mason is cast out on his own, given a small head start before being tracked by the hunters.Guess what? The hunters soon become the hunted and the tables get well and truly turned. OK, so it sounds dreadful and in many ways, it is. Yet, it is so enjoyably dreadful that you soon find yourself letting go and immersing yourself in Mason's plight. There is an intensity and a unique self-awareness which makes this stand out from similar movies and eventually, this makes this a remarkably endearing viewing experience.It's violent without being excessively so, it has just the right amount of humour to maintain a suspension of disbelief and by the time comeuppance is delivered, you'll be cheering along. It was refreshing to see a strong African-American lead actor at the time and whist one wouldn't go as far as to call it ground-breaking in any sense of the word, that fact is certainly notable. Ice-T is quite far removed from his hip-hop persona and suits the crusty, dreadlocked role very well. Hauer and Busey are typically and wonderfully bonkers and the support of Abraham and McGinley are both worthy additions.It was a pleasure to be reminded of a time when action movies could be so enjoyable and when character actors would partake in the movie without dominating it. Admittedly, the rush that I got for simply acquiring it wasn't there this time, but I think that was due to the lack of the yellow sticker.Read more reviews at zombiehamster.com "},{"Title":"Familiar but an fine action-thriller.","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Mason (Ice-T) is a homeless man searching for Redemption after the lost of his family, his only friend and his dog. But Mason is recruited by a band of wealthy hunters (Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton, John C. McGinley, William McNarama, Gary Busey and Oscar-WinnerF.Murray Abraham) as a guide for the Pacific Northwest. But Mason finds himself to be the target by these perverse mens. Which this hunters are obsessed with this cruel sport.Directed by Ernest Dickerson (Bones, Bulletproof, Tales from the Crypt PresentsDemon Knight) made an action-packed thriller. This has good performances by the cast with some memorable sequences. This slightly underrated film was an box office disappointment and it was similar theme with John Woo's Hard Target. Which it was release a year before.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an fine-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also includes the Original Theatrical Trailer and Cast & Crew information. This is a must for action-fans. They will find plenty to enjoy in this thriller. Written by Eric Bernt (The Hitcher 2007, Romeo Must Die, Virtuosity). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A Strong Version of 'The Most Dangerous Game'","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This is a strong version of 'The Most Dangerous Game' (1932) which is about, unfortunately or not, one of the most timeless of stories -- men hunting other men for sport. The original version was taken directly from the story by Richard Connell, which itself may have been inspired by the true story of John Colter being pursued by the Blackfoot Indians in old Wyoming.There have been countless other versions with varying degrees of novelty or spin, some of the most interesting of which are the Robert Wise misfire remake 'A Game of Death' (1945); the ex-Nazis hunting Richard Widmark in 'Run for the Sun' (1956); Cornell Wilde's great African version 'The Naked Prey,' (1996) which was directly based on Colter's race for life; Van Damme's 'Hard Target' (1993), and now the almost perfect 'Surviving the Game.'This one is marked with a strong and varied cast, with outstanding performances by Jeff Corey and Gary Busey, who, as a psychiatrist, gives one of the most chilling scenes ever filmed as he describes how he fought his pet killer dog to the death bare handed (a story that ends with almost post coital heavy breathing-- it sounds like he's not faking). After he finishes the story, Ice T says, deadpan, Do your patients know about this? Busey replies, with his patented maniacal glare, No, but you do. Too bad Gary couldn't have been in more of the film!Ice T does a fairly good job, with only two scenes showing him as a freshman actor, particular the weak cave back story dialog with John C. McGinley, a scene which, as others have noted, does nothing for the film but slow it down, except that it shows us more of the hypocrisy and double nature of the 'macho' hunters (McGinley uses an asthma spray, and is afraid of lizards). We also get the great stars Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton and F. Murray Abraham as bad, bad boys also leading double lives as virtuous citizens who go to the woods to unleash the beast within. When they all have dinner the night before 'the hunt' you half expect them to be dining on human flesh!The movie is beautifully photographed in the deep woods of Washington state, with great music and even some literal cliffhangers. It has a neat twist-- Ice T is a homeless survivor of the alleys who lives by his wits and his street honed body. The authenticity of his language adds to the realism he represents as opposed to the puerile yet horrifying male fantasies he must confront and overcome. He's the only one not leading a double life-- as Bob Dylan told us all those years ago, To live outside the law you must be honest. From the beginning of the movie he's surrounded by death (his dog and his friend) as the table is set for the action to come. The climax is also foreshadowed with the 'check the barrel' sequence. The first two times you really enjoy the whole movie, but the third time around the ending seemed like a preposterous arbitrarily tacked on ending. Why couldn't it have ended in the woods? How could Ice T magically appear back in his alleys of Seattle after a three day trek (?) from the deep woods? And why does Hauer, dressed as a priest, know where to bring his heavy artillery down there for the final battle? The ending, when it comes, seems too convenient and easy, or maybe just the surprise of it has worn off on the third viewing of the film.Despite all these little quibbles, it's a guilty pleasure to watch where you enjoy rooting for Ice T in a well made, exciting movie. "},{"Title":"What A Classic, Oldie But Goodie","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Boy it sure has been awhile since I've done a movie review Lol, So I thought I'd do a review of an underrated old school classic action flick called Surviving The Game. In this movie Ice T plays a homeless man that gets a job as a wilderness guide for some wealthy people. But what he does not know is that he is going to be the prey. After the chase gets started he manages to put them down one by one. A great manhunt movie in a beautiful environment. Some nice twist in the plot to. This movie is a great piece of work set forth by Ernest Dickerson. The music and action sequences were great. I remember when TNT use too play this movie a lot back in the day when I was younger and I would watch it every time. This is a must watch, very old movie but it will keep you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"Awesome, A Great Movie","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Homeless Mason (Ice-T) is taken under the wing of soup-kitchen worker Cole (Charles S. Dutton) and businessman Burns (Rutger Hauer), offered a comfortable position as a tour guide at Burns' ranch, and taken out there by private plane. Mason meets other hunters (F. Murray Abraham, Gary Busey, John C. McGinley, and William McNamara). Turns out things are good to be true, and the thing being hunted is Mason himself.A great movie. Flawless, and exactly what an action movie should be. It has you asking questions, wondering what you would do in that situation. It's a tour-de-force, with outstanding performances by everyone involved. The villains are vile and Ice-T is a great hero. The action is tight and believable.I can't endorse it enough, this is a great movie. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie! Action packed with some of the most talented actors ever!","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Surviving the Game is a great film that has an excellent cast including Ice-T, Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton, Gary Busey, F. Murray Abraham, John C. McGinley, William McNamara, Jeff Corey, Bob Minor, Lawrence C. McCoy, and George Fisher! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Hauer, Busey, Abraham, McGinley Dutton, and Ice-T are really excellent in this film. Possibly their greatest performances! I thought that they performed good. Busey and McGinley provide really maniacal characters! The thrills is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is very good by Stewart Copeland. Good direction by Ernest R. DickersonThe film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and thrilling film. If you like Ice-T, Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton, Gary Busey, F. Murray Abraham, John C. McGinley, William McNamara, the rest of the cast in the film, movie with a bunch of baddies, Action, Adventure, Thrillers, Crime, War, Dramas, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"This Movie Needed a Script Rewrite.","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This movie could have been so much better with a script rewrite. Not that I expect a great deal of plausibility in movies, but you'd think that even the homeless and urban-dwelling Jack Mason would question why a group of experienced hunters would want to hire him as a hunting guide. And upon reaching the hunting grounds, poor Ice-T plays his part as if he is actually going to lead these men through woods he's never seen before.And how does Jack Mason find Thomas Burns back in Seattle?I'm assuming this movie was based on Richard Connell's short story The Most Dangerous Game. A few years ago I showed this movie to a class of 9th grade students after they read the story. I reedited the movie, cutting out all the pointless scenes and all the profanity. It ended up being 43 minutes long. "},{"Title":"needed more busey.","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" being a bit generous with my interpretation maybe but you could say the plot can be considered a metaphor for how people take advantage of others that are down on their luck and masquerade as a helping hand. don't think this is a great piece of thought provoking cinema though, its really a far fetched story of successful people finding ways to get their kicks by hunting human beings as sport. the rag tag cast of bad guys do a pretty good job of posing as businessmen and high profile professionals with murderous and maladjusted personalities. for a good portion of movie we focus on ice t, who appears to be portrayed as a hapless naive suicidal homeless man (although his personal troubles I feel are not explored enough for the audience to fully sympathies or understand him). his only main advantage is his seemingly fantastic physical ability. its only later on that we see a man who is a little more savvy and able to out smart his hunters. although for someone so keenly and skilfully able to manipulate the people out to get him he does make some incredibly bad errors. this film seems so inconsistent both in ideas and pace. most of the deaths end up seeming quite ludicrous mainly through the fault of how it shows us how each is being dispatched. for the most part there doesn't appear to be any drama, tension or humanity to their demises, they are simply offed strangely and treated as a number on the list of baddies. sure, sometimes you want a baddie to disappear without much celebration.but I just feel that this film doesn't really offer much in the department its supposed to be geared for, there is no plot twists or intelligent writing here just simple bog standard against all odds survival clichés. for the most part its forgettable aside from the noted childhood recollection in the cabin from busey. and hauer sometimes displays a good screen presence although this isn't hauer's best. john c mcginley did a pretty good job with getting into character. "},{"Title":"Always check the barrel","Date":"14 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" It's amazing how people continue to turn out watchable remakes of The Most Dangerous Game, but it's also easy to understand why. The idea that a pack of bored, rich psychos could make sport of killing another human being isn't just outlandishly fascinating...it's also completely believable, considering how many of these same people cavalierly dispose of other human waste through non-violent, but still brutal, forms of dispatch every day.The credit for making this particular version so intensely watchable has to be given to Ice-T's laconic yet realistic portrayal of Mason, a man with really nothing to lose. And those types of men are the ones you just don't mess with.The other half of the equation, the steadily dwindling gang of upper-crust nut-jobs, led by the always insane Rutger Hauer and his sadistic sidekick Charles Dutton, are sometimes cartoonish in their hatefulness, but this same quality makes them only that much riper for target practice.This is a version where the hunted is obviously much quicker than the hunters, and Ernest Dickerson paces the film deliberately, allowing us to figure out just how much smarter Mason is as we follow it along.There are times when it's a bit too cute and Die Hard-ish for its own good. There are also times when the editing seems choppy and haphazard, the lighting a bit too muddy. A few of the villains turn in unbelievably ham-fisted performances (F. Murry Abraham comes to mind) while others like Gary Busey deliver stone-cold readings of morbid anecdotes that will disturb you for days to come. But for an action flick, it will keep you more than engaged for 96 odd minutes, and that may be just what you're after, after all. "},{"Title":"Weird combination of quality and mediocrity in an action movie","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The quality of this movie consists of some over-the-top performances by some of Hollywood's most underrated actors. In particular1.Gary Busey and his becoming a man monologue 2.John C.McGinley's whole manic-depressive performance 3.F.Murray Abraham, especially his freaking out/falling down I wanna kill him with my bear hands  in the end 4.Rutger Hauer whole performance as a cynical bastardScreenplay is OK for an action movie and the limited character development typical for this type of film works like a charm because of the actors. Mediocre is the screenplay (I don't mind some absurd action sequences, but (for ex.)chopping a tree with a shotgun was a little too much, and Ice-t's character was simply too clever and cool).In any case, this movie is worth watching because of the actors. It is amazing what good solid performances can do to an otherwise mediocre movie. "}{"Title":"a good cast wastes its time - spoilers","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" It's possible that this movie suffers by comparison to Hard Target, which was undoubtedly better, thanks mostly to John Woo's direction and the stylish villainy of Lance Hendriksen and Arnold Vosloo. But Surviving the Game is out-and-out garbage. The premise was already stale, the writing is god-awful, and the characters aren't even on the level of a comic book. The depiction of homeless life in a big city is, at best, charmingly inaccurate. The climactic showdown is one of the most mind-numbingly stupid scenes I've ever encountered (and I've seen everything that Edward D. Wood Jr and Steven Seagal have done).The only possible reason to see this is to watch a good cast waste its time. Ice-T, taken out of his usual big-pimping-gangster routine, is surprisingly good; he's believable in the action scenes (although I can't figure out how a malnourished homeless man could have so much energy), and he creates a good deal of sympathy too. Unfortunately, the screenplay gives him the lion's share of clunky dialogue. In particular, his conversation in the cave with John McGinley is so poorly-written that no actor could possibly survive it. Hey, wouldn't that make a nifty DVD extra, to have, say, Ralph Fiennes, Samuel L. Jackson, Gary Oldman, Anthony Hopkins, and Denzel Washington each give their reading of Ice-T's monologue about how his family died in the fire?Rutger Hauer is entertaining and intelligent as always, and Charles Dutton is his usual rock-solid self. They really do come off as a couple of guys who have known each other for a long time, and the numerous unexplained inside jokes between them are a nice touch. But both actors have been much more impressive in better movies than this.F. Murray Abraham is horribly miscast, and his character is a mess of contradictions. Abraham has been magnificent before (see Amadeus and Mighty Aphrodite). But here, he's saddled with the burden of playing the dumbest character in the movie, and, much like James Woods, Abraham is incapable of playing stupid. You can sense Abraham's discomfort with the character throughout, especially in his scenes with William McNamara, who plays his son and seems equally confused about what he's doing here.John C. McGinley, who foundered for years in crap like this, On Deadly Ground, and Highlander II, gives yet another signature performance that's way too good for a movie of this caliber. Fortunately, he finally found a role on Scrubs that's worthy of his best efforts. Hopefully his days of playing minor bad guys in lame action movies are over once and for all.Which brings us to the only real reason to see this movie, the great Gary Busey. Busey by this point had made a second career playing over-the-top villains (see Lethal Weapon through Under Siege). Here he outdoes himself. As he was probably the highest-paid actor appearing in this movie, he doesn't last very long. But he makes an impression that overshadows everything else. His long monologue (about the dog he had when he was a kid) is up there with any weirdo soliloquy that Christopher Walken's done in the last ten years, and he chews on it like he's enjoying every bite (no pun intended). Shortly after that, he has a well-choreographed fight with Ice-T. But again, could a malnourished homeless guy really hold his own against a CIA-trained total psycho who's much bigger than he is? Well, whatever. Bravo, Mr. Busey, I tip my hat to you.In short, you can stop watching it after Busey gets his. Aside from watching some good actors struggle through a lousy script, there's nothing more to see here, folks, keep moving. "},{"Title":"A not so dangerous game","Date":"11 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Surviving the Game came traipsing in a year after Jean-Claude Van Damme's much more popular Hard Target. Both films featured down-on-their-luck men being used as human prey for rich. bloodthirsty psycho's desperate for the thrill of the kill. Ice-T is a good actor, but not in this film he ain't. Though he still out-performs JCVD as the man on the lam.T plays Jack Mason, a Seattle hobo plucked from the streets and given a job in the wilderness. Without asking any serious questions or growing suspicious he sheepishly accepts the offer. Upon arriving at a remote forest cabin (actually Lake Wenatchee Airport, if you don't mind me spoiling the magic) he meets a bunch of wealthy weirdos and is well fed and watered. When he wakes the next morning Mason discovers that his job is to run as fast as he can back to civilization.Director Earnest Dickerson has no control over his cast and allows them to overact to ludicrous degrees. F. Murray Abraham, Oscar or no Oscar, has no idea what he's doing. Gary Busey turns up, goes mental, and then exits (a stupid mistake as he's the most interesting character). John C. McGinley goes over the edge with the minimal of back-story, which only just starts getting interesting before he too exits. It's like they actually wanted to strip the film of any engaging substance.They try to inject some kind of subtext with the character names. Mason is the everyday working man. He is hunted by men called Hawkins, Griffin, Mr. Wolf and Wolf Jnr. He is employed by men called Cole and Burns, and taken to a place called Hell's Canyon. If writer Eric Bernt was trying to be clever it's lost in the bumbling incompetence that cripples the action scenes.The whole film is shot like a cheap TV movie, which is twice a let-down as Dickerson himself is a former cinematographer who really ought to know better. The editing is a joke (dead characters mysteriously reappear in some shots as well as the fact that both day AND night seem to last all of two minutes out in the wilderness). The dialogue is terrible, and frequently badly ADR-ed as a quick fix to the consistently poor narrative. A sense of place and location is apparently irrelevant...What does STG have in its favor? Um...nice music and pleasant scenery. In a film with a wide cast of character actors playing psychos in a story that has been the inspiration for many other action movies that's a pretty disappointing couplet when you're trying hard to recommend it. Stewart Copeland's score IS very good though, and I'm surprised it's not on CD. And the lovely hills and mountains of the Pacific-Northwest will no doubt inspire you to go out for a summertime hike.Surviving the Game could have been great, but is merely an incredibly dumb, badly-directed pot-boiler, and a massive guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Great movie, especially for it's double layers and humour","Date":"30 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I liked this movie very much! They should make more of them. Not only for the idea of a hunted man who is given the opportunity to survive the game by giving him a head start. What I especially like is the humour which is put in almost every scene. I guess it was done intentionally, but I'm not sure.. I laughed throughout the whole movie. The characters and dialogs are all over the top, but not in that matter that it;s not believable anymore.Rutger says to Mason How many cigarettes do you smoke a day? Mason As many as I can get my hands on. Rutger then you are not suited for the vacancy, we need a fit person. If you can run on the mill for 30 minutes you get 20 dollars. Mason start to run and gets 20 dollars and has the job. The last supper in the wooden house in the forest is absolutely hilarious. The father who wants to make his son a man by taking him on a manhunt, great humour! "},{"Title":"Predictable & A Bit Cheesy But Still An Entertaining Film","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time since it's release in 1994 and while it's not as good as what I initially remembered it to be, it's still a decent popcorn flick to watch when there's nothing else on (which is usually most days of the week).The basic premise for the film is a pretty good - yet simple - one (even if it's not all that original now) and asks the question - can a homeless man put his street-smart knowledge to good use and survive being hunted if put into the wilderness? Well, that's exactly what ends up happening to Jack Mason (Ice-T)...a man who's been surviving on the streets but is given an opportunity at a job to help out with a hunting party. Unbeknown to him, though, HE is the prey. Like I said, the premise is good, but is it realistic to think that a homeless person can survive in the wilds as well just because they are street smart? Maybe, maybe not, and probably the latter, but this isn't a film about realism....it's about entertainment and for the most part it does just that. It does get a bit predictable as well, but like I say, this film is about entertainment...not plot twists or a deeply thought-provoking story.The cast is a pretty decent one as well, even if some of the performances are slightly OTT. However, it's not too bad and it's not enough to ruin the enjoyment of the movie. The main culprit of this is Gary Busey, but we all know what he was like when he was in movies...usually loud & in your face type of performances, and it's no different here. Also, love him or hate him, Ice-T does a decent job too as Jack Mason, and does a pretty convincing job of playing a down and out homeless guy who's got nothing left to live for.The film is by no means a cinematic masterpiece, but it does it's job for about an hour and a half.So if you don't mind films having some OTT performances and predictable story's that have a sprinkling of cheese, then you might enjoy Surviving The Game. "},{"Title":"Oh, the fun of the game","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There are other films like this, one action spectacular, starring Van Damne around the same time, which I won't mention. The plot is straight forward. Homeless guy, Mason (very well played by Ice T, who inhabits his pathetic lonely character totally) after attempting to kill himself, is thrown a proposition, from his supposed savior (Charles L Dutton) to partake in a hunting expedition way up in the desolate wilderness. It is led by seedy hunting guide (Hauer, in great form as always) only he's the prey of Hauer, and his cronies. It's frightening to think this would happen for real, which this is the disturbing element of this nicely flowed film, with a sort of getting to know you scene, first, set around the dinner table. Ohll, I'm getting hungry. As dawn breaks, the hunt begins, only they of course, didn't count on Mason outsmarting them with some impressive and inventive traps, where you wouldn't think a character like him, would be capable of such smarts. But don't judge a book by it's cover. John McGinley was notably fantastic, as a real intense nutball of the group. His character might of seemed overacted, but it isn't. That's who this guy really is, and he does have it in for the black fellas. Ice T really holds his own here, playing a type, he doesn't normally play. I strongly felt the weakest performance, was that of William Mcnamara, as the reluctant son of F Murray Abraham where I've seen better acting from him too. The movie plays well on suspense, as it doesn't go straight in for the kill, and is unpredictable in bits, as to Ice T's wants and actions. The tying up loose end bit, was grand, as was the last bit of dialogue. Good B grade actioner, that entertained me wholly. You don't want to pass this baby up. "},{"Title":"Poor People Get Bored... Two!","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" In Seattle, Jack Mason (Ice-T) lives on the streets. His dog got run over and he just lost his best friend. With nothing left to live for, Jack plans on ending it. Until he's stopped by Walter Cole (Charles S. Dutton). He offers Jack a job to be a guide for some rich hunters out into the wilderness. At first hesitant, the poor man agrees. But, upon touching down in the vast Wenatchee National Forest, Jack becomes increasingly suspicious of the hunters. Early the next morning, he learns the horrifying truth. Giving him a head start, the hunters are determined to track him down and kill him. So now, running for his life, Jack must try to find a way to outwit and defeat the group of sadistic maniacs. In some ways, this film is kind of like HARD TARGET. But with less of the wit and fun. In its place, however, the filmmakers put more fully-fleshed out characters and moments of questionable violence. It also has some telling things to say about the plight of the homeless people. Though not nearly as enjoyable as HARD TARGET, it's still a worthy action/ adventure film. "},{"Title":"Out of control but still watchable ...........","Date":"21 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Surviving the Game is a hunted in the woods action picture with numerous problems. The set up in Seattle, with Ice T being duped into becoming the hunted, takes way too long. Once in the remote wilderness, there are frequent talky moments that seem like, and are, nothing but celluloid filler. The movie becomes less and less logical as it goes along, and the conclusion is a total train wreck. A night instantly changing into day sequence on atv's is absolutely priceless. Some of the acting is acceptable, and character development is pretty good, but the film fails to impress, because eventually all logic flies out the window, and the ending is rushed and wretched. - MERK "},{"Title":"Badly scripted, a fun journey all the same...","Date":"10 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This really could have been a great chase/action movie. It has all the right ingredients with the hunters, the hunted, the unwilling hinted man being chased for his life through the woods...the claustrophobia, the suspense, the psychological element, yeah it had enough in there to maker a really great story. What happened then? First let me point out that I thoroughly enjoyed this film!! I enjoyed it when I realised it was not as professional as I might have thought at first, so I sat back to enjoy a good old action flick in the manner of Schwarzenegger or something and it fitted the bill well. The doc, Gary Busey, was just perfect in his role and I was a bit saddened when his character was no longer. He could have brought more to this movie.I haven't had the 'pleasure' of watching Ice-T in a movie until now.Ice-T is a bad actor! He also had such bad lines that maybe it wasn't exactly his fault. Either way he was quite a part in the downfall of this film. For someone who is a streetwise homeless guy he seemed to lack a bit of judgement and was as gullible as they come.OK OK OK forget all that. If you want to enjoy this film then you must suspend disbelief, don't ask questions about this or that character or why this happened or didn't happen, just get yourself cosy, sit back and have a good night in with this eclectic bunch of weirdo's trying to kill each other in the woods. It is as simple as that. For that it deserves at least 5 stars. Enjoyable but could definitely have been miles better.Oh and remind me not to watch Ice-T again... "},{"Title":"Surviving the Game","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Seattle street bum(Ice-T), whose wife and child were killed during a building collapse, is offered what he believes to be a potential job worth a substantial amount, not knowing that the hunting trip into the Oregonian woods he will serve as the hunted. Those out to get him work for the CIA, retired agents whose leisurely activities include hunting those they consider trash, societal outcasts no one cares about. What they don't expect is that their quarry is so resourceful, tough, and clever, soon turning the tables on them.Variant on The Most Dangerous Game, doesn't stray from formula at all. It goes exactly as you'd expect, with Ice-T, no matter how implausible / improbable, upending his adversaries, despite their distinct advantages. The uniqueness this film brings to the familiar formula is who is being hunted, Ice-T, an obvious street-lifer, using his survival instincts from spending his life in the harsh environs of the Seattle urban areas to combat those with all the comforts and weaponry(..including ground vehicles)at their disposal. Just seeing Ice-T in an environment alien to him adds a nice touch to a rather overdone plot premise. The cast is something, I'll tell you..the hunters include Rutger Hauer, Charles Dutton, F Murray Abraham, John McGinley, William McNamara(..the moral core of the film, the son of Abraham, who finds this sport contemptible, but is caught in difficult circumstances, pressured by his father to hunt with them), and Gary Busey, who makes his short time on screen quite memorable(..get a load of the story he tells Ice-T regarding pops and how he got a scar under his eye!). McGinley steals the film as a loose cannon, with asthma, whose traumatic loss of a daughter fuels his desire to kill Ice-T. The ending, how Ice-T gets even with Hauer, is as far-fetched as it gets, but should satisfy because he's such a cretin. Dutton uncharacteristically portrays a loathsome scumbag, here, playing against type, relishing the hunt for Ice-T. Director Ernest Dickerson deftly handles the action within the wilderness quite effectively.Poor Ice-T's character gets run through the ringer. He had already lost his family, living off the street, his dog gets hit by a taxi cab, his old pal dies, and just when it appears that Dutton is offering him a way out of terrible poverty, he becomes hunted by devious killers. He has to survive a leap into water, a hurt leg after crashing a ground vehicle he steals into a downed tree, is shot in the side, and escapes numerous altercations with those after his hide. Ice-T, to his credit, is rather good, with us able to understand how rough life has been to him, the strife evident in his eyes, having developed alligator skin after all life has dealt him. "},{"Title":"Ice-T snapping necks, killin' fools, and takin' names","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Ice-T is a serious looking guy and he kicks serious ass in this movie. What an awesome movie! Two words to sum it up Ice-T snapping necks and blowing crap up, and funny. Some of the acting is so bad but it just adds to the fun when they get offed in various ways. Ice-t plays the badass bum named Mason who gets a job as a hunting guide which really means that a bunch of guys pay money to hunt down bums with ATV's, dirt bikes, crossbows, shotty-guns, pistols, sniper rifles, and big ass pistols. T doesn't take kindly to getting hunted so he busts out the wu-tang killer face and pops some fools with traps and their own junk. The movie is wicked for how old it is and it totally is worth buying. Ass kicking, blowing up, funny puns, Schwarzenegger acting and sayings, and homeless guys beating the crap out of hardcore hunters and a dumbass rent-a-cop "}{"Title":"Top-class B-movie fun","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" This 1994 updating of The Most Dangerous Game stars Ice-T as a homeless man, Mason, who has lost everything and everyone that he cares about and is ready to kill himself. However fate intervenes and he is offered a job accompanying a group of rich hunters (led by a ridiculously evil Rutger Hauer) out into a remote mountain wilderness. Unfortunately, it turns out that he is their intended prey and -though outnumbered and unarmed- the chase is on and he is forced to fight for his life.That is the plot in a nutshell and the film wastes as little time as possible before plunging the viewer into Mason's ordeal. There is high suspense throughout, excellent fight scenes, and some welcome doses of gallows humor along the way. The supporting cast (including Gary Busey being as OTT as ever) are very capable and the plot holes are easy to overlook. Great with popcorn, better with a few buddies and six-pack. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing (spoilers ahead)","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"      What a clever set-up for a good old fashioned action flick.  A modernized The Most Dangerous Game where a man is tricked into becoming a hunting guide and instead becomes prey for sadistic hunters who find their activity theraputic.      I can respect a movie that has little plot, but some high-octane action.  I once saw a New Line-produced, little action movie called Human Timebomb.  The little story the film had got muddled and even incoherent at times, but it had enough high-flying action set pieces to make it very enjoyable.  I came across this higher budget film not expecting anything incredible, but at least some fun action sequences to vegitate by.    Surviving the Game is cliche-ridden, but fun at first.  Ice-T is quotable and funny as always (even in this role he had before he was generic), and there are some good performances from Rutger Hauer and Gary Busey, (who's insane, maniacal scenes I don't doubt were improv.).  The first half has some intense action, notably Busey's pivitol combat scene.     But I must say, Surviving the Game takes one too many wrong turns.  In the second half, the film quickly becomes tired and extremely predictable.  The last thing I expect from a mindless action film is plausibility, but when Ice's character gets shot in the gut and doesn't even get slowed down, there is something seriously wrong.  It also subsides with a cheesy scene where Ice and a hostage work out their emotional problems involving personal demons.  To top it all off, the ending feels like a completely different movie.  It branches off into a completely new setting and tries to quickly morph the last remaining villain character, but it is too little too late.  I have the feeling that the screenwriter wanted to fastly add some originality to the story, but the last few minutes of the film are utterly unconnected and it only takes place three days after the rest of the film.*1/2 OUT OF **** "},{"Title":"Classic Film","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I have watched this film over the years and it just gets better . The cast is unreal and the story great . Gary Busy is at the top of his game as Dco ) The wilderness shots are very well done. Great plot twist as Mason thinks his luck has finally changed only to be set into this game of survival . The trophy room mason finds later in the film is a nice touch ! Ice t plays the homeless man with a chip on his shoulder to perfection .If you like action films with great acting and not tons of CGI like films used to be made give it a shot. I would say I have seen this 30 to 40 times its priceless ! Some great one liners as well. "},{"Title":"It was done before and will be done still","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Surviving the game is a movie based on story that by today's standards is very cliché. It was done before (for example  The Most dangerous game  , The Running man) it appears today (The Hunger games) and probably will appear in the future . It's a classic story like a bank robbery or mysterious man from nowhere saves the city . The audience already knows what to expect from this kind of movie. I'm not saying it's a bad thing . In good hands you can make a good movie from unoriginal story. STG is somewhere in the middle in terms of quality.There is some impressive cast for a B-class movie  Ice T (famous raper, well maybe not now , but in the past) Rutger Hauer (Blade runner) , Charles Dutton (Alien 3) , Gary Busey (Lethal weapon) and F. Murray Abraham (Amadeus) . It isn't strange to see Hauer in a B-class movie ( sadly , most of his movies are that) , but to have such interesting bunch of actors in one movie is certainly a rare treat for movie lovers . None of them shows here anything really memorable , but they did a decent job. The story is rather obvious from start to finish. Thankfully it's never boring .The movie itself is a decent popcorn flick . Not a bad way to spend your time . There is nothing you haven't seen here that wasn't done before and better . Still , I was quite entertained for hour and half , and after all I could spend my time in much more painful way watching some crap movie . I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Should have given up smoking......","Date":"3 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Mason, who lives on the streets, wants to cease his life when on the same day his two best friends die His dog and an older man with whom he shared his food and roof.Just in time Cole, from a charity organisation, can prevent his suicide and also offers him a quite well paid job as servant for a hunting party in the Rocky Mountains.Mason accepts the job and flies with them to a hut in the wilderness where they prepare everything for the four rich businessmen who want to hunt something special.Mason does not yet know that he is the victim of their sports that should lead to the basic instincts of man, but they did not count with his cleverness...Ice-T does hard target, in this okay straight to video action movie. I remember it to be a lot better though when i first ever saw this.'T' is good in his role, and has the biggest hair in the world, and you can tell the out come of the film from the beginning because of the perma-scowl 'T' wears through the majority of the movie.Hauer, Busey, and Abraham have enough swagger about hem to know that they are making this to get paid, and look like they are having a great time making the film.McGinley is the weak link to the film, due to the whining of the character throughout the whole movie.It's a faced paced movie, but takes a while to get going, but once 'T' realises what is going on, it's relentless until the silly, and what seems, re-shot ending.But if you are a fan of the Van Damme movie mentioned earlier, and nineties cheese, It's a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Game on!","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" The early nineties was a massive cross-over period for the hip-hop artist looking to solidify a lengthy career outside of the music biz. Ice-T plays a bum on the street until he crosses paths with Rutger Hauer who invites him to earn some cash out in the woods with a couple of his rich buddies. For his ignorance he's rewarded with being the pawn in a game of human hunting. But he's not nearly as easy to kill as he seems (dreadlocks) and he ends up collecting some scalps of his own en-route to a crisp finish(Toasty). The movie was a cable classic, an adventure with the likes of Gary Busey and Charles Dutton brandishing hi-caliber firearms and fast motor bikes. And guess what? You just might learn sumthin from this here, inner-city meets outer-limits tale of deception and greed. For one, never, EVER, shoot a gun you just found on the street. Clean it first. The end. "},{"Title":"Good Ice T movie","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" (Spoiler)This movie is good and i am a fan of the actor Ice T who stars in this movie along side other good actors like Gary Busey from the great action movie Under Siege,Charles S. Dutton,Rutger Hauer,F. Murray Abraham and John C. Mcginley.There are heaps of great action scenes in this movie like when Ice T is fighting Gary Busey and the scenes in the end of the movie are great.In u like Ice T u should watch him in the great TV show Law And Order Special Victims Unit or one of his good movies like Johnny Mnemonic.Over all this movie is good and my rating is 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Loved It!!!","Date":"16 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  I actually bought this movie a few years ago before I knew it would become a TNT classic.  While not everything in this movie is original, there are some interesting twists on the way things were filmed.  SPOILER ALERT!!!  Like when Ice T sets up Charles Dutton.  I knew what was going to happen (when the bike blew up) but was totally shocked by the way it was presented.  I didn't see Hard Target, which others have compared to this film, but I certainly enjoyed and believed all the characters.  One person mentioned the inability of the particular gun used to shoot down a tree.  That's not what I consider 'common knowledge' and it doesn't diminish my opinion of the film.  I was totally shocked to find that Roc and the others were simply cold blooded killers.  However, I only glimpse trailers and skim reviews before seeing a movie so I'll be surprised.  I always chuckle at those who read entire reviews beforehand and then say the movie is predictable.  -) "},{"Title":"Never underestimate a man who's got nothing to lose!","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Mason (Ice T) is a man who once had a great job, family and friends but lost all of them to tragedy. All of his chances for a better life went South and he's thinking about going West (dying, committing suicide). Yet, Opportunity knocks on his in the form of a man named Burns (Rutger Hauer), who leads a group of wealthy but bored hunters (actually these men are retired CIA agents) and offers him a job to join their hunting expedition in a remote part of the Northwest. Little does Mason know of the gruesome, sadistic surprise that lies in store he's their game! However, little do they know that just because a man who down on his luck doesn't mean he couldn't outwit and turn the tables on them. A great all-star cast including Charles S. Dutton and veteran actors like Gary Busey and F. Murray Abraham. A great retelling of a famous classic. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"23 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I fell in love with this film from the first time i saw it. I'm a massive Ice-T fan and it was the first film i'd ever seen him in. I thought he was great and i was rooting for him the whole way through the story. There are a few classic scenes e.g. Gary Busey telling Ice-T how he got his birthmark, and Ice-T has a few cheesy one-liners. All this makes the movie a cult classic for me. If you liked Hard Target, you'll love Surviving The Game. Okay, Ice-T is obviously not the greatest actor, but his performance here is actually very good. It's all meant to be a bit cheesy anyway! McGinlay, Dutton and especially Busey all did well with their reasonably small roles. Hauer is, as usual, brilliant. So if you like your guns, motorbikes, fights and trees... you're in luck. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Knocks spots off 'Hard Target'","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  In the same vein as John Woo's 1993 thriller 'Hard Target', this is a better version of the same story. It centres on a group of rich men who 'hunt' their own kind as part of a twisted sport. Ice T is convincing as the down on his luck homeless man who is tricked in to being the hunted, although he does not intend to be easy prey for these maniacs and gives them a taste of their own medicine.  The cast is excellent, jam packed with video favourites such as Rutger Hauer (Blade Runner), Gary Busey (Point Break), Charles S. Dutton (Mimic), John C. McGinley (The Rock) and Academy Award winner F. Murray Abraham (Amedeus).  "},{"Title":"Good nerve","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is what I will call a good movie. It is above bad and under Oscar-level. Ice-T and Rutger Hauer plays their roles well, and all in all it`s an exciting movie. It has got a good story and good filming. I certainly would recommend this movie for your amusement. "},{"Title":"How a NY crew can degrade an already mediocre script","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" Had the original casting idea been kept (hunting Rutger, not Ice-T), this movie might have worked. Sadly, racism had to come into the picture (literally) and mess it up. The predominantly black production staff couldn't allow the antagonist be black, so they swapped Rutger's and Ice-T's roles. This was only the start of the downward spiral of this film. Ernest Dickerson's news-room approach to 'directing' only verified that this was another affirmative-action job assignment. Master shot, close up, close up. Gads, 'Who's Line Is It Anyway' even uses more creative camera work. Eric's rewrite of 'The Most Dangerous Game' is at least an attempt at modernizing the classic tale, but fails to give us any motivations for why the characters are doing this. We are never given the reasons, other than no one will miss these people, why the leader (re-written as Rutger) does these things. Aside from a heart-felt performance by John McGinley, and a fair job by Charles Dutton, do not bother with this one. One small bit of trivia, there was a real drunk-driving accident during filming that injured F.Murray Abraham, and resulted in the death of the intoxicated young driver that caused the accident. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as expected","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Well it looks like these guys had a lot of fun making this flick.  The movie is unintentionally funny in many places, and the directing appears as haphazard as the plot.  F Murray Abraham is perpetually dumb.  Gary Busey is perpetually angry.  If you like guns, explosions, and seeing bad guys getting wasted, this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Ice-T is It","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Yes folks, It's another The Most Dangerous Game update, for about the 50th version. But, this counterpart is much more different from the others; it's got style!! Ice-T plays a Seattle bum named Mason who gets an interesting offer by a couple of slick hunters, led by Rutger Hauer and the ever-dependable Gary Busey. Soon enough, Mason finds himself as the hunter rather than vice versa, while the other hunters are closing in on our hero. Surviving the Game is a great action flick. Sure, the dialogue is horrendous, but that is made up by the great action. The actors do really well, too, especially by Ice-T and John McGinley, who's playing this game of Tag with a vengeance.   "},{"Title":"Simple plot, mostly just bad guys chasing the good guy.","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie doesn't really have a plot, though I didn't see the start I watched the rest of the movie and it is a very basic movie. You could probably do some form of work such as homework at the same time and still fully understand the movie.It has a group of men chasing one man across a big forest (or something?). He is unarmed, but eventually is able to pick off all of his chasers by many different means such as bare knuckles or traps. All of his chasers have ATVs and big guns, and they also have more knowledge of the terrain.Right from whatever point you start watching the movie you will immediately see how it is going to end. If you like watching simple chases filled with guns and fighting then you would like this movie, but I doubt that anyone would want to buy this movie. "},{"Title":"Always check the barrel","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Among those many, uncountable kill-or-be-killed, human prey action flicks, Surviving the Game must be the best of its kind, contemporary-wise. Ice-T stars in this frantic man- hunting chase movie, completely hiding away his rapper/ gangsta image in the process! The Godfather of gangsta rap plays Mason, a Seattle bum on the end of his rope who is given an offer he couldn't refuse from a wealthy hunter named Burns (Rutger Hauer, in full sleazebag mode) work for his unit ofpoachers working in the Pacific Northwest. Mason agrees,and he is given a warm welcome by the hunter group, or so it seems! The very next day, Mason is horrified to learn that he is the man who is it on a very deadly game of tag! But Mason perseveres, picking out everyone of the hunters in cleverfashions! Now who is the hunter and the hunted?Ice-T struts some interesting acting, this time not being the smooth operator like he usually portrayed in the filmsprior to Surviving the Game, like New Jack City andTrespass. Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton, Gary Busey, andJohn C. McGuinley are in top form as the relentless hunters. The only flaws this movie has are the flat script-writing,which seems pretty much amateurish to me, and also the acting of William McNamara and the ususally good F. Murray Abrahamare hammy and annoying. Both actors had shrill, woman-likevoices in the flick! But other than that, Surviving the Game is a well-made action flick, bar none! "},{"Title":"Good concept, fairly poor plot.  Not too bad, though","Date":"3 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I think this is a good movie. I say this because I think it would've had a lot of potential. I think that the overall concept is a very good idea and is also original. However, I feel that there are many plot faults in the movie, i.e. places where the main character (Ice-T) made moves that were predictable and sort of stupid. I think these moves were further emphasized by the fact that the 'bad guys' always seemed to be able to predict these bad moves that Ice-T was making. Watch the movie and you'll see what I mean. When you hear yourself saying What an idiot! He should've done _______ you'll know what i'm talking about.Other than that, a fairly good concept for a movie. "},{"Title":"Kill, or be killed!!!!!!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Great movie. Nice story with good actors. A must see film.9/10 "},{"Title":"A 5.8 rating - are you kidding????","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" I rated this G-awful turkey a 1 just to try to get its rating down to about where it belongs - a 2 or 3 at best! Unbelievable that such high caliber actors would take part in such a cinematic mess - they must have been paid well or desperate for something to do. Normally only a bunch of unknowns would act in such a turkey. The events and actions portrayed are absolute nonsense and totally unrealistic - did anyone with half a brain read the script before shooting began? Could have been much better with a better script.SPOILER One of the biggest nonsense parts (towards the end) was how the heck did Mason (Ice_T) get back to civilization when he was stranded in the middle of nowhere AND IN ONLY 3 DAYS! Just one of the MANY ridiculous story elements.Don't waste your time with this. "}{"Title":"If you think this movie is good, you are a complete idiot","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie is unforgivably awful.  That's really the only important thing to say about it.  It's predictable, poorly acted, and uninteresting.  Ice T's performance clinches the debate as to whether or not he should just stick to rapping.  Rutger Hauer outdoes himself in this installment of his ongoing effort to humiliate himself.   He doesn't even have sex with a teenager in this one.If you rented this movie, you should punish yourself.  It's on TNT at a least twice a month. "},{"Title":"The Most Dangerous Game, with Ice-T","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" What we have here is a film that works from one of the most overused premises around - namely, the one pioneered by Irving Pichel and Ernest B. Schoedsack in the classic thriller The Most Dangerous Game. Since then, it's been used in a number of films, including the likes of John Woo's Hard Target, and Jess Franco's Tender Flesh. I am, of course, talking about the idea of a group of hunters capturing, releasing and then killing the most dangerous prey known to man - man. This film focuses on Jack Mason; a down and out drifter who decides to kill himself after finding his dog and only friend dead one morning. However, he's saved and ends up travelling to an island where he thinks he's going to be helping some hunters, but actually he's what they're planning to hunt. There really isn't much I can say about this film as it's all purely routine, and if you've ever seen anything like this before; you're bound to know what's going to happen. The film stars Ice-T, who actually delivers a likable performance in the lead role despite a very silly looking hairstyle. The rest of the case is fleshed out by cult actors such as Rutger Hauer and Gary Busey, although nobody really stands out amid the tedium. As a basic thriller, the film is entertaining enough - although I would hesitate to recommend it to anyone well versed in this sort of film as they're bound to have seen it all before. "},{"Title":"C***!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Not only does this film not due justice to Richard Connell's short story, it simply wasn't put together well.  With out giving the movie away, the plot unravels at the end of the film and the characters action's in the last 15 minutes just doesn't make sense.  In my eyes, Surviving the Game was just a bad movie until the end, and then it stepped it up a level and transformed into a viewing nightmare. It's too bad we can't spoil the movie because the ending is so dissappointing and unbelievable that it makes the film not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Another take on The Most Dangerous Game","Date":"10 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Here is yet another rip-off of the classic short story, The Most Dangerous Game. However, if you don't mind seeing this story again, you'll find this take on it well photographed, fast-paced, and with some decent action scenes. As a bonus, you get a great B movie cast making fools out of themselves.  "},{"Title":"What about giving a guy a sporting chance?","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Gruesome and brutal. Action saga of a homeless man(Ice-T) being tricked by a group of Seattle businessmen into being a human target in their game of surviving the wilderness. Clever finale. Cast includesRutger Hauer, Charles Dutton, Gary Busey, F. Murray Abraham and John C. McGinley.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, exciting and clever","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This is a very well written and exciting movie. It's fast paced and very clever. If you like a good action flick, you won't be disappointed. A poor performance by Ice-T, but Gary Busey is at his best. The only thing I don't like about this movie is the cinematography. The film is lit like a TV-movie, and that I don't like. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  Ice-T stars as Mason a homeless African-American who finds himself hunted by wealthy hunters (Rutger Hauer,Gary Busey,Charles S. Dutton, F.Murray Abraham,William McNamara and John C. McGinley) however Mason proves to be much harder prey then the usual targets in this ridiculous and slow paced actioner which takes too long setting up actionscenes and then totally botching them. "},{"Title":"AWFUL!!!  UNREALISTIC!!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":"  This movie was horrible. I swear they didn't even write a script they just kinda winged it through out the whole movie. Ice-T was annoying as hell. *SPOILERS Phht more like reasons not to watch it* They sit down and eat breakfast for 20 minutes. he coulda been long gone. The ground was hard it would of been close to impossible to to track him with out dogs. And when ICE-T is on that Hill and uses that Spaz-15 Assault SHOTGUN like its a sniper rifle (and then cuts down a tree with eight shells?? It would take 1000's of shells to cut down a tree that size.) Shotguns and hand guns are considered to be inaccurate at 100yards. And they even saw the reflection. What reflected the light?? I didn't see a scope on that thing. Also when he got shot in the gut and kept going, that was retarded he would of bled to death right there. PlusThe ending where he stuffs a rock or a cigarette in the guys barrel. It wouldn't blow up and kill him. The bullet would still fire kill Ice T but mess up the barrel.  "},{"Title":"Stupid script, bad direction.","Date":"17 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Crime","Review":" There is not much good to say about this movie. The pretty much only thing I remember are the nice nature pictures. Everything else about this movie is plain bad or mediocre. The dialog is stupid and ridiculous at the same time. She story is silly and uninteresting. Not even the action scenes have been acceptable. They have been poorly directed Often illogical and all the time boring. For example, during one action scene, the night turned into day within 2 seconds. The movie felt like a complete waste of time. - It wasn't even bad enough to be funny. Avoid this movie at all costs unless you are a fan of brain dead action movies. "}]