[{"Title":"Powerful, beautiful- a great love story","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of Jack Rosenthal's most effective dramas. This is a beautiful story of the love of two people, one with a mystery illness, the other with an ailing business. Julie Walters and Jim Broadbent play the roles to perfection, supported by an excellent cast, starring the indomitable Thora Hird as Broadbent's batty mum. The direction by Richard Loncraine switches from domestic comedy to hospital drama effortlessly, making this one of the most rewarding 90 minutes you are ever likely to see on the TV. You will wince as Julie Walters struggles to thread a needle - and applaud as she tries to walk down the aisle at her son's wedding. A consummate performance by a great actress. "},{"Title":"An excellent film about life and life.","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Wedding Gift tells of a heroic couple's coming to grips with a crippling disease which slowly erodes the wife's health and stumps medical professionals. Believing her death to be imminent and out of love for her husband, the wife prearranges a replacement for herself. TWG is a well assembled, scripted, and acted British film with the look of an 8mm shoot based on a true story of a victim of a mysterious affliction which has since come to be known as chronic fatigue and immune dysfunction syndrome. Not a downer flick, TWG is full of life and humor and an excellent watch for anyone, especially those with an affinity for British films. "},{"Title":"Wide-Eyed and Legless AKA The Wedding Gift","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Drama","Review":" Showing as The Wedding Gift on Showtime Women currently. I was only able to find this by searching for Jim Broadbent knowing his character name and a rough time of when it was released. Just one year off from what it is being marketed as by Showtime. Although a bit offbeat, the story was compelling and the actors did well in making it believable. This is not the first Series Episode to take on a new life as a TV Movie. Often Movies are made by editing several Episodes into a a Movie size film. When Episodes are chopped into Movies their origins become obscure, as these often make no mention of the Series they were pulled from. Screen One seems to have planned this for its future with ninety minute episodes of different stories and actors for each. "}]