[{"Title":"A Highly Underrated Film","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"55 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When first renting this film, I expected to see a typical love story.  I found, instead, a film that truly attempted to accurately display what happens in relationships where one member has a drinking problem.  It is powerful and shows the true pain and confusing that often looms over these situations.  Rather than sending Alex to detox and having her come home happy, she came home very confused about life and what she was doing.  This is one of the many ways this film reflects true life.  My only qualm is the ending.  Rather than keeping true to the story, the filmmakers seemed to give up and ended it on a happy, superficial note.  Despite this letdown, I love this film and everything it tries to communicate.Meg Ryan's performance is one of the underrated of the decade.  She should have received on Oscar nomination for it and was certainly better than Jessica Lange that year.  I have read a few comments here saying she did a terrible job.  I would ask these people to define what a good performance is to them.  Not only did Ryan communicate every possible feeling that a woman in Alex's situation could have, she did it with style and ease.  Not only that, but made a dramatic move with this film from her already great performances in romantic comedy.  Ryan should be applauded for taking such a huge risk and having it pay off.Andy Garcia also has a tremendous performance in this film.  He too displays very complex emotions of a faulted man with skill. The one aspect of this film that I love so much is how no character is faultless in the whole situation.  All members have contributed to the problem, and all must face up to what they did and try to improve what they have.  I don't know if this makes much sense (I feel my thoughts are jumbled).  In one simple statement SEE THIS MOVIE.  THE TITLE DOES NOT ACCURATELY DISPLAY THE MOVIE IT TRULY IS.  The title makes it sound like another sappy love story.  What the viewer gets is a tremendous study of the damage alcoholism can bring to a family.  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie that is Hard to Watch","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I first saw this movie in the theater when it came out.  I remember feeling frustrated.  I watched it again last night on satellite and decided this really is a great movie, but it is hard to watch.  It is a very real love story, but don't confuse that as meaning it is a typical romantic story.Meg Ryan and Andy Garcia play a couple definitely in love, but struggling with their relationship after Meg Ryan's character comes back from detox. Instead of being cured, she is confused and they realize there is a wedge that comes from an experience they can't share.  She has AA friends that her husband can't relate to, but she needs someone who can understand and her husband isn't it.One mark of great writing is when the characters are not saintly or demonic, but shades of grey.  Andy Garcia's character is a really nice guy, but he's not saintly.  He resorts to sarcasm out of his frustration in not being able to help his wife.  Of course, she doesn't want his help, she wants his understanding. She is basically a good person, but she can't sort through her feelings and ends up being unknowingly cruel to her husband.After one scene, my wife stated, Now HE frustrated me.  I said, I was frustrated too, but BY HER.  This movie really pegs male and female relationships.Superbly written, superbly acted. It hurts to watch it, but a movie that can evoke real emotion and not pander to the audience with contrived plot lines is a great movie.  THIS is a great movie. "},{"Title":"Incredible insight","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"41 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie has me in tears throughout; it portrays the mixedfeelings, emotions and total confusion of an alcoholic wife andmother so perfectly - and I should recognize them, as an alcoholicof 10 years myself. Especially moving is the wonderfulperformance of the elder child Jessie - an amazing achievementin one so young. It certainly strengthened my resolve never to godown that path again. I recommend it to all families of alcoholicsfor an insight into our way of thinking - our shame, our inability tocontrol our own addiction, and the possibilty of real recovery.Thank you, all involved. "},{"Title":"Loved It","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie the first week when it came out and absolutely fell in love with it.  My parents were alcoholics and seeing what the little girls had to go through is what made me cry so hard.  I could see many reflections of my sister and I in Meg Ryan's daughters.  Both her and Andy Garcia's performances were outstanding.  I would recommend this movie if you have personally dealt with alcholism, or if you have been the victim of someone's abuse, because it helped me come to terms with some issues that I had been struggling with.   "},{"Title":"very touchy","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, 1st of all, I`m not the type who goes for this kind a movie. I have seen it accidentally by borrowing a tape from a friend of mine, years ago. When the movie started, I said I`ll give it 10-15 minutes to.... prove itself. And it did!!! The 1st 10 minutes of the movie are excelent. When Garcia approaches Ryan and they are acting like they go for each-other. Everybody who watches this scene for the 1st time, will definitely fall for it.I`m not going to yeap about this movie. It is so good(at least I liked it) that I ended up buying it. By now, I have rewatched it a few time and I still didn`t or couldn`t get over it. Best family drama movie I`ve ever seen. 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Not a romance comedy!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Very good romance drama that documents accurately a general U.S. middle class family affected by alcoholism.This movie is more about information and reflection on the subject than about entertainment.If you are an information starved person or a person who really enjoys reality based family dramas,you will love this one.This movie will also be more appreciated if one is familliar with a family in this situation because to most who have not seen anything like it in real life,this movie will come off as improbable although it is not.Thus we have a diverse direction of opinions from various people about this movie.The overall production is good (I've seen better).The performance of Ryan is very good but I expected more from Garcia although his performance was adequate enough.Many people also felt tricked by the movie because it seemed to be promoted/packaged as a typical feel good formula romance drama/comedy.......   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly relevant...","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meg Ryan is very good in this role, but after watching this again, and noticing the Andy Garcia role more pronounced, his contribution is more complicated and nuanced.Anyone who has experienced similar issues of substance abuse, whether a family, friend or significant other, will recognize the patterns; denial, rage, hostility. Particularly effective is the role of Alice's child; the older daughter who is often on the receiving end of her drunken hostility.The time she spends in detox could have been delineated more clearly; Philip Seymour Hoffman is good in a brief role, as a fellow patient. The pain and rage that Meg Ryan lives with is just beneath the surface, even as Garcia, puzzled, says ...well you work, you are functioning..., and she reveals to him that she drinks a fifth of vodka every day, even at work. It shows how the non-alcoholic cannot fathom how someone can function and seem straight, even while on the job. She is a functional alcoholic. Her brief encounter with her mother (Ellen Burstyn) indicates why she would not be willing to admit to the problem for many years.This is a good film because it shows there are no concrete answers, while Garcia would like to save his marriage, he sees that there are several reasons he may have enabled Ryan and her addiction. While she is attending AA and getting better, he realizes he almost feels jealous of her. There are many layers to his performance, and as he realizes he can no longer live with himself as a co-dependent, he eventually chooses to separate.Overall a very good and effective film about substance abuse issues, the breakdown of family, and communication issues. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Makes you understand the works of alcoholism","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is excellent! I always fall for love stories, but this one was different. It made me understand and think. I began to understand the works of alcoholism. What people go through before de-tox and after. Their emotions all mixed up, and etc. I first watched it on satellite a few months ago when I read the description and saw that Meg Ryan was co-starring in the film. (Meg is one of my favorite actresses of all time.) I sat down and watched it and fell in love with the first minute! At times I would be frustrated at the man who sometimes was a smart alleck. and sometimes the woman would make me angry because she didn't realize how much he wanted to help her. This is a unique romantic story and should be watched for all ages because it warns you about alcoholism. 10/10 "},{"Title":"an unusual Ryan outing","Date":"14 November 2002","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Normally Meg Ryan is in those annoying fluffy films playing her annoying fluffy character whose one vice is eating too many corn chips or watching too many romantic movies. Here, however, is a film that does show case her considerable acting talent, and her vices are slamming down a bottle of vodka before ten in the morning, slapping her kid around, hoarding prescription pills and harrassing the neighbours. This is an unexpected gem. I also have very personal reasons for loving this film, having watched it with a friend and having to miss the last five minutes to catch a train, then going to watch it all over again on the Champs Elysees in Paris just for the ending, and then watching the other night when it was screened late on tv, in that hour where they bung in movies they don't know what to do with, and was reminded of how good it is. It is the strength of characterisation that works so well, esp the two girls. The hurt of the elder girl when she says that she just wanted to tell her mum she'd done her homework is brilliantly conveyed. That smarting sense of injustice and incomprehension regarding the adult world and its hypocrises gets me every time. Andy Garcia bloody gorgeous too.    "},{"Title":"FACING THE TRUTH","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Simply put, When A Man Loves A Woman is the best story about family in America since Ordinary People and Shoot The Moon.  If that sounds a bit overblown -- too bad, because it's true.  As a self professed fan of foreign films, this film manages to take an honest look at alcoholism and relationships rarely seen in American films.  The actors inhabit a whole life here -- they feel like a real family with entire past lives.  Every actor hits the right tone -- Meg Ryan is commanding, Andy Garcia simply takes his time, as does Tina Majorino, who gives a performance alongside Haley Joel Osment's in The Sixth Sense.  Another rare take the script accomplishes (with Garcia's considerable help)is conveying Michael's emotional life and struggles with loving his wife in an expected - a layer also unseen in American films.  This story asks uneasy questions and dosen't always profess to know the answers -- and sometimes, that's all we have.   "}{"Title":"When a man loves a woman, he can become an enabler to an alcoholic, as this wonderfully poignant film shows","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Michael Green (Andy Garcia) and his wife, Alice (Meg Ryan) are living the good life in San Francisco. They are both professionals, they live in a lovely home, and they have two beautiful daughters (Tina Majorino and Mae Whitman). But, they also have a secret. Alice is a closet alcoholic, who is on the verge of showing it to the world and Michael is doing his best to cover for her to everyone. Things are complicated, for Alice seems happier when she is in the party mood and Michael loves her so much that he actually appears to relish his role as the one Alice calls on to put herself back together. Yet, even a vacation to Mexico does not help Alice find the self-happiness she needs to lose the bottle. Also, Alice injures herself at home, scaring the girls beyond measure and they are suffering from neglect, too. Therefore, Alice has to enter a Betty Ford type clinic. But, will Michael and Alice both like and love each other when Alice is sober? This is a great movie for its honest portrayal of the effects an alcoholic has on the family he or she loves and on the long climb out of the world of alcoholism. Alice and Michael are not really living the American dream but the American nightmare, because of Alice's need for one drink after another. Both Ryan and Garcia are truly wonderful in roles that call upon them to be both lovable and repugnant, at the same time. The other cast members, including Ellen Burstyn and the two lovely little girl-actresses, are also just perfect. Naturally, the settings in San Fran and Mexico are great, especially the Green's beautiful old house. Costumes, too, are very well-chosen and all other other productions values of direction, photography and story are most worthy, too. Then, too, the film also has great value as a movie to show the realities of alcoholism to any audience that could benefit from such a view. In summary, if you are a man or woman who loves movies that tell a tale well, with gorgeous stars, even if it might result in a few shed tears, this is a great choice. You might even pop it in when you need a good cry, for it has wonderful cathartic elements. "},{"Title":"Genuine, deeply moving, superb acting - brilliant child actors.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film locks on to one's consciousness instantly, monopolising it as totally as an autopilot, and does not relax its control until the bitter-sweet end, which (despite the apparently inescapable smattering of Hollywood sentiment), imparts an unmistakeable message of affection reborn and glimmerings of hope for the future. The adult acting is expert, one aches in sympathy with the bewildered couple who seem unable to prevent themselves from tearing each other apart.It makes for tense, absorbing viewing but what has made me write this - my first-ever film crit - is the incredible performance of the two little daughters. Never once do they overplay. Their helpless dismay at the catastrophic mess the drunken mother is  making of their lives touches one in a way both disturbing and eerily authentic - as if somehow echoing subconscious tremors from one's own childhood. I've never seen the predicament of the young child going through the upheaval of parental estrangement so aptly and poignantly illustrated. When the vodka-soaked parent loses her cool so completely as to strike the elder child in the face with what looks like brutal force, I was as horrified as if I'd witnessed the real act, so enmeshed had I become in this family's awful situation.How can child-actors that young interpret with such sensitivity roles which one would have thought needed years of life experience to be interpretable?I suppose the answer is 'inborn talent' - that must be what this tired old slut of a term really means. "},{"Title":"Truth About Booze","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a very well produced film dealing with a couple having to face a Number 1 killer of human life, not just in death, but killing a person's Mind, Body and Soul along with relationships and children with broken homes and dreams of a normal life. Meg Ryan, (Alice Green), started out drinking just beer, as the old saying goes, Why it is only Beer, and not the Hard Booze I drink. Maybe a few in the AM and plenty on the weekend and every night, Why its only BEER. That is how Alice Green dealt with her problem and it caused all kinds of hell for her husband, Andy Garcia,(Michael Green), who was a pilot who had no idea just how to handle the illness in his family. No one can ever help the drunk, he or she has to help themselves and going to AA and taking the STEPS will help, however, a Higher Power does create the cure. This definitely was a Good film and we need more and more films just like this One on the Big Silver Screen. "},{"Title":"This is the diluted version of my life.","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Not to undermine this movie, the performances of these actors are awesome in depicting this real life drama. But, it hit's so close to home with me and what I've gone through with my wife, that I know, if I could tell my story and have it written correctly, it would make this movie look like Mary Poppins. The only thing worse than being an addict is living with one! Especially if there is children involved. The ironic part is, that this is one of my wife's favorite movies! Living with a person like this, there is no happy ending only the roller-coaster lifestyle, existing between binges. Trying to shield your children from it is impossible. They live in a war zone when the roller-coaster starts to bottom out. And you have people tell you you're the enabler when all you are really doing is trying to keep the person you love alive when they seem to have lost all hope and succumb to the worst. Taking their own life in the lost self esteem that surrounds addictive behavior. Yes, you can pull out, and let them hit rock bottom, they will either bounce back or they will die. Addictive behavior needs intervention, support and love, not turning your back and distancing yourself. This movie is a must see for anybody living this nightmare. It made me cry and I'm no cry baby. My story would open the floodgates. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Depiction of the Family Disease of Alcoholism","Date":"26 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In my 40 years of active involvement with recovery programs for family members either addicted to alcohol, or adversely affected by someone else's drinking, this movie 'tells it like it is' better than the majority of other movies I've seen that dealt with similar issues - I'll Cry Tomorrow'(Susan Hayward),'Days of Wine and Roses'(Lee Remick/Jack Lemmon), 'Bill's Story' (James Gardner) and the Hallmark production of Love is Never Enough (Lois Wilson story) left a lot out of the real impact of physical, emotional, psychological and social abuse or damage suffered by alcoholic relationships. This movie depicted a superb example of the pain, confusion, guilt, denial and resistance to change by both the alcoholic and non-alcoholic . . . and the damaging impact to the children and other close associates. The acting by the cast, and especially the children, was phenomenal. The mention and portrayal of an Al-Anon Family Group meeting for the family being affected by either the actively drinking or the new sobriety of an alcoholic was well revealed for the viewer. The final scene was the only part that was 'out of character' for an AA or Al-Anon person at a meeting. All else was 'on target'. 'Thanks for letting me share.' V "},{"Title":"A one in a million film which portrays an issue felt by many.","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When a man loves a woman is a truly terrific film that allows the audience to interact with the emotional struggles of all of the characters particularly Alice, Michael and the children. Every emotion is conveyed with such effectiveness and a realistic portrayal of the struggles of a family torn apart by addiction is allowed to be told without sensationalism. It is not, as some suggest, information based without any entertainment value. Rather this film confronts the audience with the fact that love is not perfect, that love is a all in all whirlwind of emotions that are unpredictable and complex.It was a surprising performance by Ryan who usually fulfils the predictable role in a romantic comedy. Garcia, as usual was brilliant, his characters demand a presence on the screen and he does not disappoint.The helplessness of both Alice and Michael is played out well. Further the portrayal of Alice having an addictive personality that is fueled by alcohol is also convincing. This idea emerges in the scene of the eggs being thrown over the car, which is often criticised by others in these comments. This scene did have a role to play and aligned with others that suggested that Alice thought that she was only loved when she was doing something fun and crazy. Being boring was something very much feared by Alice.This film is a psychological drama with the essential element of romance to assure the complete attention of its audience. Great film, Great cast. "},{"Title":"what a great movie","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i found this movie to be heart-gripping and bittersweet.  when a man loves a woman -- he'll go to the ends of the earth to show his love, which i believe Andy Garcia did fairly well in his part as Michael Green. Although it was not as romantic as i expected it to be, the undying love which i felt between the two characters certainly was .. i always find myself tearing up at the end of this movie ..  "},{"Title":"A veryyyyyyyyy touching movie","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i saw this movie just yesterday but it really touched my heart and i really love but i agree with the opinion of one of the comments about the scene of the eggs it was useless and it didnt get to have any effect on the plot but andy garcia was perfect and u really liked the children too, about meg ryan she was as usual perfect, i advice everyone to see this movie because it will really touch ur hearts "},{"Title":"Great Acting!!","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the most touching and realistic movies I've seen in a long time.  Both Andy Garcia and Meg Ryan could have been nominated for academy awards in my opinion.  Even the children did very well in the acting department. "},{"Title":"This movie is one of my favorites!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I believe that this movie especially appeals to children of divorced and/or remarried parents.  I could watch this movie over and over again and just cry out loud every time.  Andy Garcia and Meg Ryan were absolutely superb in this movie.  They portrayed a REAL family, not a fake Hollywood one.  I really enjoyed Andy Garcia's character because he was so understanding and loving towards his wife and he was willing to do anything for her.  That is true love.  I will never forget this movie.  "}{"Title":"I liked this movie. This movie made me both sad and happy.","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For those who did not like this movie, who cares? For those who did we're all romantics at heart.This movie has two themes skillfully coming together. The theme of a wife,a husband and their two children struggling to deal with the mother's alcoholism and the theme of a man's indelible love for his wife.This movie was brilliantly casted and scripted (Ronald bass& Al Franken). I felt Michael's(Andy Garcia)terror when Alice,(Meg Ryan) fell out of the boat in Mexico. I felt his pain when she did not beg him to stay when he told her he was moving to Denver. Meg Ryan was very convincing as an alcoholic.A movie is good when the audience finds themselves getting involved in the movie itself, wanting to give advice. Alice went into the marriage with the problem,it's just that neither of them realized it because they were so busy getting physical. There was no relationship. They both make important speeches at the end of the movie and the closing scene was kind of like the opening scene speaking to each other in public if they were strangers, never met each other before.Which ironically was true. "},{"Title":"A realistic romance movie","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie.  It dealt with a very tough but real situation.  Meg Ryan as Alice gave one of her best performances I have seen. Andy Garcia's character showed so much passion both in his love for his wife and daughters and in his anger toward the alcoholism.  This movie was well done and anyone who is dealing with or has dealt with alcoholism would appreciate the story.   "},{"Title":"What a touching, tear-jerking movie!!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  How can anyone not like this movie??  The acting is absolutely wonderful by everyone in the movie, and it accurately portrays a family suffering from alcoholism...it's so real it's scary.  It shows both the good and bad times, and the majority were bad.  Definitely see this movie, it is highly underrated and should me mentionned more often under the credits of Meg Ryan and Andy Garica. "},{"Title":"Wish everyone has a love like this!","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Have you noticed all the things a man stands for a woman he loves, bad temper, despise, moral abuse? They all are very well exposed by this excellent film with detail. Imagine all sad situations a sickness like alcoholism can put a couple through, it's a hell. Characters perfectly achieved by Ryan and García. Even the kids are great. Please do see this film! I've got two lessons from this film first how to love really love, second, this illness can happen to every one, every level socio or economic. "},{"Title":"A film definitely worth seeing!! )","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is DEFINITELY worth seeing!!!  The acting is spectacular! Everything Meg Ryan does....in my opinion is great...but she usually always plays the same kinds of characters.  Not in this film...I think Ryan is at her best in this film!!!  All of the actors...even the kids....are sooo natural...and so real!  It is just such a moving film...I don't know how people can say it's not... "},{"Title":"Terrific film.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great film about addiction! Not just romance, but how to help someone in need. Everyone needs to see this film again and again.The acting was amazing and the locations.You finish this movie wondering, and hopeful. The human spirit has such capacity for love and compassion, and our modern society such drive to deny and eliminate it. Wonderfully crafted performances by Meg and Andy. Good writing and direction. There are moments that echo right into our own lives, and humour that makes you smile with your soul. I wish all Hollywood films could be like this.What I also loved was the lack of profanity. "},{"Title":"Don't Try to Simplify","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This isn't a movie for people who are looking for a basic story about a difficult relationship.  I think that the reason that people don't like this movie is because they don't understand the dynamic of an alcoholic and a co-dependent.  Or they get the alcoholism, but totally miss the co-dependency.  People have commented that they wanted Andy Garcia to just toss Meg Ryan out for the way she treated him.  He didn't because he was a co-dependent person, which is a psychological problem.  The movie is a pretty realistic representation of what a marriage between and alcoholic and a co-dependent can be like.  Both Andy Garcia and Meg Ryan do their characters justice.  This movie will appeal to people who are familiar w/that type of situation, myself included.  But keep a tissue, or ten, nearby. "},{"Title":"just perfect...one of the best movies ever","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I´ve seen When A Man Loves A Women many many times and still can´t get enough of it. I just love the movie. I think that Ryan and Garcia should have been nominated for Academy Awards, because their acting was superb. For two hours I actuaaly thought that Rayan and Garcia really ARE who they portrayed. They made the story so believable and heart-touching, it seemed so realistic - I just cried and cried and cried and prayed that they would end up together (and the fact that in the end love conquered all made me extremely happy)  "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When A Man Loves A Woman is one of the most heart wrenching , wonderful , beautifully written films I have ever seen. This movie has been sitting on my movie shelf for years because it is one of my mother's favorite movies. I am a big Meg Ryan fan so I popped it in the VCR one day when I was bored and I was moritified. Meg Ryan and Andy Garcia give Academy Award callibar preformances as a husband and wife going through alcoholism. This is definately Meg Ryan at her very best. I would recommend this movie to anyone who has a heart "},{"Title":"An Up Close Look at Alcoholism and its aftermath...","Date":"18 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" WHEN A MAN LOVES A WOMAN is a searing and emotional look at how alcoholism manages to leave a family in shreds and how they struggle to put themselves back together again. Meg Ryan, in the performance of her career, dominates the screen with her powerhouse portrayal of Alice, a wife, mother, and career woman whose secret drinking is slowly and methodically destroying her life. The film chronicles Alice's journey as she hits her bottom, enters rehab, finishes rehab, and then tries to resume the life she left before rehab and discovers it's not as simple as she thinks. Andy Garcia is equally solid as Michael, Alice's sensitive and loving husband who finds out what real powerlessness is as he watches Alice fall apart and is introduced to a new kind of powerlessness when Alice returns home with a new attitude and new friends she made during her recovery process. Lots of great films have been made over the years about alcoholism but what makes this one stand out is that it not only deals with the alcoholism and the rehabilitation process, but it more importantly shows what happens when the alcoholic tries to resume their old life, slowing coming to the realization that it is no longer their old life anymore because they now have to face it sober. It also approaches the subject from the angle of the alcoholic's loved ones as we see Garcia's Michael struggle with the new person Alice has become and finds his only outlet for his frustration in Al-Anon meetings, where he finally realizes he is not alone. Luis Madoki's sensitive direction is also an asset but this film works mainly thanks to a well-rounded screenplay and the sterling performances by Andy Garcia and especially Meg Ryan, in a performance that should have earned her an Oscar nomination. Don't miss this one. "}{"Title":"Very sweet, touching, romantic, and kind of heart-breaking","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  WHEN A MAN LOVES A WOMAN, in my opinion, is a very sweet, touching, romantic, and kind of heart-breaking drama. I thought that Alice (Meg Ryan) looked absolutely beautiful in the fancy black dress she wore when she and Michael (Andy Garcia) went out for dinner to celebrate their wedding anniversary. When she fell through the shower door while she was taking a shower, I got scared to death. This was because I thought she had died. Plus, Jess (Tina Majorino) was scared, too. In addition, she was severely injured. If I ever discovered my mother, or anyone in my family, that way, I'd call for help right away. Also, if you ask me, Amy (Lauren Tom) should have been a little more responsible while she was babysitting. Before I wrap this up, Id like to say, If you ask me, WHEN A MAN LOVES A WOMAN does, indeed, show you how alcoholism can truly affect a family.  Now, in conclusion, I recommend this movie to all you Andy Garcia or Meg Ryan fans who have not seen it. You're in for some tears and a good time, so, go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"A very powerful movie","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A couple friends had told me this is not a good movie, but after watching it for the first time last night, I disagree.  It is a very moving and thought-provoking film. The movie dealt realistically, to me,about the effects of alcoholism in a family.  How very sad it was to see the look on the older daughter's face as she dealt with her mother's alcoholism.  Andy Garcia, the husband, loved his wife deeply and his despair was powerful as his marriage and family fell apart. Meg Ryan was great - she is my favorite and is always lovable. However, the way she treated her husband late in the movie angered me after all he had gone through when she was drinking heavily early in the movie. Perhaps I am looking at it only from a husband's point of view.  That's what was captivating about this movie - besides the alcoholism, it touched deeply on marital and family relationships - I'm worried...worried you don't know how much I love you, Garcia tells the older daughter. At times the dialogue got a little long and I wondered a bit how good this movie was.  But in the end, my heart ached for some happiness for the characters, which proved to myself how moved I was by the film.  "},{"Title":"My number 159 movie","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Meg Ryan is very good in this film, and Andy Garcia does an OK-good-job. The movie is about a woman ( Meg Ryan) who is hard-drinking and has to go to the psychiatric clinic for that. There she starts learning the bad reasons for being hard-drinking and finds out that her family is more important than alcohol. The film is quite well and interesting made, and ... just good. I rated this movie 8/10. "},{"Title":"Sorry, thumbs down from me","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sorry to go against the grain here, but I really didn't care for this movie. My main problem is with Meg Ryan's character. She just isn't a very likeable person. She drinks, slaps her kids, drives drunk with her kids in the car, completely forgets about her kids while she's out on drinking binges...and we're supposed to feel empathy with this character?And then, when the couple breaks up, guess who gets custody of the kids? Mom the alcoholic! How's that for a little bit of reverse sexism for you? Sorry, but this movie did very little for me. "},{"Title":"Not well written","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I really hated this film. I quite liked the beginning when Meg Ryan descended from bubbly to downright alcoholic but then the rest of the film was just completely lost on me. First and foremost, I find it a failure in the script that the story focused entirely on the relationship between the two grown ups and neglected the children. Personally, I think this would have been the more interesting story. But secondly, I just didn't get what Garcia's character was supposed to have done wrong. I honestly didn't although I was prepared to. So he may have been a macho but I saw him as being portrayed as supportive and a victim of her alcoholism just as the rest of the family. Why he should be partly responsible for it is beyond me as it was never properly explained. "},{"Title":"The thing I hate about this movie is the script.","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A husband steadfastly loves his self-centered and obnoxious wife and suffers for it.  That's what I saw played out in this movie in excruciating detail.  What the scriptwriters wanted us to see was a heroic woman who singlehandedly conquers her problems while putting Mr. Nice Guy Husband in his proper place (kicked out of the house, separated from his children, and generally punished for not listening deeply enough).The thing I hate about this movie is the script and the skewed philosophy behind it.  A faithful husband does the best he can to care for an abusive, alcoholic wife, love her, and hold his family together.  He doesn't need a psychiatrist for the imagined sin of co-dependency.  He needs respect for taking responsibility for his family. That's the for better or worse part of marriage and the role of a parent.  The wife who is so immersed in her own feelings that she is willing to let her daughters suffer the loss of their Daddy just to try to make herself feel better--that woman doesn't need understanding.  She needs to get a handle on reality and see how many lives she is damaging.  This was not about the husband loving his wife too much.  It was about the wife loving her husband and children too little.  While we generally look at the world in shades of grey, I find it impossible to see the scriptwriters' version of marriage in anything but black and white clarity.  Even the contrived ending was less than believable, and not in the least satisfying. Andy Garcia and the older daughter gave beautiful performances.  In fact, they were the reason I stayed with the movie to the end.  Meg Ryan's cute persona did not work well here, but the smallness and pettishness of the wife came across.  Meg was sufficiently mean to her children and coldly cruel to her husband to evoke distaste in the viewer.I am amazed that Meg Ryan is still so proud of this movie. "},{"Title":"a bit too long and too slow","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Airline pilot Michael Green (Andy Garcia) seems to have a perfect family with wife Alice (Meg Ryan), stepdaughter Jess (Tina Majorino), and daughter Casey (Mae Whitman). However, Alice is an alcoholic and she starts failing to maintain her life. Amy (Lauren Tom) is their babysitter. Emily (Ellen Burstyn) is the grandma. The perfect family life suffers as Alice struggles against her addiction.This may be a good portrayal of alcoholism and recovery. It isn't that great of a cinematic experience. It's too long and too slow. I think I don't like Andy Garcia in this father role. He has an explosive intensity but I would like an actor with a calmer personality. Meg Ryan is good at drunk acting. The movie doesn't really have anything new. In the end, the length probably wore me down. "},{"Title":"Pretty boring and didactic.","Date":"16 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not sure how to feel about this movie. As you probably know, Meg Ryan plays an alcoholic mother of two with a pilot for a husband. The husband, in this case, is played by Andy Garcia. Now, while watching this movie, I hated Garcia at first but really grew to like him. I now really like Andy Garcia. I really hated Meg Ryan's performance in this movie. I didn't understand who she was at all. And maybe her character didn't either. Either way, this movie is slow, and in trying to be instructive - instructive about the horrors and difficulties of alcoholism and the dangerous enabling of co-dependence - comes off as didactic. Movies really shouldn't be didactic. Don't know what didactic means? Maybe I don't either. Nevertheless, I don't think this is a great movie, or even a good one. Maybe it's an okay one. It takes place in San Francisco, which is cool. A lot of movies take place in San Francisco, though. "},{"Title":"still a great movies after all this time","Date":"19 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this when it first came out. I thought it was a love movie. I took my girlfriend at the time. Didn't like it then. Then I saw it again cause I had to. Then I got the premise of the movie. Then going through life I saw it with open eyes. Sort of lived it. If you know what Im talking about, watch it. Maybe it will give perspective. At the end of the movie it give you hope. There are some great lines in the movie. when the little says  what is an alcoholic? When Andy goes to meeting for the first time then the second time. Wow did that. The struggles of an alcoholic, didn't know then. Know something now. I think Meg plays this part great. The meeting in the movie really show the inside of AA. "},{"Title":"When Love Takes Over","Date":"29 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Considering my parents face problems with alcohol, just like I used to do some years ago, my therapist once indicated me this film. Before that, I've never heard about it, except for its unforgettable theme song. When a Man Loves a Woman is a movie made with simplicity that tells a story about a woman that discovers to be an alcoholic, and her family does its best in order to help her. Nonetheless, as you may expect, especially in a drama, things don't go in the right way with ease, so there are a lot of problems to be solved throughout the story. I admit that, for a moment, I felt like I wouldn't enjoy this picture, mainly due to the unlikeable character of Alice; in some scenes, I just wished Andy Garcia's character would leave her and find someone new. Michael seemed to be too patient for someone like Alice. However, that's what good dramas are made of doubt. If she was perfect and easy to deal with, there would be no tense moments. The young girls that portray Green's kids are extremely cute, and gave the characters the life they needed to have, and that's what made the story even more intense. All in all, it's another great movie from the nineties! "}{"Title":"You Should Have Kicked Him Where it Counts, Meg!","Date":"22 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sorry.., I couldn't get past the first scene. Would you like to do my laundry? Hello? Meg Ryan should have destroyed him with an affirmative retort. Instead, she fell for this dope. This is the third Meg Ryan movie where she falls in love with an idiot, the other two being When Harry Met Sally and You've Got Mail. Honestly.., that scene with her in the bar meeting that pompous airline pilot really made me nauseated. What should have been her reply when he asked her to Go get his laundry? Any of these would have worked Oh, you fly an airliner? What an exalted way to sit on your ass for a living! I have absolutely nothing to do for the rest of the day. My schedule is totally empty. I don't have to go back to work after lunch,and I don't even have to eat dinner. I'd be glad to be your delivery whore. Carrot cake? Did you say carrot cake? What do you say I smash this guy's beer glass against your head? "},{"Title":"Very good drama about alcoholism","Date":"16 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is billed as a romantic drama but is really more of a drama and a surprisingly good one at that. It follows a family where the mother is an alcoholic and how this affects her relationship with her husband and her children. They are an apparently ideal family and she is not the typical alcoholic portrayed in most movies. The film although 20 years old has not really dated and is as relevant now as it was back then. The acting from both leads Meg Ryan and Andy Garcia is excellent with maybe Garcia just shading the acting honours with a nicely understated performance. The supporting cast is strong with heartwarming performances from both the young girls and even an appearance from the late Phillip Seymour Hoffman. There are plenty of quite sad moments though you never feel that these have been manipulated. Although the ending is maybe a little predictable what goes before more than makes up for this. I had never heard of this film prior to watching it hence my apprehension prior to viewing it. It seems to me that this is one of those films that due maybe to it's subject matter is underrated. If you like a bit of emotional drama then you really can't go wrong with this film which is up there with the best of it's type. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A powerful film","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always appreciated this film for its honest look at how insidious alcoholism is and how it devastates those around the addict. I watched it again on a lazy Saturday afternoon and, despite its flaws, its an excellent film and a great look at how alcoholism is a family disease.Meg Ryan's Alice is an alcoholic in a comfortable though unhealthy marriage with Andy Garcia's Michael, an enabler and rescuer. Alice hits rock bottom and heads off to detox. The family struggles while she is away, but still struggles when Alice gets back and fights to stay clean and sober. This is one of the greatest strengths of the film. Becoming sober is not the hard part. Staying sober is. Learning to live life sober is incredibly challenging.Meg Ryan gives a masterful performance in this. However, on re-viewing, I really appreciated the nuances of Andy Garcia's performance. Michael clearly finds meaning in helping and fixing all the problems around him. However, when Alice is sober and he finds he doesn't need to rescue her anymore, he is lost, angry, disappointed, and hurt. His speech at the Al Anon meeting when he admits that he feels pain seeing his wife doing so well without his help is powerful. The child actresses are great, particularly Tina Majorino. I wish they would have delved a bit more into how mom's alcoholism affected the kids. Also, Michael's speech at the very end is cringeworthy, sugarcoating what is otherwise an honest and very real portrayal of addiction and recovery. "},{"Title":"Why Does this Film only have 6.2 rating??","Date":"21 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK it is hard for me to see such a masterpiece with an average rating because these kind of performances don't come along everyday. Personally I think this picture should have been nominated for best film of the year. All the performances in the film were top notch even the kids. When I watch this movie, I almost feel like I am in the theater watching a play. The interaction is so intense and skillful. Andy Garcia also should have gotten just as much praise as Meg Ryan both performances were outstanding. Sometimes I think he gets overlooked because he's so hot but yes this man's acting was amazing especially in the main argument scene. In any case, so sickening when a film like this isn't recognized to the full extent of it's greatness. Such a powerful and beautiful contribution to the art of film. "},{"Title":"no more drama","Date":"26 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Just saw this movie for the first time and it had me cry so much. I know drama makes better impact on people's thoughts about a movie, but I truly never likes drama as it makes me feel sad about life. The degree that Garcia loves Ryan just terrifies the theory of letting love go. He never gives up in the end but we are not supposed to pursue love like that. Hollywood movies most go with happy endings although it's predictable but it does not break my heart over and over again and does not tear my belief about goods always deserves the best. no more drama... "},{"Title":"My Meg Ryan's early flames of passion.every best of Meg Ryan I found in this Movie..She Drinks,Smokes.. got a terrific Haircut,Sexuality,Beauty,Performance,Screenplay","Date":"3 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To begin,Meg Ryan jumps to upon Andy Garcia,She swings sexxiest drunk a boat and dives on bay,Throw eggs on Porsche and Meg's swinging on carI love see Meg Ryan smoking!(thing that made me ​for Meg's sexual fetish) Mom 's role,touchable and cute.REM soundtrack,Meg kidding with Jess,beautiful,and many other takes that touchily movie (sinouns Meg Ryan 's Standard Superior Quality label actress)The Al-Anon Lecture and Gran-Finale to take a 2nd chance to loving again (Michael and Alice Green's) reconciliation.Everythings that Meg Ryan was striking in my life....somethings that biggest meg fan never forgets....until Meg's DEATH. "},{"Title":"Family Drama  and Love Story with Alcoholism as the Catalyst","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When everyone was wondering how a famous politician could not know his wife was a closet alcoholic we see a movie about the very subject. Was he an enabler, in denial and only when he saw his children in danger of his wife's behavior as a result of the drinking was he forced to face that she needed help, or was he truly ignorant of her problems? Was it more comfortable to let the status quo be and just try to go on? If this movie did not have Meg Ryan, playing against type, and Andy Garcia looking oh so handsome in uniform, and both giving wonderful performances, we would still have the very real story, that we have all seen with friends or family, and the wonderful child actors also giving outstanding performances. This film shows how facades can be maintained and all can look so good to the outsiders and those close enough to love the victims. This movie has it all. Beautiful people, living beautiful lives, and behind the scenes is an ugly addiction ready to rip apart all we see. Not wanting to ruin the film for those who have not seen it, I will say that this is one of those movies, that I watch no matter what section it is on when flicking the channels. it has it all, says it well and educates as well as entertains. "},{"Title":"Not Ground-breaking, but somewhat Unique!","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are times when seeing a quality film for the second time that it does not stack up as well as it did the first time it was viewed. More often, I enjoy the film a little more on the second viewing due to being able to pick up certain subtle aspects that were not as evident on the first go around and on a few occasions, I find a film much more rewarding, as was the case with this particular film. I saw the film in the theater when it was originally released and although I thought it was a fairly good film and the performances by the two stars, Meg Ryan and Andy Garcia, were of a high quality, I was somewhat disappointed in the overall production. It may have been related to my having anticipated a romance that was not based on as much heart-ache and depressing circumstances.I saw it again recently, slightly over a decade later, and was able to view it from a slightly different perspective. The material, dealing with alcohol addiction, is not ground-breaking but is presented in a slightly unique fashion. The film depicts the downward spiral of the addicted woman, but also examines all the tragic consequences forced upon those closest to her. It involves the audience in the tragic and depressing situations that are imposed on the spouse, children, family and friends of the person with the addiction. It has a somewhat unique aspect, in that it examines how those closest to the alcoholic can inadvertently contribute to the problem while attempting to help their loved one recover from the addiction. Although they may have the best of intentions, they can sometimes magnify the conditions related to the problem.I think an IMDb rating of between 4 and 9 would seem appropriate for this intense emotionally charged drama. I personally gave it a 7 out of 10 and would highly recommend it for viewers that are not in the market for light or humorous entertainment. "},{"Title":"This is a great movie.","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is accurate and dramatic, If you have been through a situation like this you can relate with this movie. I feel for the situation this movie portrays. My life had been the same way the little girls was for years and I absolutely love the fact that someone was smart enough to write a movie so accurate. You will be pleased if you watch this movie, believe me!! The actors in this movie especially Meg Ryan set a high standard for performance and did a wonderful job plating such a in depth role. Andy Garcia is wonderful as a supportive husband who loves his wife with so much life. He set a standard for husbands everywhere. "},{"Title":"very real","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" as a person who has been there done that in a relationship with an addict, this movie stuck such a deep chord with me. i could totally relate to Michael's character throughout the entire movie. his natural inclination to just want to help and make it all go away is something that supporters of addicts all go through. we just want to wave the magic wand, hug our loved one and make it better. the emotion from both Michael and Alice is raw and they have an unbelievable connection on screen. you can feel his characters frustration as he struggles to connect with her and understand her after her time in the rehab facility. i remember so many times myself wondering why my loved one only felt comforted and supported being around others with the same affliction rather than by being with me. and there are so so so many people out there struggling with this very issue---maybe it can give them hope in all of this. this is definitely one of my favorite movies of all-time. "}{"Title":"A film many can relate to . .","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this was one of the more REAL films that I've seen. As there are a plethora of plot summaries already on this site, I will just repeat the basics this is the story of an airline pilot (ANDY GARCIA) and his wife (MEG RYAN) whose drinking becomes more and more out of control, threatening their marriage and family.Just as a side note, I found it rather jarring that Andy Garcia, with an accent, was named Michael Green. The name just did not jive with the character and for some reason I actually let that bother me.The feelings that this film evoked in me were feelings that I think will touch many viewers in a myriad of ways. It certainly shows the devastation and destruction of alcoholism, and the reality that alcoholism does not have to come from someone picking up the bottle because they have a horrific life. It can come from all kinds of place that the alcoholic him/herself does not understand, and may never understand. I thought the film did an excellent job in portraying this realistically, and it's hard to imagine that anyone watching would not be reminded of someone they know, whether it be themselves or someone close to them.I also really related to the loyalty and abiding love. I truly felt for Michael as he found that he did not know what his wife Alice needed, and that he was condemned for being the kind of man most women would love to have by their side. I felt pulled between my anger toward Alice for seeming so unfair to him, yet my feeling that I did not understand her and that her feelings were very legitimate.The film, to me, did not take sides and it did not paint a wildly unrealistic picture as some films do. While I'm a big fan of LEAVING LAS VEGAS, which showed the absolute worst of alcoholism in Nicholas Cage's character, this film was powerful by illustrating alcoholism differently. After all, there is no one way to portray it. The monster has many faces.This wasn't the best film I've ever seen, but I really liked it and I think it made a powerful statement. I couldn't help but thinking as I watched that I hoped seeing this film would reach many people. Meg Ryan was excellent as the multi-faceted Alice Green and the young actresses who played her daughters were very compelling, reminding everyone how deeply affected children are by this tragedy. It is a film I will remember for a long time. "},{"Title":"Andy Garcia plays a great 'good guy'.","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the first movie since I was a teenager that I have watched many times and still want more. I fell in love with Andy Garcia, whereas I hardly noticed him in his previously brilliant career. He has my attention now. He smolders-you know-I don't know how else to describe it. Andy Garcia loves Meg Ryan so deeply in the movie he will do anything for her, even let her go. He loves his step daughter the same way, as much as his own daughter. And Andy Garcia exuberates this love without words. He is a fine actor. I wish he would play more romantic roles for us women. Still, I will now watch him in anything and am going to be bater informed concerning the Cuban situation with his next movie. I am proud he is using his fame to not only entertain, but also to explain history from the Cuban point of view concerning Castro. I was in Cuba in 1959 on my way to Puerto Rico. The military dependents were about to be evacuated. I was thirteen and have always wondered what precisely happened. We Americans never knew what the Cuban people endured. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was surprised to like this movie so much because I usually don't like Meg Ryan and was put off by the subject matter. But it was a very intelligent and sensitive portrayal of their relationship. Contrary to many comments here, the movie was very clear about her many good qualities while also showing the negative side of her condition. And I like Al Franken all the more for knowing he took part in this great script.And I'd much rather be friends and neighbors with the Meg Ryan character - sober or drinking - rather than the miscreant with the space weapon noises car alarm. There's at least 2 of them on my block and the police refuse to do anything so I may buy the movie just so I can revel in that scene over and over. "},{"Title":"Seen it several times","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This may be one of the few movies where Meg Ryan is not playing Meg Ryan. I like the plot because just when you think everything is going to be okay, it isn't. And when you think you like a character, they do something to annoy you. The script is realistic and the actors portray their characters with real depth and complexity. It's not wrapped in a pretty bow, and that's the beauty of it. You can see the pain in the kids' eyes, you can feel the frustration when Mom comes home from detox and there's no honeymoon, and you find yourself believing Alice when she says she's really really ready to give up the drinking. You believe her because you want it. But she disappoints both Michael and herself and us. You find yourself sympathizing with the long-suffering Michael until he shows his condescending side... and you get the clear impression that he actually wants his wife to be the sick one so he can be the not sick one. It's how he gets his esteem. And you get to understand how tough it is to solve real problems in a marriage... and how easy it is to consider ending the relationship when the co-dependent apple cart tips over. "},{"Title":"A commitment from Heaven","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the movie and was very pleased with the way Andy Garcia handled Meg Ryan with her alcoholism. It was a wonderful movie that made me cry, to me it portrait a true life story shared between a wife and a husband. Where i come from, I have never experienced such a truthful commitment by a husband to a troublesome wife.In most cases husbands are the ones who abuse alcohol and cause trouble to their partners but in this case it was vise- versa. The movie showed true signs of patience and hope that one can adopt in order to sustain the union called marriage. Even though Meg seemed not to appreciate the support that Andy was rendering, I still think that was the best possible support that a husband could have given to his wife.I would like to give my votes to Andy Garcia and his excellent performance, that was wow! "},{"Title":"Great portrayal of an alcoholic","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Great portrayal of an alcoholicI think that the movie did a good job at portraying an alcoholic in everyday life. The main characters, Alice, started drinking when she was nine years old. I think the main reason for the addiction was her parents. Her mother was controlling and her father was an alcoholic. Although it is not clear, whether her father drank too much because of his wife was too controlling, or the other way around. It is also possible that her mother acted all controlling because his husband was too deep in the bottle and useless around the house. It is also possible that Alice's father was running away from his controlling wife through the bottle. Either way, I think they were both the main reason for her addiction. Alicia never learned to become responsible, her mother did everything. She hated it, but she is also unable to do anything about it. The only thing she could do was through hiding deep inside the bottle. In the movie, she mentioned that her husband was the reason why she became an alcoholic. She blamed him because she felt that he belittle her. For example, there is one scene where she said to her daughter that she could not do to the party or something unless she finished her homework. Mike, the husband, then came to the room, and decided to let her go to the party then finished her homework later. This kind of behavior from Mike reminded Alicia of her own mother. Mike might never intend it to happen, because I think he was just trying to help, but he did not realize about Alicia's experience during her childhood, a controlling mother and a drunken father. She tried to run away but she could not do it because she does not have the courage to do so. The only thing she knew was the alcohol.After she was sober, she realized that she has a choice. She realized that she could be strong and independent. That was why when Mike was still trying to help her, she felt frustrated and angry. She did not want to be controlled anymore, so she pushed him away. I think the only think I want to see more about this movie was the children, Jessica and Casey, but mostly on Jessica. She has been through a lot. Her father left her, and her mother was a drunker. It has to affect her somehow, emotionally. However, the movie failed to show it. She seems unaffected by all of these experiences, and she was just a 7-8 years old girls. "},{"Title":"Terrific Acting in a Thought Provoking Movie","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When a Man Loves a Woman is not an easy movie to watch. It can be depressing to watch what this family goes through. The acting, however, is so good that you will find yourself invested in these characters & their struggles. Meg Ryan & Andy Garcia are terrific. For me, the best performance comes from Tina Majorino, who plays the oldest daughter, Jessie. Her pain & anger is so real that is just blows you away. Her scenes with Andy Garcia, especially the one where he goes to her school, are outstanding. I personally think that Tina should have been considered for a Supporting Actress nomination-she's that good. Bottom line Heavy going, but a good movie with great performances. "},{"Title":"A moving drama with humor and depth.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is about imperfect people fighting their way through terrible problems they've created for themselves. This includes Andy Garcia's character of the abused codependent husband dealing with an alcoholic manipulative wife. True, he is put upon, and true, he is loyal to his wife, but he is also pretty darn sanctimonious, and he uses his zeal for fixing his wife's problems to make himself feel in control. This helps him feel less terrified, just like his wife's drinking helps her feel less scared. I've read many condemnations of Meg Ryan's character, for her alcoholism and the way she treats her family, and all these things are true. She does some terrible things in this movie, but she tries to make things better, and it's a tough fight. That is what I think is true about the film. Life is hard, and it can be easy to get confused. We have all done things we are not proud of, including hurting people who love us. Still, we need love. This movie is more truthful about life than most. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever....","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" There are few shows that hit each individual person on a different but captivating note. For myself, Scent of a Woman, Original Sin, The Life of David Gail, John Q, and of course When a Man Loves a Woman are a few of my favorites. This movie has a beginning that grabs the viewers attention. From there the real story that hits home to so many takes you from there. See Meg Ryan in one of her best performances. It's real, easy to connect with, heartbreaking, emotional, happy, witty, and anything else as well. If you haven't seen it already then you should do so, its well worth your time if you like dramatic movies and great acting at its best. Not quite the feel good movie of the year but it leaves the viewer thinking about the movie long after it was watched. "},{"Title":"An honest and moving portrayal","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie really hit home for me. My father was an alcoholic and this movie was very true to life. It moved me in a way that movies usually never can. Little things (and big things, obviously) about it reminded me so much of life with an alcoholic. I think it's harder for people who have never dealt with alcoholism in their family don't quite get it. At least, that's what I've noticed with my friends who have seen it. This movie is a great way to show people what it's like to deal with an alcoholic. It shows the hopelessness, it shows the distancing, it shows the emotional drain. I really felt for the daughter in the movie, having gone through something very similar as a young child. I just thought this movie was wonderfully done and its tone is perfect. After Alice returns from rehab, she and her husband still have lots and lots of problems, but that is what alcoholism does. The root of their problems was her disease, and the distance it put between them. So, I don't believe that the movie ever wanders from its main subject at all. It is wonderfully done.I definitely recommend seeing this movie.  "}{"Title":"Convincing drama on love, addiction, codependency","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Unlike other films on the subject, the main character's turn-around to recovery from addiction is the middle of the movie, not the end. Plot-wise, things begin to get much much worse for this couple, and this half of the movie illustrates well what addiction therapists have long termed co-dependency the non-addicted spouse is so used to relating to the other as a problem that upon recovery they don't know how to treat them as a different person.A tight script with no flaws, really. Neither spouse gets demonized or too much attention. The question at its heart, which they finally got around to putting into the title, is Why doesn't he leave her? Esp. after they separate to different cities? He's a sexy pilot and could have his pick of blondes....I rarely have wet eyes while watching a video but this one got to me.The intriguing thing was to note the co-writer is AL FRANKEN, he of Stuart Smalley Saves His Family. Writing a serious drama on addiction and recovery with plenty of AA members and meetings and lingo? Has he written any other serious dramas in his career? Doesn't seem like it. What gives? Perhaps it's well known in the pop culture which I fringe, but I suspect it must be Franken has some acquaintance with addiction and recovery from the inside. Anybody know anymore?  "},{"Title":"original soundtrack","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely love this film but specially the music. I wonder why there are so many songs left out of the ost cd. I would like to know the name of the song and singer that comes out at the end, while the credits are showned. I heard it once and never got it out of my mind, but it´s practically impossible for me to find out more about it. I can remember a little bit of the lyrics hold me love,I can´t sleep again, want to kiss your lips...Please, of anyone knows more about it email me!!!thanks a lot!!! "},{"Title":"Definitely a woman's movie","Date":"28 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I felt that this movie was very good in that it showed the true love for Alice no matter what she went through or how much despair and frustration she put her family through. Michael was the typical husband that most women would want. He was supportive and caring and even though it got to the point that he was losing his battle with Alice and her problems, he was still there. He represents the kind of love that is true...that is real. Very emotional at the end when Alice was giving her 6 month speech. A very good movie for both Meg and Andy to show their talents as wonderful actors. "},{"Title":"Worthy drama","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an extremely well-done drama. I did not doubt for one second that these people were married to one another, that's how great the lead performers are.  Tina Majorina is also great as the soon-to-be screwed up older daughter.  I guess Meg Ryan can do more than be the newly appointed queen of cute and fuzzy comedies. "},{"Title":"A good movie!!!!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When A Man Loves A Woman is a movie about a teacher who is an alcoholic, meets a man who deeply loves her, and marries her. Throughout the movie, which is mostly depressing, her drinking gets more & more worse as she tries to struggle between her job, her children & her marriage.  The reason I like this particular movie is because it shows very clearly how a couple's true love can stick together between very harsh times.  Great acting by Andy Garcia as well as Meg Ryan & Ellen Burstyn.  If your in the mood for a movie with a good touching story, good acting, but can stand seeing people suffering with alcoholism, then go rent this tonight!  Not many know about this Meg Ryan movie, but if you think Meg Ryan can't act, or acts in only mushy gushy romantic comedies, then watch this movie, it'll prove you wrong.  "},{"Title":"one of my favorite movies.","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i usually don't fall for movies with so much drama, but this movie definitely hit a spot in my heart. the cast is exceptional. the main topic is real and hits home to a lot of people. this movie is an eye opener. in this movie, you learn so much about life and i think it was great, and has become one of my all-time favorites. "},{"Title":"Bad script, bad movie.","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I saw that Meg Ryan and Andy Garcia, two of my personal favorites, were the leads in this movie, I decided to watch it, despite the fact that I'm not often drawn to this type of film. Through some sudden onset of masochism, I stayed grimly in my chair, to the end, but frankly, after twenty minutes I was ready to pack it in.This may not be the worst script ever, but it ranks down there with the worst of them. Andy Garcia, who has done some good work in other films, is totally unconvincing as an airline pilot. You could no more envision him in command of a seventy-five ton 737 than you could Dick Butkus dancing the Nutcracker. None of the character traits that define pilots, such as extreme self-assurance bordering on arrogance, self-reliance that easily becomes isolation, and a certain coldly amused view of the world and everyone in it, are present in Garcia's character. Some of that is him, mis-cast, but most of that is due to the script.Meg Ryan is treated even worse. She is simply not a sympathetic character. Okay, you're saying to yourself Look, dummy, she's an alcoholic. She's not supposed to be Mary Poppins. I have, unfortunately, a more than casual acquaintance with a real alcoholics, and of course they're not sympathetic, when they're drinking. But the point here is that there is nothing in Ryan's character worth redeeming. It's not that she's so bad, it's that she's so pointless. The ultimate irony here is that the writes don't understand alcoholism at all. The worst and most evident aspect of the alcoholic personality is the extreme level of selfishness and self-absorption --nothing and nobody else matters. But the writers choose precisely that trait as her path to redemption. When she leaves husband and child, and goes off to find herself, she begins to heal. That's laughable. Anyone who knows alcoholics also knows that they never have any trouble at all finding themselves. It's finding or even looking for others that's the problem.The result is a chaotic swirl of pointless shouting and desperate facial expressions, culminating in the scene on the lake, where she falls off the canoe and into the depths, dragging her husband with her. By that point, Ryan and Garcia notwithstanding, I was fervently hoping that they would drown together, and leave the rest of us in peace, to watch re-runs of My Mother the Car. "},{"Title":"excellent portrayal of alcoholism","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Alcoholism crosses many boundaries within our society. It effects persons from every socioeconomic standpoint, religious background and race. It is the most extensively abused substance in our society that creates turmoil and conflict in our interpersonal relationships. The depiction of alcoholism in When a Man Loves a Woman exemplifies that the abuse of alcohol is not a unilateral disease in society, but multilateral in it's effects.When a Man Loves a Woman depicts alcoholism and the stages of breaking the addiction in a truthful and emotionally powerful way. Meg Ryan's portrayal of Alice Green, the protagonist, illustrates the emotional complexities that effect the family structure. The most prominent scene that illustrates the destruction of alcoholism on the family is when Alice hits Jess, her young daughter and consequently overdoses on alcohol and aspirin in the shower. Frustration and anger are depicted as the underlying cause of Alice's alcoholism, which in turn she realizes and accepts that she does have a chronic problem with alcohol. It exemplifies how often, the person, as with Alice, must endure rock bottom before coming to terms with their addiction.The effects of alcoholism within the family unit are dealt with emotionally through the illustration of Alice and Michael's marriage post-rehab. Again, the film does an excellent job in portraying how not only the addiction affects the family unit but the recovery as well. The last half of the movie unfolds how Alice's identity of herself has been changed and her ability to accept her new identity of a recovered alcoholic is intertwined with Michael's acceptance of Alice's transformed identity. This transformation of each of their roles is not black and white, as often seen in movies, but illustrates the complexities that the road to recovery can bring.When a Man Love's a Woman is a visual depiction of an Alcoholics Anonymous participant. The last scene exemplifies this with Alice recounting her personal struggle with alcohol to an AA meeting on her 184th day of sobriety. As well, Michael's participation with Al-Anon, the support group for people affected by loved one's with addictions, shows all the positive abilities of group therapy in the AA setting. The stages that Alice goes through are part of the 12-step program, although it shows the struggles that the person must succumb to at each step. "},{"Title":"Meg Ryan does drama!","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I bought a copy of this film for my wife who was recovering from an emergency appendectomy thinking that it might cheer her up. I was wrong. I identify Meg Ryan with Sleepless In Seattle, a feel good kind of movie, and was a little surprised (nay shocked) at her ability to swear and, more seriously, carry off a darker role. Andy Garcia I find weak. I am not convinced by him as an actor - hence the central relationship didn't prosper and the film nearly floundered. What saved it was some of the dialogue towards the end - accurately observed and thoughtful - which dealt with the main issue of the film and rooted it in reality. The secret was dealt with. Overall a watchable film, some excellent performances from the daughters, but lacking a strong enough plot line to truly satisfy. Finally was there really only two years between Meg Ryan in this and Sleepless? Two hard years obviously for Meg! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, heart wrenching, MASTERPIECE","Date":"9 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When a Man Loves a Woman is a heart wrenching, will-make-you-cry, masterpiece. it follows the story of an alcoholic woman who marries a pilot and has kids. sounds boring? so not. the very first time i saw this movie, i started crying about 5 minutes into it, and i didn't stop until the end.it's the total opposite of a feel-good, but it's such a beautiful story, i'm sure you won't mind. some people argue that this movie is boring, but if you have a heart, it's the total opposite.this movie has terrific acting from both of the leads, and as it such a different kind of genre to what Meg Ryan usually does, it's a beautiful relief. finally, she is doing a movie that doesn't fall under the category of love comedy. she does such a wonderful job in this movie, i don't know know why she has done so many love comedy movies! everyone looks fantastic (if you can pick a fault with Meg Ryan's appearance in this movie, you're seriously strange), and does such a wonderful job of acting out their roles.this movie has everything (except action but who cares? it's not meant to!). it'll make you laugh, it'll make you cry, but most of all, it will make you fall in love. "}{"Title":"Convincing","Date":"3 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie portraits an alcoholic better than any movie I've ever seen. Since I grew up in a similar family I can relate very well to what this family is going through and the acting is very convincing. It's also a good movie for those of you who haven't lived through this, because you might get a hint of what it is like and perhaps even empathize with alcoholics and their families and hopefully understand that alcoholism is indeed a disease.  "},{"Title":"sorry, didn't care.","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was a vaguely competent portrayal of how hard alcoholism can be to deal with.  However, for those of us who aren't alcoholics, it really offered nothing.  I gave the movie about twenty, maybe forty minutes, but I never started wanting the two to work out their problems, I just wanted him to kick her out of the house.  I'm sorry, but before you show a couple in such misery and expect the audience to want to see them get through it, you have to show us that the couple is based on something good. Honestly, I kept looking for the new female love interest to show up so we could get on with the movie.. but it just didn't go in that direction.  (2/10) "},{"Title":"A good try but not totally successful","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The ads for When A Man Loves A Woman made it seem like it was more of a light comedy than a serious drama on how alcoholism affects a family. Considering the very odd screen writing collaboration of Ronald Bass (Rain Man) and Al Franken (Saturday Night Live), the film felt off-balanced and incomplete. I kept thinking of Days of Wine and Roses (which was a much better movie which was also set in San Francisco) while watching this movie. Despite my overall disappointment in the film, there were a couple of things that I did admire the helplessness Andy Garcia's character felt when he realized that as much as he tries, he can't help his alcoholic wife. It did capture co-dependency within a relationship rather well.**POSSIBLE SPOILER** I was also impressed with Meg Ryan specifically her speech near the end when she acknowledged her alcoholism and how it has affected her family and her life. It was when she got her coin for staying sober for 6 months. It was the only scene that rang true for me. I was pleasantly surprised how well Ryan played that scene out without asking for pity from the audience at the meeting. I wished that the entire movie would have been as honest as that monologue near the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"snooze fest","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Movies should be entertaining on some level.  This was simply boring.  I was looking forward to it because of the trailer.  Did that ever lead me astray. I wanted to walk out but I didn't.  Everyone has regrets in life. "},{"Title":"Very sweet, touching, romantic, and kind of heartbreaking","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" WHEN A MAN LOVES A WOMAN, in my opinion, is a very sweet, touching, romantic, and kind of heartbreaking drama. I thought that Alice (Meg Ryan) looked absolutely beautiful in the fancy black dress she wore when she and Michael (Andy Garcia) went out for dinner to celebrate their wedding anniversary. When she fell through the shower door while she was taking a shower, I got scared to death. This was because I thought she had died. Plus, Jess (Tina Majorino) was scared, too. In addition, she was severely injured. If I ever discovered my mother, or anyone in my family, that way, I'd call for help right away. Also, if you ask me, Amy (Lauren Tom) should have been a little more responsible while she was babysitting. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, If you ask me, WHEN A MAN LOVES A WOMAN does indeed show you how alcoholism can truly affect a family.  Now, in conclusion, I recommend this movie to all you Andy Garcia or Meg Ryan fans who have not seen it. You're in for some tears and a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"A nice attempt, but could have been a lot better","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When you find a Hollywood movie about alcoholism, it will very often, if not almost always, be the man of the family who has a problem. But that isn't always the truth. It has been proved that there are more and more women who are developing a drinking problem. With this movie, Hollywood finally proves that it isn't as conservative as we often like to think.This time it is Meg Ryan's character Alice Green who has overdeveloped her taste for alcohol. When her addiction threatens her life and their daughter's safety, there is no way back for the airline pilot Michael Green and his wife, but to face the consequences of her drinking problem. She goes into therapy and overcomes her problems, but now it is the man who has to try to live with a woman who's no longer the same one he once married. He was used to have complete control over the family, but now that Alice has been cured, she can no longer accept this...The main problem that I had with this movie was that I didn't really believe Meg Ryan. Of course she wasn't really drunk while on stage, but it also never felt real to me. It all looked too acted. Take for instance the scene where she starts throwing with eggs to that car. I just didn't buy that one. Andy Garcia was better. In my opinion he was convincing enough as the concerned house father / airline pilot and I don't really think there are many other actors who would have done a better job with this role...Even though I find it more than OK that the studio's make a movie about the subject of alcoholism, I would like to see a more realistic version of it. With this movie I had the feeling that it all went a bit too easy to get rid of the addiction (not that I have any experience with it). What I did like on the other hand was that they also showed the repercussions on the family once she is declared sober. Overall I would say that this is a good attempt, but far from a perfect one. I know there are many people who find this movie perfect, but I really can't follow them in their opinion. The best I can do for this movie is a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Less than powerful","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Less than powerful film about the traumas a young family experiences when one of the adults becomes an alcoholic and goes through the very demanding de-toxication program.Meg Ryan expands her repertoire with a solid performance as alcoholic Alice Green, a young woman who knows that her addiction is tearing her family apart, as she feels helpless to do anything at all. Andy Garcia is not as convincing though, and just doesn't sit right as the leading man, a husband who, however concerned, can't seem to prevent his marriage from self destructing.Luis Mandoki does manage some strong emotional scenes as director especially when the family's two young daughters are involved, yet he is unable to create a consistent and moving drama with Ronald Bass and Al Franken's script. When a Man Loves a Woman has a weak beginning, and unfortunately tends to lapse back into the uninspired groove too often. A harsher, more realistic ending may also have helped.Certainly not a complete waste of time, but never constantly hard hitting or disturbing enough to have the desired effect. Also known in the U.S. as Significant Other.PS I personally struggled with much of the enunciation throughout the movie and consequently missed several lines.Saturday August 13, 1994 - Greater Union Melbourne "},{"Title":"Understanding...........Love.........Reality.......Different Meg Ryan","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have never seen such a great movie about married life. This movie is no Hollywood fantasy, rather a lot reality oriented. The story is kinda universal......not only in married life but in love life too.Meg Ryan really delivers an Oscar caliber performance.......why wasn't she nominated for Oscars? She deserved it! She was different, she was real and she made the character her's. This is one of the best performance she has ever given. The portrayal of an alcoholic was perfect..Andy Garcia.......well.......i have no words to describe his performance. Husband's should be like this........ (in real life.....a man can't have more patience than Garcia's's character if he was in this kind of situation.If someone wants to see reality in movies......this is a good choice. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I thought this was an excellent movie. I like everything about it, costumes, production, photography, directing, script and acting. I like all of the characters on this movie, except for Alice. Alice is not a very good wife, mother or person in general. The reasons why are the followingShe abuses her husband and her kids.Drives drunk with her family and others in the car.Lets drinking affect her job.Puts everyone through hell.She was a very lucky person to have things workout in the end like they did. She could have been one of those unlucky alcoholics whose world falls apart before they know it. Kudos to the cast, crew and filmmakers. 10 out of 10 stars. Two Thumbs Way Up. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie. It has a very honest approach to the very common problem of alcoholism in America. It shows how alcoholism can affect not only the alcoholic but their family. For example, when Meg Ryan's character hits her daughter, it shows how being an alcoholic can harm not only you but also your family and that if you are an alcoholic, you need to get help a.s.a.p so as to reduce the amount of harm you otherwise could inflict.I don't agree with the point of view that it is all Alice's fault, because look at the way her husband treats her! When she comes home from detox, he treats her as if she can't do anything, he even takes over taking care of the girls even though Alice does it better! Sure, there are times when she loses control and is a pretty awful character, such as when she slapped her daughter, but that was one of the reasons why she tried so hard to quit drinking! People see her as a horrible monster because of that incident but she says at the end when she's making her speech that slapping her daughter was one of the incidents that made her so determined to quit drinking. Her husband is seen as the victim, but I'm not so sure that he is. He undermines Alice all the time by saying the girls can do stuff Alice said they can't, and then wonders why Alice hates it! The movie is an excellent way of showing the affects of an alcoholic on not only the alcoholic but their family and friends. Remember the girl who helps out around the house? She gets treated like dirt but never complains and no one says anything about her! I loved the movie- it's brutally honest yet moving at the same time, truly a masterpiece. -) "}{"Title":"Good Movie, Great Performances","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely a good, though often depressing, film about love, alcoholism, and sobriety. Meg Ryan gives the best performance of her career as a middle-class woman with an alcohol problem coping with love and sobriety. Andy Garcia is also quite good in an understated performance, as are the youths. The script manages to convey true emotion without descending into melodrama since this sort of material could have easily become movie of the week stuff in lesser hands. It's also nice for once to see a somewhat realistic movie involving substance abuse that doesn't moralize or have a prohibition mindset ie noone goes on a killing rampage (Reefer Madness), or loses their job, or winds up in a straitjacket. There's nothing particularly revolutionary in a cinematic sense about this film, but it's well-directed and extremely well acted. Utterly heartwrenching, but well worth watching, especially if you or a family member has dealt with alcoholism. The ending felt a little too neat though. "},{"Title":"Domestic drama with good performances but a hanging sense of staleness.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yet another film to tackle the awkward alcohol problem, When A Man Loves A Woman hits and misses. What stands out among everything else is the lead performances from Andy Garcia and Meg Ryan. They both do terrific in their respective roles, Meg Ryan shedding her smiley rom-com image, but they know that they are better than the material they have been given.While the film does keep you thoroughly engaged throughout, that made-for-TV image is just to hard to ignore. While the conlusion will probably leave you satisfied, it is perhaps to neat and tidy to leave you convinced. With the exception of the acting, there really isn't much else to remember here.Overall, When A Man Loves A Woman isn't a bad film but there is nothing particular to remember about it and it will probably go in one eye and out the other. 5.4/10. "},{"Title":"thoroughly depressing","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This heartbreaking story left me feeling completely indifferent because there was absolutely no chemistry between Meg and Andy. The scenes almost seemed as if the two actors weren't even in the studio at the same time, and that their performances were spliced together in the editing room.  I thought the story had enormous potential and I was completely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Great movie if feeling frustrated is your bag.","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I fail to see why so many women love this movie.  Alcohol didn't mistreat that family Meg's character did.  When I'm drunk I take full responsibility for all of my actions as well anyone should.I wonder if as many women would love this movie if Andy Garcia's character was the drunken jerk instead of Meg Ryan?  This movie should be called, `When a Man Gets Treated like Dirt'. "},{"Title":"This movie is really bad!","Date":"24 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" sheer drivel! is the best way to describe this movie, I went to watch this movie in the cinema, seriously, this movie was really bad...I actually walked out of the cinema, really, I did..I just couldn't bare it anymore, the movie was so boring, it was very disappointing, I suppose I should not have gone in with such high expectations after hearing all the positive raves it got from the media hype I was expecting something heartfelt and something that could move me emotionally, instead i got a story that made no sense and had too many holes in it, and as for the acting, well, i felt like throwing up! the actors should ask for a refund from their acting school and i must say that the cinematography really left a lot to be desired. like i said sheer drivel! "},{"Title":"No, not for me...","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have to disagree with the critics once again. This was nothing more than a below average movie. It might have deserved a rating a little higher than 2 stars, but the ending definitely ruined whatever good was seen in the movie beforehand. I found the script was too simplistic, and the acting nothing more than average (even though I am a huge Meg Ryan fan). Andy Garcia on the other hand was totally miss-cast for the role in my opinion (come on critics, before giving up all those stars, can't you imagine the acting in such a movie by let's say... Merryl Streep and William Hurt? Just think about it... The general public on IMDb had much more sense and gave it a lower average score than the critics).This is a film with no real emotions in my opinion. We never really get the feel of the relationship between Ryan and Garcia in the beginning. We never really get to sympathize or feel for the characters as the movie moves along. None of it ever seems real... and everything seems too obvious. In order to compensate for this, the movie resolves itself in the typically Hollywoodian feel-good manner. The film is based on the currently very much in vogue culture of permissiveness; everybody can do anything and it's OK the wife can trash a car parked on the curb and that's OK, the kids can half demolish the house, that's OK, etc. How very typical of the '68 generation. Furthermore, building on this concept, the film shows how it is OK to be weak, positive to be a loser, but if you are strong, have values and principles, live according to a set of rules, you are out, almost as if you where sick, you have to be 'healed' so that you too can become a loser... How politically correct can you get? No, definitely not for me... "},{"Title":"A really Bad Movie","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am sick to death of movies in which women treat their husbands like dirt, are unfaithful to them and put them through hell but in the end are treated like they are the victims and the husband is at fault. In this movie Alice (Meg Ryan) puts her children and her husband through a living hell, virtually destroys their lives and in the end says she is sorry and is portrayed as being worthy of forgiveness. I kept waiting for her husband (Andy Garcia) to throw her out of the house, take the kids and file for a divorce. That is what should have happened after he forgave her for about the nth time and she continued with her bad behavior. He had no idea of what she was doing, or who she was doing it with, during her drinking bouts. She tormented him and her children in the most cruel fashion and showed no true remorse until she had destroyed the family. In the end she had taken the children and let her long suffering husband leave without even trying to keep him. He betrayed all husbands by his obsequious behavior toward her in the most masochistic fashion. I was holding out some hope for him until the very end when he did the unthinkable. He showed up, apparently having left his job, and begged her forgiveness for her drinking. Unbelievable. When will the movie husbands  in films like this, Unfaithful, A Walk On The Moon and others of like genre throw the tramps  out and get on with their lives? "},{"Title":"What a garbage!","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't believe and never imagine one can think of Meg Ryan in the role of a psychologically troubled housewife in a movie like this, which is mainly based on mind games. She is the shallowest kind of actress one can ever find in the visual industry. All she can do is to show an effervescent babbling juvenile attitude to all roles she ever acted in all kind of movies, Joe Versus the Volcano, The Presidio, Top Gun, When Harry Met Sally, French Kiss and so on. Andy Garcia as pained husband with marriage problems? No way. He is probably better off with one of those mafia roles like Benedict in Ocean's Eleven. I believe Benedict was his best performance.When a man loves a woman is the last thing this movie can be about. This movie even fails to describe what the problems are about, gets us to nowhere, shallow, nonsense and boring&#133;...(yawn). "},{"Title":"no need for booze with Andy there!","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Hey.....if I had hunky Andy Garcia all over me, hugging and kissing me, I wouldn't be drinking booze! I'd be doing other things. He looks absolutely gorgeous in this film. As I watched the movie, I kept thinking that Meg's character is one lucky lady! She was married to the perfect guy--macho and sensitive at the same time with a respectable career, providing her with an upper-middle class life. And he was devoted to her. He actually loved her. But she never seemed to appreciate his love. If that's co-dependence, most women would take it in an instant! Comedian Al Franken, who co-wrote this film, based it on his own marriage. "},{"Title":"A movie where I didn't like Meg Ryan one bit","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was thinking, hey, Meg Ryan is really irritating in this role. The I realized she is the same person, in each role I ever saw her. Is she just being herself? In every movie?In any case, her acting was laughable. There is nothing loveable about this Alice person. I couldn't even feel pity for her as an alcohol addict.And the whole situation is not really believable care and attention is rejected by Alice for what reason exactly? Does that make any sense? The script has some big psychological inconsistncies. And why is she an addict in the first place? The movie seems to hint to the fact that her husband is often away, but to be honest, he's not away all that much, and later in the movie this hint totally fades away.Another fault is that the kid's character development is completely erratic. I don't at all understand what is each kid's spiritual world, what is their personality. Big thumbs down. I don't fault the children's acting, though, I think they did a terrific job, really. It's totally the fault of the conducting of the movie and the script.Anyway, good elements here and there, but the movie is way overrated. "}{"Title":"one of the few movies that I have walked out of...","Date":"5 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this gem in high school. What a truly awful movie. This is one of the few movies that I have walked out of. Let me give away the plot Talking, Drinking, Crying, Talking, Crying. The end. As the other poster said, Meg Ryan's character is not likable. I didn't feel sorry for her, I just wanted to repeatedly smack her and tell her to quit the darn crying and drinking, but we still don't have the technology to reach through the screen and smack actors yet.This one was worse than City of Angels and thats saying a lot, as City of Angels was mostly Crying and Staring, as opposed to this one's Crying, Drinking, and Talking.  "},{"Title":"absolutely terrible","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this was just a terrible movie and i truly cannot see any redeming value in the characters or the story at all.  Meg Ryan is a drunk who treats her family like trash and then when she finally gets better, she takes the children and leaves her husband out on the side of the road with all her empty vodka bottles.  meg ryan's character is one of the most detestible characters in any movie that i have ever seen; no substance can make someone do what she does throughout the movie.  she, not her husband nor alcohol, is to blame and she should have joined her bottles in the garbage where she belongs. "},{"Title":"Not that good","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not a particularly good film. Alcoholism has been tackled in a couple of films I've seen as well as just about every major soap opera & I can't say I've ever found it a particularly interesting subject, as this proves. Barring the extreme actions, it's a largely dull topic and there can be too much insight into character sometimes.The first half of this film was ok, but once Meg was out of the clinic, it was really little more than a husband & wife having marital problems & the alcoholism becomes a side issue.I have the utmost sympathy in life for alcoholics, who have circumstance has arisen through terrible consequences, but I get miffed when the plight of EVERY alcoholic, is considered an 'illness' and bracketed with sufferers of aids or cancer, say. That might sound harsh but my sympathies tend to lie with the latter, as their problems are far more often unresolvable.Thus, I was never shedding tears for either of Ryan or Garcia in this, but by the end I had really come to dislike both characters and didn't care about either of them.This is not what I'd class as a typical romance film, nor a drama. Merely an overlong 2 hour extended soap opera episode. It's an easy film to watch as little goes on & it's got the gorgeous Meg Ryan to look at, but is probably best suited for people who are into poetry & look for 'deep meanings'.  "},{"Title":"I don't like this movie","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I always liked the performance of Andy Garcia and Meg Ryan, also here but there's I don't know that I don't like. We all know the plot is interesting, a mad mother with her little daughters and a beautiful husband,but suddenly she starts to drink alcohol and acts violently in front of her children. But the bad thing here is that things sometimes happen too slow and sometimes too fast. For being a good movie,it should have*more violently scenes *children crying because of their mother *more beat,there is a moment in the middle of the movie you want to go away Bye! Cristian! "},{"Title":"What a dumb movie...","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie when it came out in theaters in 94' and I thought it was OK back then. A&E Classics was showing it last night and I started watching it from the start. I thought it would be fun to see it again since it's been over a decade. Well, it's interesting what 10 year will do to make you see things in a different light. First of all, I don't like Meg Ryan. The faces she makes annoy me. Her facial expressions get on my nerves and that constant I know it all and you are an idiot attitude is just too much for me. Andy Garcia I like, he's great.But it's just things they do in the movie that made me ask myself who does that???....Like the scene where they come home from their anniversary date and they're about to be intimate, when the Porsche's car alarm starts going off and she comes out with eggs and milk and starts vandalizing the car. OK people, who does that??? Then Andy Garcia just stands there like a moron and let's her JUMP ON THE CAR and smear the egg and food all over the car. WHERE ARE THE OWNERS OF THE PORSCHE?????? I would of come out with a bat and taken it to hear head a couple of times!!!! That's when I said, enough of this crap. What a stupid movie. Don't watch it unless you buy all the crap Hollywood feeds you.....ZERO stars "},{"Title":"Gawdawful","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Atrociously boring; a plotless, goes-nowhere film and utterly depressing. Note that nearly five years later When a Man Loves a Woman is virtually never mentioned in media bios on Ryan and Garcia.  I and my date were grossed out when, in one scene, the father (Garcia) tossed his daughter's toy doll in the kitchen sink--after fishing it out of the toilet! (The only memorable scene.) The CDC would do well by coming down hard on this one.  So should we.  "},{"Title":"When a movie watcher has mixed feelings.","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not too mushy over films like this, so please bear with me. This falls nowhere as a romantic drama like it was supposed to be, according to the title. Instead, it's a boring, unbalanced, yet heart-gripping soap opera about the effects of alcoholism on his lover that rips a guy and his two daughters apart. There are some occasional poor performances in general, including Meg Ryan in a dizzy state, and it's no surprise that she revives herself later. Ryan throwing eggs at an expensive Porsche is ridiculous for a serious movie trying to show pain and despair, which are two strong factors to look for. I had mixed feelings with this one, as it tries to compare a romance with an alcohol problem. Sounds like DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES to me. This one's hard to grab my impaired attention, but it has some signs of power to make this pleasing.  "}]