[{"Title":"Back when I was 13.....","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"52 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was coming out to myself.. I had this warped image of being gay that I had to develop a lisp and become high camp just to conform with being gay (I repeat I was 13 and living in the sticks.) I saw an ad for this movie TSOU and I just had to see it. With alot of precautions I caught a train for 2 hours to a movie theater that was far enough away so no one that I knew would see me going to a gay Film. Any way Sitting in the theater I was presented with an image of a gay man that didn't fall into the stereotypes I had been so used to, I guess the film taught me I could be gay with out being faggy. To simply label this as a gay movie is to miss the entire point its a Romance movie, both father and son looking for a partner of same/different gender. To make a tired point I love this movie Russell Crowe and Jack Thompson are brilliant.. I wish I had a dad like Henry.... or a boyfriend like Jeff ) "},{"Title":"Best movie of all time","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"44 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is the most delightful example of REAL family values ever made.  Russell Crowe is adorable as the rugby-playing gay son of a charming Sydney widower played by Australia's favorite actor, Jack Thompson.  This movie was number one at box offices across Australia when it came out, and it is a pity it never got wider showing in America, because it is brilliantly made, beautifully performed, and so important that it should be required viewing for all families.What goes around comes around.  The gay son's dad is supportive of him and his search for love, so in the end, when the father has a stroke, the son is there to take care of him.  The beautiful and true statement made by this film is enough reason to see it.  But add to that some truly stunning views of Sydney, some great comedy, and a really charming romance between the father and a woman he met through a dating service, and you have one of the great cinematic delights of the 1990s. See this film and you will be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Russell Crowe gets the Maximus out of an early role...","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"26 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this again for the first time for almost a decade, on the Sundance Channel during their Pride Festival. The character-to-camera (audience) device seems a lot stagier now than it did when I first saw it, but overall it doesn't mar any of the film's inherent bittersweet attraction.I've always been a sucker for good father/son relationship movies, and this ranks up there with the best, and not because of the twist Harry's (Jack Thompson) almost too-willing acceptance of his son's gayness.  What makes it ultimately work is the true love, respect and affection that they have for one another, a bond that is sorely tested in the film's third.Thompson is funny and engaging in a kind of role that he's not usually known for, (for that, see the excellent BREAKER MORANT.) And as for Russell...I saw this for the first time only weeks after seeing ROMPER STOMPER, and not only was it a startling contrast, but a sure-fire sign that this boyo was a talent to watch even in the early stages (now proven a thousand times over.)And here's another refreshing difference nobody's in OTT drag, (you can rent TO WONG FOO for that), nobody gets AIDS, OD's, commits suicide or otherwise meets the Grim Reaper most tragically, as gay characters are wont to do in most big-budget Hollyweird gay-friendly dramas.David Stevens writing remains true to the joys of Australiana (a new word that I love, thanks to an earlier reviewer here), which means that some less-experienced viewers may find Harry's extremely tolerable demeanor and the turn from comedy to tragedy off-putting. (For other references to similar scenarios, see MURIEL'S WEDDING, SWEETIE and of course, MOULIN ROUGE.)But for me, it's a rare-look back at the kind of risk-taking that Russell may never again explore in his career. More than worth the cost of a rental or your time, if you can catch it. "},{"Title":"Father supports gay son unconditionally","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Aussie Film Stars Jack Thompson and Russell Crowe as father & son best friends, looking for lasting love/companionship with a life partner. The aging dad, who is a widower, habitually tries to play cupid for his gay 20-something son, seemingly spoiling all chances of success, and eventually starts a search for his own second love. This film is hilarious, filled with great gags throughout. The deeper message of tolerance towards gays and lesbians, as well as loyalty to a loved one in need (when the father suffers a stroke, the son refuses to abandon him, caring for him like a parent would care for a small child) is not diminished by the brilliant humor which surrounds it. Sap-lovers will get their fill as well!Honored with many International Film Awards, The Sum Of Us adds up to a big winner! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Squirrelly, sensitive film","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The approach taken to this gay-themed light-drama is so low-keyed and matter-of-fact, it makes the whole idea of homosexuality seem rather staid. And that's a nice change of pace, although it's not exactly invigorating for the picture! Young gay Australian plumber lives with his widower dad; they both want a serious commitment with a special someone, and both find the path to romance rather rocky, but dad is fully committed to seeing that his poof son finds a partner who won't break his heart. It's based on a play, with the two leads occasionally speaking into the camera--yet this is an idea that isn't intrusive or unpleasant. Just the opposite the film is so good-hearted that it borders on bland. The most surprising thing you can say about it is not the (discreet) man-on-man make-out scenes, but rather the fact it's Russell Crowe acting in them. Crowe, young but not green, is very affable in this movie, shy and sweet and tender, however it's raffish Jack Thompson as his papa who steals the scenes. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"So he's a Gladiator, eh?","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie because it really adds another face to Russell Crowe's versatility. Everybody remembers him for Gladiator, L.A. Confidential and possibly Romper Stopmer, well, here he's an affectionate gay plumber with an eye for a boy at the bar.  Within the first ten minutes you'll also be over run with Aussie-isms such as two ticks and Yonks.  When I first thought of the plot, I was thinking, Gee, this could be jazzed up a bit, but then I figured the simple unpolluted nature of the characters doesn't really require much more of a rollercoaster plot.  After seeing this movie, I feel compelled to go to my local australian bar to find hopeless romance in a that boy across the counter.  I recommend Breaking Up and Proof, if you liked this. "},{"Title":"Worth a look no matter what your sexuality ( or age ).","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw this film I liked it for it's ability to reach such a wide audience. Male, female, gay, straight, young and old. With superior acting and a quiet, simple tone, it's stellar on so many levels. I like this movie more each time I see it. I usually hate when character's speak to the audience but this is one of the few occasions where it works well. One of Crowe's best performances. It was great to see a gay character that wasn't stereotypical in any way... just a guy but a guy that isn't afraid to be sensitive or tough without being wishy washy or macho. A great dead-on performance of an everyman who just happens to like men. Supporting cast is great. All performances feel natural. Directing is straightforward and the editing is lyrical. If you're heterosexual, don't be put off. The themes here are universal. A great slice of cinema no matter what your sexuality. "},{"Title":"See it!","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is very well-done, and you immediately care about the main characters.  Father and son stories are usually a drag (Nothing in Common), but not this one.  A couple of scenes will break your heart; I cried like a baby at one point. It is especially worthwhile if you are gay, and discovered that about yourself as a child.   "},{"Title":"Personable, Sincere and utterly Australian","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie took me by surprise, it is personable, sincere and utterly Australian. It explores its themes in a beautiful manner, through the relationships between family, especially father and son. Don't be put off by Russel Crowe. I myself almost didn't watch it because he was in it, but I have to say, he did a brilliant job. He took the character and made it his own, and I feel no one else could have played the part any better. Take into account that this movie was originally a stage play, so there are various monologues and direct engagement with the audience. This at first is a little surprising and perhaps even uncomfortable, as we are so used to being purely observers when watching a movie. After initial surprise however I found the technique refreshing, it gave the film a more personable and intimate quality. I revel in how Australian this film is, the fact that I use the same brands of mustard and soy sauce which at one point appeared at the dinner table, made me unusually delighted and also pulled me into the realism which the film tries and succeeds in conveying. At risk of sounding patriotic, it almost made me proud to be Australian. This is probably one of my favourite movies, in its exploration of love and how it should not be dictated by the limits of our society. "},{"Title":"Family in the true sense...","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very special Aussie film dealing with the strains of gay males and society issues in their path. Top performances by Russell Crowe and John Polson , with monumental support from legendary icon actor Jack Thompson as the understanding and supportive father. A must see film in my book , as reality meets society , with a realistic feel for todays cinema.Unlike many other of Crowes films , this one is very serious and addresses very real issues in todays multicultural society , and especially the gay movement of Sydney , Australia. This film hits the viewer head on with the unknown side of single sex relationships , and their effects on both family and friends. "}{"Title":"Crowe and Thompson Rise Above Flawed Stage Adaptation","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Australian film The Sum of Us, which was adapted by David Stevens from his own play, portrays the close relationship between a widowed father and his openly gay son. Although the play has been opened up in terms of breaking out of the stage production's single set, Stevens has retained several scenes in which the characters talk directly to the audience. A gimmick even on stage, these actors' asides to the viewer intrude on the story and, in one particular instance, completely destroy the reality of the situation. When an actor addresses the audience, he is saying in effect this is only a movie and I am only an actor playing a part. However, despite this flaw, which is a serious one, the film offers two fine performances by Russell Crowe and Jack Thompson and an often-memorable story of love and the search for love.Although Harry Mitchell, played by Thompson, is an incredibly tolerant and understanding father, he is the proverbial too much of a good thing. In his seemingly endless desire to see his son find the right mate, he is intrusive, overbearing, and completely oblivious to his own meddling. However, Thompson is such an amiable actor and imbues the character with so much charm that the viewer, like his son, has to forgive him anything. In an early role, young Russell Crowe already shows his range as an actor. Clad in short cutoffs throughout most of the film, Crowe also displays his physical charms as well for interested fans. While his looks are not classically handsome, his appeal is undeniable, and, to his credit, he does not play the character of Jeff with any hint of stereotypical gay mannerisms, and he is not averse to displaying affection towards another man.Although the movie follows Jeff's search for Mr. Right and Harry's search for Miss Right, the most touching and haunting scenes in the film and the play before it relate to the relationship that Harry's mother had with a woman named Mary. The two women lived and loved each other for 40 years before well meaning, but unintentionally cruel, relatives separated them for their own good. The separation of his mother and her lover haunts Harry with the thoughts of what the two women discussed on their last night together, knowing that it was the last time that they would see each other. On stage, the story of the two women brought the audience to tears. Related visually on screen, the episode will haunt viewers as much as it did Harry.While certainly not a classic or even a groundbreaking film, The Sum of Us is competent, entertaining, warm, and full of hope that the world is moving in the right direction. "},{"Title":"Russell Crowe's early versatility","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I just saw this movie on the Independent Film channel, which may be showing because of the popularity of Brokeback Mountain in theaters now, which has another young Aussie's, Heath Ledger, award-winning portrayal of unrequited love for another man. In The Sum of Us, Crowe (at age 30) portrays a straight-acting but fully out gay man, (Jeff Mitchell) a plumber and rugby player in his mid-twenties subtly acting his disappointed love for another gay man his own age. Crowe's brilliantly nuanced performance underscore his acting genius and the viewer can favorably compare this work to his captivating work, three years later, as a tough cop (Bud White) in love with a high-class call girl in LA Confidential. The Sum of Us however has a more universal theme, as Jeff and his widowed father also work out their relationship Filial love is contrasted with romantic love. Also, black and white flash-backs to his beloved grandmother's long-term lesbian relationship highlight the universality of the movie's theme. This is no skin-flick; it is raw emotion in a compelling plot, artfully and sensitively written, acted, directed and filmed. Kudos to IFC channel for broadly showing this film, which deserves wider distribution on DVD in the US. "},{"Title":"A Movie With Big Loving Heart","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Watching this movie for the first time in nearly ten years I was reminded of how it was very much window of its time but also a movie with universal themes of love that will always keep it relevant and involving.The narration to camera by the two main characters can take a bit of time to adjust to but once the movie settles in the main story between the father and son is very moving as it is the story of unconditional family love and loyalty. The movie is also about the search for love and growth in life as both characters are there for each other in the sometimes troubled journey.The son in the story is gay and this becomes a primary focus in the story. The father is not only tolerant but encouraging of his son finding a male lover.Jack Thompson and Russell Crowe are both terrific in their roles. Both actors are known and play their roles as typical, masculine Aussie blokes. (Warning you will have to allow for some very coarse Australian humour between the male characters)In this scenario, though, that Aussie bloke persona has different dimensions. The son although a blokey plumber who plays football, is gay; the father is well read and has an enlightened view of life as he passionately encourages his son to not only find love but to read more, to dream big and discover the world.Jack Thompson's Harry is a wonderful character to journey with as he merrily goes forward in life, determined to find love and fulfillment, despite the blows that life has dealt him. Harry also comes across as an ideal if slightly overbearing father figure to Jeff. Russel Crowe's Jeff is a character that anyone, gay or straight, will identify with who wants to find love but is cautious not to be hurt and rejected again.The movie was released in 1994, a time in Australia when the Sydney Gay And Lesbian Mardi Gras(featured in a scene in the movie) was arguably at it's peak, in terms of crowd attendance and media exposure and the nation was very progressive towards equal rights for gay and lesbian people in Australia. Eleven years later the movie can be viewed partly as window to that time that now seems bygone as the nation is currently in a large conservative grip.But no matter what what the political climate the film's universal themes, star quality as well as the beautiful sunny shots of Sydney will guarantee it will be around and viewed for many years to come. "},{"Title":"The Most Unaffected Russell Crowe Performance","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Could this possibly be Russell Crowe's best movie ever? He gives the most completely natural believable performance of a young gay man I have ever seen in movies. I have read many comments that the trick that appears throughout the movie of the characters talking to the camera weakens the film. I completely disagree. From the first scene when Russell Crowe's character talks about what his visits to his Grandmother and her lover means to him, to the scenes when his father talks to the camera after his stroke, made me feel as if I were a friend of these people and they were drawing me into their lives. Watching Russell Crowe's attempts to seduce a man who he hopes will become his boyfriend were completely natural and I believe many people who do not care to see homosexual themed movies would warm to this as it comes from a place of love and shows that a family doesn't have to be nuclear to be complete and loving. You never for one moment not believe that this father and son truly love and, what is more important, respect each other. The romance between the father and his new lady is also believable and well written. Middle aged people really do act this way when they are dealing with a new romance, especially when they believe that romance has passed them by. This wonderful family drama deserves a much wider audience that it received when first released. Enjoy this film and let it change your ideas on what a family can be. "},{"Title":"Early Crowe","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now that the charismatic Russell Crowe has become such a well-known and sought-after film actor, it's interesting to review this earlier-career work.  Having established himself as a chameleon-type screen personality, notable for his gritty, macho, action-hero roles, The Sum of Us allows him to display more sensitive, romantic emotions. Crowe captures the subtleties of his young bachelor character in search of a significant other, with both humor and pathos. Assisted ably by Jack Thompson as his father and John Poison as his new friend, Crowe handles the lead, pivotal role with skill and conviction. The dramatic device of having characters address the audience (the camera) to share their innermost feelings, is done as naturally as possible, yet for myself it is a bit disappointing to have the dramatic illusion broken in the midst of certain telling scenes. What probably worked well in the off-Broadway, (Cherry Lane) production, seems less effective in the realistic film medium.   The Sum of Us emerges as a quite off-beat, interesting story, nicely framed in the colorfully picturesque setting of Australia.  As for Crowe's subsequent array of widely varying roles, I personally prefer his work in this film  as his most truthful and ingratiating. "},{"Title":"A little gem of a film","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A very surprisingly wonderful film. I can't believe a film like this was so popular in Australia in 1994. I'm also annoyed that films like this don't get more exposure in the US. I liked it very much and Russell Crowe's performance was really touching. He really projected a sincerity that is rare in film, and even more rare in gay themed cinema. I also liked the father's character and the reasoning he presented - too bad all parents can't think that way. I thought the actors speaking to the audience worked, flowed very naturally, and was not overdone. With so much junk coming out of Hollywood, nice indie films like this are a welcome reprieve. "},{"Title":"My new favorite Aussie movie.","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is an amazing movie. It digs into deep personal feelings, no matter if you're gay or not. It shows a beautiful side of being human. This movie talks about love. It is cliché, but it is so true. It talks about friendship with love, how important it is for most of us to have the right partner and the supportive family to be just happy. If you are not a fan of Russell Crowe, watch this movie anyway. It may give you another sight of his early career I was myself ignorant about. And I don't need to say how brilliant Thompson is.I wish the tale would have a longer time line, and talk about what happens after. "},{"Title":"Only and always love to make things easier","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Very good film on human relationships. The ways people take care of each other, especially relations between parents and children. Honesty, loyalty, comprehension and affection. The most important thing is love. You receive it as much as you give, sometimes more than you give. Compare relationships of parents and children  Jeff and his dad, and Greg and his father on the other side. It's not only making children and raising them by putting them to school, there are also comprehension and affection that must be given to them. Let them know one cares about them, not only reproaching, but also explaining. In a word, always talking and keeping things clear and said. That's the way to do. Unfortunately few people follow this way. Hope this film would make them change a little if they saw it. For some,lucky parents and lucky children. "},{"Title":"Refreshing Movie","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found that the father was not selfish, but rather very open and embracing of his son's lifestyle. The first time he looks directly at the camera in the beginning of the movie while opening the door, I played it back to make sure I saw that. Of course, as it turns out, the father and sometimes the son talks directly to the audience throughout the entire movie to explain their life and situation a la Malcolm in the Middle. It works and I found it very refreshing. Even when the father is incapacitated later in the movie, he is able to go back to normal and talk the audience when the son leaves the room. Yet somehow, I was able to suspend disbelief and was glad that I was able to hear what he was thinking using this movie technique used in Ferris Buehler's Day off.The father is extremely charming. "},{"Title":"father and son looking for love","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have seen every movie Russell Crowe has ever appeared in and this is my absolute favourite.Forget gladiator,(which I liked,but felt he should have won the Oscar for A BEAUTIFUL MIND) and his other big Hollywood movies, if you want to see crowe at the top of his form watch this .His style is flawless as if he isn't acting at all which is I suppose the hallmark of great talent 'his ability to make it look so easy.The story is not a new one ,that elusive search for love we all have,only here the main character is gay.His dad played by Jack Thompson, is wonderful but a bit too enthusiastic about helping his son find Mr. Right which is where this movie veers off the beaten path.There are no secrets between father and son(a refreshing change to say the least) and russells date for the night seems overwhelmed that his father knows all about his lifestyle and does everything in his power to understand and help his son. John Polson plays greg(better known as Gary) russells date and his home life could not be different from that of Jeffs(russells character). I don't want to give too much away suffice to say this movie makes you laugh(dripping taps come to mind) and cry(the hospital scene for one).I have never felt so compelled to promote a movie as this one so please everyone go out and buy this you'll love it. Also heaven's burning my second favourite Russell Crowe movie. "}{"Title":"quietly moving","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In an era of Big Event Movies with Big effects, Big emotions and Big everything, it is refreshing to come across a movie that plays it low key. This movie about a working class gay man and  his relationship with his father touches a lot of emotions without making a big deal about it. As a result it stays with you (unlike a lot of its Big brethen). I  agree that the talking to the audience gimmick gets irritating quickly(it was only truly effective by Michael Caine in Alfie). However the shyness of the two young men in starting a new relationship is something that a lot of people, gay or straight, can relate to. Not perfect by any means but a little treasure that should be seen.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, sensitive movie on an original topic","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A sweet, sensitive movie on an original topic, especially for its time.Making a movie that features a homosexual man, his relationship with his father, how his father accepts him and loves him unconditionally, and their trials and tribulations, makes for a very original and special story. In 1994, when the movie was made, it would have been even more novel.Sensitively told story, based on the play by David Stevens.Great performances by Russell Crowe and Jack Thompson as the son and father, respectively. The banter between them is one of the highlights of the movie.A timely reminder of how much of acting talent Russell Crowe has, here demonstrating his range. This was to be his last local (ie Australian) movie before hitting the big time. His next movie was a Hollywood one - The Quick and the Dead - and he got third billing... "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really loved this movie, not just because of the actors, but because the movie really goes to the heart of who we are as people, and shows how we all are part of each other. It is a touching and funny story of love and acceptance. Russell Crowe does a good job as the son, but Jack Thompson really is the star of the movie, his character is the heart of the show. Through him we see the world differently, and we see a parent who loves his child and only wants what is best for them. Many of us could learn some real lessons from this. The backdrop of Sydney adds a little extra charm, in that we see a part of the world with which most of us are not familiar. I have recommended this movie to many friends, and each of them has truly enjoyed the movie, and related to it. "},{"Title":"The Sum Of A Good Movie","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What's this, Russell Crowe playing it gay in a low budget Australian flick, could that be true? It doesn't sound like it from the surface, but digging a little deeper and that really is exactly what you have in The Sum of Us, a freakishly good low budget movie from 1994. The Sum of Us is basically the sum of a story of looking for love, first the widowed dad is looking for love and his 'Miss Right' whilst his twentyish son is also looking for love, but in the shape of his 'Mr Right'. This surprisingly endearing movie made on a budget less than most films spend on catering and cakes, is a witty and funny tale of love and laughter. The Sum of Us is not your typical gay movie in that nobody is dying, activism is not on the menu, nor is there a historical horror or an aggressive and overbearing father preventing the closet door from opening and not even the slightest hint of drag! Nope, this is a good and happy sort of soft tale, which has some nice funny bits and a couple of tender scenes to pique the heartstrings. The Sum of Us is taken directly from the stage play, as such, some of the lines are more 'stagey' than 'filmy' but get over those, and you have a very enjoyable film. Funny, interesting, charming, touching and rather refreshingly free from overt stereotypes, which can dog so many other gay films. Read more and find out where this film made it in the Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time book, search on Amazon for Top 50 Most Influential Gay Movies of All Time, or visit - http//www.amazon.co.uk/dp/B007FU7HPO "},{"Title":"Family Values","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Glad I'm able to see Sundance and IFC again. This little film was a treasure in more than one point. a) Russell Crowe is sweet and believable in his role as a poof, as he calls himself. And there is none of the cliches that a gay guy should behave like exercise guru Simmons. No both guys stand their man. b) I think to call it a comedy is wrong - what about to call it compassionate realism (it is kinda filmed as a docu, but definitely does not deserve the comedy level. c) The father/son relationship is actually something I experienced growing up. Our house was always open, I could bring home whom ever I wanted, whenever I wanted to. More than once my dad would go to the cellar, grab a bottle of wine and share it with male and female friends I brought home. Many great discussions about politics, trying to simply change the world or helping us teenagers out - would follow. Several of my friends would show up at my parents house when the were in the neighbourhood - just to hang out with my parents. My dad always said that he inherited the open house policy from his parents - I will try to live up to this standard and pass it on. Yeah my dad came into my room with coffee in the morning and caught me a couple of times while i was rather close with my then girlfriends. A funny quip, we all had to laugh and that was it. When my dad was dying I spent a whole summer in the hospital, often shaving him and trying to make his terrible situation just a little bit more comfy. These were family values and respect that I would like to see more often and I think Sum Of Us is one of the few films that portray these values - and it doesn't really matter that Russell plays a gay character. It's just the unconditional love of a family and there lies the beauty of this film. Yeah there are some weak points in the movie - but I still think it's a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"What a surprise!","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I stumbled onto this film by accident surfing Cable TV nine years after it had been released. What a joy to see Russell Crowe in his formative years showing the potential he had then of becoming the great actor he is today. A charming insightful film!    "},{"Title":"Amazingly straight-forward, yet a brilliant gem","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie that touches the heart, opens the mind and is  never assuming or pretentious.  It is straight-forward cinema (pun intended) that shows that a truly loving character and morality are not inconsistent with homosexuality.  In fact it is repression that breeds dysfunction.  The movie probably didn't get the credit it deserves because it isn't quirky or artsy, but that is just the point.  Brilliant acting is that which seems so underacted.  Both leads are so real, so easy to empathize with because they are so uncomplicated, so truly loving of each other.  At first I thought the stepping out of character narration would be annoying, but I came to find it endearing and necessary.  This is the kind of film that changes hearts and opens minds.  Jerry Fallwell should be made to watch this movie a dozen times. When it came to the final scene I played it over and over again, because I cared and I wanted to stay in the lives of these two wonderful men. Brilliant writing, directing and acting.  A must see. "},{"Title":"one of the sweetest movies ever","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I LOVE this movie and have watched it countless times.  Its funny, sad, touching, hilarious, sweet, and in general a feel good movie.  All kids should have the kind of relationship that Jeff (the character played by Russell Crowe) is lucky enough to have with his father.  The world would be a far better place for it.Jeff's father, Harry,  is a widow, and is not only Jeff's dad, he's also his best friend.  The film focuses on their relationship with each other and with their prospective partners.  Jeff is gay, and rather than being the stereotypical movie father full of shock at his son's sexuality, Harry is very supportive of his sons lifestyle.  As Harry explains in the movie, our kids are after all the sum of us .Jack Thompson and Russell Crowe are a joy to watch as Harry and Jeff, father and son, and best mates,  and this is a genuinely wonderful, touching movie which draws as many tears as it does laughs.  One to look out for, and well worth a watch. Harry and Jeff will stay with you long after the end credits have finished running.    "},{"Title":"A funny and moving screen gem from Australia!","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a profoundly moving and very funny story of a unique relationship between a father and son.  Jack Thompson is outstanding as the father and Russell Crowe is terrific as the son. The courting scenes in the early part of the film are some of the funniest I've ever seen on screen.  The audience I first saw it with laughed so hard that you couldn't hear the dialogue for up to minutes at a time.  The scenes were so well realized, though, that everyone still understood what was happening. Later the story turns a bit serious, but the emotions are so true and the directing and acting so outstanding that you welcome and embrace the change. The final 15 minutes of the movie are some of the most moving I've ever experienced. Don't miss it.  A small masterpiece! "},{"Title":"The love between a father and son  that is truly unconditional...not to mention, unconventional.","Date":"4 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a very nice film that is refreshingly devoid of stereotypes.  Don't  miss this one. "}{"Title":"Wonderful.","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie a couple years after coming out myself and I could only wish that I had that kind of relationship with my father, or even something close to it. Russell Crowe is outstanding and, in my opinion, on of the most sexiest characters I have ever seen in a movie. I was less enthusiastic about his potential pattern, but that was a minor consideration. I know, I know, it was an idealistic portrayal of a father and a gay son relationship...but really just having a positive movie without the spectre of AIDS was a welcome relief. The actor who played the father was incredible, both tough and sensitive, with a definite flair for comedy. The ending was a bit of a downer, but not a disappointment. I recommend this to everyone who is tired of gay movies dealing with the same tragedies over and over again. GLSILVA@MYWAY.COM. "},{"Title":"The sum of ME!","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film should have been titled The Sum Of Me as certainly through the thoughts of writer David Stevens, the father, Harry Mitchel, never stopped thinking of what was best for himself.  He was annoyingly played by Jack Thompson ala Daddy Dearest who never stopped poking his rough nose into his son's life, including constantly interfering in a romantic evening with his son's newly found friend, Greg.  So much, that the friend had to leave, leaving our hero with an empty heart.  Thanks, Dad!The son, Jeff, was played by Russell Crowe, prior to his super stardom, and done very well.  Crowe brought great tenderness and simplicity to his role.  He wasn't the obvious gay hero.  His was humble even to the point of doubting he would ever find true happiness in one guy.  However, he did, in the character of Greg, his one night stand that never came off.  John Polson was delightful as the handsome Greg.  He brought some very funny moments as well as appealing.  Such a looker, as they say.Now get this, Papa, in the meantime, gets his lady love on the side but never brings her home.  So he has the privacy of loving his lady Joyce, played well by Deborah Kennedy, without interference.  Right!   I guess it's okay for Papa to do it but not sonny boy.  Wrong!  Lady love finds out about his gay son, walks out on him for dishonesty upon which he drops over from a stroke.  You guessed it, Jeff comes to Dad's rescue and is non stop in tending and caring for his bed-ridden father, who is paralyzed.  Talk about sacrificing.  You are rooting so much for Jeff to rekindle his flame with Greg.  They meet, weeks later, by chance, in the super market with Papa in a wheel chair.  You can see the fire beneath the surface still smoulders.   And, yes, you know they'll get back together as they were meant to.  Hats off to directors Geoff Burton & Kevin Dowling why are there two directors? for a good film, even though I disliked the story line concerning the selfish father. "},{"Title":"What a phenomenal movie. I didn't see this level of quality, humor and love coming from the 90s movie. Very touched.","Date":"1 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a phenomenal movie.I didn't see this level of quality, humor and love coming from the 90s movie. Very touched.This seems like a movie from 2030s. Being different is being normal, regular and as most people one has its daily misunderstandings. It also made me reconsider how I see (love) my family and that it is normal to treat my parents the way I treat them.I just want to say thanks. To those who have created this movie, have a seed of thought that triggered such emotions and thoughts in me. To those who have watched it. "},{"Title":"If it were a true story it could not be sadder","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A comedy, one more, in this life that is so little comic indeed. We start with the promise of a revolution coming through and we end with a request or piece of advice that you better be home soon, and in between, love, romance, tragedy and a lot of empathy and misery with a little bit of happiness sprinkled on top, at times angry happiness because of the silly decision you took and it broke the potential happy development you were hoping for and looking forward to getting on a silver platter. You just got Saint John the Baptist's head.We are dealing here with grown up men and women all in strange situations. A young gay man living with his parents and the father behaves as if he did not know and he turns ugly when it becomes news stuff on TV. Another gay man living with his widower of a father who is not gay but accepts his son the way he is though he is invasive, maybe an intrusive voyeur, and in a way blocks his son's way to happiness.That same man gets in touch with a lady through some meeting club and the two fall for one another but the night when things were going to go through, New Year's Eve, at his place, the son being out for his own fun, she comes across some gay magazines and cannot accept the fact that she had not been told before, and if she had it would not have changed anything because she just does not want to go across this line.Just minutes after she drove off, when the fireworks start celebrating the New Year, he has a savage and wild heart attack or stroke and he will remain paralyzed on one side and without the capability to speak any more. In other words she broke his heart and that is not a metaphor, she literally did break his heart, boom.That is sad, very sad, but it is a comedy, so there must be a happy ending and life will take care of some haphazard meeting of the two young men and then life will be on tracks again. But gosh it is not easy to build your own happiness when you are not a photocopy of the standard middle of the way unoriginal model imposed by ethical and moral norms in our society, even when things have changed legally. Between the law and reality there is more than a simple Strait of Malacca there are thousands of hostile pirates with weapons everywhere up over their heads ready to raid your life to prevent you from being happy.Enjoy the details.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"Sweet and original","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There aren't many movies that focus on adult fathers and sons who get along (I can't think if any others, actually)--so, the fact that the son in this movie (played by a young and adorable Russell Crowe) is gay makes the premise even more original. And Crowe's budding relationship with a possible love interest is also handled very well. I especially like the fact that the two men are very sexual, yet also have things such as love and romance on their minds. (most gays in movies are either all about sex, or are nice and funny--but seem asexual) The father also is a well-developed character who embarks on a relationship of his own.I'm not wild, though, about the talking to the camera bits--especially in a couple of instances when one character physically can't speak at all. That might work on stage (the film was adapted from a play) but it doesn't quite here. Still, if two of the scenes at the end--while not sad in tearjerker way--don't bring a tear to your eye, then your heart is made of stone! "},{"Title":"Father and son who are completely different but accepting.","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is refreshing. I thoroughly enjoyed watching it. I hope it is out on DVD so that I may watch it over and over again. The commentary from the characters gave it the added extra that set it apart and made it fresh and new. It is a thoughtful look at two men who are very different but who are trying to fill the same basic needs. They are father and son. One is a gay man the other straight. They live together and give the support necessary to each other. I would recommend it to everyone. Make sure you see this one. You will enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"Proud Father intent to see gay son happy - Early Crowe effort","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Aussie Film Stars Jack Thompson and Russell Crowe as father & son best friends, looking for lasting love/companionship with a life partner. The aging dad, who is a widower, habitually tries to play cupid for his gay 20-something son, seemingly spoiling all chances of success, and eventually starts a search for his own second love. This film is hilarious, filled with great gags throughout. The deeper message of tolerance towards gays and lesbians, as well as loyalty to a loved one in need (when the father suffers a stroke, the son refuses to abandon him, caring for him like a parent would care for a small child) is not diminished by the brilliant humor which surrounds it. Sap-lovers will get their fill as well!Honored with many International Film Awards, The Sum Of Us adds up to a big winner! Highly recommended!*****  "},{"Title":"Fine Acting; Somewhat Slight Storyline; Ridiculous Boyfriend","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Russell Crowe is a marvel -- the first straight actor I've seen that does an incredibly believable, albeit a rather subdued-macho type, gay man act.  I thoroughly expected a hack job, despite Mr. Crowe's recent triumphs (one of them not being Gladiator, which didn't impress me).  His range, nuanced sensitivities, and nonchalance portrayal is probably Mr. Crowe just being Mr. Crowe, as in Master and Commander...still, it's one fine job. But The Sum of Us must be more than Russell Crowe to be true to its title.  The other performances shine, too; what doesn't are the silly turn to the camera explanatory monologues  Annoying, and would be unnecessary with a better script and more thoughtful plot elements.  Also, Russell Crowe's love interest is very (and unnecessarily) uninteresting -- we're given no particular reason to justify such attraction.  So, the film has weaknesses; but I highly recommend this film for fans of good acting performances, and especially that of Russell Crowe's.   "},{"Title":"Charming, heart felt stuff","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you don't catch on early just go do something else, this film has a warm glow from frame one and never misses a beat. Jack Thomson captivating performance as the father of a gay son is a joy to watch as he manages the  various personalities and relationships that crop up in the film. It's rather unique 'speak to the camera' device used by the father was a little off putting at first, It felt  like a cinematic taboo or  excuse  to speed up the narrative, however I warmed to it and  may have eventually helped embody 'The sum of us' with a distinctive sense of fun and honesty.It mildly suffers from its stage play heritage with a few scenes even looking like theatrical sets however the bigger picture is very well produced.8/10  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Russell Crowe is great as Jeff Mitchell. If any one has any doubts about his acting range before he hit Hollywood, they need only see this film and Romper Stomper. Russell's acting is second to none! For a true alpha male to show this tender sensitivity to the subject is amazing! "}{"Title":"End of the Stereotypes","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At last, a film which does not portray gay men as flamboyant, effeminate, or tragic characters! Jeff Mitchell (Crowe) is just an ordinary young man, working as a plumber, who enjoys playing a good game of football in his spare time. He IS looking for Mr. Right, however, with the (sometimes unwelcome) help of his matchmaking dad, Harry (Jack Thompson). The loving relationship between Crowe and Thompson as father and son, is endearing and so well done, it would seem that both actors were born for their parts. I found the comedy to be clever and the serious scenes to be extremely heart rending, and at the end of the film, I hit the play button and watched it again. You might want to do the same! "},{"Title":"Not the usual stereotypes","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great  to  see  a movie that doesn'tr have  usual  stereotypes  re gays etc.. and treats  as  average individuals... Russell  Crowe  is  excellent. Great to see a movie that  doesn't havce standard  Holly wood treatment. jack thompson is  hilarious  as the  father  as well  "},{"Title":"HOW COME NEVER LISTED?","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why is it that Russell Crowe never mentions this terrific film in his resume? I think that he is secure enough as a man to mention he played a gay man and in a film which is quite good. It is amazing he was 30 when he did this role and played 20 or so, convincingly. Jack Thompson is such a great actor, I think this film should be seen.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful film that deals with relationships","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A wonderful film about humanity!  Performances & writing are outstanding. It deals with sex, relationships, beliefs & the willingness (or unwillingness) to change.  It does with this humor throughout.  Plus it features Russell Crowe in a pre-stardom performance.  "},{"Title":"A father-son story, not just a father-gay son story","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After seeing this film when I first came out was a great help to me and after just seeing it again (after 7 years) it is just as helpful today. I have to say The Sum Of Us is not just about how a father accepts his gay son, but also about a father son relationship and their search for love. Period! The two leads, Jack Thompson as Harry Mitchell and Russell Crowe as his son Jeff, are excellent here. Their personal asides to the camera are done just right without being intrusive to the narrative. Also the lingo is slipped into the dialog without being forced. The film will become an oddity as it is a simple story - told effortlessly. If the story was Hollywoodised other clichéd elements would be added E.G father was a drunk. The son is estranged, ETC. But The Sum Of Us keeps it direct and funny - which is the Australian way. Don't watch it if you think this is a coming-out film (watch 'Beautiful Thing and 'Get Real' instead). Jeff is secure in his sexuality and knows what he wants ..someone to talk to, someone to have a laugh with, have a good time with, get drunk with, someone to cuddle up with...It doesn't seem a lot to ask, does it? Russell Crowe is at his best here (besides his role in 'LA Confidential' and Romper Stomper') but because of the content it will be overlooked. Jack Thompson is great as Harry who, always the optimist, finds love with divorcée Joyce Johnson, played by the under-rated Australian actress Deborah Kennedy. She has never been better here and deserves more roles like it. John Polson is admirable (but miscast) as Greg, Jeff's love interest. The ultimate gay-date movie - truly Australian. "},{"Title":"Harry not a voyeur, just caring.","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Addie-7 suggests (21 October 2001)that the father character, Harry is potentially offensively intrusive, rather than being acceptably caring. It think it's important for others to hear what writer David Stevens had to say about Harry in July '94I didn't invent this character out of my mind - I mean, I'm not that clever. The first incident was a direct personal experience- When I was a young man (I was about seventeen at the time) I had occasion to spend the night in bed with a young Cockney boy from the East End. Fast asleep in his arms in the morning, his mother came in, tapped me on the shoulder and said Do you take sugar in your tea?. Which was a bit of a shock to me because I came from a very right wing family - my father was closer to Genghis Khan than to Harry. My father never accepted my sexuality. But then when I came to Australia, I had a number of close friends.My friend John Barningham (who died of AIDS) - his father and mother were absolutely accepting of John's sexuality. His boyfriends were welcomed into the house, they shared the same bed, and Mother brought them tea in the morning and Dad would sit down and discuss the meaning of life with them. So speak as you find - I don't claim that everybody is like this, but drama is in the particular for me. There are people like this.   "},{"Title":"compassionate realism in suburban Australia","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Sum Of Us was groundbreaking in that it achieved what its writer hoped- in being a financially successful bigger-budget film in which the audience (whether straight or gay) decidedly wants the boy to get the boy.I interviewed David Stevens in Brisbane in July '94. David says he wrote the screenplay as a dedication to the tolerance he admired in Australian society. (He lived here for several years, but now resides in Hollywood.)David said he was enormously happy with the casting of Australian acting icon Jack Thompson as Dad - describing Jack's performance as a triumph. He also believed Russell Crowe to be a rising Australian acting icon, who turned in the best Jeff performance he'd witnessed. David thought it very important that these actors are able to present the dialogue in its native Australian tongue with all of its natural rhythms and natural attitudes.He defends the use of the asides to the audience as being more than a mere hangover from the play, saying that they are necessary to allow Dad to communicate his thoughts to the audience, when he is physically incapable doing so with the film's characters.Some gay critics objected to its highlighting of straight-acting gayness, but I don't see the film saying anything less than that being honest and self-accepting is vital to expecting acceptance from others - and that everyone is capable of real and passionate love, provided they are willing to make an effort and can accept that it's not likely to be all sunshine and lollipops.The film's look, feel, language, sound and music are all genuine Australiana. I also found the slightly surreal moments were a pure joy on the big screen and that there's not a wasted word or image throughout.I've enjoyed rewatching The Sum Of Us many times. It makes me totally proud to be a gay Australian and my parents are everybit as supportive as Jeff's Dad - but part of that process included taking my mum to see The Sum Of Us at the cinema in '94, after which she gave me a big hug and a kiss and told me that she is very proud of her openly gay son. I hope many others enjoy the same  experience through its new life on DVD (Australian release expected 15th October 2001). "},{"Title":"GREAT!","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie years ago..and fell in love with the guy Russell Crowe..who would of thought he would be where he is today! Its a different kind of story...a little slow at times..but a GREAT flick.The movie is great! Just watch it! "},{"Title":"Love is life","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was never going to be a world-beater, but doesn't set out to be one or need to be one either.  Watch it for the rapport between the lead characters, there's a genuine warmth about the father-son relationship played by Thompson and Crowe.  A touch sentimental at times, though the breaking up of the lesbian grannies is truly heart wrenching.  This is Aussie cinema at it's most honest, displaying humans as we all are.  "},{"Title":"It's the story about a father and his homosexual son.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film deals with homosexuality in a way that I've never seen before. It's great to see the father getting along with his son so well. It's also a story about taking care of each other. At first, Harry takes care of Jeff, but when Harry has a stroke, it's Jeff who has to take over. I also like the humor in the film. It's not American humour, it's Australian. I like the way the characters sometimes address the camera -and thus the viewer- directly. "}{"Title":"Someone old, someone new.....","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a double treat.  Not only did I get a chance to see Jack Thompson, whom I've enjoyed since Breaker Morant, but it introduced me to Russell Crowe.  Both do solid work as Harry and Jeff Mitchell, a father and gay son living together in small town Australia.Unfortunately, the material doesn't quite measure up.  The movie is a light comedy, which means your credulity is going to be stretched a bit (it probably needs the exercise anyway).  Some of the plot devices seem a bit too pat, and the script does a major left turn about midway through that makes it a candidate for the tv-movie-of-the-week.Harry's monologues, however, are quite entertaining, and his well-meaning intrusion into his son's date is quite fun to watch.  Crowe is always nice to look at, so much so that you almost forget that this is one of the stronger actors working today. "},{"Title":"russell crowe as romeo","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  except that he's not given the spotlight enough;  there are too many sappy feeble characters marring the way;  his (male) romantic partner is boring; cut out all the clutter though, and he's a gem.  as always, he makes your heart ache.  at first you think, he's just this doughy guy, blah but then he smiles, or cries, or gets choked up, or gets wistful and then it's like the transfiguration of christ.  no longer just an ordinary mortal.  a god, an angel, something divine.  yes, i worship him.  cheers! - arulio ) "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film 2 or 3 years ago, and last week I found it again out of my 230 videos. I spent a very good time with it. It's a normal story told with taste and Crowe's superb acting. This film is touching for its simpleness and style. Have a good time with it (like me). "},{"Title":"Very Sweet!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was very suprised at this film.  After seeing Romper Stomper I couldn`t believe how lovely Russell Crowe was.  I thought that the film was very sweet and the relationship between father and son was acted out superbly. A great film.  Go out and find a copy now!!!!! "},{"Title":"Excellent Real Life Portrayal!","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is my favorite of all time. Real life situations between a single dad and his gay son. The australian accents add to the film. Many twists and turns during the movie some sad some funny some happy. Its an emotional roller coaster and a definite must see "},{"Title":"Highly recommended!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wow! This movie was much more than I thought it would be. I thought it would be just another gay movie along the lines of Beautiful Thing, at least that's what I was told before I saw it, but that is just a sub-plot. First of all, this is a story about the relationship between a father and a son, and the problems they have to deal with. It is extremely sad, and be sure to have a handkerchief ready, but it's a great film, even though it gets a little too sentimental at the end. "},{"Title":"Close to Russell for this lifetime...","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's been a while, like some ten years now, that I discovered The Sum of Us VHS and fell for Russell. I now have a DVD with subtitles. I haven't seen some of his early films but contrary to the American generalized opinion, I dislike Gladiator and that seems like a heresy to so many people. Well, I'm glad to be that heretic ! I also disliked Cinderella Man. But I love others, like The Insider, Master and Commander and many others. Comments like I've read in so many pages of adoration and repulse are to me like everyone has a right to his own opinion. As for mine, I would like to be close to Russell this lifetime and maybe some of the next. "},{"Title":"Some of us almost missed this film","Date":"22 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Given the blurbs and that the film is set in Australia, I wasn't expecting more than the average gay film. But Sum is a remarkable film; it puts gayness in perspective.Not only the story of a couple of wonderful guys looking for love, Sum is a big slice of everyday life up there on the screen. Low-key it might be, but the film's endearing characters and big mistakes (of the sort we all make) keep it right up close. Far from the relationship portrayed by Hanks and Gleason in Nothing in Common, Harry and Jeff have a wonderful relationship. Almost too wonderful it seems, halfway through the film; but then Sum does something remarkable that carries it far above the surface.It's too easy to take life for granted. And sometimes it's hard to see past the surface. Sum is wise about what matters, without having to paint anyone as a saint or demon. Not many films manage such loving and admirable economy. "},{"Title":"'Our children are nothing but the sum of us'","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" *SPOILERS* Harry (Jack Thompson) and Jeff (Russell Crowe), father and son, are really close, and even though Jeff is gay, there is no animosity or sadness from Harry, who acts as if his son was going out with girls (sometimes to Jeff's embarrassment).Jeff, who's pretty selective since having had his heart broken three years before, seems to have found a likely candidate for the title of 'Mr. Right' in Greg, a young man with a family situation way different from Jeff's, and Harry seems to have found 'Miss Right' in the person of Joyce, until she leaves when she finds out that Jeff is gay. Soon after that, Harry has a heart attack...This movie is quite a find, and I like it especially because it doesn't make a great deal over the fact that Jeff is gay, and also the leads' acting, which is prefect for their parts; even the unrealistic parts where Harry and Jeff break the fourth wall (the movie is based on a piece by David Stevens) end up being believable and in-tone with the rest of the movie.The Sum Of Us 8/10. "},{"Title":"Where to find it...","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Russell Crowe's movie, The Sum of Us, can be found at Amazon.com for $12.95 (dvd version). They also have it on VHS, too. Available new or used...What is hilarious, is it has subtitles!?! The subtitles are in English, French & Spanish. According to the powers to be I need to have a minimum of ten lines or my comment won't be considered valid, so I'm trying to extend so I can share this info of where to find this movie with other film fans. A very cute looking Russell Crowe is on the cover...So what happened to him since then? Haven't checked Barnes & Noble's website for the film. I hope I don't get blocked for trying to make this entry long enough to be able to get the information out... "}{"Title":"Father knows best?","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No question about it, Russell Crowe is adorable as a poofer (as he calls it), lazing about in his tight little shorts and grinning his most irresistible grin.  And Jack Thompson is perfect as Crowe's more-than-understanding dad, doing everything but having sex with his son's date, Greg, FOR him. This is good stuff, a lot of potential here.  But the film unfortunately becomes far too heavy-handed by the end - not to mention flat-out GRIM - to make it really great.  I would still recommend it, though, especially if you're a fan of Crowe's (as I am), or if you're in the market for something daringly off the beaten path (and no, that was NOT supposed to be a pun).  "},{"Title":"well-written, but lacking power that would've made it great","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After the first viewing, I was very impressed; it had an interesting plot, an interesting approach, and dialogue that wasn't all bad.  By the second, however, i noticed that there were things that the movie lacked...The actors Mr.Crowe is a terrific actor, but his acting didn't prove as continually convincing as in L.A.Confidential. Mr.Thompson lacked variety in his acting; any of the scenes in which he was angry, for instance, could have almost been replaced with another scene when he was angry. Although he was convincing, his character came to be of lesser interest.The production The choice and placement of music, for instance, or the blunt camera angles did not do the movie justice.But in looking past the acting, the music, and the gay scenes (not that I'm prejudice against gay people, but since I don't see much of that, it freaked me out a bit) it was a great movie that maintained my interest. "},{"Title":"Bland and not particularly intelligent","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  (WARNING - CONTAINS MILD SPOILER) Drama of a pretty well-balanced young gay guy and his tolerant, amiable father doesn't exactly have much dramatic tension - the characterizations aren't distinctive enough to be interesting; the movie doesn't aim for documentary insight, being blandly shot in TV-drama manner; and since very little happens plot-wise, major questions arise as to the point of the whole thing (other than a touchy-feely gay-positiveness; a nice enough quality, but not much of a return for sitting through a movie). Crowe's big romantic pick-up in the first half founders on the claustrophobia of his overly cosy domestic arrangement - a plot point engineered only by pushing Thompson's well-meaning intrusiveness beyond all reasonable limits; but this is as nothing compared to the contrivance of having Thompson suffer a debilitating stroke just as his girlfriend walks out on him. Many if not most scenes are distinctly ham-fisted, but for annoyance nothing beats the occasional direct addressing of the audience - a smug device that adds no insight here and merely breaks up any shred of reality. All in all, a bland and not particularly intelligent movie. "},{"Title":"Good intentions fall short","Date":"12 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As a polemic to conservative Australians, it hammers the message home. It might have worked as a piece of theater but as a film it fails. Preaching to the converted? I think so.No sexual chemistry between the leads...neither gay or straight. Russell's helmet-head, hawk-nosed, super hair-sprayed boyfriend doesn't convince. Everyone tries hard and fails. It has a low-brow streak of melancholy running throughout. A bit like a soap without the continuity.That this qualifies for inclusion in the top 100 gay films of all time on AfterElton can only reflect low expectations.Wanted to like it but didn't. Disappointing "},{"Title":"Russel Crowe can play any character","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie was very different from any of the others I have seen with Russel Crowe. He has the talent to even pull of gay. Not ever actor could play a gay man. The only other actor I believe that can play a gay character is Bruce Willis. I enjoy how the father narrated as he performed in the movie. It made the movie (in my opinion) more personal. I like the end when the father has the attack and his girlfriend is ashamed of herself. She deserved it. It wasn't the fathers fault the son was gay. She should have figured that out right away. You can't blame the father for what the grown-up son does. All in all I enjoyed the movie even the kissing didn't bother me. "},{"Title":"A very gentle film, but puzzling in one aspect","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** I can't add a lot to what has already been posted about this film, except that I found it to be very -- well, gentle, for lack of a better word. And the relationship between the father and son was indeed tender. But there is something about it that bothered me  the father's acceptance of his son's homosexuality went a good bit farther than that;  he was downright intrusive, as if he were trying to vicariously enjoy the flirtation his son was having or trying to have with his boyfriend.  To put it another way, what would we think of a father who walked in on his straight son while he was having sex with a girl, or a mother who did that to her daughter who was ditto with her boyfriend?  I think viewers have cut this father a lot of slack in thinking that the father is showing only love and acceptance by his behavior.  I think he is showing a great deal more than that  -- voyeurism maybe, certainly a lack of tact.POSSIBLE SPOILER. I absolutely loved Russell Crowe's character after his father had a stroke he was both vulnerable e.g., saying tearfully Don't cry, Dad -- you know I can't stand it when you cry and tender, taking charge of his father's most intimate bodily needs, and keeping his spirits up in general.  I really loved that aspect of him. "},{"Title":"The skeleton of a film that might, for all I know, have been good","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If someone is going to bother wheeling out the big expensive cameras and exposing 144 000 (assuming there to be no editing) frames of film, not to mention hiring a film crew to stand around for several weeks, it had better be worth it.  Films are expensive; plot synopses are cheap; so you'd think people would avoid making a film unless it ADDED something to the plot synopsis.This one doesn't.  It gives us yet one more configuration of the romantic Rubik's cube boy meets boy, boy loses boy, boy's father meets girl, and so on.  The particular pattern of coloured squares on the Rubik's cube isn't important.  What matters is the imagination with which they're presented - and there's not a lot.  Boy's father meets girl by means of a computer dating service.  (It saves the writers from thinking up something interesting.)  Boy meets boy in a bar.  (Ditto.)  Boy loses boy for no very obvious reason - whatever the reason is, it's all grudgingly explained with dialogue.  That reminds me the dialogue.  ALL these people EVER talk about is the state of their relationships.  They don't HAVE relationships.  At least, they don't have first-order relationships - just second-order relationships, consisting entirely of discussions about the state of their relationships.  There's a paradox of self-reference lurking here somewhere.I tell a lie.  There's probably even more talk about being gay and/or being straight.  With this amendment I think I've exhausted the topics of conversation.  The basic point is that the film has no flesh on its bones.I get great pleasure in finding cutting things to say about bad movies - that's what, if anything, bad movies are for.  I'm not getting much pleasure in criticising this one.  I'd LIKE to be kinder to it.  And maybe it isn't quite as positively dire as I've led you to believe.  Its heart is in the right place, after all (although I suppose that kind of comment just makes it sound worse).  I just wish that Australian critics weren't so willing to accept the will for the deed when reviewing an Australian film - weren't so willing to dole out false praise in order to keep alive a film industry quite capable of surviving without it.  But I suppose that's not the film's fault. "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly creepy","Date":"4 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Sorry to burst everyone's bubble, but personally I found this film to be an almost total embarrassment in every way.The father bursts in (TWICE!) on his son while he's trying to get it on with a new guy he's met. Is that believable? Hardly. It's the kind of thing that a ten year old brother might do, not a parent, especially a parent who is gay-positive and hoping that his son will meet someone and have a serious affair.It's almost as embarrassing to watch the father meet a woman through a dating agency. The two of them act like they are 15 years old... and totally unnatural at that. When he decides to propose to her he actually gets down on one knee. If it were done tongue in cheek, maybe I could accept it, but it's done straight (pardon the pun).This film also has the bad habit of having the actors turn towards the camera and talk to the audience directly. Once or twice, maybe, but over and over again it totally breaks up the film and destroys any possibility of allowing the audience to get emotionally into what is happening. The worst moment in the film is when the father has had a stroke and is lying almost paralyzed in his bed. The son goes to get something, leaving the father alone, and all of a sudden he stops lying there like a vegetable, smiles, and starts chatting to the audience. It totally destroys any semblance of continuity and becomes annoying as hell by the end of the film.I suppose it's nice to have a film where some of the parents are understanding and (too) helpful to the gay son for a change, but does it have to be so adolescent in its presentation? There was only one thing in the entire film that was truly interesting, and that was what happened to the grandmother and her lover at the end of the film. Strangely enough, it doesn't even seem to fit in, but it makes the loudest statement for understanding than anything else in the film. In fact, I wish the film had been about the grandmother and her lover... that would have truly been ground-breaking and intriguing. "},{"Title":"Avoid this film","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film last night for the first time since 1994, and boy, did it make me cringe. It's one of those hey-gay-people-really-are-normal films, aimed at dimwitted heterosexuals to assist in swaying their homophobic views. There are absolutely no interesting characters in the film, Russell Crowe's character is boring, but then again, Rusell Crowe is boring in any film. Jack Thompson is not much better, playing the same character he has played in Aussie films for the past 25 years. I can't believe this film has an M-rating (R in some countries), when it is such a family film with no kick, no bite, and an insipid storyline straight out of Walt Disney. Where were all the drag queens, trannies and effeminate men? How come Russell Crowe doesn't have a sex life?? Russell Crowe's monologues are terrible, are indicative of a screenplay that has been adapted straight from a stage production with no imagination whatsoever. The film's only saving grace is the subplot of the old lesbian couple, which gives a touch of real-ness to an otherwise embarrassing film. "}]