[{"Title":"Cool!","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm not trying to say that this movie is the greatest movie ever made, but I feel that it is too bad that more people do not know about S.F.W.  It's a bit hard to believe the plot, but since when have movie plots played within the guidelines of normal society.  Stephen Dorff gives an amazing performance as Cliff Spab.  This was the first movie I ever saw him in, and seeing S.F.W. really made me think he is destined for big things.  I liked how the story shifted from past to present constantly.  This way, you had to wait until the end of the movie to find out what happened at the beginning.  Makes it all the more intriguing.  I love this movie, and most people would too if they gave it half a chance. "},{"Title":"Such a great movie","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie about 3 or 4 years ago, and fell in love with it.  It was at a period in my life that I needed something to show me that I was still alive and things could always be worse, this movie was it.  The characters, the plot, the cinematography, all of it.  Every minute of this movie kept me wondering what would happen next, and a lot of had edge of my seat suspense. Stephan Dorff did such a great job of playing this character.  Having to balance such an emotionally scarred but still nonchalant young man must have been difficult.  I really believed that he had been put through these awful things though, because his performance was that good.  Reese Witherspoon also gave a great performance.  I believe her role in this movie was slightly under-rated, she played your typical romantic interest but she also was the reason that Dorff's character didn't lose his mind. I often find that the cinematography is better in independant films, and I believe this was independant.  It had some bad language in it, but that doesn't bother me.  The symbolism that is throughout this movie amazed me, and I notice something new everytime I watch it.  SFW is based on the book 'Madison Heights Syndrom', and even though I've never read the book, I'm sure they did a great job adapting it.   There was not one thing about this movie I didn't like and would recommend it to everybody.  "},{"Title":"A Life/Mind-Altering Film","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Way, way ahead of it's time (similarly themed films made years after were Natural Born Killers, Mad City, Truman Show), this   is, quite simply, a life-altering, mind-altering film which   zeroes in on and then embodies the zeitgeist of the nineties.   See this film, take a look at the world surround you (especially western popular culture), and think about it.  It's also pretty f***in' funny. "},{"Title":"Ahead of it's time","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just watched S.F.W. and was amazed at how, at least five years before the major trend of 'reality TV' became the in-thing, this movie satirized it, and showed it for how wrong and un-real it is. This movie scathingly commentates on the media's ability to warp and distort truth, and to give the mundane deep meaning. Cliff Spab is a meaningless person trapped in a meaningless society that does not appreciate the horror of his ordeal and ruthlessly tries to cash in on his pain. This film is chock-full of meaning and irony, and it is simply brilliant.  "},{"Title":"S.F.W. ....well I liked it!","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this film not knowing what to expect; what I got was one of the coolest, most original films I've seen. It is ostensibly a hostage-drama set in a Fun-Stop convenience store, but rapidly reveals itself as more; a biting attack on the media circus and the hype machine, a revealing portrayal of suburban life in America, and a comment on the nature of heroes. The leads are played effortlessly by Stephen Dorff (who seems to not be acting at all)and Reece Witherspoon, with excellent support from B-movie stalwarts Joey Lauren Adams and Jack Noseworthy. All the characters are unlike those you see in most films... they are the sort of people you've met, but never expected to see on screen. Characters the hero Spab (Dorff) meets along the way are delightfully unattractive and random, from the hippie Earl and his militant partner to the receptionist in a neck brace at a posh hotel. Richard Portnow's FBI agent has some wonderfully quotable lines, and Mr and Mrs Spab soon reveal themselves to be far from the perfect parents. The arrangement of the story (flashbacks are employed heavily) lets you build up a rounded picture of the events that made Spab a hero, not revealing the true account of what happened in the store until near the end. Up to this point the events are clouded by the media and gossip surrounding the Fun-Stop Hostage Crisis and although we are led to believe Spab did something spectacular, the later flashbacks reveal why he is unwilling to assume the mantle of hero and why he seems to be in a bad mood most of the time!. A great film that depicts a classic anti-hero with more than adequate back-up from the script and cast. Watch it soon!. "},{"Title":"Vicious assault on the media","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" S.F.W.Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby StereoA feckless young man (Stephen Dorff) becomes an unlikely celebrity after surviving a televised hostage ordeal in his local convenience store, but he's unable to reconcile the tragedy of the siege - in which his best friend (Jack Noseworthy) was killed - with the exaggerated version of events peddled by a ratings-hungry media.Jefery Levy's cult-movie wannabe pairs Dorff alongside relative newcomer Reese Witherspoon in a vicious assault on the contemporary media, depicted here as a soulless entity concerned solely with ratings and money (yeah, so what else is new?). The message is obvious, but Levy and co-scriptwriter Danny Rubin (GROUNDHOG DAY) revel in their own daring Dorff and Witherspoon play ordinary characters who emerge from an extraordinary situation and are forced to confront their unexpected (and unwanted) fame. However, Levy's unflattering view of modern journalism (symbolized by John Roarke as a variety of thinly-disguised real-life TV celebrities who feed off other people's misery, and Gary Coleman in a fleeting, self-deprecating cameo) seems a little distorted and misleading, though clearly filtered through the lead character's personal viewpoint. Dorff himself is terrific, as always, playing a charismatic and foul-mouthed Everyman, scornful of the manner in which his personal misfortune has been manipulated to feed the expectations of a mindless, sensation-hungry audience. But there are moments when the screeching soundtrack fades abruptly to silence and Levy concentrates on Dorff's haunted face as he recalls key events - good and bad - from the siege, and the friendships that were forged and destroyed under extreme duress. The movie doesn't say anything new, but the execution is invigorating.Look out for an early appearance by Tobey Maguire as a young stoner who thinks he's died and gone to heaven when he and his buddy (Dana Allan Young) encounter their idol Dorff on an empty street (a truly hilarious sequence). Steve Antin cameos as a news reporter named after his character in the equally odd INSIDE MONKEY ZETTERLAND, helmed by Levy in 1992. "},{"Title":"entertaining and real !","Date":"7 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I personaly really liked this movie ,i thought Stephen Dorff was great this movie got me interested in him and his other movies!I like the plot its different and doesnt really hide anything its better for a younger crowd 15-21 it can be related to easily by them as it contains a lot of anger and confusion the catch frase is So F*****g What which tries to make us c that nothing really matters ! The characters are all put together pretty good except Reese Witherspoon's character Wendy did get on my nerves a bit she just didnt seem right for the part! i recommend this movie i really liked it ,it also has great music in it ranging from hole ,Maralyn mason and soundgarden . "},{"Title":"A horrible situation makes him famous.  Now he has to live with it.","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A young man becomes famous due to a horrific situation.  Now he has to live with the fame and the memories that it brings.  There seem to be too many characters, that are developed only to be left with without discussion after their scene.  Stephen Dorff does a great job, which is important, since the movie is mostly watching him walk around and deal with the stresses of his fame.  The flashbacks seem to do a good job of show his traumatic stress disorder.The sound track is great, with a special appearance by GWAR.See it or not.  As the main character says So F**king What?  "},{"Title":"Pretty good, actually","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I'll be totally honest here. I rented this movie because Stephen Dorff was in it, but I was pleasantly surprised by it. It was actuallt a good movie, entertaining and well-written. Allright, so it may not be worth an Oscar, but hey, it never claims to be, does it? It's just a nice, wellcast movie that makes you think as well.  "},{"Title":"The Real Meaning- A Good/Bad Movie","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yes, the acting and directing were a little inconsistent, and some of the lines were sophomoric and occasionally downright lame, but the value of the movie lays in it's overall existentialist theme. Cliff Spab doesn't care about the consequences of anything- he's smokes, he drinks, he curses, doesn't care about bettering himself, doesn't really care about the way he looks, and isn't afraid of anything- not even death. Is it because he was overlooked, abused, etc.? Not really. Cliff doesn't revel in fame or attention when he gets it, but rather treats it as a joke because it simply doesn't matter (even if he half enjoys it), hence the phrase So Fu.... What. The importance of this phrase points to the notion that nothing really matters in life. Someone can get the best grades, go to the best schools, watch their weight, be good to others, always do right, gain fame and notoriety...or they can be shot in the head in the middle of a store robbery. In the grand scheme of things it really doesn't matter. Quoting Chuck Palahniuk, On a long enough time-line, the survival rate for everyone drops to zero. Our existence in our solar system, in our galaxy, in the universe is a spec of dust on a spec of dust on a spec of dust, hence SFW (nothing really matters).The black comedy and satire of this movie comes from the doting media and fans of Cliff Spab. It's not that they really love him, they are just looking for an answer- a motto to guide their lives. But, as in real life, something seemingly meaningful to you one moment becomes a useless fad in the next moment. In the conclusion of the movie Barbara Wyler tries to shoot Cliff or something (it's really been years), and states her tag-line Everything matters! It's the complete opposite theory of Cliff's. Her essential meaning is that everything we do has an affect on the future, future generations, the overall makeup of things on our planet, etc. Her message could be looked at as kind of good, but the irony lies in the fact that she seems all too excited to step directly into Cliff's shoes and be another meaningless, short-lived role model. In essence Cliff was right when he believed nothing matters and Barbara's time in the spotlight will also fade away. One day neither will be remembered and will have no affect on anything or anyone. Even those that followed them for a brief time will be gone and forgotten. It's a sad story of the media misguiding people to waste their short lives with whatever's popular and meaningless in the moment. But, it also questions, if nothing really matters anyway, SFW. "}{"Title":"Does Generation X really matter?","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Cliff Spab doesn't really care about anything. He gets held hostage at a store for 36 days by terrorists, who demand that the entire thing be broadcast on national television. Cliff ends up taking a bullet for fellow hostage Wendy - making him a national hero. The two are the sole survivors of the ordeal, and soon become prisoners of the media. Cliff escapes it all, only to find himself being pushed further away from Wendy when he needs her most....Once you get past the fact that Dorff sounds uncannily like Christian Slater, you get another one of those films from the mid nineties that tried to define good old 'generation X'. And for the most part, it works.Dorff is great as the guy who is having his fifteen minutes of fame, but cannot decipher why people are not mentioning his friend who was killed. But this was a time when media only really dwelled on the good stuff, to sugar coat the public, to get more money behind their new 'celeb'The film doesn't know what genre it belongs to. One minute it's hilarious, next it's soul searching, and then it goes for a Araki/Solondz hybrid that baffles.But it's good, and all the performances are great, I just wish it didn't get lost in its own smugness every now and again.The last fifteen minutes is great though, showing us how fickle the media were/are, and how fame really slips through your fingers, once a new fad has been found.Everything Matters? S.F.W... "},{"Title":"smart,hilarious,romantic movie","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie works on many levels. It talks about loyality and friendship, the intrusion of the media and exploitation of media, and there is a semi cliched romance Wendy rich girl and Cliff working class but with the twist of being held hostage with each other for 36 the closeness that results. It's got everything you want in a movie. This is definately on my top ten of all time "},{"Title":"One Horrible Movie...","Date":"4 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I truly feel sorry for the people who paid money to see this film, and I use that term loosely. With only $64,000 in ticket sales at least only a couple thousand were subjected to the seemingly unending nothingness of this movie. The writing is so patently obvious and juvenile, a five year old could have thought of better lines sitting on the toilet. I don't completely blame the actors for their terrible performances since they had very little to work with from the writing. What I can't believe are the reviewers who rave about this movie. Were we watching the same thing? Were you high? Oh right, given the content, you probably were. Please don't ever waste your time watching this, unless you are contemplating suicide. "},{"Title":"Takes you back to a specific and forgotten style point in the 90's","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had high hopes for this movie but was totally disappointed upon seeing it. For how much I didn't like it, something about this movie stuck with me ten years later, looking back I've created a more interesting version of what this movie COULD have been in my head, It put me on the edge of wanting to believe that it was a poor man's Oliver Stone movie. The most intriguing thing about this movie is that watching it puts you in a specific time and place, a short lived style in the early to mid 90's that seems like a twilight zone dream. It captures something about that time that very few movies have done. Other than that quality, the plot, which starts off great slowly rolls down an incline and falls flat off a cliff. The characters almost have depth and catch your interest right from the start but end up over the top annoying, especially the main character Spab. By the end of the movie, he's lost any redeeming quality and Joey Lauren Adams character's continual whining becomes like nails on a chalk board. Having had no background knowledge of this movie upon seeing it, I really thought that Kevin Smith was somehow involved because it has the same feel of his early work and uses a few of the same actors. All in all, this could have been a memorable movie, far ahead of it's time with it's depiction of reality TV and media sensationalism but in reality, was really just a big waste of time. "},{"Title":"Awesome Rocking Grunge Movie","Date":"12 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really love this movie. Dorff is way cool and the soundtrack just rocks your face off. SFW is really more than that, because it really takes the mickey out of news, media and reality TV, and it's cool to think that this came out way before the reality TV craze hit all our channels. Heaps of good acting from the cast, and lots of cool tunes and a really good message in this movie. I don't know why more people haven't seen it but if you love cool 90's movies with awesome soundtracks like Soundgarden, Manson and GWAR , then this is a movie you should really check out! Nine out of Ten, would be more but I was bummed the DVD had no features. "},{"Title":"Was a sad sign of things to come.","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It's sorry to see this movie get panned by critics, but I can also see why critics hated it, because critics are a part of the media that S.F.W. tried to make fun of. For every person claiming this to be the worst movie ever, you took it too seriously. The whole point of the film was not to take it too seriously, and focus on what animals people can become when someone they know becomes famous. All his friends and family didn't care what he and the others went through, they wanted whatever dime they could make off of him, and it portrays it very subtly. Joe's (his friend that died) older sister sleeps with him, only to sell his bedroom stories to the tabloids, but it's only revealed in a split-second when Spab sees it posted on a tabloid cover on display.His other friend (Jake Busey) takes Spab to a place, where he beats up some kid, then goes to another place, pulls a gun on a girl he slept with, and then takes him to his sister's house (who happens to be a lawyer), all in the name of hiding him from the press. Shortly after she sleeps with him and has him throw Busey's gun in the lake, she starts talking about suing people and splitting the money with her and her brother. He gets disenchanted and runs off, only to hear a radio APB placed on him for beating up the kid that Busey's character roughed up, long story short, they set him up so that if he didn't play ball, they'd frame him for a crime.Long story short, if you were a teenager in the 90's and you watched this then, watch it again and you'd be surprised how it probably went in your memory from being a stoner-drama flick to a decently made indie film that was simply a sign of things to come about the never-ending pseudo-celebrity. "},{"Title":"Disappointed that this isn't a Natural Born Killers re-imagining","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Well what can I say about this? It came out when I was still a teenager, and it had all of the elements of the 1990s that kids were getting into because, according to the majority of media outlets, we were the jaded generation that believed in nothing other than grunge music, being pains in the butt for adults, and rocking out without a care in the world. Every generation does this, but this was our version of Steal This Movie. And while most of that attitude was true and around at the time, you can see how much the creative lines were blurred when you had movies like S.F.W. coming out and trying to cash in on these trends. Wayne's World, Tank Girl, Beavis & Butthead, Slacker, Clerks, Mall Rats, Natural Born Killers, Drugstore Cowboy, Pump Up the Volume, Bill & Ted's, Singles, Reality Bites, Empire Records...hell, even Ferris Bueller's Day Off had its similar message in the 80s. So what's one more, right?First off, the movie is ridiculous. The premise (without spoiling it) is thin, unbelievable, and needed a lot of retooling (if the whole screenplay was adapted from a book, and if it was, the book's probably not much better). Even more than Singles, this movie tries to cram grunge music into every nook and cranny to remind you how street-level Reese Witherspoon and Stephen Dorff's character are (along with their friends), but then they make a weird, Disney-moment every time Dorff's character (Cliff Spab...AKA the worst name to be repeated EVER) reminisces about their friend. I'm not going to say what happens, but every time Spab contemplates what went down with his friend, music bussed in from the movie E.T. gets played, and we're supposed to feel bad for some reason (why, i don't know because Spab wasn't all that close with him in the beginning of the movie or in other scenes either).Secondly, the objective seemed to make sense, that the media and relatives try and cash in from those around them who become famous...but the message easily becomes turned around on the movie itself for cashing in on the attitudes of cynical youths who are biting the bait that this movie produces.Third, it should stay a cult movie and nothing more. It's not Dazed & Confused, and it's not Natural Born Killers. The subjects of this movie became lucky in the film to be celebrities due to a minor news story that realistically would never had happened in real life, and if they would have, people wouldn't give the story more than a week of exposure after-the-fact. I liked the addition of the music to commemorate the times, but as a movie, there isn't a lot of groundbreaking material to lump it into a deeper category of film or re-release it on Criterion or anything.If you're a fan of grunge music or slacker-movies that let you kill 1.5 hours while you're downing a 6-pack, this might be a fun watch once, but I don't think I'll be owning this. "},{"Title":"A Mixed Film","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    The film starts off in a store where hostages have been taken. Among them are Steven Dorff and Reese Witherspoon. There is a little fight and the camera is shot at by one of the hostages. We are then taken to the present day where hero Dorff is in his hospital bed with a bullet wound. Both Dorff and Witherspoon handle the script well. Jake Busey also appears. Sadly, like most of the characters in this film, he soon disappears. Busey is one of my favourite actors, as is his father Gary. I was hoping to see him with a big part in this film, but after a ton of swearing he vanishes from the screen. That is the main problem in this film-it introduces these new characters, and before they're allowed to develop, they're taken from the screen. I would also say the amount of swearing is outrageous. If that was cut down, the dialogue would be much better. Witherspoon, as always, is extremely beautiful, and seems like the only character in the film that has any depth. Dorff, I'll admit, has his moments. His last two scenes are quite touching. This film has its moments. The hostage 'Split Image' film is very good. The final fight scene where Joe and Clive overcome their captors is handled well by the director. Rating=3/5  "},{"Title":"One of the best anti-media movies","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The plot is cliched.  In fact I could have sworn I have seen it many many times before.  It is almost Mad City except it is better.  It is the story of a hostage who has been aired for 36 straight days and has become a celebrity.  His most famous quote is S.F.W. or So F***ing What.  The worst thing that I could see about the movie was its language, and if the bleeps were not there on the parts that were supposed to be on television, I would swear that this had the most F-words and any other swearing than even Goodfellas.  But, it did not bother me.This movie stresses me, and it should.  It is about what the media was when the movie came out.  Instead of the mind-controlling media that it is currently, see Mad City, it used to be fickle, and still is a little, and change with the public.  One day the media could hate the pres and the next it could love him for the same action.  This is instead of trying to force everybody to hate the pres.The movie is a little confusing because of the editing.  It starts with day 36 of the crisis, and then moves forward.  We only see the crisis in flashbacks.  You never learn what the terrorists are about, and it does not really matter.  What does matter is that they held Spab and Wendy hostage for 36 days and aired every minute on TV.This is pure Gen-X stuff.  But, it is good for everybody else if you can get past the language.  It actually has something to say about society and how everybody is sheep.  They all follow everybody else without knowing why. They change at the drop of a hat.  And they all want a piece of the leader.This is not really a comedy, and not really an action or drama.  It is non-conformist which is good.  Watch this movie, and you will automatically mull it over.  Then, watch it again.  You won't see everything the first time around.  This is a high-rate film, but a it has low points. 8/10 "},{"Title":"So what indeed.","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" And in the category of most pointless movies; S.F.W.. A movie that totally fails at trying to make a statement and at leaving a lasting impression.Guess that in potential this still could had been a good movie or at least one that worked out somewhat better with all of its themes. The right ideas seem to be there, which makes some of the choices the film-makers made with this movie seem all the more odd. The story is told real messy. Characters literally pop up out of nowhere and then disappear again and the story is lacking a real point and a good clear main plot line.The movie basically tries to be a social commentary about today's youth (well 1994's youth of course but it's not like much has changed ever since) and the influence and behavior of the media. Problem is that for a commentary the movie isn't either edgy or clever enough. Also as a comedy/parody it falls terribly short.Thing that still kept this movie somewhat going for me was Stephen Dorff, who was perfectly cast for his role. His characters was about still the only good and interesting thing about this movie. Reese Witherspoon and Jake Busey are also in this movie but I wonder why. It's not like their characters get to do much in this movie. Another thing that makes this movie disappointing and lacking is its rushed ending. Basically it's one big long montage and feels terribly out of place. It's as if they were saying; we still have a whole other story to tell but we haven't got the time or money to do it, so here is a fast montage of things. Needless to say, it doesn't work out all that well.I really can't think of any good reason why anyone should ever watch this movie. It's such a pointless and poorly executed one.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"A fantastic premise let down by its execution.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film, while not the greatest story about media ever told, must be seen... If only for the quality of the acting. The plot veers from left, right and center too fast and the characters seem disjointed as if they all had multiple personalities disorder. The premise on the other hand is fantastic.  A couple of 20 year-olds are considered true heroes because they survived an hostage situation everyone got to watch on TV. It tries to say something about the media and the youth culture but it loses momentum very fast.  All in all, a missed opportunity.  "},{"Title":"Great Book, Horrible Movie","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The book S.F.W. by A.M. Wellman is fantastic.  The movie is garbage, although the ending is better than the book's.It was cool to hear Rainbow's Light In The Black in a movie, but what's up with Spab and his brother smashing up his room??Look for the book, and rent City Of Industry, Election, Chasing Amy and Another Day In Paradise to see the various cast members in something good. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie might not have been well made or well casted, but it had a powerful message. Although this message might not have been well expressed or even come out until the very end, it was there. Unfortunately, this message about the pathetic teenie-boppers and idolizers was thrown out in a form (as a movie) that is viewed mostly by the people it is commenting about. So, I suggest every one who thinks that the backstreet boys will be gone in a month (and if you don't know who they are, it is because they have already left) to watch it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was a fantastic movie. The thing people appear to have missed is that it is entirely tongue in cheek - it is a satire about just this sort of movie. Someone is projected to movie like fame for no reason, and the apparent lack of order (it is suggested the hostage takers are simply anarchists) is the main premise of the film. "},{"Title":"S.F.W Indeed","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While S.F.W could have been so much better than it actually is, Jefery Levy deserves praise for successfully highlighting the fickleness and parasitic nature of celebrity.  The film has an uneven feel to it, often seeming like scenes are randomly cut and pasted together, but it does communicate its message effectively. I felt the film would have been better if the first half had dealt with the hostage situation and the second with Spab's elevation to generation spokesperson. The constant shifting from the here and now to a small segue of Spab acting up to the terrorist camera doesn't seem to work very well. Stephen Dorff is quite good as the slacker cum hero, however the rest of the cast are fairly marginalised and have little to do. It might have been better if we had seen more of Spab's best friend Joe and saw more of their relationship, then the tragic events would have had more impact. I believe this plot point fell a little by the wayside amid the beer drinking and cursing that was slightly overdone. S.F.W does make you wonder how our society has become so vacuous that we bestow fame and adoration on ordinary people, stars of fake, idiotic reality shows like Big Brother and Survivor. In this respect the film was indeed ahead of its time. S.F.W is not a great film, but it is not a bad one and is worth a look if you're bored of teen comedies.   "},{"Title":"this movie rocked","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I seen it years ago and still love it ... anyone who says its other then great must also enjoy watching Disney cartoons and listen to the sound track of Annie in rush hour traffic  .... this movie  was full of hidden truths .... watch it again maybe this time with your eyes open "},{"Title":"So F**king What","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Stephen Dorff's character cliff is great its every teenagers dream to ride off into the sunset, not giving a damn about anything and have everyone thinking your a god for doing it. Its a great film and Reese Witherspoon plays a good part to it......all in all i love it "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Though not perfect, this low budget movie is a lot more interesting than most American productions. Strange in style Both realistic scenes and grotesque over the top ones. Perhaps not even really original, but S.F.W. does offer some interesting ideas. A worthwhile watch.  "},{"Title":"One of my all time favorite movies...","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best movies i have ever seen.  Cliff Spab is a supreme anti-hero-hero and dorf plays the part perfectly. Reece Witherspoon plays a good born to privilege too good for the world character. Spab is inspiring and extremely sarcastic with a quick wit.  IMHO u can't go wrong with this one "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Neat premise, some nifty acting by Dorff and especially Reece Whitherspoon, but unfortunately, this film takes itself WAY too seriously to be taken seriously. This would have made an excellent comedy, and the talent was there in the two leads. Instead, it takes an interesting, original premise and turns it into a preachy borefest. With a lead character like Dorff's, one would assume there would be a little old fashioned, punk rock humor to the proceedings. If I wanted to hear a sermon, I'd start going to church or reading Noam Chomsky (the obvious inspiration for some of this film) books again. Truly a pity, because this could have been a great film. "}{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has to be the ultimate teenage rebellion movie and it does not get better than this. An attack on the media - I don't think so, the media as usual always turn things upside down. The plot, Directing and acting were top class especially Stephen Dorf. I am 40 years old and can still enjoy watching this movie, it's just so dam good. I bought this movie as soon as it was released on DVD, it's a classic and I think it will remain that way for many years. Anybody who didn't enjoy this movie might want to see it again and get a fresh perspective. The truth it tells about society and the media is brilliant and if you cant see that then you must be blind. Top class movie and well done to everyone involved. "},{"Title":"This movie is pretty interesting","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a good movie and very representative of 1994. The soundtrack is a slice of the music of the time with Soundgardem, L7, Hole and others and its deep cynical undercurrent is straight out of the Kurt Cobain handbook.Stephen Dorff and Reese Witherspoon are both young and as good as I've seen them in any movie, though Dorff has the majority of the screen time, and does a perfectly solid job as a cynical, disaffected youth disgusted with his instant fame derived in a hostage crisis. There is a LOT of profanity in this movie re the title So F***in What. I wasn't crazy about Doirff in Blade, but he does a riveting job in this film, pulling off a crass, cynical character who is a natural class clown, but wants to be deeper and is.Again, I find it interesting that a movie that has a bunch of uncomfortable commentary about America and its ruthless media and weapons-saturated culture gets panned on these media boards. This is not an effects movie, and you may not find it 'exciting' enough if your thing is CGI, but its a totally competent and ambitious indie/starter film (I don't know where in the directors career this movie came out).This is the kind of movie a historian would go for, it was made by someone with ideas in the context of their time, and not some overwrought, over-positioned Hollywood puff piece. The movie gets a lot clearer at the end, revealing details of events you wonder about from the beginning. This film also has a lot to say about the horror of gun violence and being witness to it. People who attack SFW have an agenda. This is a great film. "},{"Title":"Brilliant.","Date":"25 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I disagree with some of these analytical idiots. This is a must see for everyone, young and old and yes I do believe the media can be this screwed up especially in America.There were some parts of this movie where I just couldn't stop laughing and it portray's how pathetic people try to feed off someone else's success.Never seen anything like it and it will be a long time before something in this genre will even come close.Performances by Stephen Dorff and Reese Witherspoon are out of this world.Just brilliant. "},{"Title":"Brilliant flashes of light","Date":"19 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie on release ages ago and it's not hard to fall in love with it at first.Stephen Dorff's performance is really amazing. You never think for a moment he isn't Cliff Spab, with all the pent-up rage, pain, hostility and hilarity that it entails.For the first half of the movie, it's really the Cliff Spab/Stephen Dorff Show. He goes on a sort of Jack Kerouac road trip, bumping heads and rubbing noses with a variety of characters (and some wonderful actors who play them) Jake Busey (a good movie for once), Joey Lauren Adams (always terrific and smokin' hot here), and Pamela Gidley (quite a complex little cameo).But after his odyssey ends, there doesn't seem to be much of a place to go...the film just stalls. I think the intent was for it to be completely character driven, so I wasn't expecting, well, a story-line or anything, but still.... I was hoping for more of a connection between the final scene, Spab's revelations, and the rest of the movie leading up to that point, but it didn't happen.Never read the book, but it sounds like that ending would have made more sense. A movie this dark doesn't deserve a happy ending....a little too tidy, in my opinion. But SFW? "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  if you're expecting a neat, tidy movie that actually goes in chronological order and never gets confusing, SFW isn't it. Plus, Reese Witherspoon is billed as a main character and she's hardly even in it. I guess the idea is cool (I'd like to read the book) but I didn't really enjoy the movie. But so f**cking what? "},{"Title":"Intriguing","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A great movie about the hypocrysy of the american media. I've heard people saying about this move I would like to have seen more about what happened in the store. Then I think You haven't understood the movie at all. Stephen Dorff is brilliant in his role as the anti-hero Spab who has to run away from the media because he has no interest for them, leading him into more and more problems until there is no escape then to just play along with them. Reese Witherspoon plays the role of Wendy very well, the rich kid who has tasted the live without her tight parents strings. And then, the climax in the end of the film... The only bad thing is that I read the novel afterwards and they changed the end!! Why????  "},{"Title":"Grunge styled concept movie.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   S.F.W. is not a great movie. It's not a bad movie. It's the sort of movie which should make up the mainstream. The bland ineffectualities of the average movie are grinding away at our expectations and it may well be helpful to have movies such as this or the Matrix. They're entertaining with a slight side order of thought-provoking. Like the Matrix, it doesn't ask too much of you, but lets you extend the ideas in your mind with a few pointers. The issue raised in this movie (the disintegration of reality in the media saturated post-modern world) should certainly be covered more in this medium. Though it doesn't use the trick of implication of the viewer (Natural Born Killers, Funny Games), there is a certain guilt created by its admittedly slightly heavy handed media satire.  Stephen Dorff and Reese Witherspoon generally choose their films well (with the notable exception of Space Truckers) and serve them well. This movie will look great on their C.V. though will taint Dorff particularly with the Gen-X tag. The self-destructive lifestyle of Dorff's character grates a little, as he is always groomed with the finest Sub Pop Grunge Brush. Look to films like Gummo for the reality of these grimy lifestyles.  The film is edited so as to lack any real time-scale and is conceptual in nature, with only character sketches and brief insight into the people involved. Hence, there is little empathy with the story from any angle but your own personal emotions on the subject it covers. More films in this genre should be this thoughtful. "},{"Title":"Very much like reality TV itself &#150; has nothing to say but says it very loudly and brashly","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  5 people are taken hostage in a convenience store for 36 days until a fight allows them to escape.  During these 36 days the terrorists' only demand is that their video feed from inside the store is broadcast live on the networks.  Spab and Wendy emerge as the only survivors to find themselves heroes of the media generation.Don't let the plot summary fool you into thinking this is some type of thriller with a media slant.  The hostage thing is over in the first 3 minutes and any flashbacks are dull and meaningless (except one powerful one).  Instead we have a mixed up satire on media and the fade of fame.  The plot never makes sense and really loses the point after only a few minutes.  The fact that the whole hostage thing is never explained and barely touched on just shows it is nothing but a poor plot device to get to where the makers wanted to be to make their point.It manages to come across as just an angry youth movie &#150; with it's anger not directed anywhere in particular.  This causes it to be very loud and with far too much swearing, causing you to start to switch off.  The only point that the film manages to make clearly is that no matter who is the 15 minute celeb or news story that night, TV is all the same.  Wow!  What cutting edge comment!Dorff is OK but just plain annoying in his videos (that apparently the world love).  Witherspoon is vapid, Busey is just loud and annoying and Adams is totally misused.  The cast put more effort into saying the F word than anything else.  It is very off putting because it is unnecessary &#150; I guess they thought the `kids' would dig it.Overall this is just like the media that it tries to criticise.  It is loud, meaningless, lacking substance and totally forgettable &#150; physician heal thyself............ "},{"Title":"s.f.w.","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" my opinion is that this is a great movie! although its dated in 1994, its still kinda up to date. Reese and Steven are young at age but their acting skills are great, for example reese is 17 but she acts very convincingly! for what i'm worth; i thinks its a cult movie! i've seen this movie for the first time when i was like 17 or 18, but it's still one my favorites. It never left my mind. It's a great story about a guy that's been kidnapped and after all he becomes the hero. the camera work is great, i don't have any objections to this film. I think it's great that a movie of this age still binds me at my seat! I rate it 8 Go watch it!! "},{"Title":"So f*cking What praise","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie about life and what it means. Witherspoon is HOT. There is also a GWAR video in it. The sound track is down right grand. Joey Lauren Adams (Bio-Dome,Mallrats) Has a hot sex scene with Spab. I would say its a must see. "}{"Title":"lame movie","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on TV without much expectations, but it turned out to be worst than I could have imagined.  In fact, S.F.W. is possibly the worst movie I've ever seen.  Both the plot and the characters are completely cliched to the point where it's almost painful to watch.  It seems like this movie was made just for Stephen Dorff to act self-important in and appeal to the not-so-bright kids of the grunge generation. "},{"Title":"S.F.W.   Watching paint dry is more fun than this!!","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  S.F.W. the concept was interesting the plot once watched was lame and boring a true waste of a casts time and a industry's money.Once you see it you will soon forget it!!Stephen Dorff & Reese Witherspoon just waste there time & talents in a really wasted script.  With a better more talented screenwriter and a more talent director the movie could have been so much more mabey even some underground cult film.  But what happens to a story about 5 people that are being held hostage in a convenience store for 36 days, & one of them demands from the hostage takers that all TV-stations should broadcast the entire situation live, turns into a  boring little movie with nothing more than a loud soundtrack and really bad over the top acting in a really bad made for Tv movie of the week for the big screen.Whats funny is that Reese Witherspoon is billed as a main character,  she is on the cover of the DVD box but she is hardly in the movie,  and when she is on screen she shows what talent she does have, but how much of it is wasted.Stephen Dorff is a great actor, another of the under-rated talents in Hollywood today who seems to find really bad scripts that just really under-rate his talent and S.F.W. is just another film that is a big mistake on his acting resume.Rounding out the rest of cast that sseem to waste there talents is both Jake Busey and the very laughable not so talented Natasha Gregson Wagner.One film I'm adding to my Worst Films of 1994 list!!!See it once, if you don't fall asleep, and once the credits roll you will soon forget it.  "},{"Title":"A horrible movie","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The premise for this movie is great.  A bit cliched, but great.  I like Stephen Dorff, he's a cool actor with a great future.  But what was this? Things were happening left and right and were so out of place it was if the editor edited the film backwards or something.  The characters are far from memorable, and nothing goes anywhere....not worth 4 bucks to rent.  "},{"Title":"yawn","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Yet Another Wasted Night watching some indulgent auteur's desperate attempt at creating a cult film. Jefrey Levy is one director to avoid. SFW is ineptly directed without any sense of camera position and far too much self consciousness. Promising lead actor Stephen Dorff should have changed his agent...in 1994 and I am writing this in 2005. Where has he gone? where is his career? His hilarious comment that he turned down the Jack Dawson role in TITANIC because he did not want to be remembered as 'the guy in the boat picture is so Derek Zoolander in it's stupidity and lack of awareness one can only come to the sad realisation that maybe SFW is the peak of his career. Yecch. SFW is so apt a title in what is apparently supposed to be a merciless skewering of the media - all presented badly and clumsily by a hack TV director. Any film maker who actually wants Jake Busey in his film really does not have a clue as to what he is doing. Reese Witherspoon is completely wasted and the obviousness of Levy's cult wannabe heavy handedness is evident throughout. SFW is basically a terrible film. If John Waters had made it - and he would have made a better job of it, and without the ridiculous incessant swearing it would have been successful because Waters understands irony. Annoyingly he did make a film with Dorff CECIL B DEMENTED in 1999 which was great until the last reel when it all fell over. He should have made SFW instead, As for Stephen Dorff's career, well I guess he can re emerge, Rocky-like and make a film called THE POWER OF TWO a sequel to the only intelligent film he has yet made. Otherwise like the career of both Dorf and Levy, SFW indeed. "},{"Title":"the title says it all","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is one thing for a film to merely be bad, it is quite another for it to insult your intelligence. The latter happened to me in this non-attempt at filmmaking. How the likes of Stephen Dorff and Reese Witherspoon (one of my all time favorite actresses) got messed up in this I'll never know, but I hope they fired their managers afterward. This is, quite possibly, the single worst movie I have ever seen (Roger Ebert agrees!). Every character seems to be a ripoff of some celebrity who probably had the common sense to steer clear of this movie. Every situation seems entirely implausible. What's more, the writer seems to have a vocabulary that extends to only the three words in the title (you figure it out). This was a painful movie to watch, not because of it's depth, but because it is so inexcusably horrible. It may be the first time in my life that I actually felt sorry for the actors, who really were at the mercy of this doomed screenplay. I so not buy for one minute the notion that this movie may simply have been too deep to appreciate. Please, I do not need to be insulted again. Reese, I still think you are on top of your game, and this was ten years ago during your indie phase, so I don't hold you accountable, just please don't let it happen again. "},{"Title":"I hate being misinformed","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The only reason I checked out this movie is because in the credits it states that China Kantner is in this movie. She might have been, but I didn't see her. I loved her in a movie called The Stoned Age (1994), so I wanted to see her again. She might have had a very very small role, but it wasn't worth my time watching this movie for a blink. I have never been a Reese Witherspoon fan, but I love Renee Zellweger and I rented Dazed and Confused (1993) just to see her, but just like this movie, I was disappointed to find out that she is only in it for a moment. I don't think they should list actors in the credits unless they have prominent roles, and if they do, then maybe the word bit part should be next to their names. "},{"Title":"the title says it all","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is one thing for a film to merely be bad, it is quite another for it to insult your intelligence. The latter happened to me in this non-attempt at filmmaking. How the likes of Stephen Dorff and Reese Witherspoon (one of my all time favorite actresses) got messed up in this I'll never know, but I hope they fired their managers afterward. This is, quite possibly, the single worst movie I have ever seen (Roger Ebert agrees!). Every character seems to be a ripoff of some celebrity who probably had the common sense to steer clear of this movie. Every situation seems entirely implausible. What's more, the writer seems to have a vocabulary that extends to only the three words in the title (you figure it out). This was a painful movie to watch, not because of it's depth, but because it is so inexcusably horrible. It may be the first time in my life that I actually felt sorry for the actors, who really were at the mercy of this doomed screenplay. I do not buy for one minute the notion that this movie may simply have been too deep to appreciate. Please, I do not need to be insulted again. Reese, I still think you are on top of your game, and this was ten years ago during your indie phase, so I don't hold you accountable, just please don't let it happen again. "}]